  OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the WM's first quarter 2022 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] And please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, David Egl, senior director, investor relations. Please go ahead.Ed Egl -- Director of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Laurie. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us for our first quarter 2022 earnings conference call. With me this morning are Jim Fish, president and chief executive officer; John Morris, executive vice president and chief operating officer; and Devina Rankin, executive vice president and chief financial officer. You will hear prepared comments from each of them today. Jim will cover high-level financials and provide a strategic update, John will cover an operating overview, and Devina will cover the details of the financials. Before we get started, please note that we have filed a Form 8-K this morning that includes the earnings press release and is available on our website at www.wm.com. The Form 8-K, the press release, and the schedules of the press release include important information. During the call, you will give forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations, projections or opinions about future periods.All forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Some of these risks and uncertainties are discussed in today's press release and in our filings with the SEC, including our most recent Form 10-K. John will discuss our results in the areas of yield and volume, which unless stated otherwise, are more specifically references to internal revenue growth or IRG from yield or volume. During the call, Jim, John, and Devina will discuss operating EBITDA, which is income from operations before depreciation and amortization. Any comparisons, unless otherwise stated, will be with the first quarter of 2021. Net income, EPS, operating EBITDA margin, and SG&A expense results have been adjusted to enhance comparability by excluding certain items that management believes do not reflect our fundamental business performance or results of operations. These adjusted measures, in addition to free cash flow, are non-GAAP measures. Please refer to the earnings press release and tables, which can be found on the company's website at www.wm.com for reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures and additional information about our use of non-GAAP measures and non-GAAP projections.

 



 This call is being recorded and will be available 24 hours a day beginning approximately 1:00 p.m. Eastern time today until 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time on May 10. To hear a replay of the call over the Internet, access the WM website at www.wm.com. Through the telephonic replay of the call, dial (855) 859-2056 and enter reservation code 3365157. Time-sensitive information provided during today's call, which is occurring on April 26, 2022, may no longer be accurate at the time of a replay. Any redistribution, retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the expressed written consent of WM is prohibited. Now I'll turn the call over to WM's president and CEO, Jim Fish. Jim Fish -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Ed, and thank you all for joining us. The first quarter of every year sets the tone for the rest of the year, and our strong first-quarter results really set us up for success in 2022. We delivered exceptional core price and yield results, grew profitable volumes, and managed our costs. The result was double-digit growth in revenue, operating EBITDA and cash from operations.

 



 In fact, our cash from operations was the highest we've ever generated in a quarter, allowing us to return $0.5 billion of cash to our shareholders. Our operating EBITDA margin of 27.6% was ahead of our plan, even in the face of record inflation and the delayed approval of the alternative fuel tax credits. So we executed extremely well in the first quarter and achieved better results than we anticipated, positioning 2022 to be another great year for WM. In addition to the strong start in the first quarter, we see signs that the economy is trending positively. Several of the key leading performance indicators within our business, such as special waste volumes, construction, and demolition volumes and new business formation pointed to continued strong economic activity and business performance for the balance of the year. The positive economic activity, combined with WM's diverse customer base, the recession-resilient nature of our business, and nearly 75% of our revenue that is annuity-like, gives us confidence to reaffirm the full-year outlook we provided in February. As we progress through the year, we remain committed to executing on our strategic priorities of providing the best workplace, advancing technology and automation that differentiates WM and reduces costs and leveraging our sustainability platform for growth. Turning to our sustainability and technology investments, we're excited about the future. We see the opportunity to further our sustainability leadership by expanding recycling capacity, automating recycling processing, and increasing the renewable energy generated from our landfill network. We opened a new recycling facility in the first quarter and we're on track to bring online another fully retrofitted MRF in the second quarter, along with the next WM-built renewable natural gas plant. These projects are expected to generate excellent returns that are superior to those of solid waste acquisitions. Regarding technology, last quarter, you heard us discuss cost-saving opportunities for automation and optimization, which involves creating a competitive advantage for WM by differentiating the customer experience, while reducing our labor dependency on certain roles. Through our focus on digital technology, we anticipate reducing 5,000 to 7,000 positions over the next four years. In this tight and expensive job market, it makes complete sense to use technology to reduce our dependency on certain high turnover jobs. In addition to tackling this attrition, technology produces a significant amount of data that we view as a valuable asset. John has referred to our trucks as rolling data centers and we're using that data and analytics to create a sustainable competitive advantage. Currently, we're piloting the full end-to-end optimization of our roll-off routes, which will be the first of its kind in the industry. Early efficiency results in our pilots are very encouraging and our plan is to have our roll-off routes fully optimized by mid-'23. Finally, while we use automation and data to our advantage, we will invest in training and upskilling of our existing employees to existing employees to ready them for higher-skilled future roles. To sum it up, we've set the bar high in our first quarter with our results, and we're confident in our ability to deliver strong performance throughout the remainder of 2022. I want to thank the entire WM team for their hard work and dedication. I know that they continue to work to deliver on our commitment to our customers, our communities, and our shareholders. And we very much appreciate that. I'll now turn the call over to John to discuss our operational results for the quarter.John Morris -- Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Thanks, Jim, and good morning, everyone. 2022 began on a high note with first-quarter organic revenue growth in the collection and disposal business topping 9%. Our expectation was that the first quarter would be our strongest quarter of the year, both for pricing and volume growth, and our teams delivered revenue that exceeded our expectations. Core price of 7.3% is more than double the result for the same quarter in 2021, as we work to secure price increases that keep pace with the inflationary environment. Strong pricing results across all lines of business translated into collection and disposal yield of 5.5%, with standout performance of 7.9% for commercial and 5.1% for landfill MSW. We remain confident that our pricing strategies appropriately respond to the rising costs and prioritize our focus on maximizing customer lifetime value. In the first quarter, we delivered record high core price, while maintaining churn near historic lows by using a data-driven and customer-focused approach. Shifting to volumes, first-quarter collection and disposal volume grew 3.8%. Landfill volumes continue to be strong, with MSW volumes increasing more than 5% and special waste volumes growing almost 30% in the quarter. And while we expect some moderation in special waste volumes from our first-quarter levels, our project pipelines remain strong. Also contributing to our strong volume results was significant growth in our national account business. In the first quarter, our strategic business solutions team won more than $20 million of new annualized revenue. These wins were driven by our ability to meet customer sustainability and operating needs through a differentiated use of customer-facing data analytics and service capabilities. Our teams remain focused on controlling operating costs. Overall, adjusted operating expenses were 62.3% of revenue in the first quarter. While cost inflation in the first quarter persisted in the high single digits, our operating costs improved 70 basis points from the fourth quarter of 2021, largely due to encouraging trends in our largest cost category, labor. First-quarter overtime costs and training hours came down compared to the fourth quarter of 2021, as we've improved retention and been successful in onboarding new team members to transition from training hours to productive hours. On a year-over-year basis, the increase in operating expenses as a percentage of revenue primarily comes from three areas: 50 basis points in our collection and disposal business related to inflationary pressures, including the proactive and intentional steps we took last year to increase wages for frontline team members; 40 basis points from the impact of higher commodity prices on our recycling brokerage business; and 30 points related to the alternative fuel tax credits received in 2021 that have not yet been renewed for 2022. When we think about the balance of the year, we expect the inflationary cost pressures to ease in the second half of 2022 as we lap acute inflation that began in the second half of 2021. We do anticipate some pressure on maintenance costs in 2022 as a result of delays in our truck delivery schedule resulting from ongoing supply chain constraints. Turning to our residential collection business, we continue to execute on our long-term plan to improve this line of business through pricing and automation. The impacts of higher labor costs are most pronounced in this part of the business, and we are focused on appropriately pricing our contracts and reducing our costs by transitioning more of our residential fleet to automated single-driver vehicles. Our first-quarter revenue growth results reflect our success in moving residential pricing as our yield was 5%. In the recycling line of business, we delivered another strong quarter with operating EBITDA growing by $23 million. Our blended average commodity price in the first quarter was about $126 per ton, which is in line with our full-year expectations. We continue to see strong demand for recycled materials, and we remain focused on educating customers to help unlock additional supply of recyclables and employing technology to maximize the value of the material recovery while reducing our cost of processing. And finally, our renewable energy business contributed an additional $13 million of operating EBITDA in the quarter. We have a new renewable natural gas plant coming online in the next few weeks in Oklahoma, the 17th R&D plant in our network, and the fifth developed by WM. The next RNG project is on track to come into service by the end of the year, positioning us to deliver on our 2026 targets as we expand our leadership in the landfill gas energy business. In closing, I want to thank the entire team for the fantastic job. They do safely and reliably serving our customers day in and day out. We've had a great start to 2022 and look forward to building on our success. I'll now turn the call over to Devina to discuss our financial results in further detail.Devina Rankin -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thanks, John, and good morning, everyone. Our disciplined pricing programs robust volume growth and solid recycling performance fueled strong top-line growth, and that translated into a nearly 11% increase in operating EBITDA in the first quarter. Our operating EBITDA growth completely flowed through to cash from operations, as lower interest payments more than offset a modest decline in working capital benefits related primarily to higher incentive compensation payments in 2022 for a strong 2021 performance. We're pleased with these strong results and are well-positioned to comfortably deliver on our full-year outlook. Turning to capital expenditures. First-quarter capital spending to support our business totaled $371 million, and we invested an additional $47 million in our recycling and renewable energy businesses. Given our acceleration of sustainability growth in the fourth quarter of 2021, we spent a little less capital on these investments in the first quarter, but we remain on track to advance these projects in 2022 as planned. We expect that our investments in recycling and renewable natural gas projects will ramp up as we move through the balance of the year. While we continue to see supply chain constraints slow delivery schedules in some asset categories we're managing spending across our portfolio and expect capital expenditures to support the business to be within our full-year guidance of $1.95 billion to $2.05 billion. and sustainability growth investments to be approximately $550 million in 2022. As you heard from Jim and John, our teams are executing on the recycling and R&D growth projects we discussed last quarter, and we're confident in the strong returns these projects provide. Keep in mind that these investments are reported as a component of our capital expenditures and reduce our traditional measure of free cash flow. Yet we view these investments to be similar to an acquisition dollar as they produce high-return growth as a strong complement to our existing business. Putting it all together, our business generated first-quarter free cash flow of $845 million. Before sustainability growth investments, first-quarter free cash flow was $892 million. which puts us well on our way to achieving our full-year outlook of between $2.6 billion and $2.7 billion. We are well-positioned to allocate our cash to sustainability growth investments, traditional tuck-in acquisitions, and growing shareholder returns. We used our free cash flow to pay $275 million in dividends in the quarter, and we allocated $250 million to share repurchases, while maintaining our leverage ratio well within our targeted range. Turning to SG&A. We remain focused on controlling discretionary SG&A spending and leveraging technology investments to reduce the cost of our sales and back-office functions. First-quarter SG&A was 10.1% of revenue, a 60 basis point improvement over 2021. We fully expect to achieve SG&A as a percentage of revenue of less than 10% for the full year, even as we continue to invest in technology, differentiate WM and lower our cost to serve. In closing, our strong results are a testament to the dedication of our 50,000 team members. We're proud of our performance in the first quarter and excited about what we can achieve together over the remainder of the year. With that, Laurie, let's open the line for questions. 