
OperatorGood morning. My name is Shelby and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Biogen Third Quarter Earnings Call and Financial Update. [Operator Instructions]I would like to now turn the conference over to Mr. Mike Hencke, Investor Relations. Mr. Hencke, you may begin.Michael Hencke -- Investor RelationsGood morning and welcome to Biogen's third quarter 2021 earnings call.Before we begin I encourage everyone to go to the Investors section of biogen.com to find the earnings release and related financial tables, including our GAAP financial measures and a reconciliation of the GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures that we will discuss today. Our GAAP financials are provided in Tables 1 and 2, and Table 4 includes a reconciliation of our GAAP to non-GAAP financial results. We believe non-GAAP financial results better represent the ongoing economics of our business and reflect how we manage the business internally. We have also posted slides on our website that follow the discussions related to this call.I would like to point out that we will be making forward-looking statements which are based on our current expectations and beliefs. These statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties and our actual results may differ materially. I encourage you to consult the risk factors discussed in our SEC filings for additional detail.Today, we will be discussing ADUHELM. ADUHELM is indicated for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. Treatment with ADUHELM should be initiated in patients with mild cognitive impairment or mild dementia stage of disease; the population in which treatment was initiated in clinical trials. There are no safety or effectiveness data on initiating treatment at earlier or later stages of the disease when were studied. This indication is approved under accelerated approval based on reduction in amyloid beta plaques observed in patients treated with ADUHELM. Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification of clinical benefit and a confirmatory trial or trial.ADUHELM can cause serious side effects, including amyloid-related imaging abnormalities or ARIA. ARIA is a common side effect that does not usually cause any symptoms but can be serious. ADUHELM can cause serious allergic reactions. The most common side effects include ARIA, headache and fall. Please see full prescribing information and patient medication guide at aduhelm.com.On today's call, I am joined by our Chief Executive Officer, Michel Vounatsos; Dr. Al Sandrock, Head of Research and Development; and our CFO, Mike McDonnell. We will also be joined for the Q&A portion of our call by Alisha Alaimo, President of our U.S. Organization; and Toby Ferguson, Head of Neuromuscular Development.As a reminder, during the Q&A portion of the call, we kindly ask that you limit yourself to one question.I will now turn the call over to Michel.Michel Vounatsos -- Chief Executive OfficerGood morning everyone and thank you for joining us. We continue to view 2021 as a transformational year for our company. We are satisfied with our 2021 pipeline accomplishments and the continued operational performance of the company. However, we are obviously disappointed with the delayed uptake of ADUHELM in the U.S.We had solid financial results for the third quarter with total revenue of $2.8 billion and non-GAAP EPS of $4.77. Biogen has continued to execute well and demonstrate resilience across MS, SMA and biosimilars despite competition. Mike will provide more details on our financial results and I will focus primarily on ADUHELM.We continue to believe in ADUHELM long-term potential. And this quarter, we continued to progress the launch in the U.S. in anticipation of the reimbursement decision for Medicare patients. We are working through the three near-term challenges we have previously described with a core focus on enabling patients access. Importantly, we have made steady progress on key metrics. But the healthcare system remains a major bottleneck. In particular, the lack of clarity on reimbursement has delayed patient access to the first treatment to address an underlying pathology of Alzheimer's disease which is reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit. We look forward to the upcoming Medicare National Coverage Determination expected by next April which would clarify Medicare reimbursement for the entire class of antibodies directed against amyloids. The NCD is a rigorous process involving a number of consultation and we understand this is required for this new class of drugs for Alzheimer's. However, keep in mind, this will delay access for many patients by approximately 300 days from approval.Biogen is acting with urgency across the three strategic priorities as we work to support access for patients. First, we are working to improve the community's understanding of our clinical data. As a reminder, the Phase 3 EMERGE study met its pre-specified primary and secondary endpoints showing a significant reduction in clinical decline. Patients who received high dose ADUHELM experienced significant benefits on measure of cognition and function, including activities of daily living. Although the other Phase 3 study ENGAGE did not meet its primary endpoint analysis, both studies demonstrated that higher exposure to ADUHELM were associated with greater reduction in clinical decline. We have submitted this Phase 3 results to a top tier journal with a manuscript now under peer review in addition to all the publication on our data and we will continue to generate additional data.We launched ICARE AD, the first real-world observational Phase 4 study in Alzheimer's disease designed to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of ADUHELM in clinical practice. We have submitted a draft protocol to the FDA for the required Phase 4 confirmatory study. We have fully resourced this study with the goal of completing it ahead of schedule.In addition to presenting ADUHELM data at this year's AAIC meeting, the EMBARK baseline data have been accepted for presentation at next month's CTAD meeting, which will provide important information regarding the impact of a gap in treatment. Furthermore, we also plan to present important new plasma phosphorylated-tau data from EMERGE and ENGAGE that highlights the downstream effect of aducanumab as soon as possible. Overall, the approval of ADUHELM was supported by a significant dataset from eight studies with more than 3,000 patients and we look forward to continuing to generate additional data to support the clinical profile of ADUHELM.Our second priority is to appropriately support development of the necessary infrastructure. At launch, we established a program with Labcorp and Mayo Clinic Laboratories for amyloid beta CSF testing. Throughout the quarter, we saw a continued increase in the number of patients utilizing this program. We also continued to advocate for reimbursement of amyloid PET imaging. Furthermore, we are continuing to see additional sites come online with approximately 120 sites now treating patients with ADUHELM and many more sites in progress.And third, to clarify reimbursement as we wait for the NCD decision for this class of antibodies, we have obtained the permanent ADUHELM J-code becoming active in January of next year, and hope this will help simplify the coding process for healthcare providers. Looking forward, in addition to presenting and publishing the data that I previously mentioned, the most significant near-term milestones will be the outcome of the NCD for antibodies directed against amyloids. We expect a draft decision in January following by a final decision in April of 2022.In Alzheimer's, more broadly, our partner Eisai recently initiated the FDA rolling submission for lecanemab BLA under the accelerated approval pathway following the receipt of Breakthrough Therapy designation in the U.S. Of the anti-amyloid antibodies that are either approved or in late stage development, Biogen and Eisai have the opportunity to provide patients with two out of the four potential options. With first FDA-approved therapy to address an underlying pathology of Alzheimer's disease, the potential to bring lecanemab promising tau pipeline programs such as BIIB080 and with the benefit of digital technologies, we believe Biogen is well-positioned to remain long term leader in Alzheimer's disease.Moving beyond Alzheimer's disease, together with our partner, Sage, we continue to make progress toward bringing a potential novel therapeutic options to patients suffering from depression. We recently obtained positive data from a Phase 2 study in Japan representing the third positive placebo-controlled study for zuranolone in MDD. In addition, we announced our plans to initiate a filing in the U.S. Lastly, we recently reported data from the VALOR Phase 3 study of tofersen in ALS. Although the VALOR study did not meet the primary endpoint, signs of reduced disease progression across multiple endpoints were observed. We are encouraged by this verity of the evidence and are engaged with regulators on next steps. Following discussion with investigators, bioethicists and having listened to the voice of patients advocacy groups, we intend to expand the early access program to the broader population of individuals living with SOD1-ALS.We believe these recent developments represent a significant step forward in our goal of transforming Biogen from what was once an MS company to one that is built upon a multi-franchise portfolio across a broad spectrum of neuroscience therapeutic areas.I would now like to turn the call over to Al for a more detailed update on our progress in R&D.Alfred Sandrock -- Head of Research and DevelopmentThank you, Michel. And good morning everyone. As always, I'd like to start by thanking the Biogen team for their hard work as we continue to advance our R&D programs. In addition to key readouts in major depressive disorder and ALS, we hosted an R&D Investor Day to tell you about our pipeline programs, research capabilities and expertise. I encourage you to take a look at these presentations on our website.Let me now start with Alzheimer's disease, beginning with aducanumab. At the R&D Day presentation earlier this month, I underscored the importance of determining the relationship between drug to biology, as well as biology to disease during the drug development process. In late June, FDA made data from the drug approval package of ADUHELM publicly available. The clinical pharmacology review included in the approval package addresses some of these key relationships as shown in the next 2 slides.This first slide shows the relationship between the amyloid plaque burden as measured by the observed SUVr score versus drug exposure as measured by the predicted cumulative AUC, both at Week 78, taking into account all of the data from both Phase 3 trials of aducanumab. The relationship between exposure to aducanumab and amyloid plaque reduction is consistent across the two studies and shows that amyloid plaque burden decreases as the cumulative drug exposure increases.The next slide shows another figure from the same document which plots the relationship between the reduction in amyloid plaque burden as measured by SUVr and the preservation of clinical function as measured by the CDR Sum of Boxes across multiple dose levels of several anti-A beta antibodies. Studies 301 and 302 are referred to as Study 2 and Study 1, respectively, in the ADUHELM label. When viewed together, these data from six different anti-amyloid antibodies show that there is an association between amyloid plaque reduction and a reduction in clinical decline and that greater degrees of amyloid plaque reduction are needed for a reduction in clinical decline.At the annual AAIC meeting in July, we presented additional data from the EMERGE, ENGAGE and PRIME trials, which showed that aducanumab treatment led to a reduction in amyloid plaques as well as downstream biomarkers of Alzheimers disease pathophysiology and that this also led to a slowing of clinical decline. We are looking forward to presenting more data from our aducanumab trials, including the baseline data from the EMBARK study at the upcoming CTAD meeting next month in Boston.We're also looking forward to presenting, at the earliest possible opportunity at a scientific venue, new data on plasma P181-tau, reflecting a downstream biological and clinical effects of aducanumab, which I believe will be of great interest to scientists and clinicians. By way of reminder, amyloid plaques containing A-beta protein and neurofibrillary tangles containing phosphorylated tau are the defining pathophysiologic features of Alzheimer's disease. Finally, I'm happy to say that we are on track to soon publish the Phase 3 aducanumab trial results in a major peer-reviewed journal.This quarter, we also submitted a draft protocol for the required Phase 4 confirmatory trial of aducanumab to the FDA. As I have said before, we have fully resourced the study and aim to complete it ahead of schedule. A key goal of the confirmatory study is to ensure that we enroll appropriate numbers of Alzheimer's disease patients from underrepresented populations. It is estimated that by 2030, nearly 40% of all Americans living with Alzheimer's disease will be African-American or Latinx and therefore having sufficient participation of these communities is especially important to reflect the diversity of the disease in the real world. Through the Phase 4 confirmatory study, as well as ICARE AD, we aim to provide further evidence of the clinical benefits and risks associated with aducanumab treatment.Outside of the United States, we are under regulatory review in multiple geographies, including the EU, where we are actively preparing for a scientific advisory group meeting as part of the CHMP review process.Turning to lecanemab, we are looking forward to when we can potentially provide to add the amyloid antibody options for Alzheimer's disease patients. As previously announced, our collaboration partner Eisai recently initiated a rolling submission of the lecanemab beta to the FDA for potential accelerated approval. We expect this submission to be complete sometime in 2022.Moving to MS, we presented new data at the annual ECTRIMS meeting last week, including primary results from the NOVA Phase 3b study evaluating the efficacy of TYSABRI extended interval dosing versus the approved every four-week dosing. A real world claims-based analysis of relapse and hospitalization rates in MS patients treated with natalizumab versus ocrelizumab, a new analysis of the EVOLVE-MS-2 data focusing on the impact of dose titration on the GI tolerability of VUMERITY relative to TECFIDERA, and data from the MS PATHS showing that 100% of people with MS treated with natalizumab, interferons or fumarates achieved an antibody response following COVID-19 vaccination, as compared to 40% of MS patients treated with anti-CD20 or S1P therapies.With respect to the introduction of VUMERITY in the EU, we were happy to learn of the approval in Switzerland as well as the positive CHMP opinion and look forward to the final EMA decision.In neuropsychiatry, we were excited to see the results of the Phase 2 study of zuranolone in major depressive disorder recently completed by Shionogi. The Phase 2 trial was similar in design to the other studies evaluating zuranolone and MDD and compared 20 and 30 milligram doses of zuranolone to placebo in Japanese patients with MDD. The results of this study further support the safety and efficacy profile of zuranolone in that it demonstrated rapid onset and significant reductions in the HAM-D-17 score at Day 3, Day 8 and Day 15.Additionally, while not statistically significant, we see separation from placebo for both the 20 and 30 milligrams zuranolone treatment arms out to Day 57. All adverse events in the study were mild to moderate, and consistent with the known safety profile of zuranolone. The Shionogi study is now the third double blind placebo-controlled trial evaluating zuranolone in MDD where the primary endpoint of the change in the HAM-D score at Day 15 was met. These results in MDD are in addition to the efficacy of zuranolone in PPD as observed in the ROBIN study.Given the consistent results observed across the zuranolone trials, Biogen and Sage have announced plans to submit an NDA to the FDA in the second half of 2022. The planned initial submission package will be used to seek approval of zuranolone for the treatment of major depressive disorder and an additional filing for postpartum depression is anticipated in the first half of 2023. Additionally, the CORAL study designed to evaluate zuranolone as an acute rapid response therapy when co-initiated with standard antidepressant therapy is now fully enrolled with topline data expected in early 2022.Moving to neuromuscular disorders. Earlier this week, we announced results from the pivotal Phase 3 study evaluating tofersen in people with SOD1 mediated ALS. The Phase 3 or VALOR study utilized the study enrichment approach to stratify participants into faster and slower progressing cohorts. We were disappointed when we learnt that the study did not meet the primary endpoint of a statistically significant change from baseline to Week 28 in the ALS functional rating scale in the fast-to-progressing population. Nevertheless, we did observe encouraging trends favoring tofersen across multiple secondary and exploratory measures of biological and clinical activity, including assessments of motor function, respiratory function, muscle strength and quality of life. Moreover, a pre-specified integration of data from the Phase 3 study and its ongoing open label extension study reinforce these findings and showed that early tofersen initiation led to a slower decline across these measures.Beyond the clinical measures, we observed reductions in CSF SOD1 as compared to placebo, suggesting target engagement was achieved. Moreover, on the key secondary endpoint of a change in plasma neurofilament light, a potential marker of neuronal degeneration, we observed reductions of 67% in the faster progressing patients and 48% in the slower progressing patients with tofersen treatment relative to placebo. To our knowledge, this represents the greatest reductions in plasma neurofilament levels ever observed in an ALS clinical trial. Most adverse events in the Phase 3 study were mild to moderate in severity and many were consistent with ALS disease progression or lumbar puncture-related events. Serious adverse events, including transverse myelitis, were seen in some patients receiving tofersen.Based on the results of the Phase 3 study, we are actively engaging regulators, the medical community, patient advocacy groups and other key stakeholders around the world to determine next steps for tofersen. Additionally, following discussions with key medical experts and ethicists, we plan to provide early access of tofersen to all eligible SOD1-ALS patients through an expanded access program. Given the possible importance of early treatment of SOD1-ALS, we continue to enroll patients in the ATLAS study, a Phase 3 trial of tofersen initiated in clinically pre-symptomatic SOD1 mutation carriers. Our hope is that treating patients earlier in the disease may provide the best opportunity to slow or even delay the onset of this terrible disease.Also in neuromuscular disorders, this quarter, we announced our plans to initiate ASCEND, a Phase 3b study which aims to evaluate whether treatment with an investigational higher dose of nusinersen has the potential to improve clinical outcomes in patients previously treated with risdiplam. Our SPINRAZA data indicate that exposure remains similar as patients age and grow. We are also advancing the ongoing DEVOTE study evaluating the safety and efficacy of higher exposures of SPINRAZA as our pre-clinical studies indicate that we ought to be able to safely increase its dose. With the DEVOTE and ASCEND studies, we hope to be able to further inform SMA treatment and address the remaining unmet needs of patients.In summary, as I described during our recent R&D Investor Day, we believe the science is breaking and that this is exactly the right time to be pioneers in neuroscience. By leveraging a deep understanding of human genetics and disease biology, we are working to usher in the future of neurotherapeutics where we identify the right patients and treat early, perhaps even before the onset of symptoms, to meaningfully delay or even prevent disease progression.I will now turn the call over to Mike.Michael McDonnell -- Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Al. We were very pleased with our third quarter results as we continued to execute well. As we move forward, we remain fully focused on our core business, including the launch of ADUHELM in the United States.Total revenue for the third quarter of $2.8 billion declined 18% versus the prior year at both actual and constant currency and reflects the impact of TECFIDERA generics. Total MS revenue for the third quarter was $1.8 billion inclusive of OCREVUS royalties.Looking at some of the individual products within MS. Global TECFIDERA revenue for the third quarter was $499 million. In the U.S., third quarter revenue of $179 million was flat versus the prior quarter with lower volume offset by a decrease in discounts and allowances. We expect TECFIDERA revenue in the U.S. to decline going forward. Outside of the U.S., third quarter TECFIDERA revenue of $319 million increased by 13% versus the prior year with 7% underlying patient growth.We were pleased with the continued ramp in VUMERITY revenue from $91 million in the second quarter to $121 million in the third quarter. We are also pleased that VUMERITY received a positive CHMP opinion in the EU, as well as full regulatory approval in Switzerland.TYSABRI third quarter global revenue of $523 million increased 1% versus the prior year, notwithstanding some negative channel dynamics in the United States. We were pleased to see 7% growth in global TYSABRI patients and we believe TYSABRI remains well-positioned to play an increasingly important role in the treatment of MS with initiatives including subcutaneous administration and extended interval dosing. We are also encouraged by the new data on COVID vaccinations that Al mentioned.Moving to SMA. Global third quarter SPINRAZA revenue of $444 million decreased by 10% versus the prior year. In the U.S., SPINRAZA revenue of $140 million decreased by 23% versus the prior year as we see continued impact from competition. However, we were encouraged to see that discontinuations decreased versus the second quarter of this year. Outside the U.S., SPINRAZA revenue decreased 2% versus the prior year due to competition and pricing pressure in Europe, partially offset by growth in regions outside of Europe. As a reminder, Q1 and Q2 2021 SPINRAZA revenue outside the U.S. benefited from accelerated shipments. With overall market growth, continued data generation, the efficacy and safety profile in all age groups and further geographic expansion, we continue to believe that SPINRAZA can return to growth over the medium to long term.Total ADUHELM revenue for the third quarter was $300,000 as we saw wholesalers gradually draw down inventory purchased in Q2. For the three main reasons Michel discussed, uptake has been delayed. I would refer you to this slide, as well as slides in the appendix for details on the accounting with Eisai and Neurimmune, which differs depending on geography.Moving on to our Biosimilars business. Third quarter revenue of $203 million decreased by 2% versus the prior year as we continued to be negatively impacted by pricing pressure, as well as the COVID-19 pandemic. We are excited that BYOOVIZ was approved in the U.S., EU and UK and believe that we have the opportunity to continue to grow our Biosimilars business by commercializing new products and entering new geographies such as the U.S.Total anti-CD20 revenue in the third quarter of $415 million decreased 26% versus the prior year. This decline was primarily driven by the decline in RITUXAN revenue as we see continued impact from biosimilars; a trend that we expect going forward. Total Other revenue in the third quarter of $158 million increased 26% versus the prior year. Other revenue in the quarter benefited from the timing of shipments related to contract manufacturing. Third quarter gross margin was 82% of revenue, down slightly from 83% in the prior quarter, and down from 87% in Q3 of 2020. The reduction in gross margin versus the prior year was primarily due to the declines in TECFIDERA and RITUXAN, both of which are high-margin products. We expect continued downward pressure on gross margins going forward.Moving now to expenses in the balance sheet. Third quarter non-GAAP R&D expense was $702 million, which included a $125 million upfront payment related to our collaboration with InnoCare. Non-GAAP SG&A was $651 million, including approximately $135 million related to ADUHELM. Note that beginning in the second quarter, Eisai's reimbursement of U.S. SG&A cost is reflected in the collaboration profit sharing line. Third quarter collaboration profit sharing was a net expense of $21 million, which includes a reimbursement of $51 million from Eisai related to the commercialization of ADUHELM in the U.S.Our effective non-GAAP tax rate for the quarter was approximately 14% versus approximately 19% in the third quarter of last year. Third quarter non-GAAP loss attributable to non-controlling interest was $11 million. As a reminder, ADUHELM royalties and commercial launch milestones paid to Neurimmune will be reflected in this line. Eisai's reimbursement for these items will be reflected in collaboration profit sharing.During the quarter, we repurchased 2.2 million shares of the company's common stock for $750 million. As of September 30, 2021, there was $2.8 billion remaining under the share repurchase program authorized in October of 2020. Our weighted average diluted share count was approximately 149 million shares for the quarter. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share in the third quarter was $4.77.In the third quarter, we generated approximately $805 million in cash flow from operations. Capex was $42 million and free cash flow was approximately $763 million. We ended the quarter with $7.3 billion in debt, $3.9 billion in cash and marketable securities and $3.3 billion in net debt. In addition, our $1 billion revolving credit facility was undrawn as of the end of Q3.Overall, we remain in a very strong financial position with significant cash and financial capacity to grow the business over the long term.Let me now turn to our updated full year guidance for 2021. We are increasing our full year 2021 revenue guidance from our previous range of $10.65 billion to $10.85 billion to a new range of $10.8 billion to $10.9 billion, primarily as a result of stronger MS performance. We are increasing our non-GAAP diluted EPS guidance from our previous range of $17.50 to $19 to a new range of $18.85 to $19.35, primarily driven by the revenue upside I just mentioned. We are lowering our capital expenditure guidance from a previous range of $375 million to $425 million to a new range of $250 million to $300 million, primarily as a result of delayed spend on certain projects, including some which have been impacted by COVID-19.Our guidance assumes minimal ADUHELM revenue in 2021. We continue to expect revenue to start ramping in 2022 and beyond, particularly after the NCD decision in April assuming a positive outcome. We expect continued declines in both TECFIDERA and RITUXAN in the U.S. and that the decreased revenue from these high margin products will put pressure on our gross margin percentage.Full year non-GAAP R&D expenses are expected to be between $2.45 billion and $2.55 billion. This range is consistent with our previous guidance. Full year non-GAAP SG&A expenses are expected to be between $2.6 billion and $2.7 billion. This range is consistent with our previous guidance and includes an approximate $500 million ADUHELM investment. Of this amount, approximately $150 million would be reimbursable by Eisai and is reflected as collaboration profit sharing, effective April 1, and not part of SG&A. These ADUHELM investments are slightly less than our previous estimates and, of course, we will continue to actively manage the pace of the spend. This annual SG&A range also assumes a seasonally higher spend in Q4 consistent with previous years. I would refer you to our press release for other important guidance assumptions.In closing, we are very pleased with our financial performance and are very focused on the ADUHELM launch. We remain in a very strong financial position with significant cash, modest leverage and a business that generates significant free cash flow. We believe these dynamics position us well to continue to grow the business over the long term.I'll now turn the call back over to Michel for his closing comments.Michel Vounatsos -- Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Mike. Biogen continued to demonstrate resilience and strong execution in the third quarter of the year, providing a solid foundation for the company as we make progress on the ADUHELM launch ahead of the important data releases and publications in addition to the NCD decision for the class of anti-amyloid antibodies anticipated next April.We believe ADUHELM represents a significant step in the fight against Alzheimer's disease as the first FDA-approved treatment to address a defining pathology of the disease, which is reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit. We know there are patients suffering right now from the disease and it is those patients we keep in mind as we work to support access. In fact, at the CTAD meeting next month, we'll be presenting an analysis showing that without access, everyday that passes, we estimate that over 1,000 Americans move from mild to moderate Alzheimer's dementia and therefore may no longer be appropriate for initiation of treatment with ADUHELM.As many have observed, our current system so far falls short in diagnosing and intervening in the disease. In addition, Alzheimer's disease is a particularly acute issue of inequality as African Americans are up to three times more likely and Latinx individuals are one and half times more likely to have Alzheimer's disease when compared to others. We understand the seriousness of this issue and that inclusion of underrepresented population in drug development is often low, including in our Alzheimer's clinical trial. We also know that we have work to do and a role to play in correcting this. For that reason, the design of ICARE AD, our real world Phase 4 observational study of ADUHELM, aims to include at least 16% of the trial's expected enrollment from Black African American and Latinx patients.In closing, I would like to thank our employees around the world who have demonstrated their dedication to making a positive impact on patients' lives and all of the physicians, caregivers and participants in our clinical development programs. Our ability to deliver medicines to patients could not be realized without their passion and commitment.We will now open the call for questions.