  OperatorGood day, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the SolarEdge conference call for the first quarter ended March 31, 2022. This call is being webcast live on the company's website at www.solaredge.com in the investors section of the event calendar page. This call is the sole property and copyright of SolarEdge with all rights reserved, and any recording, reproduction or transmission of this call without express written consent of SolarEdge is prohibited. You may listen to a webcast replay of this call by visiting the event calendar page of the SolarEdge investor website. I would now like to turn the call over to Mike Funari with Sapphire investor relations, investor relations for SolarEdge.Mike Funari -- Investor Relations Good afternoon. Thank you for joining us to discuss SolarEdge's operating results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2022, as well as the company's outlook for the second quarter of 2022. With me today are Zvi Lando, chief executive officer; and Ronen Faier, chief financial officer Zvi be will begin with a brief review of the results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2022. Ronen will review the financial results for the first quarter followed by the company's outlook for the second quarter of 2022. We'll then open the call for questions. Please note, this call will include forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from management's current expectations. We encourage you to review the safe harbor statement contained in our press release live published today for a more complete description. All material contained in the webcast is the sole property and copyright of SolarEdge Technologies with all rights reserved.Please note this presentation describes certain non-GAAP measures, including non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net diluted earnings per share, which are not measures prepared in accordance with the U.S. GAAP. The non-GAAP measures are presented in this presentation as we believe they provide investors with the means of evaluating and understanding how the company's management evaluates the company's operating performance. These non-GAAP measures should not be considered in isolation from, as a substitute for or superior to financial measures prepared in accordance with the U.S. GAAP. Listeners who do not have a copy of the quarter ended March 31, 2020 press release or the supplemental material may obtain a copy by visiting the Investors' section of the company's website. Now, I'll turn the call over to Zvi. Zvi Lando -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Mike. Good afternoon, and thank you all for joining us on our conference call today. Starting with highlights of our first quarter results. We concluded the quarter with record revenues of approximately $655 million, more than $100 million over our previous record revenues achieved last quarter. Revenues from our solar business were at a record high of $608 million, while revenues from our nonsolar business were $47 million. This quarter, we shipped 5.7 million power optimizers and 211,000 inverters, an increase of 600,000 and 14,000 units, respectively, from last quarter. Our solar business grew quarter over quarter by 21%, driven by growth in all segments and geographies, including record quarterly revenues in the United States and 14 European countries, including the Netherlands, Italy, Poland, Spain, Switzerland and the U.K. There's a lot of attention recently to what is happening in Europe, and I would like to add some color on this topic since it is a large source of our revenues. Traditionally, the first quarter in Europe is seasonally lower than other quarters with significant pickup in the second quarter of each year. However, this year, we have seen significant increase in demand already in the first quarter and the growth in our megawatt shipments from Q4 2021 to Q1 2022 was 40% in the Residential segment and 52% in the Commercial segment. On top of this, when we examined the sell-out data from our distributors in Europe, it is at an all-time high and inventory days on hand at the distributors are exceptionally low. Considering the current dynamics in Europe of elevated electricity prices, supportive government initiatives and our historically strong position in this region, and taking into account our current portfolio and new products we plan to release in the coming quarters, we expect our strong growth momentum in Europe to continue. In order to meet the high demand in Europe this quarter, we did have to ship additional products by air, which in combination with the euro-to-dollar decline, put pressure on our gross margin. Ronen will elaborate on this in a few moments. In the U.S. as well, this was a record revenue quarter. In particular, we saw high quarter-over-quarter growth in the Commercial segment where megawatt shipments grew by over 40%. This correlates with the global strong commercial momentum that we described in the analyst day that is associated with corporate ESG focus and high electricity prices. We continue to grow also in regions outside Europe and the U.S. with record revenues. Noteworthy among these countries is Taiwan, where we shipped this quarter more than 50 megawatts of products, and in Japan, where we are ramping sales and installations of our newly certified residential offering. On the product side, we shipped this quarter approximately 100-megawatt hours of our SolarEdge home residential battery. We are seeing good market acceptance and strong demand from multiple countries for this product, most recently with the successful launch in Australia. Customer feedback continues to be positive, in particular, regarding ease of installation, multiple battery flexibility and the overall advantages of a DC-coupled system. We are on track in ramping our manufacturing facility and plan to ship over 200-megawatt hours of batteries in the second quarter. We are also experiencing strong demands for all of our other SolarEdge home products, including water heaters, meters and most notably, our stand-alone and inverter-integrated EV chargers, of which we shipped approximately 8,000 units worldwide in the first quarter. In the Commercial and Industrial segment this quarter, we released the S1200, a high wattage power optimizer based on our fourth generation ASIC that supports the recently available high-power and bifacial modules. We also continue to test our 330-kilowatt, large-scale inverter in sites in Israel and in Europe and are on track for ramp later this year, further strengthening our offer for ground mounted installations. I would like now to elaborate on the operational challenges we are facing while ramping production of inverters, optimizers and batteries to meet the continuously increasing demands we are seeing. We are facing three main areas of challenge while building our capacity to meet this demand. The first is electronic component availability, in particular, at the elevated volumes we require. The second is unpredictable COVID-related disruptions such as the recent one in Shanghai, affecting some of our raw material and component suppliers. And third are the longer logistic routes affecting both incoming supply to manufacturing sites and finished good shipments. In order to overcome these challenges and to continue and supply our customers with the products they need, when and where they need them, now and in the future, we are on the one hand, investing and growing our contract manufacturing facilities by adding space, people and equipment and on the other hand, managing the component supply chain with expedited shipments, paying, in some cases, high logistic costs to get components to our factories and to get products to our customers. While we have raised prices to cover increased components and material costs, we are not placing all of the infrastructure development and expedited shipment costs on our customers. We expect that some of these costs will be mitigated as we grow manufacturing capabilities such as in Mexico, where this quarter, we began to ship inverters and optimizers into the U.S. and we are on track to supply our entire residential inverter and optimizer U.S. offering from the Mexico factory by year-end. While we do not have clear visibility on when the shortage of components will stabilize and our elevated demands will be met in a more predictable manner, we are optimistic that the work we are doing to qualify additional component suppliers and to align short- and long-term forecasts with top management of our key suppliers, will ease the constraints toward the end of the year. In our nonsolar business, our e-Mobility division continued delivering full powertrain units and batteries for the Fiat e-Ducato in Europe, doubling our deliveries from the prior quarter and we are expecting to grow another 30% in the coming quarter. In our energy storage division, the Stellantis factory for lithium ion cells and batteries in Korea is now fully constructed and has received permits required to initiate test runs for full cell qualification. In summary, this is an exciting period where we are capitalizing on our long-term investment in a broad portfolio and global presence and are significantly growing our infrastructure and our business globally, albeit in a challenging operational environment. With this, I hand it over to Ronen, who will review our financial results.Ronen Faier -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Zvi, and good afternoon, everyone. This financial review includes a GAAP and non-GAAP discussion. Full reconciliation of the pro forma to GAAP results discussed on this call is available on our website and in the press release issued today. Segment profit is comprised of gross profit for the segment less operating expenses and do not include amortization, stock-based compensation expenses and certain other items. Total revenues for the first quarter were a record $655.1 million, a 19% increase compared to $551.9 million last quarter and a 62% increase compared to $405.5 million for the same quarter last year. Revenues from our solar segment, which include the sales of residential batteries were a record $608 million, a 21% increase compared to the $502.7 million last quarter and a 62% increase compared to $376.4 million for the same quarter last year. U.S. solar revenues this quarter were a record $265.2 million, a 3% increase from the last quarter and represented 43.6% of our solar revenues. solar revenues from Europe were a record $285.4 million, a 48% increase from the last quarter and represented 47% of our solar revenues. rest of the world solar revenues were a record $57.4 million, a 10% increase compared to the last quarter and represented 9.4% of our total solar revenues with a very strong quarter in Israel, Australia and Japan and a record quarter in Taiwan. On a megawatt basis, we shipped 721 megawatts to the United States, 1.1 gigawatt to Europe and 309 megawatts to the rest of the world. Forty-seven percent of the megawatt shipments were commercial products and the remaining 53% were residential. ASP per watt, excluding battery revenues this quarter was $0.269, a 6.2% increase from $0.253 last quarter, a result of our geographic and product sales mix as well as a price increase implemented in several regions. These price increases will fully materialize in Q3. This quarter, one U.S. customer accounted for more than 10% of our solar revenues. Revenues from our nonsolar business were $46.9 million. A significant portion of these revenues came from our E-Mobility division, where the volume of powertrain units delivered to Stellantis continue to grow. Consolidated GAAP gross margins for the quarter was 27.3% compared to 29.1% in the prior quarter and 34.5% in the same quarter last year. Non-GAAP gross margin this quarter was 28.4% compared to 30.3% in the prior quarter and 36.5% in the same quarter last year. Gross margin for the solar segment was 30.2% compared to 32.8% in the prior quarter. Since our solar segment gross margin have gradually eroded over the last few quarters, I would like to spend some time explaining the main drivers compared to the last quarter in order to provide a broader perspective. There were four primary factors which impacted our gross margins this quarter versus last. The first was increased shipping expenses, both on finished goods and raw materials for the reasons previously detailed by Zvi. This had a strong impact on our margin and at the current level, it is 480 basis points above where we were in the first quarter of 2021. We expect this to continue in the second quarter and gradually ease from the third quarter onwards as we ramp Mexico and decrease the portion of Chinese-made products for the U.S. market. The second is related to costs paid to our contract manufacturers in order to continue manufacturing during the Chinese New Year period and are onetime in nature, and for ramp-up expenses in Mexico, China and Vietnam that will continue through the end of this year. The third element is the increase in revenues from batteries out of our total product mix which have lower gross margins. Fourth relates to the devaluation of the euro against the U.S. dollar, which impacted us significantly due to the high volume of sales in Europe. We expect this last factor to continue and negatively impact our gross margins into the second quarter as reflected in our guidance. Goods subject to tariffs shipped into the United States from China accounted for 32% of our U.S. shipments this quarter. Gross margin for the nonsolar segment was 5.6% compared to 4.2% in the previous quarter, mostly driven by higher margin on the storage product and improved margins in the e-Mobility business. On a non-GAAP basis, operating expenses for the first quarter were $98.9 million or 15.1% of revenues compared to $94.1 million or 17.1% of revenues in the prior quarter and $76.2 million or 18.8% of revenues for the same quarter last year. For the solar segment, operating expenses as a percentage of solar revenues were 13.9% compared to 15.8% last quarter, representing an improved operating leverage as our revenues continued to rapidly expand. Non-GAAP operating income for the quarter was $87.2 million compared to $72.9 million in the previous quarter and $71.9 million for the same period last year. This quarter, the solar segment generated operating profit of $98.7 million compared to an operating profit of $85.3 million last quarter. The nonsolar segment generated an operating loss of $11.5 million compared to an operating loss of $12.4 million in the previous quarter. Non-GAAP financial expense for the quarter was $4.9 million compared to a non-GAAP financial expense of $2.2 million in the previous quarter. Our non-GAAP tax expense was $13.5 million compared to $7.9 million in the previous quarter and $10.1 million for the same period last year. It is worth mentioning that due to the way that the tax provision related to GILTI income is calculated, the company's effective tax rate is not linear throughout the year and is generally higher in the first half of the year, and it will decrease in the second half of 2022. This nonlinear calculation reduced our EPS this quarter by approximately $0.05, which is expected to be recovered in the second half of the year. GAAP net income for the first quarter was $33.1 million compared to a GAAP net income of $41 million in the previous quarter and $30.1 million for the same quarter last year. Our non-GAAP net income was $68.8 million compared to a non-GAAP net income of $62.8 million in the previous quarter and $55.5 million in the same quarter last year. GAAP net diluted earnings per share was $0.60 for the first quarter compared to $0.74 in the previous quarter and $0.55 in the same quarter last year. Non-GAAP net diluted EPS was $1.20 compared to $1.10 in the previous quarter and $0.98 for the same quarter last year. Turning now to the balance sheet. As of March 31, 2022, cash, cash equivalents, bank deposits, restricted bank deposits and investments were $1.6 billion. Net of debt, this amount was $979 million. During the first quarter of 2022, we used $163 million of cash for operating activities. High cash consumption is not necessarily unusual for a rapidly growing business. In this case, the nontypical cash consumption in the first quarter is a result of the extended shipping times for both finished goods and components, high volume purchases of battery cells from Samsung for batteries to be manufactured and delivered in the second quarter, and the consumption of working capital while increasing our revenues rapidly. We expect this trend to be reversed in the next quarter. Accounts receivable net increased this quarter to $676.8 million compared to $456.3 million in the last quarter as a result of our growing revenues. As of March 31, 2022, our inventory level, net of reserve, was at $432.5 million compared to $380.1 million in the prior quarter. Most of this increase is related to an increased level of raw materials, battery sales and component inventory in the solar segment, while our finished good inventory continued to decrease as a result of the growing demand for our products. Our nonsolar inventory levels slightly decreased compared to the previous quarter. Turning to our guidance for the second quarter of 2022. We are guiding revenues to be within the range of $710 million to $740 million. Revenues from the solar segment are expected to be within the range of $660 million and $690 million. We expect non-GAAP gross margins to be within the range of 26% to 29%. Gross margin from the solar segment is expected to be within the range of 28% to 31%, mostly impacted by the euro-dollar exchange rate and an increased level of European revenues. I will now turn the call over to the operator to open it up for questions. 