
OperatorGreetings ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Truist Corporation Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. Currently, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. As a reminder, this event is being recorded. It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Mr. Ankur Vyas, Truist Financial Corporation.Ankur Vyas -- Head of Investor RelationsThank you, Shannon and good morning everyone. Welcome to Truist's second quarter 2021 earnings call. With us today are our Chairman and CEO, Kelly King; President and COO, Bill Rogers and our CFO, Daryl Bible. During this morning's call, they will discuss Truist's second quarter results and also share perspectives on how we continue to activate upon our purpose, our progress on our merger, and current business conditions. Chris Henson, Head of Banking and Insurance and Clarke Starnes, our Chief Risk Officer are also in attendance and will participate in the Q&A portion of our call.

 



The accompanying presentation as well as our earnings release and supplemental financial information are available on the Truist investor relations website ir.truist.com. Our presentation today will include forward-looking statements and certain non-GAAP financial measures. Please review the disclosures on Slides 2 and 3 of the presentation regarding these statements and measures as well as the appendix for appropriate reconciliations to GAAP.In addition, Truist is not responsible for and does not edit nor guarantee the accuracy of our earnings teleconference transcripts provided by third parties. The only authorized live and archived webcasts are located on our website. With that, I'll now turn it over to Kelly.Kelly S. King -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Ankur and thanks to all of you for joining us. We really appreciate your support. So it's a really strong quarter which reflects our diverse business mix, our consistent risk management. We did have a negative provision and importantly, I would point out investments that we have made in insurance, investment banking, wealth and digital capabilities and excellent progress in our conversion.

 



As you've heard us say before, we believe culture continues to be the primary driver of our success. I would point out that today in these times, our purpose really resonates with teammates and others as our purpose of inspiring and building better lives and communities is motivational and satisfying to our teammates being involved and helping make the world a better place.We're now focused, you may be interested in knowing, in helping each of our teammates align with our culture on a personal basis because we find that engagement really excels when people are aligned with a personal purpose and a cultural purpose. Our EL team is highly focused on cultural integration and activation and is a primary focus for all of us.If you're following the slides, if you look on Slide 5, I just want to point out that for us purpose is not just a banner, it's the way we live. It's truly trying to inspire and build better lives and communities. We focused a lot of attention, especially now and increasing on DEI. I would point out some of the major investments we're making in our communities.For example, this quarter we contributed a combined $200 million to the Truist Foundation and the Truist Charitable Fund to support important work of our organizations across our diverse markets and communities. We're very excited that we were able to invest $22 million in Atlanta's Mercy Care, which is a fantastic federally qualified healthcare for the homeless program.

 



We expanded our partnership with Operation HOPE with a $20 million investment to help provide more education, insights, and tools to help more people build better lives and we invested $2.5 million in a grant to the National Institute for Student Success to improve the financial education and graduation rates for underserved students. This is a fantastic program.But it's not just about philanthropy, it's about the way we live around here every day. So I'm very proud that we released our inaugural Supplier Diversity Impact Report which outlined a $1 billion total economic impact through supplier diversity relationships in 2020. We're 114% pro-rated on our goal for our three-year $60 billion Community Benefit Plan, which is really helping our communities. And through second quarter '21, we've originated about $17 billion of PPP loans, which really have supported our business clients and employees and our communities.We're very active and increasing our engagement with regard to ESG, very focused on energy and sustainable related financing where in the second quarter, continuing from 2020. We've invested $2.4 billion in clean energy and sustainable related financing. Look forward soon in the next few weeks for the second Truist CSR and ESG Report, which I think you will enjoy.So now if you'll flip with us to Slide 7, I just want to point out some of the key performance highlights. A very strong quarter, we had taxable-equivalent revenue of $5.6 billion, which was up a strong 4% sequentially from first quarter. We had $5.6 billion in taxable- equivalent -- we had the revenue -- net income was $2.1 billion, which was up 30% linked. Very proud of our $1.55 diluted EPS, which was up 31% sequentially and a strong 89% over last year.Return on average tangible common equity adjusted was a very strong 24.7%, but even if you take out the reserve release, it's still a really, really strong 20.9% which was driven by a strong performance in insurance, investment banking, wealth, card and payment fees, and our commercial real estate related income.We had strong performance in terms of revenue. As I said, it did drive a 2% increase in adjusted non-interest expenses due to incentives, but frankly, this is exactly the kind of expense increase we like to have. When you put that together, revenue and expenses, we had a solid adjusted operating leverage of 2% and our adjusted PPNR was $2.5 billion, up 6% compared to last quarter.Our asset quality is great. We performed well in CCAR, which allowed us to be in a position to propose a 7% increase in our dividend to a record $0.48 per quarter. Our merger integration is going very, very well and top performance and improved economic conditions give us confidence to reduce our CET1 target to 9.75%, and Daryl will talk more about that. So our total performance for the quarter we think was very, very strong and very comprehensive, which we feel very, very good about.If you flip with us to Slide 8, I just want to point out a few of the selected items that impacted adjusted income. First, we had merger-related and restructuring charges of $297 million, $228 million after-tax, which was a diluted impact of $0.17. Incremental operating expenses related to the merger, I'll point out again, these are merger-related expenses but don't meet the technical definition of merger-related and restructuring charges, but they're not in our run rate going forward. That's $190 million, $146 million after-tax and $0.11 diluted negative impact.As I mentioned, we did have $200 million contribution to our Truist Foundation and Truist Charitable Fund, which had a $0.11 impact. I would point out in the merger-related and restructuring charges included in that is a $111 million after-tax accrual related to our voluntary separation and retirement program, which was a program that we offered in June. We had approximately 2,000 teammates that elected to participate. These were totally voluntary decisions on their part and I want to really thank and appreciate those teammates for their commitment and support to help us build a foundation of Truist.This program does help us reduce costs and create capacity to invest in needed services for our clients. It's really part of our overall intense focus on reconceptualizing our businesses. To thrive in today's world requires a deep commitment to continuously reevaluating yesterday's activities and expenses associated with that so that we can afford to invest in new activities for today's demands. With that, let me turn it to Bill to talk about some other -- our key trends.William H. Rogers -- President and Chief Operating OfficerThank you, Kelly and good morning everybody. As you can see on Slide 9, we continue to experience robust demand for digital banking services as our clients look for more convenient and more effective ways to transact and manage their finances. The pace of digital adoption has been especially rapid in mobile. Since the second quarter of 2020, our active user base has increased by 9% to over 4.1 million active clients.Yet, the digital growth stories, it's a lot more than that. It isn't just one dimensional. In addition to growing active users, we're deepening our relationships as we accompany clients along their digital journey. By providing the premier digital experience, we build trust with our clients. They then entrust us to facilitate a broader range of transactions. A great example of this is in mobile payments where Zelle transactions were up 60% compared to a year ago.We're also excited about the rollout of our new digital experience that's beginning now ahead of our physical conversion. After completing a successful internal pilot, we're beginning to migrate the Truist digital offering to a small number of clients. Rollout will happen in a series of waves throughout the back half of the year. We anticipate that up to 0.5 million clients could be on the digital platform by the end of this month with more to be added in each successive wave.On the right you can see just one example of how we're using digital to meet clients where they are in the small business space. The single sign-on focus for clients with personal and business accounts is a significant benefit allowing our small business clients to toggle back and forth seamlessly between their business and personal finances. Our clients also will be able to customize their dashboard and notifications so they can focus on what matters to them.In addition, our fraud detection technology will help small business clients with fraudulent transactions for a more secure banking experience. The attractiveness of our overall approach is that we've created a common platform for retail wealth and small business, which creates agility and seamless client experiences, but the experiences are tailored and designed for the unique needs of each client segment.Now let me move to Slide 10. Loan growth remained challenging in the second quarter given strong liquidity levels in the marketplace and among our clients. Supply chain disruptions and low levels of rates which are driving high levels of refinance activity. Average loans decreased $6.1 billion compared to the first quarter driven by a $3.3 billion decline in commercial loans and a $2.2 billion decline in residential mortgages.Average C&I balances decreased $2.4 billion reflecting a $1.3 billion impact from PPP forgiveness and $1.2 billion from lower dealer floor plan outstandings. Nevertheless, we're encouraged about potential green shoots in C&I. Excluding the impacts of PPP and dealer floor plan, C&I loans grew modestly due to an increase in production and stable utilization late in the quarter.Several of our markets and specialties saw growth particularly middle market. June production in Corporate Institutional Group was the highest it's been since the merger and June production in the Commercial Community Bank was the highest it's been 18 months if you exclude April 2020 which was obviously unusual due to elevated line drops.Our revolver exposure continues to grow by month, evidence of our relevance and that our clients are building capacity for investments or expansion. Average consumer loans decreased $2.7 billion as a result of ongoing refinance activity in our residential mortgage and home equity and direct portfolios.Residential mortgages held for investment decreased $2.2 billion as prepayment speeds remained elevated despite some moderation from first quarter levels. We're expanding our corresponding capacity and transferring some correspondent production to held for investment to support future growth. We also believe prepayment speeds will continue to moderate.Indirect remains a bright spot due to growth in our prime, marine RV portfolios and LightStream. Overall, loan growth remained elusive in the second quarter both for the industry and for Truist. As I indicated earlier though, we're seeing evidence of things beginning to turn and our execution is improving at Truist with a keen focus on balance sheet diversity and prudent risk management. Long-term, loan growth is an output and highly correlated to economic growth and we firmly believe the economy, particularly in our key markets is on a very solid footing and on an expansion trajectory.Now let me turn to Slide 11. Average deposits increased 3.4% compared to the first quarter largely due to the continuing effects of recent government stimulus. We experienced strong deposit inflows while maximizing our value proposition to clients outside of rate paid as average total deposit costs decreased 1 basis point sequentially to 4 basis points.More importantly, Truist continues to resonate with clients. During the second quarter, we had a record personal checking account production and added more than 51,000 net new accounts which attest to the strength of our franchise. We're also doing an excellent job retaining clients as attrition rates from recently closed branches continue to be significantly more favorable than planned. We believe these favorable client dynamics reflect our robust markets, strong digital commerce production, and solid execution by our teammates in the Retail Community Bank. And with that Daryl, let me turn it over to you for our financial performance.Daryl N. Bible -- Chief Financial OfficerThank you and good morning everyone. Continuing on Slide 12. Net interest income decreased $40 million largely due to $32 million lower purchase accounting accretion. Net interest margin decreased 13 basis points. Lower purchase accounting accretion was 4 basis points headwind. Core net interest margin decreased 9 basis points due to the continued build of excess liquidity, which was approximately $18 billion this quarter as well as the impact of persistent low rate environment.Asset sensitivity increased modestly due to the increase in DDA and the favorable deposit mix changes, partially offset by the increase in the investment portfolio. I would also note, almost 60% of our asset sensitivity is from the short end of the curve giving us solid upside when short-term rates begin to rise.Continuing on Slide 13. Our diverse business mix is a key strength and continues to provide revenue momentum in a low rate environment. Adjusted non-interest income grew 11% sequentially and 13% year-over-year driven by record results in multiple fee businesses. Insurance income was a record $690 million driven by strong organic growth in new business, excellent retention rates and a firm pricing market. Organic revenue grew 15% versus a COVID-impacted like quarter and we continue to forecast very healthy organic growth.Given the various uncertainties that exist in the marketplace, this is clearly a good time to be in a business that helps clients manage risk. Fee income from investment banking reflected strong results in syndicated finance and M&A while trading income was offset by $60 million swing in the CVA. We have been consistently investing in and building our corporate and investment banking business for over 15 years and this quarter's results are a reflection of that.Record CRE income was driven by strong structured real estate transaction activity. Our strong performance is also a testament to the CRE team's experience and deep client relationships. Other income benefited from valuation gains on our long-standing partnerships related to our SBIC funds and also investments we've made through our Truist Ventures unit. When small businesses win, our communities win. So we are thrilled with the success we have had over many years with our SBIC program.Continuing on Slide 14. Interest expense increased $401 million from the prior quarter. Drivers included a $200 million charitable contribution to the Truist Foundation and Truist Charitable Fund to support our purpose to inspire and build better lives and communities. In addition, merger-related and restructuring charges and incremental operating expenses increased $171 [Phonetic] million largely due to the voluntary separation and retirement program that Kelly mentioned earlier.Adjusted non-interest expense increased 2.1%, modestly due to higher variable compensation related to the stronger performance of our fee businesses and overall strong corporate performance. Adjusted non-interest expense was also favorable relative to adjusted revenue growth driving sequential positive operating leverage this quarter.Turning to Slide 15. Asset quality remains excellent reflecting our prudent risk culture and diverse portfolio as well as a stronger economy. Non-performing assets decreased 2 basis points. Net charge-offs decreased 13 basis points to 20 basis points, a pro forma post financial crisis low.Lower charge-offs reflect improvements in our indirect auto and C&I portfolios as well as an uptick in recoveries. Our ALLL remained strong at 1.79% with excellent coverage ratios. Due to the improved economic outlook, our provision was a negative $434 million and we released $560 [Phonetic] million of reserves.Continuing on Slide 16. Capital remains strong. Our CET ratio increased to 10.2%. Our total payout ratio was 78% and included $610 million of share repurchases. We continue to optimize our capital stack by redeeming our Series H preferred stock. Our latest CCAR results reflect our prudent risk management and resiliency under stress. Truist had the second lowest loss rate in our peer group as well as above average stress PPNR relative to peers. Our preliminary stress capital buffer was reduced to 2.5% from 2.7%.Our strong CCAR results, improving economy, and merger progress provide additional capital flexibility. Our Board will consider a proposal to increase the dividend by 7% to $0.48 per share at its July meeting. We also intend to manage to approximately 9.75% CET1 ratio over the near-term, which will reflect approximately $4 billion to $5 billion of potential capital deployment either through repurchases or acquisitions over the next five quarters.Turning to Slide 18. We are making steady progress in our integration plan and our risk profile improves with each conversion. During the second quarter, we successfully converted our wealth trust platform. We are very proud of our wealth, digital, and technology teammates for their hard work in completing this conversion and brokerage platform conversion in February.More impressively, our advisors continue to produce positive net organic asset flows, which combined with strong market conditions produced excellent results in wealth management fee income. We also performed extensive testing to prepare for the upcoming core bank conversions.After each milestone, we reflect on what we've learned, apply those learnings to the future integration activities. This reduces the risk and helps us ensure we get better with each step of the integration. As we look to the third quarter, much of our focus will be on the final preparations for the conversion of our heritage BB&T clients to the Truist ecosystem later this year. This will be followed by heritage SunTrust conversion in the first quarter of 2022.Continuing on Slide 19. We are committed to achieving $1.6 billion of net cost saves and continue to make progress across those five categories. Third party spend is down 10.3% versus the baseline and now exceeds our revised target of 10%. In retail banking, we remain at 374 cumulative branch closures and are on track to achieve approximately 800 total closures by the first quarter of 2022 including 39 closures we are expecting in July.Non-branch facility space is down 3.8 million square feet and we are closing in on our target of 4.8 million. We appreciate all the hard work our teammates have done to keep us on track to achieve these goals. Average FTEs decreased 11% since the merger announcement and will decline even further given the VSRP program.Technology savings will materialize after redundant systems are decommissioned in 2022. We are also making critical investments in digital and technology. Since the merger closed, we have doubled our digital agile teams and tripled our total agile teams, which makes us nimbler and improves our speed to market, enhancing our client experience.Turning to Slide 20. We still expect to incur a total merger cost of approximately $4 billion through 2022. We have incurred cumulative merger costs of $2.7 billion through the second quarter reflecting considerable integration work on Slide 18. Looking ahead, we expect these costs to decrease significantly after our first quarter core bank conversion and then drop off entirely after 2022.Continuing on Slide 21. Our core non-interest expense was $2.952 billion in the second quarter. This calculation removes the effects from asset value changes for our retirement plans, our insurance acquisitions, and higher variable compensation due to fee income and corporate performance. This makes it much more comparable to the baseline expenses at the time the merger closed. Based on the trajectory of our ongoing cost save initiatives, we are on track to achieve our fourth quarter core expense target of $2.94 billion. We are fully committed to this target and we are confident in our ability to meet it.Now I provide guidance for the third quarter. We expect total net interest income to be relatively stable versus linked quarter as one additional day combined with moderate loan growth excluding PPP offsets declines in purchase accounting accretion and PPP revenue. Core net interest margin is expected to be relatively stable. However, reported net interest margin will continue to decline as a result of diminishing purchase accounting accretion.These should remain healthy given investments we've made in our businesses, robust market conditions, and continued economic recovery. They will not be as strong as second quarter performance. This is partially due to insurance seasonality, but we would expect solid growth compared to third quarter of last year. Adjusted expenses should be relatively flat linked quarter, but will decline fourth quarter as lower personnel costs are realized from the VSRP program. We expect the net charge-off ratio to be 25 basis points to 35 basis points given the continued strengthening of the economy.Also if the strong credit quality performance continues, we would expect further reductions in our loan loss allowance ratio. Overall, we had excellent operating quarter as strong fee income more than offset modest lower spread income and outpaced expenses to drive 2% sequential operating leverage. Now, let me hand it over to Kelly to discuss our value proposition.Kelly S. King -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerJust want to make a couple of comments with regard to our value proposition this quarter focusing on our markets and capital. We are really very, very pleased that 70% of our net new accounts are opened by new households. We think this shows market share gains in migration in our markets and our digital advantage as about half of our new accounts are opened online.All of this, interestingly is happening in the face of large number of branch closures that Daryl described where client retention is a very strong 98% plus, which is really fantastic in any type of merger. As mentioned, our CCAR performance lowered risk in the economy, reduced risk in our conversion process, which Daryl discussed gives us great confidence to propose a meaningful increase in our dividend to a record $0.48 and reduce our target CET1 to 9.75%. Just wanted to emphasize that again to make sure you get that, because that's important.We also are very confident in achieving, as Daryl said, our $1.6 billion net cost saves based on a number of initiatives that are driving the reconceptualization of our business, our expense reductions, and our industry-leading profitability. We believe that the combination of that will support our investments in future strategies and leading technology investments.Then finally, if you'll just flip to Slide 23, just wanted to make a couple of points that how the metrics and numbers support that value proposition. As we've said before, we have a really exceptional franchise. We have the highest projected population growth compared to our peers in our marketplaces.We have really good fee income diversity with our investments in insurance, investment banking, and wealth. We are really uniquely positioned from a profitability perspective with our adjusted diluted EPS at $1.55, up 89% [Phonetic], adjusted return on average tangible common equity at a strong 24.7% and we have strong capital, as Daryl described as well.So if you look at the quarter overall, it was a strong quarter based on our strong culture, great markets, awesome team. There are plenty of challenges out there, the pandemic is getting better, the economy is getting better and overall at Truist, we fully believe our best days are ahead. Ankur, we'll turn it back to you.Ankur Vyas -- Head of Investor RelationsThank you, Kelly. Before we move to Q&A though, I'd like to quickly turn it to Bill who'd like to share a few concluding thoughts.William H. Rogers -- President and Chief Operating OfficerMight make you feel a little uncomfortable, but so bear with me. So given this is Kelly's last and 50th earnings call as CEO, I just want to spend a few minutes highlighting his legacy, just incredible positive impact on BB&T, Truist, the banking industry and our communities during his 49-year career in banking. I could take hours to do this, but I won't given that we only have a few minutes, but I thought this group of analysts and investors would appreciate who followed his career.Kelly joined BB&T in 1972 and I thought it was great irony that earlier this week he spoke to our leadership development program, individuals and teammates who joined just the same way you did, Kelly. When he speaks about the benefits of a growth mindset, positive thinking, choosing to be happy and seeing opportunities and change just like he just did, he speaks from his personal experience and his heart.Kelly's humble roots give him a genuine appreciation for all people. They've driven his Seeds of Hope initiative and played a key role in our value of caring which says everyone and every moment matters. He's also the driving force with our happiness value. Positive energy changes lives and he exhibits that daily for our teammates and for our clients.Kelly became CEO in 2009 in the depths of the global financial crisis. BB&T was one of the few banks to remain profitable through every quarter through that crisis. When he began at BB&T, it was a small bank in Eastern North Carolina with about $250 million in assets. When he became CEO, the bank had a $152 billion assets and today, Truist has $520 billion in assets. Market cap is 4 times during his tenure.Always a forward thinker, Kelly is a purpose driven leader who steered BB&T through tremendous change, not just to survive, but to thrive through the Great Recession, multiple economic downturns, and now, through a global pandemic and our merger of equals. In addition to traversing tumultuous business headwinds, I admire he's never lost sight of his personal purpose, which is to make a positive meaningful difference in the lives of as many people as possible.His empathy, compassion, and leadership had tremendous impact on just to name in fairness a few financial education for more than 1 million high school students through the Truist financial foundations; childhood literacy, which is a passion of his through a new reading app called WORD Force, which is just getting started; community service through the Lighthouse Project positively impacting the lives of more than 20 million people since its inception in 2009.Kelly has always had an interest in and a commitment to leadership development. It's the foundation for the Truist Leadership Institute in Greensboro, many of you've been there. It has been renamed the Kelly S. King Center in his honor. It not only trains executives to become better and more self-aware leaders, but it also offers customized training at no cost for principals and has certified many, many students at no cost through our Emerging Leaders curriculum, which is provided in partnership with over 80 colleges and universities. Kelly is known for saying there's no facet of society that cannot be improved through better leadership.Before our merger, I knew Kelly well. I also listened to these calls Kelly, many of your 50 calls. We joined forces with a concept that we can truly build a purposeful company that stood for something better and outperformed with consistency over the long-term. Kelly, you were the perfect leader to start us on that journey. Your inspirational leadership was a positive catalyst for all of us.So with a heartfelt thank you for your leadership, your contributions to Truist, to our industry, and personally for our friendship. I look forward to our continued partnership and collaboration with you going forward as you transition to the role of Executive Chair for our Board of Directors. So now we can turn it over to Q&A. Kelly, thank you.Kelly S. King -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerCan I make just one quick comment?William H. Rogers -- President and Chief Operating OfficerYou're still in charge.Kelly S. King -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerI do just want to note that this is also Daryl's 50th conference call. So congratulations to Daryl, but thank you, Bill, for that. I just wanted to say to our audience that has supported us over all these years, it has been honor and a blessing to have worked with thousands of Truist teammates over all these years to serve our communities and I really, really cherish that opportunity.I'll also just say to all of us that banking is an honorable profession, which serves to help build better lives and communities every single day. I am humbled and proud to have been a part of it. Thank you for your support, we appreciate it and as I've said many times, I truly believe our best days are ahead.Ankur Vyas -- Head of Investor RelationsThank you, Kelly. Thank you, Bill. Shannon, at this time, we're now ready to start Q&A. So if you'll explain to our listeners how they can participate in the Q&A session. I'd like to ask the participants to limit yourselves to one primary and one follow-up so that we can accommodate as many of you as possible today.