
OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the DTE Energy First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today Barbara Tuckfield. Thank you. Please go ahead.Barbara Tuckfield -- Director Investor RelationsThank you, and good morning, everyone. Before we get started, I would like to remind everyone to read the safe harbor statement on Page 2 of the presentation, including the reference to forward-looking statements. Our presentation also includes references to operating earnings, which is a non-GAAP financial measure. Please refer to the reconciliation of GAAP earnings to operating earnings provided in the appendix. With us this morning are Jerry Norcia, President and CEO; David Slater, President and CEO-Elect of DTM; and Dave Ruud, Senior Vice President and CFO.And now I'll turn it over to Jerry to start the call this morning.Jerry Norcia -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Barb, and good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today. I hope everyone is staying healthy and safe. This morning I'll start off by discussing DTE's strong start in 2021 and David Slater will give some details on our midstream business and provide an update on the spin transaction. Dave Ruud will provide a financial review of the quarter and wrap things up before we take your questions.So let's start on Slide 4. As we have discussed before, our priorities at DTE are to support our employees, customers and community, which then enables us to provide the strong consistent growth the investors have come to expect. Our focus this quarter was no different as we have delivered for all of our stakeholders. Our team at DTE has continued to perform at a very high level. We were recently recognized by Gallup as a great workplace. This is the 9th consecutive year we have received this award. We're off to an extremely safe start in 2021, coming out for our safest year ever in 2020. As I've said, safety is our top priority at DTE. And getting people home safely to their families every day helps drive our success and employee engagement.We are building on our diversity, equity and inclusion focus with employees fully dedicated to helping the company on this journey. DTE is committed to accelerating our progression toward our workplace where everyone feels valued, welcome and able to contribute their best energy. We do understand that all people thrive and succeed when they feel included, safe and welcomed. On the customer front, we continue to deliver safe and reliable energy. Just recently DTE Electric received approval on its deferral request that delays next rate case filing until October 2021. This provides price stability for our customers, keeping base rate steady through 2021 and into 2022. As you recall we previously received approval to delay a general rate case until May. And this order extends the delay at least five additional months. This is another step toward stabilizing our customer affordability.Additionally, DTE is ranked as one of the Top 10 utilities in the nation for energy efficiency and customer savings, and J.D. Power has ranked both our electric and gas utility, the top quartile for residential customer satisfaction. These initiatives and recognition show our continued commitment to service excellence. Supporting the communities where live and serve remains critically important to us. DTE helps thousands of all of our customers lower their energy bills in 2020, while significantly reducing natural gas and electricity usage through energy efficiency initiatives. Our Energy Efficiency Assistance Program was recognized for keeping energy affordable for our most in-need customers.We recently contributed to Habitat for Humanity and supported their effort to weather-proof low income homes. DTE also led a fundraising effort to help small business in Detroit grow past the pandemic. We are also offering personal protective equipment, technical systems and opening resources to assist small businesses across the city. With engaged employees, customers are satisfied with their service and communities that are resilient, we deliver value for our investors.We delivered a strong first quarter with earnings of $2.44 per share and solid performances across all our business lines. We are on track to deliver 7% operating EPS growth from our 2020 original guidance midpoint. The Midstream spin is on track for midyear completion. The spin positions DTE Energy as a predominantly pure-play best-in-class utility, with significant capital investments of $19 billion over the next five years, 90% of that will go into our utilities. And we continue to target our 5% to 7% operating EPS growth, with 2020 original guidance as the base for that growth. The spin also establishes DTM as an independent natural gas midstream company with assets in premium basins and accretive growth opportunities.On the next slide I will discuss some of our major accomplishments from the first quarter. DTE is continuing to focus on our environmental initiatives. DTE Electrics recently placed three wind parks in service, Izabella I and II, which had a largest wind parks in Michigan. Have a total of 136 turbines with 383 megawatts of capacity. We also placed Detroit-based wind park in service with a capacity of 72 megawatts. DTE now has nearly 1,800 megawatts of capacity from renewable energy sources, enough to power 670,000 Michigan homes. This is a significant step toward our goal of reducing carbon emissions by 50% by 2030.The electric company recently filed a settlement agreement for voluntary renewables. The settlement includes 800 megawatts of renewable power additions with 420 megawatts of that being slated for 2022 and the remaining 380 megawatts coming online in 2023 through 2025. These sources will support the voluntary renewable program MIGreenPower, which continues to exceed our high expectations. We recently announced the commitment of a few new companies to the MIGreenPower program, including the State of Michigan, Bedrock and Trinity Health. We have reached 900 megawatts of voluntary renewable commitments with large business customers and approximately 30,000 residential customers. The program is the largest of its kind in the nation that helps advance our work toward the net zero carbon emissions goal.The electric company also received approval from the Michigan Public Service Commission for Phase 2 of its Charging Forward initiative to strengthen electric vehicle infrastructure in the State of Michigan. This includes customer education and outreach, fleet advisory services and charging infrastructure components that further support electrification transition of fleet vehicles. At the end of March, the electric company completed its most recent offering of green bonds. The $1 billion bond offering will help fund the development and construction of solar and wind farms, including transmission infrastructure to support renewable energy facilities. The funding will also strengthen energy efficiency programs that help Michigan residents and businesses to save energy and reduce their bills. DTE Electric has issued three green bonds over the past four years for total of $2 billion, these bonds help support our progress toward a cleaner, more sustainable energy future.DTE Gas has announced CleanVision Natural Gas Balance. The nation's first program to include both carbon offsets and renewable natural gas for customers to reduce their carbon footprint. This program offers four levels of participation for customers ranging from $4 a month to offset 25% of an average home's gas use emissions to $16 a month to offset 100% of our carbon footprint. The carbon reduction goals are achieved with Michigan forest preservation and renewable natural gas. By helping to preserve Michigan's forest through this program, DTE customers not only support the removal of greenhouse gases, but also preserve one of Michigan's greatest natural assets. Recently, DTE Gas executed a seven-year agreement to secure forestry carbon offsets to be used for this program.As per RNG, landfill emissions and wastewater treatment plant byproducts are transformed to the fuel that heats homes and powers businesses and cars. We are excited that while customers will be part of our ambitious vision to create a cleaner energy future. The program is off to a strong start with over 2,400 customers signed up to reduce their carbon footprint. Our Midstream Company also announced its own 2050 net zero carbon emissions goal just earlier this year. Climate change is one of defining public policy issues of our time and I am proud that this business is driving our electric and gas utilities, and the effort to deliver cleaner energy.Now moving on to Slide 6. I will discuss DTE's solid start to 2021. Our first quarter financial results were strong, giving us even greater confidence in our 2021 financial plan, which could create the best opportunities later in the year. DTE earned $2.44 per share this quarter, up $0.78 from last year. And so if one quarter behind us, I am confident that DTE is well-positioned to deliver on a financial plan this year, setting up well for success into 2022 and beyond. Longer term, we will continue to target a 5% to 7% operating EPS growth rate with 2020 original guidance as the base. We continue to focus on our balance sheet with strong cash flows and solid credit metrics.The spin-off of the Midstream business is on track for midyear execution. Our team is working diligently to make that happen and I thank them for their efforts. As you know, the spin positions DTE as a predominantly pure-play utility with 90% of DTE's total operating earnings coming from our two regulated businesses. The spin also establishes DTM as an independent low finance gas midstream C-Corp as accretive organic growth opportunities. Just as DTE is well-positioned to deliver for investors, this new independent Midstream Company will also be positioned for success with a strong asset base and through the most prolific dry gas basins in the country. The spin is progressing very well with the Form 10 filing and it's in the review process with the SEC and an investor roadshow plan for the second quarter.Now I will turn over to David Slater for updates on the Midstream business and the spin transaction progress.David Slater -- President and Chief Executive Officer, DTE Midstream-DTE EnergyThanks, Jerry, and good morning, everyone. I will start on Slide 7. Our Midstream business has had a solid first quarter, executing well across all platforms and assets. We are on track to achieve our financial targets in 2021, which include an EBITDA range of $710 million to $750 million. DTM is also committed to a world-class ESG agenda. Earlier this year we announced a net zero emissions target by 2050, making us one of the first companies in Midstream sector to announce such a goal.We intend to use every tool available to reach our sustainability targets and we believe this will evolve to become a significant business opportunity over time for DTM. Additionally, DTM is establishing a Board of Directors committed to ensuring the company operates in an environmentally and socially responsible manner. As Jerry mentioned, we are on track for midyear spin execution. Our Midstream business has been transformed over the last decade and the solid, steady and strategic transformation has positioned this segment to become the industry leader it is today. The creation of an independent Midstream C-Corp will provide the opportunity to further advance the company and create value.Now let's turn to Slide 8. The spin is on track for midyear execution. We initiated the Form 10 process with the SEC back in February. Since then we have been diligently working through the comment period and this has been going smoothly as expected. In March we held discussions with the rating agencies which went very well. We will be receiving a credit rating at the time of debt raise. The Form 10 will be public in the second quarter. We plan to hold an investor roadshow later in the second quarter as well.DTM shares are expected to start trading on a when-issued basis one week or two weeks before DTM shares begin regular way trading on the New York Stock Exchange upon closing. Finally the spin transaction will be executed midyear. As Jerry mentioned, successfully executing the spin has been made possible by the commitment and dedication of all of our employees. Thank you to our team for bringing their best energy to work each day and keeping everything on track.Now, I will turn it over to Dave Ruud to discuss DTE's financial performance.David Ruud -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, David. Good morning, everyone. Let me start on slide nine to review our first quarter financial results. Total operating earnings for the quarter were $473 million. This translates into $2.44 per share. You can find a detailed breakdown of EPS by segment including our reconciliation to the GAAP reported earnings in the Appendix. I will start the review at the top of the page with our utilities. DTE Electric earnings were $208 million for the quarter. This was $114 million higher than the first quarter of 2020, primarily due to new rate implementation and colder weather in 2021. DTE Electric also experienced non-qualified benefit plan losses in the first quarter of 2020. We have since taken measures to reduce market variability in these plans so we have no longer see this variability after the second quarter of 2020. If you remember in the second quarter of 2020, the benefit plan losses reversed and were positive in that quarter.Moving on to DTE Gas, operating earnings were $169 million, $48 million higher than first quarter last year. The earnings increase was driven primarily by new rate implementation and colder weather in 2021. Let's keep moving down the page to our Gas Storage and Pipelines business on the third row. Operating earnings for GSP were $86 million. This was $14 million higher than first quarter of 2020, driven primarily by the LEAP pipeline going in the service in the second half of 2020.On the next row you can see our Power and Industrial business segment operating earnings were $28 million. This is a $2 million decrease from first quarter of last year due to steel-related earnings offset by new RNG projects. On the next row you can see our operating earnings at our Energy Trading business were $14 million, which is consistent with first quarter earnings last year. This quarter strong performance in the Gas portfolio was offset by performance in the Power portfolio, both which occurred during the period of extremely cold weather in Texas in the first quarter. Together this positioned us a slightly positive to our expectation for the quarter.Finally, Corporate and Other was unfavorable $21 million quarter-over-quarter, primarily due to the timing of taxes and net change in interest. Overall, DTE earned $2.44 per share in the first quarter of 2021, which is $0.78 per share higher than 2020.I'd like to note that much of this favorability versus 2020 was anticipated in our plan. However, some of the favorability is due to DTE Electric, GSP and Energy Trading performing better than planned. This is positioning us well for 2021 we should have the opportunity to further invest in O&M initiatives that can improve reliability for our customers, which will also further strengthen our financial plans for 2022 in future years.Now moving on to Slide 10, I will wrap up the call and then we can open up for Q&A. In summary we feel great about our first quarter results. We are on track to continue to deliver on our long-term 5% to 7% operating EPS growth rate from our 2020 original guidance mid-point. The spin of our Midstream business is progressing as planned and we are on track for completion midyear. This separation positions DTE as a predominantly pure-play utility and established DTM as an independent gas focused Midstream Company with accretive growth opportunities. We believe this transaction unlocks significant value for investors of both companies.Our utilities continue to focus on necessary customer-focused infrastructure investments, specifically investments in clean generation and investments to improve reliability and the customer experience. The team deployed many innovative strategies to provide regulatory certainty during what continues to be a challenging time for many of our customers. This will enable DTE to maintain steady base rates through 2021. We continue to focus on maintaining solid balance sheet metrics, DTE is targeting minimal equity issuances in 2021 and we continue to have minimal equity needs in our plan besides the convertible equity units in 2022. And we have maintained our solid dividend growth with a 7% dividend increase in 2021.In closing, as we approach the spin of our Midstream business, DTE is well-positioned to deliver the premium total shareholder returns that our investors have come to expect over the past decade.With that, I thank you for joining us today and we can open up the line for questions