  OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. And welcome to the SVB Financial Group Q1 2022 earnings call. [Operator instructions] Meghan O'Leary, head of investor relations, you may begin your conference.Meghan O'Leary -- Head of Investor Relations Thank you, Josh, and thank you, everyone, for joining us today. Our president and CEO, Greg Becker; and our CFO, Dan Beck, are here to talk about our first quarter 2022 financial results and will be joined by other members of our management team for the Q&A. Our current earnings release, highlight slides, and CEO letter have been filed with the SEC and are available on the investor relations section of our website. We will be making forward-looking statements during this call, and actual results may differ materially.

 



 We encourage you to review the disclaimer in our earnings release dealing with forward-looking information, which applies equally to statements made in this call. In addition, some of our discussions may include references to non-GAAP financial measures. Information about those measures, including reconciliation to GAAP measures, may be found in our SEC filings and in our earnings release. And now, I will turn the call over to our president and CEO, Greg Becker.Greg Becker -- President and Chief Executive Officer Great. Thanks, Meghan, and thanks, everybody, for joining us today. We're pleased to be reporting an excellent quarter of strong earnings and profitability, driven by healthy core fee income, solid balance sheet growth, and a significant lift from higher rates. Based on this momentum, we're raising our 2022 revenue outlook and our outlook for loan growth and have meaningful revenue upside, if the forward rate curve plays out. Also, really excited to be introducing our new brand, which highlights the power of our four business strategies. So, really, hats off to our entire marketing team, who's done a great job rolling that out, and we're getting really positive feedback around that. So, we know you have questions. And we want to make sure we get to all of them.

 



 So, I'll ask the operator to open up the lines. 