  OperatorGood day, and welcome to Dow's 2Q 2021 earnings call. [Operator instructions] Also, today's call is being recorded. I would now like to turn the call over to Pankaj Gupta. Please go ahead, sir.Pankaj Gupta -- Director, Research and Development Good morning. Thank you for joining Dow's second-quarter earnings call. This call is available via webcast, and we have prepared slides to supplement our comments today. They are posted on the Investor Relations section of Dow's website and through the link to our webcast.

 



 I am Pankaj Gupta, Dow investor relations vice president. And joining me on the call today are Jim Fitterling, Dow's chairman and chief executive officer; and Howard Ungerleider, president and chief financial officer. Please read the forward-looking statement disclaimer contained in the earnings news release and slides. During our call, we will make forward-looking statements regarding our expectations or predictions about the future.Because these statements are based on current assumptions and factors that involve risks and uncertainties, our actual performance and results may differ materially from our forward-looking statements. Dow's Forms 10-Q and 10-K include detailed discussions of principal risks and uncertainties which may cause such differences. Unless otherwise specified, all financials, where applicable, exclude significant items. We will also refer to non-GAAP measures. A reconciliation of the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure and other associated disclosures is contained in the Dow earnings release, in the slides that supplement our comments today, and on the Dow website. On Slide 2, you will see our agenda for the call. Jim will begin by reviewing our second-quarter highlights and operating segment performance. Howard will share modeling guidance and outlook going forward. And then Jim will close with an update on our earnings drivers. Following that, we will take your questions. Now let me turn the call to Jim. 

 



Jim Fitterling -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Pankaj, and thanks to everyone for joining us today. Starting on Slide 3. Dow continued to capture strong demand across our value chains during the second quarter. Team Dow's focus on execution, cost discipline, and balanced capital allocation enabled us to deliver our strongest quarterly earnings performance in the company's history, both pre and post-spin, with substantial growth in net sales and earnings year over year and sequentially. We achieved double-digit sales gains in all operating segments and businesses. A 66% increase in sales relative to the year-ago period was led by a local price improvement of 53% combined with a 9% volume increase. Robust demand and the recovery of the global economy continue from the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic. Sales increased 17% sequentially, underpinned by tight supply and demand fundamentals across all of our value chains. We delivered higher operating EBIT of $2.8 billion year over year and $1.3 billion sequentially, with improvements in all segments and businesses. These gains were fueled by strong top-line growth and margin expansion. We also benefited from increased equity earnings, up more than $370 million year over year, led by higher margins at Sadara and the Kuwait joint ventures. Sequentially, equity earnings were up $54 million, primarily from the Thai joint ventures.

 



 Cash flow from operations was $2 billion and free cash flow was $1.7 billion, up significantly both year over year and sequentially. This enabled a balanced execution of our capital allocation priorities. We continued our proactive liability management actions by reducing gross debt by more than $1 billion in the quarter and reducing our annual interest expense by $35 million. Today, Dow has no substantial long-term debt maturities due until the end of 2025. We also returned more than $700 million to shareholders in the quarter through our industry-leading dividend and we resumed our share buyback program to cover dilution. Finally, we continue to advance Dow's ESG priorities by releasing our consolidated ESG report, INtersections, which provides enhanced transparency on our environmental, social, and governance priorities. The interactive, digital report can be found at the top of our corporate website. In summary, Team Dow maintained a relentless focus on meeting increasing customer demand despite lingering supply impacts across many value chains and marking a strong rebound from Winter Storm Uri. We continue to execute on our operational and financial playbook, delivering another strong quarter and a solid first-half performance. Turning to our segment performance on Slide 4. In the packaging and specialty plastics segment, operating EBIT was $2 billion, up nearly $1.7 billion year over year and more than $780 million sequentially. Price gains in both businesses and in all regions led to integrated margin improvement and increased equity earnings. On a sequential basis, the segment expanded operating EBIT margins by 810 basis points on continued local price gains in olefins and in packaging applications. The packaging and specialty plastics business reported sales gains year over year driven by improvement in packaging applications for industrial and consumer packaging and flexible food and beverage packaging end markets. Volumes declined year over year and sequentially due to lower polyethylene supply from the lingering effects of Winter Storm Uri and our own planned maintenance turnarounds. Compared to the prior quarter, the business delivered local price gains in all regions. Moving to the industrial intermediates and infrastructure segment, operating EBIT was nearly $650 million, up more than $860 million year over year, primarily due to the pandemic recovery, combined with tight supply and strong demand in both businesses. Sequentially, operating EBIT was up $320 million, and operating EBIT margins expanded by 640 basis points driven by margin improvement and offset somewhat by continued supply constraints from Winter Storm Uri. The polyurethanes and construction chemicals business increased net sales compared to the year-ago period on strong local price in all value chains, demand recovery in durable goods and appliances and construction end markets, and currency tailwinds. Despite industry supply chain challenges across a number of end markets, including mobility, the business delivered sequential sales growth on increased local prices and volumes. The industrial solutions business delivered a net sales improvement compared to the year-ago period as a result of local price gains and offerings for coatings, industrial, and electronics end markets across all regions. Improved demand for materials used in industrial manufacturing, coatings and infrastructure were more than offset by planned maintenance turnarounds and some third-party supply limitations. Net sales also increased sequentially on local price gains in all regions. And finally, the performance materials and coatings segment reported operating EBIT of $225 million, up nearly $200 million from the year-ago period. Operating EBIT margins increased 760 basis points on price gains and strong consumer and industrial demand recovery. Sequentially, operating EBIT was up more than $160 million due to price momentum and lower planned maintenance costs. The consumer solutions business achieved higher net sales year over year as demand recovery for silicones products led to local price and volume gains in all regions. Sequentially, the business achieved broad-based volume growth due to lower planned maintenance activity and strong demand in silicones applications, including personal care, as certain geographies began to experience an increase in travel and a return to the workplace and social activities, with notable improvements in China. The coatings and performance monomers business delivered higher net sales year over year, driven by price gains in all regions. Increased demand for coatings applications was offset by lingering raw material and logistical constraints from Winter Storm Uri. Sequentially, the business achieved local price gains on tight supply and strong demand fundamentals and increased raw material costs as well as increased volume from strong seasonal demand for industrial and architectural coatings. Now I'll turn it over to Howard to review our outlook.Howard Ungerleider -- President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Jim, and good morning, everyone. Moving to our third-quarter modeling guidance on Slide 5. Strong consumer demand trends continue in retail, housing, and the manufacturing sectors and inventory levels remain low across most of our value chains. We expect these dynamics to continue to support price strength in the third quarter as the industry continues to work to fulfill pent-up demand. In our packaging and specialty plastics segment, downstream converter and brand owner inventories remain at all-time lows with balances very tight. Recent small increases in producer inventories are due to a heavy turnaround season for the industry, and yet industry days demand and inventory actually declined nearly 8% month over month on tight supply, coupled with increased domestic and export demand. This data includes Dow, where we expect an approximately $150 million increase in the third-quarter turnaround spending sequentially for planned maintenance at our crackers in Canada and in Spain, as well as $100 million lower earnings from nonrecurring license activity which occurred in the second quarter. ACC data indicates domestic demand for packaging applications reached its strongest level in history in June, and we expect a continuation of these positive demand trends as customers are reporting 45- to 60-day backlogs. Moving to industrial intermediates and infrastructure. Strong consumer demand for durable goods continues, underpinned by order strength throughout the value chain. Housing and construction markets, particularly in the U.S., continue to support robust demand for polyurethane applications. Industrial and oil-related end markets are expected to continue to see gradual recovery sequentially, providing additional support for solvents and other industrial solutions. We also expect $30 million of additional planned maintenance turnaround spending at our joint ventures in the quarter. And in performance materials and coatings, we expect a continuation of strong demand for electronics, mobility, and infrastructure silicone solutions. We expect to benefit as social activity increases on easing pandemic-related restrictions, including sequential improvement for personal care applications. These trends are supporting price momentum across the silicones value chain, and we anticipate increased turnaround spending of approximately $30 million in our consumer solutions business in the quarter, including a turnaround at our siloxane pillar plant in Barry. Demand for do-it-yourself architectural coatings remains robust, and we expect to see an increase in contractor-related demand as new home builds increase and consumer and home social engagements begin to resume. Altogether, with robust demand expected to continue, our advantaged portfolio is positioned to capture significant value moving forward. We've updated a few full-year items which can be found in the appendix of the slide presentation. Notably, we are expecting higher equity earnings, and with the improved earnings profile at Sadara, we now anticipate approximately $50 million of cash inflow to Dow in 2021. Turning to Slide 6. Around the world, increasingly positive trends indicate we remain in the early stages of economic recovery with an extended runway for growth. While industrial production is up nearly 20% over the year-ago low, it still has not reached pre-pandemic levels. Retail inventory to sales is at its lowest levels in more than three decades, and strong demand continues to counter near-term potential restocking efforts. U.S. housing starts increased again in May and are projected to continue rising, supported by limited supply of single-family homes due to a decade of underbuilding. And the proposed U.S. infrastructure bill has the potential to further elevate the already strong GDP estimates projected around the world. As vaccination rates increase around the world and economies continue to reopen, pent-up consumer demand and increased personal savings built over the past year should also provide an additional boost to the global economy. Consumer confidence continues to climb on conviction that economic conditions will continue to improve, supporting continued purchases of homes, automobiles, and other durable goods. Business travel sentiment continued to improve in May with more than half of U.S. companies planning to resume domestic business travel within the next three months. The personal care market, which has been one of the slowest to recover, began to see a rebound in the second quarter, with increases in U.S. cosmetics and beauty product sales on rising consumer demand. And as borders reopen, recreational activities and international travel should also boost economic activity, while we're mindful that there will absolutely be some regional variations in the timing and the pace of the recovery. Along with these trends, we anticipate the strong demand we experienced in the second quarter across our polyethylene, polyurethane, acrylic, and silicone chains to extend through the second half of 2021. Polyethylene demand growth, for example, is projected to outpace supply additions in the near term, with pricing strength and resilient margins on a sustained and favorable oil-to-gas ratio, with the majority of industry capacity adds coming in the higher end of the cost curve. Altogether, we expect these strong market dynamics, tight supply demand fundamentals, and ongoing economic expansion across our key chains to continue to drive earnings and cash flow growth. With that, I'll turn it back to Jim.Jim Fitterling -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Howard. Turning to Slide 7. Dow's consumer-driven portfolio is uniquely positioned to benefit from the demand trends that Howard outlined a moment ago which continued to translate into an attractive $650 billion addressable market with approximately 1.3 to 1.5 times GDP growth across our packaging, infrastructure, mobility, and consumer care end markets. These demand trends in our fast-growing markets are underpinned by an accelerated transition toward more sustainable materials, providing ample opportunities for Dow to continue to innovate with our customers and brand owners to enhance the sustainability of our products and value chain while advancing our net-zero carbon and circular economy targets. For example, as the mobility sector continues its transition to more sustainable solutions, electric and autonomous vehicles offer an upside of approximately 50% more revenue across multiple Dow chemistries versus traditional internal combustion engine vehicles, including high-value polyurethanes, silicones, and silicone hybrid-based adhesives and engineering sealants widely used in battery assembly, noise and vibration reduction, drivetrain, comfort and heat management applications. Our new Dow silicone technologies for electric and hybrid vehicle applications help OEMs to meet the evolving needs of automotive electrification while advancing vehicle performance, reliability, and sustainability. And we recently introduced SPECFLEX C, new polyurethane solutions sourced from recycled raw materials to help automotive OEMs meet demand for more circular products and their sustainability goals. We also continue to align our growth CAPEX to address this growing market demand for sustainable materials. This quarter, we outlined our road map to reduce CO2 emissions by more than 40% by 2030 from our manufacturing operations in Terneuzen, The Netherlands. And Dow and Shell demonstrated progress on our joint technology to electrically heat steam cracker furnaces, receiving partial funding from the Dutch government. And together, we are evaluating construction of a multi-megawatt pilot plant with start-up in 2025. We plan to share more detail on our strategic and financial priorities to continue creating long-term value for all our stakeholders at our upcoming 2021 Investor Day on October 6, which will be hosted both virtually and in person in New York City. Stay tuned for more details. We look forward to engaging with you. On Slide 8, as we shared last quarter, we continue to see demand across our ethylene, polyethylene, polyurethanes, acrylics, and silicones value chains outpacing supply through 2021 and staying balanced in the near term. These market dynamics will be further supported through 2022 and beyond by the GDP-fueled market growth trends we just discussed. Some industry views call for softening conditions largely based on their view of announced capacity additions. However, they do not account for industry delays and cancellations, and when coupled with elevated demand growth from continued reopening of the global economy, will likely lead to tighter-than-forecasted market conditions, all of which will result in continued earnings, margin, and cash flow growth for Dow in the near term. And while we capture these improved earnings in our core businesses, our current slate of lower capital, faster payback, and higher return capacity expansions will generate an additional $1 billion of accretive earnings over the next several years, with many projects delivering earnings already this year, such as our ethylene derivatives at the Thai joint ventures, polyethylene for high-performance packaging applications at our Alberta operations and surfactants for leading brand owners laundry and home care end markets. And notably, in the second quarter, we progressed our polyethylene glycol incremental expansion, completing customer qualification ahead of schedule and beginning shipments of our industry-leading CARBOWAX SENTRY polyethylene glycol active pharmaceutical ingredients. Combined with favorable supply and demand fundamentals, these projects further enable Dow to continue to deliver significant value for our owners over this foreseeable future. We'll close on Slide 9. Our steadfast execution of the operational and financial playbook that we outlined at spin, combined with our agile response to market conditions over the past year, have enabled us to deliver strong performance and enhanced value to our shareholders. We are uniquely positioned to continue building on that strong foundation today. Our value proposition starts with our differentiated portfolio and an asset base that is characterized by, first, our feedstock flexibility and position, which supports our low-cost position and enables us to drive higher asset utilization and maximize cash margins as we quickly balance our feedstock and product mix to supply end demand dynamics. And second, our leading scale, global footprint, and differentiated portfolio provide us with access to high-growth end markets in all major regions. We have achieved strong performance in this early part of the economic recovery and remain advantaged through our participation in higher-margin functional polymers, silicones, and formulated systems. We continue to develop innovative solutions to address our customers' needs and capture the opportunities arising from critical market trends. Our high-value adhesives and innovative packaging solutions support the rapidly growing e-commerce sector. Through our mobility science platform, we are targeting low-carbon enabling, mobility, electric, and autonomous vehicle opportunities. More broadly, across our portfolio, we are enhancing the sustainability of our solutions and the value chains they serve. For example, deploying lower-carbon energy solutions in gas trading, carbon capture, and concentrated solar power at our operations. And through value chain collaboration, we are increasing post-consumer recycled content in our products and enabling the design of fully recyclable packaging. Today, more than 80% of Dow products for packaging applications are reusable or recyclable, and our research and technical teams are working actively on the remainder to achieve that same goal. Beyond the strength of our portfolio and our innovation investments, our deliberate focus on operating discipline and balanced capital allocation approach are critical elements of our value creation playbook. We have achieved top quartile cost structure and cash conversion and our restructuring efforts will yield an additional $300 million in earnings, all while maintaining a best owner mindset. We also delivered a return on invested capital of greater than 14% on a trailing 12-month basis. At the same time, we have prioritized investments in our downstream, higher-margin, faster payback opportunities, and upstream investments that expand our leading ESG profile while increasing our capital expenditures by $350 million this year. We reduced net debt by approximately $5 million since the end of 2018. Dow's strong operational and financial performance this year resulted in a credit rating upgrade by S&P and an upgraded outlook by Fitch, supporting our strong investment-grade balance sheet. And we continue to return significant cash to shareholders through our industry-leading dividend. In closing, Dow is uniquely advantaged to continue delivering value through our best-in-class, consumer-led portfolio, our leadership in innovation and sustainability, and our strong operating and financial discipline. With that, I'll turn it back to Pankaj to open the Q&A.Pankaj Gupta -- Director, Research and Development Thank you, Jim. Now let's move on to your questions. I would like to remind you that our forward-looking statements apply to both our prepared remarks and the following Q&A. Operator, please provide the Q&A instructions. 