
OperatorGood morning and welcome to Corteva's First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded.Jeff Rudolph -- Investor RelationsGood morning, and welcome to Corteva's First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. Our prepared remarks today will be led by Jim Collins, Chief Executive Officer; and Dave Anderson, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Additionally, Tim Glenn, Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer; and Rajan Gajaria, Executive Vice President of Business Platforms, will join the Q& A session. We have prepared presentation slides to supplement our remarks during this call, which are posted on the Investor Relations section of the Corteva website and through the link to our webcast.During the call, we will make forward-looking statements, which are our expectations for or about the future. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to various risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could materially differ from these statements due to these risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, those discussed on this call and in the Risk Factors section of our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement.On our Investor Relations website, you can find our earnings press release and related schedules, along with our supplemental financial summary slide deck, which is intended to supplement our prepared remarks for today's call. These items provide a reconciliation of differences between reported GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures and should not be considered as substitute for the measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP.It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Jim.James C. Collins -- Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Jeff, and welcome to the participants joining the call today. Starting on Slide 4. As I step back and reflect on how the organization closed out 2020 with strong sales and earnings growth in the fourth quarter, it is impressive how our teams executed in a very complex and dynamic market environment with the overlay of the COVID pandemic. It displays the focus and execution of our strategy and the commitment to delivering value. That momentum was sustained through the first quarter. And through focused heads down execution, we delivered a strong start to the year, with margin increases in both segments. I am really pleased with these results.Our technology leadership remains strong, evidenced by ongoing demand for our new and differentiated products. We continue to launch and rapidly scale these technologies while taking focused actions on our cost and productivity priorities. Collectively, this focus on our commitments is helping to drive meaningful margin expansion today and looking forward.Importantly, our team around the world delivering these results is resilient. They continue to prove their agility in the face of ongoing market volatility, including the pandemic, and remain intent on prioritizing the safety of colleagues, while serving our customers and stakeholders at every turn.And lastly, I'm pleased to also share that we welcomed four new directors to our Board during the quarter. The addition of these directors and their background and experience will complement an already strong and diverse board and will serve as a catalyst for the ongoing advancement of our strategy, reinforcing our commitment to deliver on our value creation priorities.So let's look at Slide 5, which is our financial results for the quarter. We delivered strong organic sales growth across both seed and crop protection, leading to 6% organic growth for the company as a whole. Importantly, we realized better operating leverage on our sales growth this quarter as operating EBITDA grew 14% and margins expanded more than 150 basis points, a strong execution on our growth targets coupled with improved SG&A more than offset the market-driven cost headwinds we faced in the quarter. The phenomena of the market-driven cost inflation is a common theme we are seeing across industries, including raw materials and logistics. Dave is going to take us through the key market dynamics and other critical drivers for the remainder of 2021.On capital allocation, we returned approximately $450 million to shareholders in the quarter via share buybacks and dividends. We remain on track to complete the majority of our remaining repurchases under the $1 billion program by the first half of 2021. Returning cash to shareholders continues to be a high priority for Corteva and a critical part of our balanced approach to capital allocation. This first quarter performance is another important proof point that our value creation strategy is working, reinforcing our confidence that we will meet our commitments for 2021.Shifting to the market backdrop on Slide 6, we remain encouraged by the strengthening global ag fundamentals, while also navigating macroeconomic uncertainties around the world. The ag outlook turned positive in the fourth quarter of 2020 as a result of rising farm income levels and constructive demand out of China. Today, farm incomes remain elevated on strong commodity prices and we continue to see record global demand for ag commodities. As a result, we are seeing ending stocks drawn down and expectations that grower income levels will be at all-time highs, even with the easing government payments this year.In March, the USDA issued the prospective planting survey results, which indicated flattish corn acres, an approximate 5 million acre increase in soybeans for the US. As you recall, our original estimates were between 5 million and 8 million additional acres coming into corn and bean production for 2021, mostly going into soybeans. Given how we position our products with our customers, we are in a good position to take advantage of any potential upside in acres as market conditions continue to evolve.Commodity prices in Brazil remain strong as concerns of dry weather are lowering expectations on safrinha yields. We also expect to see planted area expansion in Brazil, with the potential for low to mid single-digit increases in corn planted area for the late 2021, early 2022 season. Although exchange rates have recently trended favorably, the market remains volatile and we continue to monitor for any further fluctuations.More importantly, based on how we are seeing the futures markets shape up, we believe these fundamentals will continue into at least 2022 as strong grain demand and supply challenges keep ending stocks low. This constructive backdrop provides Corteva further momentum for value creation as growers turn to best-in-class technology to maximize productivity and value.So let's turn to Slide 7, and I'll provide some more detail on the strength of our global sales diversity and where we are capitalizing on momentum across the globe. In North America, organic sales were down 2% for the quarter against a difficult 2020 seed comparison. While 2020 first quarter seed volumes benefited from early demand amid favorable weather conditions, we experienced a more normalized delivery pattern this year. We expect corn volumes to increase in the second quarter as our seed deliveries in the US Pioneer brand have caught up to the prior year as of today.On seed pricing, first quarter was negatively impacted, mostly due to brand mix. Our second quarter deliveries to date reflect improvement in corn pricing despite aggressive market competitiveness. We remain excited about the demand and traction we are seeing in the Enlist soybean launch and still expect Enlist to represent about 30% of the US soybean market in 2021, an important milestone toward our goal of 50% market penetration.North America Crop Protection had a strong start to the year with 11% organic growth on strong demand for new technologies, including Enlist herbicide and solid pricing execution in response to rising raw material, freight and logistics costs. In Europe, Middle East and Africa, organic sales grew 6% on record corn and sunflower seed volumes as supply concerns and commodity cost pressures drove an early start to the spring sales season.Our portfolio of new and differentiated products, such as Arylex and Rinskor herbicides remain in high demand, which enabled us to drive price and volume in crop protection. During the quarter, we also obtained key regulatory approvals, including the registration of Univoq fungicide with Inatreq active for sale and use in the UK, a major milestone for cereal growers needing innovative and sustainable chemistry solutions to protect their crops.In Latin America, we delivered 38% organic sales growth on strong volumes and execution of our price for value strategy. And seed volumes grew 39% on strong Brazil safrinha sales and early demand in other countries. In Crop Protection, volume grew 10% on significant demand for new and differentiated technologies such as Isoclast and Jemvelva insecticides and Enlist herbicides. Pricing actions reflect strong product demand and partially offset unfavorable currency impacts in the Brazilian real.In Asia Pacific, we realized 9% organic sales growth compared to the prior year on both volume and price improvements. While seed volumes were down on the shift of some corn sales to the second half, crop protection growth was led by further penetration of Jemvelva and Pyraxalt insecticides.Now Dave will provide more detail on our results and our expectations for the rest of the year. But let me first say, we are very excited to have Dave join the Corteva team and I look forward to the contributions he will make in bolstering our momentum and execution looking ahead.So Dave, over to you.Dave Anderson -- Executive Vice President, Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Jim, very much, and welcome, everybody, to this morning's call. Let's go to Slide 8 for a more detailed review of our strong first quarter operating EBITDA performance. You can see that operating EBITDA grew from $794 million last year to $904 million in the first quarter of 2021, representing a $110 million improvement. It's a clear testament to the momentum that Jim mentioned. Driving this increase was price benefits of $125 million and volume benefits of $50 million from strong commercial execution and penetration of our new and differentiated products across all regions. It represents important progress on our targets and really reflects the strength of our portfolio and pipeline.On new Crop Protection products, we recognized sales growth of over $120 million. At the same time, we delivered record corn and sunflower volumes in Europe and strong safrinha sales in Brazil, which helped to offset the seasonal timing of seed deliveries in North America. Finally, we continue to extract value for our yield-advantaged technology in corn, with global corn pricing up 2% for the quarter.Now costs were a $70 million net headwind to operating EBITDA for the quarter. This reflects approximately $50 million in productivity and other cost actions positively, which were more than offset by higher input and freight costs, which are primarily market driven. Let me give you some color on that.As economies across the globe start to emerge from the pandemic-related shutdowns, global trade markets are experiencing higher shipping demand leading to higher freight costs. Additionally, prices of certain active ingredients and intermediates have risen compared to the same period last year. As a result, we incurred approximately $120 million of cost headwinds in the quarter due to increased freight and logistics, higher raw material costs and unfavorable seed yields in Europe. Now we're taking action where possible to mitigate these impacts, including delivering on our productivity initiatives and passing through certain inflationary costs for our seed and crop protection products.For example, late in the first quarter, we initiated, on average, mid single-digit price increases in the US on our Crop Protection products. Taken together, we delivered over 150 basis points of margin expansion in the quarter as a result of the discipline and focused execution despite the cost increases that we encountered.Let's go now to Slide 9, focused on Crop Protection for the quarter, I'll cover a few highlights. As you can see, Crop Protection organic sales grew 12% in the quarter, driven by a 6% increase in volume and a 6% increase in price. Now keep in mind, including with this volume, growth is a 5% headwind from our strategic decision to phase out certain products, primarily in the insecticides portfolio, including Chlorpyrifos as well as Telone. Now strong global demand for our new technology led to an increase of more than $120 million in new product sales when compared to the same period last year. Herbicides were up 20% compared to the first quarter of 2020, led by continued penetration of Arylex and Enlist. Fungicides grew 14%, driven by strong demand for Zorvec and also Inatreq, primarily in Europe, Middle East and Africa.And lastly, insecticides grew 2% in the quarter, largely driven by our differentiated Spinosyns technology, notably Jemvelva as well as Qalcova. These were up 29% in the quarter.Now this growth was again muted by our decision to phase out select insecticides, as mentioned earlier. Favorable product mix in Crop Protection and strategic price increases drove pricing gains in the quarter, including an 18% price improvement in Latin America and a 6% price improvement in North America. Operating EBITDA for Crop Protection improved 35% for the quarter, driven by robust demand for new products and pricing execution. Now we experienced cost headwinds of approximately $70 million for this segment. And again, these included increased raw material costs, such as precious metals used as catalysts, as well as increased freight and logistics. Taken on the whole, these headwinds more than offset our productivity actions.As we go forward, we're aggressively managing controllable factors and at the same time, proactively mitigating this cost through delivering against our productivity programs, passing through certain costs for our products wherever possible. Very impressively, despite these challenges I mentioned, we drove over 300 basis points of improvement of operating EBITDA margin in this segment in the quarter.Let's go now to the Seed segment on Slide 10. You can see organic sales per seed were up 3%, driven by strong Brazil safrinha sales and record corn and sunflower volumes in Europe on an early start to the spring. These gains were partially offset by the seasonal timing of deliveries in North America, where seed volumes in the quarter were down 6%, driven by the US where we had a very early start in the prior year.Overall, global corn volumes were flat, reflecting these seasonal shifts. On pricing, we maintained our track record in extracting value for our yield-advantaged technology with corn prices up 2% for the quarter. Soybean volumes were also flat for the quarter, with price down 4%. Now keep in mind, the first quarter isn't a meaningful quarter for soybeans, since the large majority of the deliveries occur in the second quarter. And as Jim mentioned, our expectations for Enlist E3, the ramp there is on track.Other oil seeds were up 19% versus the first quarter of 2020 reflecting record sunflower volumes in Europe and higher canola volumes in Canada. Operating EBITDA for this segment improved 6% on strong price execution globally, ongoing cost and productivity actions and a gain on the remeasurement of an R&D technology-based equity investment, which is included in the other column. These improvements were partially offset by the unfavorable impact of currency and higher input costs, which were primarily market related. These cost increases included, again, higher freight and logistics costs, coupled with the impact of unfavorable seed yields on European corn. The teams continue to manage through these headwinds and still delivered operating EBITDA margin improvement of over 100 basis points per seed for the quarter.So now let's go to Slide 11, talk about our first half 2021 updated expectations and full year 2021 guidance. With the backdrop of the segments, you can see we expect top line growth of about 3% for the half, led by continued strong demand for our new Crop Protection products globally. This growth includes an approximately $130 million sales headwind from strategic decisions to phase out certain Crop Protection products.On the seed side, we're monitoring what ultimately gets planted this season in North America given recent strengthening in commodity price levels. Globally, we expect first half seed volumes to be about flat with the prior year. We're confident that we'll maintain our momentum and we continue to extract value for our yield- advantaged technology in corn globally.Turning to costs. We remain committed to the execution and realization of our productivity programs, which we believe will be more than offset by anticipated headwinds from increasing freight and logistics, higher raw materials and unfavorable seed deals in Europe, resulting in a net headwind of $50 million for the half. Taken together, this translates to operating EBITDA of $2.15 billion to $2.25 billion for the half, an increase of 8% over 2020 at the midpoint and an approximate 120 basis point increase to operating EBITDA margins.Turning to the full year. We're raising our revenue guidance. We now expect reported net sales to be between $14.6 billion and $14. 8 billion, up 3% to 4% over 2020. This increase reflects continued demand for new products globally in both our Crop Protection and seed segments, coupled with strong price execution in key regions on technology and pricing for higher costs where possible.On cost, we expect a net headwind for the year of $50 million as the higher input costs and freight logistics are more than offsetting productivity savings. Specific to G&A spend, we're maintaining our post-COVID spending levels with anticipation that G&A will be essentially flat for the year, with the organization driving inflation impacts to a net zero for G&A. Reflecting the strength of what we're seeing in the market and focused execution, we remain on track to deliver operating EBITDA between $2.4 billion and $2.5 billion for the year, an improvement of 17% over 2020 at the midpoint and approximately 200 basis points of margin improvement.Standing back, here are the key takeaways for the quarter: First, we delivered an impressive start to the year in both top and bottom line, driven by penetration of technology-advantaged products despite some headwinds; and second, we remain on track to deliver strong double-digit earnings improvement for the year.So before turning the call back to Jim, I just want to take a second to provide a few initial observations since joining Corteva last month. Coming into the company, I've been impressed with the tremendous franchise that Corteva represents. It's backed by a strong culture and high-value assets, which I believe in combination are capable of delivering on the significant growth potential.Leveraging what I referred to as the CFO skill set, it provides a great opportunity to help deliver the operating leverage we see for the business. Those are early thoughts. I look forward to sharing more with you in the future and working with the team on executing Corteva's strategy.And with that, I'll turn it back over to Jim.James C. Collins -- Chief Executive OfficerGreat. Thanks, Dave. And before we get to your questions, let me offer a few final comments. As you can see in our results, this organization is executing. We're off to a strong start for the year. And despite some of the unplanned headwinds from market-related factors, we're on track with our expectations. And as we look ahead, we remain focused on driving progress against those fundamental elements of our strategy, advancing our industry-leading innovation pipeline, including the ramp-up of our proprietary Enlist system, and delivering on our productivity and cost savings initiatives and maintaining our disciplined approach to capital allocation.Now we have considerable momentum right now, and we expect focused execution in our plan will enable us to continue to generate value and deliver on our commitments to our shareholders. The market backdrop is clearly strengthening. And despite macro uncertainties, we expect favorable market dynamics to continue through the midterm. Our current pace is aligned with our midterm earnings targets, and we are well positioned to create significant durable value for shareholders in 2021 and beyond.And finally, at the foundation of this is a fully focused team and a strong legacy of technology leadership, which can be traced all the way back to the founding of the Pioneer brand, which, by the way, just celebrated its 95th anniversary. This legacy and a shared sense of accountability for our commitments and our purpose demonstrates that the culture we have built at Corteva is solid.The events of this past year have left an undeniable impact on all of us. Our Corteva teams rose to this challenge, prioritizing the safety of our colleagues, our customers and our communities and our teams around the world continue to do that today. 2021 has proven that the pandemic recovery remains uneven and an ongoing focus on our values, including safety, are just going to remain critical as this global health crisis intensifies in parts of the world, such as India.As a global citizen, with operations in 140 countries, we remain as committed as ever to taking actions locally in the communities in which we operate, harnessing the power of our scale provides to deliver value for all of our stakeholders.So let me now hand the call back to Jeff.Jeff Rudolph -- Investor RelationsThank you, Jim. Now let's move on to your questions. I would like to remind you that our cautions on forward-looking statements and non-GAAP measures apply to both our prepared remarks and the following Q&A. Operator, please provide the Q&A instructions.