  OperatorGood morning. My name is Abby, and I'll be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the PulteGroup Inc. Q1 2022 earnings conference call. Today's conference is being recorded. [Operator instructions] And Jim Zeumer, you may begin your conference.Jim Zeumer -- Vice President, Investor Relations and Corporate Finance Great. Thank you, Abby. Good morning. Thanks, everyone, for participating in today's call to discuss PulteGroup's first quarter earnings for the period ended May 31, 2022. Q1 represents another quarter of strong financial results and has gotten the year off to a great start for us. I'm joined on today's call by Ryan Marshall, president and CEO; Bob O'Shaughnessy, executive vice president and CFO; and Jim Ossowski, senior VP, finance. A copy of our earnings release and this morning's presentation slides have been posted to our corporate website at pultegroup.com. We'll also post an audio replay of this call later today.Please note that as part of this morning's call, we will review our prior-year results as reported and as adjusted to exclude the impact of a $61 million pre-tax charge associated with the bond tender and a $10 million pre-tax insurance benefit recorded in the period. A reconciliation of prior-year adjusted results and reported financial results is included in this morning's release and within today's webcast slides. We encourage you to review these tables to assist in your analysis of our business performance. I also want to alert everyone that today's presentation includes forward-looking statements about the company's expected future performance. Actual results could differ materially from those suggested by our comments made today. The most significant risk factors that could affect future results are summarized as part of today's earnings release and within the accompanying presentation slides. These risk factors and other key information are detailed in our SEC filings, including our annual and quarterly reports. Now let me turn the call over to Ryan Marshall. Ryan? Ryan Marshall -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Jim, and good morning. As Bob will detail shortly, PulteGroup delivered outstanding first quarter financial results with year-over-year growth of 18% home sale revenues and 43% in adjusted earnings per share. The significant increase in our Q1 earnings per share reflects gains in a number of areas, including higher selling prices, expanded gross margins, increased overhead leverage, and our active share repurchase program. PulteGroup's first quarter financial results are just the most recent in a string of strong quarters that have raised our return on equity to 29.4% for the trailing 12 months. There is a lot for investors to be excited about in terms of the company's operating and financial performance. Taking a step back from the specifics of our Q1 financial results, I think it's fair to say that the supply/demand dynamics of the first quarter were consistent with the trends the industry has been experiencing for the past year or more. In short, demand was strong, available inventory was scarce and the incoming supply is limited. Let me take a minute to expand on these thoughts. On the demand side, consumer interest in purchasing a new home remained high throughout the quarter. With few exceptions, demand was strong across all the price points, buyer groups, and markets that we serve. The U.S. housing market continues to benefit from favorable demographics, a strong economy, an outstanding job market, and a rising wage environment. New home sales are also benefiting from ongoing and significant increases in rental rates for single and multifamily dwellings. According to John Burns Real Estate Consulting, their numbers indicate that rental prices for single-family homes increased by upwards of 5% in 2021, while multifamily lease rates were up by approximately 13% over the prior year. Forecast point to further increases in 2022. Even with today's higher prices and rising rates, owning a home can still make clear economic sense for many consumers. Not only can homebuyers get a comparable or even lower monthly payment, but that payment is more stable over time. Given this demand strength in the first quarter, we were able to raise prices in effectively all of our communities with sequential price increases in the range of 1% to 5% common across the country. In addition to the fundamental strength in homebuyer demand, home price appreciation is benefiting from a lack of available inventory in both new and resale. Similar to buying a new car these days, people who are shopping for a home understand how competitive the market is. This brings me to the supply side of the equation. As demonstrated by our first quarter results, our teams did an outstanding job advancing our homes through the construction process and even surpassed the high-end of our closing guidance. I want to recognize the efforts of our homebuilding operations to manage through the constraints and the availability of people and materials that are impacting everything from land entitlement and development to home construction. Depending on the specific market, the availability of labor and materials has, at best, remained the same, but in certain areas, conditions have gotten a little worse and build cycles have gotten longer. Given these challenging conditions, our production timelines extended by about one week in the first quarter and now stand at 145 to 150 days in most of our divisions. With only a couple of days remaining in April, unless dynamics change dramatically in the next couple of weeks, which does not look likely, any improvement in the supply chain would provide a more meaningful benefit to 2023 production. Bob's comments will include us reaffirming our guide for expected 2022 deliveries of 31,000 homes, and I would highlight that this guidance assumes that the availability of labor and materials does not change for better or worse. With our production cycles remaining extended, we continue to tightly control sales in most of our communities across the country. We appreciate these restrictions can be frustrating for consumers but it is the right strategic decisions given overall conditions. From both the customer experience and a business risk perspective, it doesn't make sense to extend our backlog out a year or more just to record another signup. Even with all of these challenges, I want to highlight that we started almost 9,000 homes in the first quarter, and that we now have approximately 5,200 spec homes in production. The majority of these homes are in the initial start and framing stages, but we would expect these houses to deliver in the back half of 2022. As we've noted on prior calls, our spec production is largely focused in our entry-level communities. In sum, I think it's fair to say that housing demand remains strong. Home prices continue to rise and the supply of new construction homes coming to market is constrained. That being said, the Federal Reserve has been very clear in signaling that interest rates are going higher as they seek to control inflation that has hit 40-year highs. There are a lot of favorable market dynamics that can support ongoing buyer demand in the face of higher rates, but the Fed is intent on slowing down the economy, and this certainly has the potential to impact the housing industry. Given this dynamic, it makes sense for us to take actions to position our business for continued success. For now, this means focusing on our land acquisition practices. Internally, we are committed to increasing our option lot position and have set a goal of having 65% to 70% of our future land pipeline controlled under option. Our disciplined land investment process helped us to place some great land positions under control over the past several years, and we'll be closing on -- that we'll be closing on in 2022. Going forward, we will continue our thoughtful approach to investing in the business and we'll be prepared to make adjustments in response to changing market conditions. We certainly expect that our land teams can continue to identify tremendous land opportunities, but we want to make sure that only the best projects ultimately get approved. Now let me turn over to Bob for additional comments on our first quarter. Bob?Bob Shaughnessy -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Ryan, and good morning. As Ryan highlighted, the year has gotten off to an excellent start as home sale revenues in the first quarter were up 18% over last year to $3.1 billion. Higher revenues for the quarter were driven by an 18% increase in average sales price to $508,000, while closings of 6,039 homes were consistent with last year. The higher ASP for the period was driven by double-digit gains in pricing within our first-time move-up and active adult buyer groups. By buyer group, our mix of closings for the first quarter was also consistent with last year as we remain well balanced across the primary buyer groups. In the quarter, 35% of buyers were first-time, 40% were move-up and 25% were active adult. In the comparable prior-year period, the breakdown was 33% first-time; 44%, move-up; and 23%, active adult. In the first quarter, we recorded net new orders of 7,971 homes, which is down 19% from last year. Lower orders for the quarter were primarily the 7% decrease in community count, combined with the impact of aggressively controlling sales paces, given ongoing disruptions in the supply chain. As has been the case for the past several quarters, we continue to restrict sales in many communities in order to align sales with current production pace. Looking more closely at our order activity. Orders to first-time buyers decreased 13% to 2,710 homes, while orders to move-up buyers were lower by 22% to 3,341 homes. And active adult orders declined 23% to 1,920 homes. The relative outperformance among first-time buyers is due to the availability of the spec production we started in the back half of 2021 that supported some incremental orders. Between delays in municipal approvals and extended land development timelines, it is taking longer for some communities to open for sale. As a result, in addition to being down from the prior year, our first quarter average community count of 777 was slightly below our previous guidance. We expect the modest drag in the community openings that we experienced in the first quarter to continue for the remainder of the year. As such, we now expect that our average community count in the second quarter will be 780 with growth to 800 in the third quarter and 830 in the fourth quarter. Reflective of the strong demand conditions we experienced in the quarter, our cancellation rate remains exceptionally low at 9%. In total, we ended the first quarter with a unit backlog of 19,935 homes, which is an increase of 5% over last year. The dollar value of our backlog increased 31% to $11.5 billion, which reflects the 5% unit growth combined with the significant year-over-year increase in our ASP and backlog. As Ryan noted, our teams are doing a great job moving homes through the production cycle in light of the challenges the industry is facing and the availability of labor and materials. As a result, we ended the first quarter with 21,269 homes under construction, which is an increase of 44% over last year. This production number includes 5,181 spec homes that are currently in the pipeline, which is almost triple our spec units at this time last year. At quarter end, specs were 24% of units under production as we continue to make steady progress toward our goal of 25% to 30%. Our overall production pipeline is still early in the construction process as 28% of these homes are at the initial start stage, with 43% of the homes at the framing stage. We ended the quarter with only 64 finished specs, which is consistent with our comments that homes made available for sale sell quickly. Based on the universe of homes in production, as well as their stage of construction, we currently expect to deliver between 7,200 and 7,600 homes in the second quarter. Again, assuming no significant improvement or erosion in the availability of labor and/or materials, we still expect to deliver 31,000 homes for the year, which would be an increase of 7% over last year. On our prior earnings call, we noted that given supply constraints and limited opportunity to meaningfully increase construction pace, we would rely on price as the bigger lever to maximize return. Looking at the dollar value of our backlog and new orders, you can see that this is what has occurred. Based on the average price in backlog and the mix of homes we expect to deliver, we expect our second quarter closings to have an ASP in the range of $525,000 to $535,000. Inclusive of the $508,000 average sales price realized in Q1 and the first time spec homes we expect to deliver in the back half of the year, we now expect our average sales price for the full year to also be in the range of $525,000 to $535,000. As we always highlight, the final mix of deliveries can influence the average sales price we realized in any given quarter. Given the ongoing strong demand conditions, we have been able to increase sales prices sufficiently to offset rising costs and to further expand our gross margin. In the first quarter, homebuilding gross margin was 29%, which is an increase of 350 basis points over the first quarter of last year and is up 220 basis points sequentially. In addition to the strong demand and pricing environment, our Q1 deliveries also benefited from the flow-through of lower-cost lumber as prices for wood products rolled over in the back half of last year. Until a recent pullback, lumber prices had moved significantly higher since the beginning of the year, which will impact our closings in the back half of this year. Beyond lumber, we are continuing to see meaningful inflation in most materials and labor costs. As such, even with the recent pullback in lumber, we expect house cost inflation exclusive of land cost to be in the range of 10% to 12% for the full year. Based on the strength of recent selling conditions and despite the volatility in the materials and labor market, we now expect our gross margin to be in the range of 29.5% to 30% for each of the remaining three quarters of the year. Given the timing and impact of lumber and other input costs, we expect to be toward the higher end of this range in Q2, but likely toward the lower end of the range in the third and fourth quarters. As always, there are a lot of moving pieces, so we'll update you on our gross margin guidance if needed as we move through the year. Our SG&A expense in the first quarter was $329 million or 10.7% of home sale revenues, which is in line with our earlier guidance. In the comparable prior-year period, our reported SG&A expense of $272 million or 10.5% of home sale revenues included a pre-tax insurance benefit of $10 million. Exclusive of that benefit, our adjusted SG&A expense was $282 million or 10.9% of home sale revenues. Given expected homebuilding revenues for the coming quarters, we currently expect SG&A expense in the second quarter to be in the range of 9.4% to 9.6%, which would be a 30-basis-point improvement over the prior year at the midpoint. For the full year, we now expect SG&A expense to be in the range of 9.2% to 9.5% of home sale revenues. First quarter pre-tax income for our financial services operations was $41 million, compared with prior-year pre-tax income of $66 million. Lower pre-tax income for the current period is reflective of a much more competitive market conditions, which negatively impacted our capture rate and overall profitability per loan. Mortgage capture rate for the quarter was 81%, down from 88% last year. Our reported tax expense for the first quarter was $145 million for an effective tax rate of 24.2%. Our effective tax rate in the period was lower than our recent guidance, we recorded benefits related to equity compensation in the quarter. Looking ahead, we estimate our tax rate to be approximately 25% in each quarter over the balance of the year. Our reported net income for the first quarter was $454 million or $1.83 per share. In the comparable prior-year period, our reported net income was $304 million or $1.13 per share while adjusted net income was $343 million or $1.28 per share. In the first quarter, the company repurchased 10.3 million common shares or approximately 4% of the shares outstanding at the end of 2021 at an average price of $48.59. Relative to the first quarter of last year, our share count is down by almost 10%. In addition to allocating $500 million to share repurchases in the first quarter, we invested $1.1 billion of land acquisition and development. This keeps us on track to achieve our prior guidance of $4.5 billion to $5 billion of land spend for the full year, with more than 50% of that spend being for development of existing land assets. Inclusive of our first quarter spend, we ended the quarter with approximately 235,000 lots under control, of which 52% were held under option. Our strong land pipeline provides us with the lots need to grow our business while allowing us to focus future investment on projects that meet our underwriting standards. Even after allocating approximately $1.6 billion to investment in the business and share repurchases, we ended the quarter with $1.2 billion of cash and a gross debt-to-capital ratio of 21.5%. It's worth mentioning here that as highlighted in this morning's earnings release, Moody's Investors Service recently noted the strength of our operations and overall financial position when they upgraded PulteGroup's senior unsecured ratings from Baa2 -- to Baa2 from Baa3. As Ryan discussed, given the Federal Reserve comments that we were in for a period of rising rates, we are acutely focused on ways to mitigate land-related risk. In recent years, we have established a land pipeline that can support the ongoing growth of our operations but provides optionality should demand conditions change in the future. Going forward, we will continue to emphasize the use of lot options or comparable structures to control rather than own positions, and we are actively working to increase our percentage of option lots within our land portfolio. Now let me turn the call back to Ryan.Ryan Marshall -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Bob. We realized continued strong buyer demand in the first quarter and buyer interest has remained high through April. That being said, a 200-basis-point increase in mortgage rates since the start of the year is likely to have an impact on consumers. Even with the potential for changes in demand, I think the limited supply of available homes means prices can remain high and puts the construction industry in an advantageous position to weather future demand volatility. As we sit here today, the bigger challenge by far isn't getting houses sold, but rather getting them built. That said, it is important that we take actions now to put PulteGroup in the best possible position for continued success. Based on recent field visits and walking numerous job sites, I can personally tell you that our teams are doing an amazing job getting our homes constructed. I want to thank our entire organization for their efforts. I have to highlight the work of our corporate and field-based procurement teams, sourcing even the most basic materials can change from week to week, but this group has learned to adapt and find solutions to the most challenging situations. Before opening the call to questions, I would also like to highlight that PulteGroup was, again, ranked among the 100 Best Companies to Work for by Great Place to Work and Fortune magazine. We didn't just rank again this year but jumped up 32 positions to No. 43 on the list. Being ranked is certainly a nice acknowledgment, but much more important is actually having an amazing and supportive culture that makes PulteGroup a place where people want to be. This is an important competitive advantage when working to attract and retain the most talented individuals. Now let me turn the call back to Jim.Jim Zeumer -- Vice President, Investor Relations and Corporate Finance Great. Thanks, Ryan. We're now prepared to open the call for questions. [Operator instructions] Abby, if you'll explain the process, we will get started. 