  OperatorWelcome to Oracle's first-quarter 2022 earnings conference call. Now I'd like to turn the call over to Ken Bond, senior vice president.Ken Bond -- Senior Vice President Thank you, Erica. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to Oracle's first-quarter fiscal-year 2022 earnings conference call. A copy of the press release and financial tables, which includes a GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation and other supplemental financial information, can be viewed and downloaded from our Investor Relations website. Additionally, a list of many customers who purchased Oracle Cloud Services or went live on Oracle Cloud recently will be available from the Investor Relations website following this call. On the call today are Chairman and Chief Technology Officer Larry Ellison and CEO Safra Catz. As a reminder, today's discussion will include forward-looking statements, including predictions, expectations, estimates, or other information, that might be considered forward-looking. Throughout today's discussion, we will present some important factors relating to our business which may potentially affect these forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are also subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from statements being made today.As a result, we caution you from placing undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, and we encourage you to review our most recent reports, including our 10-K and 10-Q, and any applicable amendments for a complete discussion of these factors and other risks that may affect our future results or the market price of our stock. And finally, we are not obligating ourselves to revise our results or these forward-looking statements in light of new information or future events. Before taking questions, we'll begin with a few prepared remarks. And with that, I'd like to turn the call over to Safra. Safra Catz -- Chief Executive Officer  Thanks, Ken, and good afternoon, everyone. We had a great quarter as total revenue was $100 million, above the midpoint of my constant-currency guidance, with outperformance coming from all parts of our business. EPS was also very strong and was $0.08 above the midpoint of my constant-currency guidance. As the dollar strengthened from when I gave guidance, and it strengthened significantly, we didn't get the benefit we would have gotten had it stayed at the same level throughout the quarter. Now from here on, I'll review our non-GAAP results using constant dollar growth rates unless I say otherwise. So total cloud services and license support revenues for the quarter were $7.4 billion, up 6% in USD, up 5% in constant currency, and accounted for 76% of total company revenue. Total cloud revenues are now at an annualized revenue of $10 billion with an accelerating growth rate that we expect will exit the fiscal year in the mid-20s. GAAP application subscription revenues were $3 billion, up 7%, with Fusion apps up 26% in USD and 24% in constant currency. Our strategic back-office applications grew 25% in constant currency, including Fusion ERP, up 30%, and NetSuite ERP up 26%. GAAP infrastructure subscription revenues were $4.3 billion, up 3%. And excluding legacy hosting services, infrastructure cloud services grew in the mid-30s, and we saw triple-digit booking growth this quarter. So I expect the infrastructure revenue growth will ramp higher through the fiscal year. OCI consumption revenue, which includes autonomous database, was up 80% in constant currency, and cloud customer revenue was up 44%. Database subscription revenues, including database support and database cloud services, were up 6% in USD, up 5% in constant currency, and that's up from 4% last quarter. License revenues were $813 million, down 8% after a tough compare from last year's Q1. So all in, total revenues for the quarter were $9.7 billion, up 4% in USD, up 2% in constant currency. Operating expenses were up 3% this quarter. The gross margin for cloud services and license support was 84%, and the gross profit dollars grew 2%. I expect the full-year growth in gross profit dollars for cloud services and license support will be similar to last year. Non-GAAP operating income was $4.3 billion, up 2% from last year, and the operating margin was 45%. The non-GAAP tax rate for the quarter was 18%, slightly below our base tax rate of 19%, and earnings per share was USD 1.03, up 11% in USD and up 9% in constant currency. As a result of some discrete items, the GAAP tax rate was 8.4%, and GAAP EPS was USD 0.86, which was up 19% in U.S. dollars and up 16% in constant currency. Operating cash flow for the last four quarters was $15.3 billion, up 17% in USD, and our free cash flow over the same period was $12.6 billion, up 9% in USD with capital expenditures of $2.8 billion, also over the same period. CapEx for Q1 alone was $1.1 billion. We now have more than $39 billion in cash and marketable securities. The short-term deferred revenue balance is $10 billion, up 1% from a year ago due to timing differences in customer payments but with gross deferred revenue up 5% in constant currency. The remaining performance obligation, or RPO, our balance is $38.7 billion, up 10% in constant currency due to strong bookings. Approximately 60% is expected to be recognized as revenue over the next 12 months. As we've said many times before, we're committed to returning value to our shareholders through technical innovation, strategic acquisitions, stock repurchases, prudent use of debt, and a dividend. This quarter, we repurchased 94 million shares for a total of $8 billion. And over the last 10 years, we have reduced the shares outstanding by 46% and an average price that's about half the current share price. In addition, we paid out dividends of $3.2 billion over the last 12 months. And the board of directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.32 per share. Now to guidance, what you're all waiting for. I remain highly confident that fiscal-year '22 revenue growth will accelerate because our fast-growing cloud businesses are becoming a larger portion of our total revenue. I see total revenue growth for fiscal-year 2022, which is the one we're in, somewhere in the mid-single digits in constant currency and accelerating. Cloud is fundamentally a more profitable business compared to on-premise; and as we look ahead to next year, we expect company operating margins will be the same or better than pre-pandemic levels. Let me now turn to my guidance for Q2, and I'll review this on a non-GAAP basis. Assuming currency exchange rates remain the same as they are now, currency should have a very minor positive effect on total revenue and EPS in Q2. Total revenue for Q2 are expected to grow between 3% to 5% in both USD and constant currency. Cloud service and license support revenue for Q2 are expected to grow more than 5% in both USD and constant currency and then climb higher through the second half of the fiscal year. Non-GAAP EPS for Q2 is expected to grow between 2% and 6% in both USD and constant currency and be between $1.09 and $1.13. My EPS guidance for Q2 assumes a base rate of 19%. However, one-time tax events could cause actual tax rates for any given quarter to vary, both up and down, but I expect that in normalizing for these one-time tax events, our non-GAAP tax rate will average around 19% or so. And with that, I'll turn it over to Larry for his comments. Larry Ellison -- Chairman and Chief Technology Officer Thank you, Safra. Oracle Cloud business infrastructure plus applications has rapidly grown to $10 billion a year. Oracle and NetSuite were pioneers in cloud applications, Oracle and NetSuite being the very first cloud company of any kind. Several years later, Amazon launched the very first cloud infrastructure company. Oracle Fusion ERP has over 8,000 cloud customers. NetSuite ERP has over 28,000 cloud application customers. Oracle is the overwhelming market leader in the global cloud ERP market. Oracle Cloud ERP is currently used by many of the largest most complex companies on Earth. This past quarter in Q1, a company I couldn't name until now, a major portion of Bank of America went live on Oracle Fusion ERP, consolidating ledgers in 33 separate countries into one global cloud ledger. Also in Q1, another huge bank, Macquarie, the largest investment bank in Australia, went live with Oracle Fusion ERP. Also in Q1, Vanguard, the largest global mutual fund provider, went live with Oracle Fusion ERP. That's just in Q1. OK. So Oracle Fusion is building a very strong position in the world's largest financial services companies: HSBC, Bank New York Mellon, JPMorgan Chase. They are all live on Oracle's Fusion applications. We have started working with our strategic partners in banking to develop a new generation of cloud B2B financing and payment systems. There are things you can do on the cloud you could never do on-premise. There are opportunities in the cloud if you are the largest ERP supplier. There are opportunities to go into new businesses like financing and banking, with banking partners that would have been impossible with the old on-premise systems. And those are opportunities we are aggressively pursuing with the world's money-center banks. Banking and healthcare will be Oracle's two largest verticals going forward. Speaking of healthcare, Humana was an important fusion ERP win in Q1. In the infrastructure part of our cloud business, we continue to innovate in several technical areas. We have made great progress. And then now -- and we are now on our way into the big four global hyperscalers, and I'll give a list of those in case you don't know. They are Amazon, Microsoft, Oracle, and Google. Note the order. I was not the one who sorted that list. Oracle has come a long way in the cloud infrastructure business. Our technology is getting really good and very competitive. And of course, we continue to deliver breakthrough innovations in areas where we have long been strongest like databases. The Oracle Database remains unrivaled in running the world's biggest and most critical systems. And our other database, the open-source system MySQL, is now on a new generation. And it now includes an ultra-high performance in-memory query processor called HeatWave, plus a new set of management tools called the Autopilot. Amazon's version of MySQL -- again, MySQL is an open-source database. Anyone can have it. Amazon took a version of MySQL, renamed it Aurora, and put it up in AWS. Now the open-source version of MySQL -- the old version of MySQL pre-HeatWave is very, very slow at query processing. In fact, the way you use Aurora, typically in Amazon over the years, is you do your transaction processing in Aurora, also known as MySQL. And then when you did your query processing, you moved your data out of Amazon's MySQL, old Aurora, and put into a thing called Redshift, a data warehouse system from Amazon. Recently, Snowflake has come up with a data warehouse that runs at AWS, and Snowflake competing quite effectively against Redshift because Snowflake runs on multiple clouds. And Snowflake, like Redshift, is way faster at queries than the old MySQL or Aurora. OK. So Oracle introduces this new version of MySQL, this new generation of MySQL. That's the HeatWave. And the customer reaction has been stupendous simply for the reason that, over and over again, they measure Oracle's MySQL to be 100x faster than Amazon's Aurora for query processing. Now this was actually not unexpected. The old MySQL, which is Aurora -- that's what Aurora is, the old MySQL, it's terrible for query processing. What was unexpected is that Oracle MySQL proved to be more than 10x faster than Amazon's Redshift or Snowflake for query processing. So suddenly, there's one database that you can do transaction -- one open source database you can do transaction processing on, MySQL with HeatWave. And that same database, MySQL with HeatWave, is the fastest place to run your queries. So you don't need to move your data into Redshift or Snowflake anymore just to do queries. This has excited so many customers that they asked us over and over again. We made it available -- have we made it available this quarter. Oracle's MySQL with HeatWave, if it's available at the Oracle Public Cloud, but they asked if we would make it available on other public clouds. And we thought that's what our customers want. That's what we're going to do. So we plan to make Oracle MySQL with HeatWave available on other public clouds in addition to the Oracle Public Cloud and compete aggressively where we have huge technical advantages over Amazon Aurora, Amazon Redshift, and perhaps most interestingly, huge technical advantages, performance and cost over Snowflake. I'll turn it back to Safra.Safra Catz -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Larry. Ken, I think we're ready to take questions.Ken Bond -- Senior Vice President Yes. Absolutely. Erica, if you could please prepare the audience for questions, please. 