
OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]. After the speakers' presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]. I would now like to hand the conference over to Gerald Gradwell, Thank you. You may begin, sir.Gerald Gradwell -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations and Special ProjectsGood morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to our earnings call for the third quarter of fiscal year 2021. On the call with me today are Roz Brewer, the Chief Executive Officer of Walgreens Boots Alliance; James Kehoe, Global Chief Financial Officer; and John Standley, President of Walgreens is also here for any relevant questions.

 



Before I hand you over to Roz to make some opening comments, I will, as usual, take you through the legal safe harbor and cautionary declarations. Certain statements and projections of future results made in this presentation constitute forward-looking statements that are based on our current market, competitive and regulatory expectations, and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to vary materially. We undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statement after this presentation, whether as a result of new information, future events, change in assumptions or otherwise.Please see our latest Form 10-K and 10-Q for a discussion of risk factors as they relate to forward-looking statements. And note, in particular, that these forward-looking statements may be affected by risks relating to the spread and impact of the COVID pandemic.In today's presentation, we will use certain non-GAAP financial measures. We refer you to the Appendix in the presentation materials available on our Investor Relations website for reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and related information. You'll find a link to the webcast on our investor Relations website at investor.walgreensbootsalliance.com. After this call, the presentation and webcast will be archived on the website for 12 months.I will now hand you over to Roz.

 



Rosalind Brewer -- Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Gerald and good morning everyone. Welcome to our earnings call. Let me start by saying that we're pleased with our third quarter financial performance, which we announced earlier this morning.Our total adjusted earnings per share of $1.51 were above our expectations, driven by the strong execution of our vaccine administration, increased mobility as restrictions were lifted in various geographies and recent increases in digitally driven sales in both the Walgreens and Boots businesses. Many categories performed well, including beauty and photo. And our investments in marketing, technology are driving further revenues by more precisely targeting our customers.In recent months, the leadership team and I have been emphasizing across the Company that we must deliver operational excellence. And our teams have answered this call in many ways with our COVID-19 vaccinations being a particular highlight. This initiative is really quite remarkable and demonstrates our ability to move at pace and deliver at scale.

 



We have now administered over 25 million vaccinations by quickly creating an extensive technology and logistics infrastructure and utilizing close partnerships with public officials, community and faith groups and others. I continue to be deeply proud of our team members and their commitment to keep our communities healthy and safe, especially those communities that are the most medically underserved.Strategically, we remain committed to our previously stated priorities: To create neighborhood health destinations around a more modern pharmacy; to accelerate digital; to transform and restructure our retail offering; and to drive our transformational cost improvement. All of which you'll hear more about today as James provides more insights on our results. It's also great to observe first hand these priorities being carried out by our teams as I continue to spend time at our stores and vaccination sites.During these visits I saw [Phonetic] [Technical Issues] over and over again the incredible strengths that our Company has. We have deep brand trust and loyalty and extensive understanding of our millions of customers, and an expansive store footprint in the heart of 9,000 communities across the U.S.And as I mentioned to you last quarter, I am also conducting a detailed review of our long-range business plans across the Company, including where we should make further investments, allocate capital and deliver the best financial returns. There are tremendous opportunities in healthcare right now, and we are uniquely positioned to capitalize on them. One example of our next phase of growth is our previously communicated tech enabled healthcare initiative. As we build this out further, our choices will be guided by what our customers want, as we continue to deliver solutions that meet their evolving needs while leveraging our unique assets and capabilities in order to win. But first and foremost, we have to ensure that we continue to operate our core pharmacy and retail businesses with excellence.Said simply, in order to build the pharmacy of the future, and new healthcare solutions, we must build upon the core assets of the pharmacy of today. Next, we need to determine where we are best positioned to offer even more to our customers. What we're hearing from them is that they are often overwhelmed trying to manage different health conditions, providers, appointments, bills and medication, all of which are on different platforms and channels.And we know we can help them address these problems in a way that builds on our strengths and establishes even deeper relationships with them. But the overall healthcare space is sprawling and incredibly complicated. So we must be laser-focused on the products and services that have the most potential and value that can be enabled with the most innovative technology, and that will be delivered at a level and quality that our customers expect.Lastly, we must be mindful that speed is a priority in this rapidly changing landscape. We will assess appropriately and accelerate into new categories spending just enough time getting it right, and then we'll deploy quickly and at scale. I'm looking forward to sharing more with you soon about our further plans. But again, there is fantastic potential here, and we're very excited about the prospects for the future.And with that, I'll turn it over to James to take us into more depth on our results and operations. James?James Kehoe -- Executive Vice President and Global Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Roz, and good morning. In summary, we had an excellent quarter. Total adjusted EPS was $1.51, well ahead of expectations and up 81.4% versus prior year on a constant currency basis [Technical Issues] basis. Adjusted EPS was $1.38, 93.6% [Phonetic] [Technical Issues] above prior year impacted by two key COVID related factors.Firstly, we were lapping a weak year-ago quarter, which was depressed by the severe restrictions associated with the COVID-19 pandemic. Secondly, we executed strongly in the current quarter and accelerated the pace of COVID vaccinations. Thanks also to the significant investments we have made to provide vaccinations across approximately 8,500 locations. Cash generation was also strong with year-to-date free cash flow of $3.3 billion, 35.8% higher than prior year. The strong third quarter performance allows us to increase our full year adjusted EPS guidance from mid to high single-digit growth to around 10% growth.Let's now look in more detail at the results. Third quarter sales advanced 10.4% on a constant currency basis, reflecting strong double-digit growth in international and 5% growth in the U.S. The result included a 4.6 percentage point benefit from the formation of the German joint venture last November. Adjusted operating income increased 82.4% on a constant currency basis, driven by strong gross profit performance in the U.S. and a rebound in International sales and profitability due to less severe COVID-19 restrictions.Total adjusted EPS was $1.51 in the quarter, a constant currency increase of 81.4%. On a continuing basis, adjusted EPS was $1.38, a constant currency increase of 93.6%, driven entirely by strong growth in adjusted operating income in both operating segments. The higher tax rate in the quarter was mostly due to a catch-up adjustment in the prior year period as initial COVID-19 impacts favorably impacted that quarter's tax rate.Finally, on a continuing basis, GAAP EPS increased by $3.32 to $1.27 reflecting prior year impairment charges of $2 billion and investment gains in the current quarter related to Option Care Health. Now, let's move to the year-to-date highlights. Year-to-date sales rose 6.1% on a constant currency basis. Adjusted operating income increased 3.9% on a constant currency basis with the U.S. segment up 2.3% and International almost doubling the operating income as it rebounded from a very weak prior year due to COVID-19. On a continuing basis, adjusted EPS was $3.74, a constant currency increase of 9.9%, reflecting adjusted operating income growth, lower interest expense and a favorable impact from prior year share repurchases.Now, let's move to the U.S. segment. Sales increased 5.1% in the quarter with 6.3% growth in pharmacy and 1.4% growth in retail. Both retail and pharmacy saw sequential improvement over the second quarter, as we execute [Technical Issues] vaccinations and foot traffic improved. We saw notable improvement in consumer trends, especially in urban areas and across discretionary categories such as beauty and photo.Adjusted gross profit increased 14.5% driven by strong sales growth and improved margins in both pharmacy and retail. Adjusted SG&A spend increased 6.5% in the quarter to 16.8% [Technical Issues] sales, 0.2 percentage points higher than the last year. The year-on-year increase was primarily driven by an approximately 500 basis point impact from COVID-19 related costs, mainly the cost of rolling out vaccinations.Adjusted operating income increased 50.3% as the strong gross profit growth more than compensated for the fast-growing investments behind both COVID-19 vaccinations and growth initiatives. Now let's look in more detail at U.S. pharmacy. Comparable pharmacy sales were up 8.4%, while comp scripts increased 9.8%. We completed 17 million COVID-19 vaccinations in the quarter and this boosted comparable script growth by around 600 basis points.Solid underlying results were also bolstered by improved market trends, as more patients returned to doctor's offices and seasonal script headwinds softened. Adjusted gross profit grew nicely, reflecting strong sales growth and improved gross margin as a result of favorable mix from vaccinations.Turning next to our U.S. retail business. Total retail sales increased 1.4% in the quarter, including a 50 basis points adverse impact from our store optimization programs, comp retail sales increased 1.7%. And excluding tobacco and e-cigarettes, comps were up 2.6%. Performance improved sequentially, as the negative impacts from cough, cold flu subsided and mass personalization boosted results by around 100 basis points.Store traffic improved, especially in urban areas and discretionary categories came back nicely with beauty sales growing 14.9% and photo advancing 54%. Gross margin increased 100 basis points year-on-year, largely due to favorable mix as a result of stronger growth across discretionary categories.Turning next to the International segment, and I'll talk to constant currency numbers. Our International segment continued to be negatively impacted by COVID-19 with continued weak footfall on the U.K. high street. That said, as we lap the start of the pandemic, we are encouraged by the rebound in sales and profitability due to focused execution across Boots UK, Boots Ireland and Opticians.Sales increased 58.7% in the quarter, including a 46.6 percentage point contribution from the formation of our wholesale joint venture in Germany. Excluding this benefit, sales were up 12.1%, reflecting ongoing recovery across most international markets. Adjusted operating income was $94 million in the quarter, up $222 million versus prior year as sales rebounded from prior year lows and costs were tightly controlled.Let's now look in more detail at Boots UK. Comparable pharmacy sales increased 3.7%, stronger demand for services and favorable phasing of NHS funding more [Technical Issues] lower script volume. Comparable retail sales increased 38.7% [Technical Issues] continued to recover and we lap the start of the prior year COVID-19 restrictions.However, footfall in the quarter was around 45% below pre-COVID levels, compared to the 70% to 75% declines that we saw at the peak of the pandemic in April and May last year. Nevertheless, we are encouraged by continued strength in basket size, which was up over 20% in the third quarter compared to pre-COVID levels. We are rapidly regaining the market share lost to grocers at the height of the pandemic and discretionary categories are performing strongly. And Boots.com delivered strong sales growth of 42% and accounted for 20% of total retail sales in the quarter.Overall, while it was a strong quarter for the International segment, the recovery is more gradual than we originally anticipated. Turning next to cash flow. Free cash flow was strong with $3.3 billion delivered in the first nine months of the year, up $873 million year-on-year, reflecting the strong profit results and successful working capital initiatives. Working capital initiatives are driving sizable cash flow benefits as we eliminate excess inventory and extend payment terms to more optimal levels.We have benefited from some one-time cash favorabilities including timing benefits associated with the destocking of COVID-19 related safety [Phonetic] inventory and benefits associated with the CARES Act. Looking forward, cash generation in the fourth quarter will be adversely impacted by the divestiture of the Alliance Healthcare business. Historically, the fourth quarter was the strongest cash flow quarter for this business.Turning now to full year guidance. Our third quarter performance was clearly very strong. We were lapping the peak of the pandemic restrictions last year, and less severe restrictions in the current year led to improved footfall in the U.S. and a rebound across most international markets. Additionally, this quarter was the peak quarter for vaccinations, and we successfully completed 17 million vaccinations, a testament to our strong executional capabilities. We are expecting solid year-on-year EPS growth in the fourth quarter, although at a slower rate than the third quarter.The prior-year comps are a little tougher. We will administer less vaccinations in the fourth quarter compared to the third quarter, and we are ramping up our growth investments as we accelerate our digital and healthcare plans.Turning now to EPS guidance. We are raising our continuing basis adjusted EPS from mid to high-single digit to around 10% growth. The full-year guidance is based on three potential swing factors. Firstly, our full-year forecast now assumes 28 million vaccinations with around 7 million vaccinations in the fourth quarter compared to $17 million in the third quarter.Secondly, COVID-19 has resulted in many changes in business and we should expect some continued volatility as markets reopen and foot traffic returns to more normal patterns. And finally, we are increasing the investments to reposition the Company for continued success. On an annualized basis, our transformation on growth investments are an earnings drag of approximately 3% to 4%, with a fourth quarter impact of around 7% to 9%.In summary, we have raised our adjusted EPS guidance to around 10% growth to reflect strong operational performance and improved visibility around fourth quarter adjusted EPS growth drivers. Let me now cover our key strategic initiatives. We continue to make progress in transforming our pharmacy business and the ways in which we deliver healthcare, both through our physical stores and through our digital channels. One of our core objectives is to simplify the pharmacist role and free up more of their time to spend on adherence and healthcare services. This will be the foundation for improved health outcomes through a more integrated care model.One of the key steps is to modernize and automate our pharmacies. Our recent investment, iA Rx plays an important role as it brings together automated pharmacy solutions and enhanced workflow capabilities.Two micro fulfillment centers are now operational in Phoenix and Dallas and are supporting around 550 Walgreens pharmacies. Over time, these two locations will support around 1,000 pharmacies. We have also decided the next nine markets for micro fulfillment centers, and we expect the deploy [Technical Issues] completed by the end of calendar year 2022.We are also accelerating our rollout plans with VillageMD, following continued positive patient response. We have already opened 46 sites, and we have identified a further 35 locations to be opened by the end of this calendar year. This will bring the number of co-located sites to approximately 80 by the end of this calendar year.In addition to these physical co-locations, we formed an integrated virtual healthcare collaboration with VillageMD in an additional nine Walgreens locations. This will give patients access for the same expanded pharmacy services that are available at the core locations. Finally, building on our success in COVID testing, we are developing our testing and diagnostics business to provide a wider range of solutions for our customers going forward.Now, turning to retail. We are evolving our U.S. retail model across consumer value, services and convenience. Our customer engagement platform is progressing nicely and building momentum. We are [Technical Issues] refining our personalized offerings as we gain additional consumer insights. Membership of MyWalgreens was up 34% over the prior quarter to 75 million members and mass personalization boosted retail sales by around 100 basis points in the quarter.Secondly, the work we've undertaken throughout the pandemic to improve our omnichannel experience and offer convenience options is resonating with consumers. We have now completed 6 million curbside drive-thru and last mile delivery orders. The alternative profit streams we've mentioned in the past are quickly taking shape. Our Walgreens' advertising group is expanding its offerings and is now working with third-party brand providers across digital and video, helping them better connect with customers, based on our uniquely scaled first party data set. Additionally, early in the fall, we plan to launch a series of exciting debit and credit card products.Finally, behind the scenes, we've completed the rollout of SAP S/4HANA. This will unlock significant operational efficiencies and working capital improvements, and from a customer point of view, it will improve product availability and speed of delivery. Turning next to our International initiatives. During the quarter, we made excellent progress in developing our digital healthcare offering. Boots Health Hub now offers an online marketplace for Boots and third-party providers with almost 100 healthcare services now available.As part of the Health Hub, we recently launched Boots ONLINE DOCTOR, a new innovative and market leading service which connects physicians and patients online. Patients can seek advice from doctors on over 40 conditions with more to follow in the future. On the retail side, we delivered strong market share gains in the quarter, particularly in discretionary categories, and as life gradually returns to normal, customers are increasing their spend on beauty products with sales advancing 85% in the quarter.We now have over 500 beauty brands available in our stores and online with 34 new brands introduced this year. And, we recently launched a major marketing campaign designed to capitalize on the gradual lifting of UK restrictions. We continue to play a major role in COVID testing in the quarter and are well positioned to support vaccination booster programs. Boots is one of the UK's leading COVID test providers with over 3 million tests completed to date, mostly undertaken in partnership with the NHS.We also have a growing private test offering with several at home and in-store tests available in addition to testing partnerships with several major airlines. And finally, a quick call out to China. We now have almost 8,300 stores, up 2,500 stores compared to the same period last year.I'll now hand it back to Roz for closing comments.Rosalind Brewer -- Chief Executive OfficerThank you, James. So as you've heard, we have delivered a good financial quarter, and have the prospect of a very solid financial performance for the year as a whole. Therefore, we are raising our guidance for the full year accordingly. As we continue to focus on ensuring the success of our business of today, while at the same time investing in our future, I look forward to sharing in the fall more of my learnings and our path forward.Currently, I'm examining and challenging all parts of our enterprise strategy. And there will be some key principles guiding our work ahead and leveraging our right to win, including: Applying a disciplined approach to capital allocation and performance metrics, driving innovation to be built into our core and into our culture; performing as a best-in-class operator at all time; allocating our focus in the right amount by balancing our immediate needs with our mid and long-term growth plans over the next two to three years; maximizing the value of our existing assets, particularly our pharmacy as a centerpiece of what we do moving forward, and; leaning into key tailwinds such as the localization and consumerization of healthcare.Let me close by once again thanking our team members for the resilience, empathy and care that they have shown for both our customers and fellow team members, as they administered more than 25 million vaccinations, and many other accomplishments around the world. Our success over the last year shows the power of a unified focus, coupled with exceptional capabilities and highly trusted brands that represent the communities we serve. This focus and purpose will be the root of our success for years to come.Now, I'd like to open the line to [Technical Issues]. Operator?