
OperatorThank you for standing by, and welcome to the Allstate First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]And now I'd like to introduce your host for today's program, Mark Nogal, Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.Mark Nogal -- Investor Relations

 



Thank you, Jonathan. Good morning. Welcome to Allstate's First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. After the prepared remarks, we will have a question-and-answer session. Yesterday, following the market, we issued our news release, investor supplement and posted related materials on our website at allstateinvestors.com. Our management team is here to provide perspective on these results. As noted on the first slide of the presentation, our discussion will contain non-GAAP measures for which there are reconciliations in the news release and investor supplement and forward-looking statements about Allstate's operations. Allstate's results may differ materially from these statements so please refer to our 10-K for 2020 and other public documents for information on potential risks.And now I'll turn it over to Tom.Tom Wilson -- Chair, President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Mark. Good morning, everybody, as we appreciate you making the time to follow up on Allstate and see how we're doing. Let's start on Slide two. On the left, our strategy has two components, which is to increase personal property-liability market share; and then secondly, to expand protection services, which are shown in those two ovals. And we made substantial progress in executing that this quarter. Many of those things that we'll talk about on the right-hand side really a year or plus in the making, but you see it all coming together this quarter. So we closed on the acquisition of National General in January, enhancing our competitive position in the independent agent distribution.

 



We executed agreements to sell Allstate Life Insurance Company and Allstate Life Insurance Company of New York, two separate deals there. And that will redeploy capital out of the lower growth in return businesses and reduces our exposure to interest rate risk. We also made continued progress on getting higher growth in our personal property-liability business moving into Phase three of Transformative Growth. Total revenues increased by 26.2% in the quarter, which is a stunning number. Policies in force increased by 20.6%. And of course, that's driven in large part by the National General acquisition. And we'll talk a little bit more about that in the call. Our long-term approach to creating shareholder value in both investing and using reinsurance also benefited results this quarter. We had substantial increase in performance-based income and reinsurance recoveries. Allstate Protection Plans continues its rapid growth. We launched Home Depot earlier this quarter.We had strong operating results with adjusted net income of $1.9 billion or $6.11 a share. And that generated a return on equity over the last 12 months of 23.2%. And then shareholders also benefited with $765 million of dividends and share repurchases. Let's turn to Slide three and go through the first quarter financial results. Our revenues of $12.5 billion in the quarter increased 26.2% from the prior year quarter, and it reflects both the National General acquisition, higher investment income and realized capital gains. Property-liability premiums earned and policies in force increased by 11.4% and 12.1%, respectively. Our performance-based income was $378 million versus a loss in the first quarter of 2020. We did have a net loss of $1.4 billion that we recorded in the quarter, which there was a $4 billion loss on the disposition from those announced sales to life insurance companies, and that was not fully offset by the strong operating performance.The strong operating performance target did create that adjusted net income of $1.9 billion, as you can see from the table on the bottom. And that's 55.7% higher than the prior year quarter as reduced auto claim frequency and higher net investment income more than offset increased catastrophe losses. Let's go to Slide four, dig in a little on National General, which is an excellent growth platform for us. We acquired the business for $4 billion in January, and that's to grow market share within the independent agent channel. And National General has appointments with over 42,000 independent agents. That expands our product portfolio as well. It includes nonstandard auto insurance where we had a very small presence, lender-placed homeowners insurance, accident and health insurance and two digital marketing platforms. National General's agency-facing technology is effective, efficient and scalable. So we're a better owner for National General since it improves the independent agent business.It lowers cost, and it will generate incremental growth from here. We've become a top five independent agent carrier. And then the combination of Allstate's standard auto and homeowners insurance expertise with National General's expertise in nonstandard auto insurance will give us a really broad portfolio of products to provide through independent agents. Significant expense reductions are expected by consolidating Allstate's two independent agent businesses onto National General's technology and operating platform. And the cost to acquire these in-force policies, which is about one point of overall market share, at the net acquisition price is comparable to doing this organically. Now we have three measures of success for this acquisition, you can see on the bottom of the table: accretion to earnings, achieve expense synergies and grow IA channel policies in force.

 



We're only a quarter into it, but we had a really strong start on these goals. Glenn and the team, Peter, have been working on this really since six months -- we started the deal in July, six months before we bought it. So we came into this first quarter with a head of steam and the Allstate Protection segment added $1.3 billion in net written premiums, $138 million in underwriting income this quarter. Allstate Health and Benefits increased adjusted net income by $35 million. We are integrating Encompass onto the National General platform and are on pace to achieve our expense synergies. We also expect to grow policies in force by broadening that product portfolio in the IA channel. And of course, that represents about 1/3 of the total personalized market. The IA channel policies in force are approximately 6 times larger after this transaction. As we add standard auto and homeowner experience products in National General's offering later this year, that will drive even more growth.Let me now turn it over to Mario to go through the first quarter results in more detail.Mario Rizzo -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Tom, and good morning, everybody. Let's go to Slide five and delve a little deeper into property-liability growth. Property-liability policies in force grew by 12.1% compared to the prior year quarter. National General, which includes Encompass, contributed growth of 3.9 million policies. The Allstate brand grew policies by 0.5% due to growth in homeowners and other personal lines, as you can see by the table on the left. Allstate brand auto insurance was flat to the prior year as increased new business was offset by lower retention. The chart on the lower right shows a breakdown of personal auto new issued applications compared to the prior year, which increased 64% in total, primarily due to the incremental 526,000 applications generated by National General. The middle section of the chart shows Allstate brand impacts by channel which, in total, generated a 5.4% increase in new business growth compared to the prior year. Modest increases from existing agents and a large increase in direct channel sales more than offset the volume that would normally have been generated by newly appointed agents as we pilot new agent models with higher growth and lower costs. As a result, property-liability net written premium grew 13.7% in the first quarter compared to prior year driven by a 12.9% increase in auto insurance and a 20.3% increase in homeowners insurance. The auto insurance net written premium increase was driven by a 14.1% increase in policies in force due to National General and increased new issued applications across all brands.These favorable impacts were partially offset by lower average auto insurance premiums from approved rate decreases and lower retention, partially driven by the impact of special payment plans that were implemented during the pandemic. If you flip to Slide six, you see property-liability margins remain strong. The recorded combined ratio of 83.3 improved 1.5 points compared to the prior year quarter, primarily from a lower underlying loss ratio driven by reduced auto frequency and continued cost savings. The auto insurance recorded combined ratio of 80.5 with 8.8 points below the prior year, primarily due to lower accident frequency in the quarter. Allstate brand auto property damage gross frequency remained below prior year levels in 47 of 51 geographies, which includes the District of Columbia. The chart on the lower left shows the impact of the pandemic on Allstate brand auto property damage gross frequency. As you can see, the onset of the pandemic and efforts to slow the spread of the virus had a large impact on frequency beginning at the end of the first quarter of last year and then extending into the second quarter when auto frequency was at its lows.This time frame coincided with Allstate shelter-in-place payback. Following the second quarter of 2020, property damage frequency has trended below pre-pandemic levels by approximately 28%, as you can see by the third and fourth quarter variances to 2019, and first quarter 2021 frequency showed a comparable decline relative to 2019. As you can see from the chart on the bottom right, we continue to make progress in reducing our cost structure, enabling us to improve the competitive position of auto insurance while maintaining strong returns. The property-liability expense ratio improved 2.5 points in the first quarter of 2021 compared to the prior year due to the absence of coronavirus-related expenses incurred in 2020, such as the shelter-in-place payback, as well as continued cost reductions. This was partially offset by a significant increase in advertising investment. The expense ratio, excluding coronavirus-related expenses, restructuring charges and the amortization of purchased intangibles associated with the acquisition of National General was 22.8, an improvement of 0.5 points compared to the prior year quarter.In connection with the anticipated benefits associated with the future work environment, we expect to incur approximately $110 million in restructuring costs during 2021 with $33 million recognized in the first quarter, primarily related to real estate exit costs. These restructuring costs and their future benefits are incremental to the $290 million of aggregate restructuring costs related to Transformative Growth, which we announced in the third quarter of 2020 and of which we've recognized $256 million to date, including $17 million this quarter. Let's move to Slide seven to discuss our progress on building Transformative Growth's business models. So Transformative Growth is a multiyear initiative to build a low-cost digital insurer with broad distribution. This will be accomplished by expanding customer access, improving customer value, increasing marketing sophistication and investment and building new technology ecosystems. A longitudinal plan segments Transformative Growth into five phases, starting with the conceptual design and ending with the retirement of the old business model. We've completed Phase one and much of Phase two. In Phase two, the auto insurance competitive position has been improved, leading to higher close rates. This was supported by cost reductions.Direct capabilities have been expanded and sales volumes are increasing. New branding has been launched and marketing investment has been increased. This, combined with industry-leading telematics capabilities, will increase growth. We believe Allstate is among the leaders in telematics and is the largest pay-per-mile provider through Milewise, which offers lower cost for customers who drive less. We've also expanded independent agent distribution through the National General acquisition. Looking forward, we are now into Phase three and building the new operating model. We will support the transition of Allstate agents to higher growth and lower cost models. New agent models are also being tested to serve customers who want a local agent. Improving customer acquisition costs relative to lifetime value will lower costs. Expense reductions will support increased investment in growth and technology. The new customer experience and product management technology ecosystems also get deployed in this phase. Now let's go to Slide eight, which highlights investment performance for the first quarter. Net investment income totaled $708 million in the quarter, which was $462 million above the prior year quarter, driven by higher performance-based income as shown in the chart on the left.Performance-based income totaled $378 million in the first quarter, as shown in gray, reflecting broad-based valuation increases in private equity investments and sales of underlying real estate investments. Market-based income, shown in blue, was $6 million below the prior year quarter. With lower interest rates, our reinvestment rates remain below the average interest-bearing portfolio yield, reducing income. Our first quarter GAAP total portfolio return was minus 0.2%, as you can see on the bottom of the left chart, reflecting lower fixed income valuations. Over the last 12 months, the total return was 8.8%. As discussed previously, our performance-based strategy has a longer-term investment horizon with higher but more volatile return expectations. This volatility can be seen by the chart on the lower right. It highlights the one-, five- and 10-year performance-based internal rates of return. The one-year trend has been volatile throughout the pandemic with the two most recent quarters significantly higher than the returns experienced during the middle of 2020. Conversely, the five- and 10-year trends are stable and closer to our expected returns. Moving to Slide nine.Allstate Protection Plans continues to grow revenue and profit. As you recall, we purchased Allstate Protection Plans for $1.4 billion in 2017 to broaden the protection solutions offered to customers. It provides low-cost protection with excellent service. Products are primarily sold through U.S. retailers and leverage the Allstate brand. Since acquisition, Allstate Protection Plans has experienced rapid top line growth and improved profitability. Revenues have grown at a compound annual rate of 48% over the last three years, as you can see on the bottom left, and were more than $1 billion over the latest 12 months. Adjusted net income went from a loss of $22 million in 2017 to income of $148 million over the last 12 months. Additional growth will be achieved by further expanding appliance, furniture and mobile phone protection, expanding the geographic footprint outside the U.S. and creating new innovative services, such as two-day appliance repair. This acquisition has been an incredible success for us.Now let's move to Slide 10, which highlights Allstate's attractive returns and strong capital position. Allstate continued to generate attractive returns with adjusted net income return on equity of 23.2% for the last 12 months, which was 5.7 points higher than the prior year. Excellent capital management and strong cash flows have enabled Allstate to return cash to shareholders while simultaneously investing in growth. We provided significant cash returns to shareholders in the first quarter through a combination of $601 million in share repurchases and $164 million in common stock dividends. The current $3 billion share repurchase program is expected to be completed by the end of 2021. Given our growth strategy and sustainable earnings potential, we announced a 50% increase in the quarterly common shareholder dividend to $0.81 paid to shareholders on April 1. The total cash return provided to shareholders was 7.8% of average market capitalization over the last 12 months. With that context,Let's open up the line for questions.