
OperatorGood morning, everyone, and welcome to Citizens Financial Group First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. My name is Alan, and I'll be your operator today. [Operator Instructions]Now I'll turn the call over to Kristin Silberberg, Executive Vice President, Investor Relations. Kristin, you may begin.Kristin Silberberg -- Executive Vice President, Investor Relations

 



Thank you, Alan. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us. First, this morning, our Chairman and CEO, Bruce Van Saun; and CFO, John Woods, will provide an overview of first quarter results, referencing our presentation, which you can find on our Investor Relations website. After the presentation, we'll be happy to take questions. Brendan Coughlin, Head of Consumer Banking, also here to provide additional color. Don McCree, Head of Commercial Banking, who usually joins us, had the personal conflict today.Our comments today will include forward-looking statements, which are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause our results to differ materially from expectations. These are outlined for your review on Page 2 of the presentation. We also reference non-GAAP financial measures. So it's important to review our GAAP results on Page 3 of the presentation and the reconciliation in the appendix.With that, I will hand over to Bruce.Bruce Van Saun -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

 



Thanks, Kristin. Good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining our call today. We're pleased to get off to a good start to 2021 as our business model continues to demonstrate strength, diversification and resilience, notwithstanding continuing impacts from the pandemic. We continue to focus on taking good care of customers, highlighted by $1.8 billion of PPP loans in the latest round of the program. We've kept our colleagues safe and productive. And we continue to drive benefits to our communities through various grants and strong levels of volunteerism. Our strategic initiatives remain on track and will lead to increasing differentiation and growth in franchise value versus peers over time.Our financial headlines are terrific, though they're flattered by a large reserve release given the improved economic outlook. We delivered underlying Q1 EPS of $1.41 and ROTCE of 17.6%, while our CET1 ratio grew to 10.1% and our liquidity remains elevated with an 81% quarter-end loan-to-deposit ratio. The first half of the year can be thought of as a transition period for us in terms of PPNR as the record levels of mortgage revenues normalize.While we are still seeing strong levels of originations, both refi and purchase, elevated margins have been returning to historical levels as industry capacity has expanded and competition has intensified. We currently expect mortgage revenues broadly to bottom in Q2 and then stabilize in the second half. During the first quarter, we saw strength in capital markets and wealth fees, which partially offset the drop in mortgage fees. This should continue into Q2 and we should start to see loan growth pick up as well, which provides a further offset.The outlook for the second half PPNR is strengthening as we expect loan growth plus the stabilized NIM given the steeper curve to help deliver top-line growth. This combined with strong pull-through of our TOP benefits and overall expense discipline should result in healthy levels of positive operating leverage in Q3, Q4 and the second half, along with return to solid PPNR growth. The outlook for credit also continues to brighten. With a negative provision of $140 million in the first quarter, our ACL ratio ex-PPP loans is now 2.03%. This compares with our day one ACL upon CECL adoption of 1.47%. So there's likely still more to go and reserve releasing assuming the economic outlook continues to firm and clarify. All of our credit trends continue to be favorable, both on the consumer and commercial side. We've moved our charge-off guidance for full year 2021 to 35 to 45 basis points from the initial guidance of 50 to 65 basis points.

 



So to sum up, we feel we're off to a great start. The economic outlook continues to improve. And we are executing well on the initiatives that will position us over time as a top performing bank.With that, I'll turn it over to John.John F. Woods -- Vice Chairman and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Bruce, and good morning, everyone. Let me start with the headlines for the quarter. We reported underlying net income of $626 million and EPS of $1.41. Our underlying ROTCE for the quarter was 17.6%, which includes the impact of a sizable reserve release. Revenue of $1.7 billion was broadly stable year-over-year, strong fee income offsetting the impact of the low rate environment on NII.Highlights include continued strength in capital markets, record results in wealth and well controlled expenses. We've recorded a negative provision for credit losses of $140 million, which reflects strong credit performance with lower charge-offs and improving loan portfolio profile and an improving macroeconomic outlook with our ACL ratio now at 2% excluding PPP loans. And finally, we are in a very strong capital position with CET1 at 10.1% after returning $262 million to shareholders in dividends and share repurchases during the quarter. We also continued to grow our tangible book value per share, which was $32.79 at quarter-end, up 3% compared with a year ago.Next, I'll refer to a few of the slides and give you some key takeaways for the first quarter. I'll then outline our outlook for the second quarter and provide some comments on 2021.Net interest income on Slide 6 was down 1% linked-quarter given lower day count. Loan balances were broadly stable, and net interest margin was up slightly. The net interest margin improvement reflects a steepening yield curve and continued discipline on deposit pricing. Interest-bearing deposit costs are down 7 basis points to 20 basis points, which more than offset the impact of lower asset yields. We expected elevated deposit levels from recent stimulus will continue to impact margin in the near-term. We will continue to be proactive in pricing down deposits and pursuing attractive loan growth opportunities in areas like point-of-sale finance and education as well as in attractive commercial segments.The steepening of the curve provided us with the opportunity to begin adding to our hedge positions to moderate our asset sensitivity. We added $7 billion of five year receive-fixed cash flow swaps and terminated some pay-fixed swaps during the course of the quarter. Those actions combined with expected balance sheet changes, reduced our asset sensitivity to about 8.5% from 10.8% at the end of the year.Referring to Slide 7, we delivered solid fee results again this quarter, reflecting our ongoing efforts to invest in and diversify our revenue streams. As expected, mortgage fees were down approximately 15% this quarter despite strong volumes as heightened competition and increased industry capacity pressured gain on sale margins. Nonetheless, mortgage fees were still strong compared to a year ago. And we expect a continued strong level of originations across all channels over 2021 as the market shifts to being more balanced between refi and purchase activities.2021 is expected to be the strongest home purchase market in history, only restrained by housing inventory. Wealth fees were a record, up 12% linked-quarter, reflecting an increase in AUM from net inflows and strong market levels with record sales. Capital markets fees remained robust, though they were down 8% from a record level in the fourth quarter with lower M&A advisory fees, partly offset by increased underwriting revenue. Foreign exchange and interest rate products revenue decreased $7 million linked-quarter given reduced client hedging as a result of less lending activity and lower volatility.Expenses on Slide 8 were well controlled, up 3% linked-quarter, driven by seasonality in salaries and employee benefits. We are continuing to focus on both the transformational and business as usual aspects of our TOP6 program. And we are on track to deliver total pre-tax run rate benefit of $400 million to $425 million by the end of 2021.Average loans on Slide 9 were broadly stable linked-quarter as commercial pay-offs and slightly lower line utilization of about 32% compared with the historical average of roughly 37% was partially offset by growth in our education, mortgage and point-of-sale finance portfolios. Looking at year-over-year trends, average loans were up approximately 1% due to PPP, education and mortgage. We executed the PPP lending program very smoothly with $1.8 billion of loans secured as part of Round 2, taking the total PPP loans to $5.1 billion at period end. We expect that about 85% of the Round 1 loans will be forgiven by the end of the year. And for Round 2, which are five year loans, about 20% could be forgiven by the end of '21 and about 70% forgiven after two years. Overall, the PPP program will help stabilize NII in the first half of the year, while the benefit will taper off a little in the second half.On Slide 10, deposit flows benefited from the recent consumer-oriented stimulus, especially in low cost categories and our liquidity ratios remained strong. Average deposits were up 1% linked-quarter and 16% year-over-year as consumers and small businesses benefited from government stimulus and commercial clients build liquidity. We are very pleased with our progress on deposit repricing with total deposit costs down 5 basis points to 14 basis points and interest-bearing deposit costs down 7 basis points to 20 basis points during the quarter.We continue to drive a shift toward lower cost categories with DDA now about 30% of average deposits compared with only 23% a year ago. The strength of our deposit franchise is becoming very clear given all the investments we've made, including the launch of our digital bank, enhanced data analytics and introducing new cash management tools for our commercial clients. At the end of the last low rate cycle in 2015, our interest-bearing deposit costs bottomed at about 34 basis points. This cycle, we are already at 20 basis points, and we expect these costs to decrease to the low-teens by the end of the year as we execute our deposit playbook.Moving on to credit on Slides 11 and 12. We saw strong credit results this quarter. Net charge-offs were down 9 basis points to 52 basis points linked-quarter. This is at the lower end of our guidance for the first quarter and driven by a reduction in commercial. First quarter commercial net charge-offs included charge-offs in areas of market concern, including pre-retail, casual dining and one large charge-off related to a financial sponsor.Non-accrual loans decreased $11 million linked-quarter with a $76 million increase in commercial driven by charge-offs, loan sales activity and repayments. Retail non-accrual loans increased by $65 million linked-quarter driven by mortgage loans coming off forbearance. However, given the strength of the housing market with inventories at historical lows and strong LTVs in our book, we expect little to no loss [Phonetic] content in these mortgages.In addition, our commercial criticized loans continued to trend down this quarter, decreasing by $495 million or 11%. Given the improvement in the macroeconomic outlook and performance of the portfolio, our reserves decreased, but remained robust, ending the quarter at 2.03% excluding PPP loans compared with 2.24% at the end of the fourth quarter. This is still significantly higher than our 1.47% day one CECL implementation coverage. We anticipate there likely will be further reserve releases assuming the macroeconomic outlook continues to strengthen and solidify.We have some detailed credit slides in the appendix for your reference. One on Slide 22 covering commercial credit. Since the start of the COVID 19 crisis, we have been highlighting the commercial areas most impacted by the lockdowns. As we continue to see improvements in the operating environment, these areas of concern have now decreased to 2.3% of the total CFG loan portfolio, down from 4.6% in 4Q '20 and approximately 11% in 1Q '20. The remaining areas of concern include CRE retail and hospitality, casual dining and arts, entertainment and recreation. And accordingly, we are maintaining prudent reserve allocations with a reserve coverage of about 10% for these areas.We maintained excellent balance sheet strength, as shown on Slide 13, increasing our CET1 ratio from 10% in 4Q to 10.1% at the end of the first quarter, which is slightly above our target operating range after returning $262 million in capital to shareholders in the quarter.Before I move on to our 2Q outlook, let me highlight some exciting things that are happening across the company on Slide 14. On the left side of the page, we were very pleased to be able to provide about $1.8 billion in new PPP loans through the latest SBA program, providing critical funding to over 30,000 of our small business customers. On the consumer side, we've recently announced the expansion of our national point-of-sale offering for merchants through our Citizens Pay offering. We are continuing to add new merchants to our point-of-sale platform, such as BJ's Wholesale Club with more in the pipeline and the portfolio is up 8% year-over-year.In addition, we continue to make great strides in our digital transformation with our digital sales up 48% year-over-year. Clearly, our customers are demanding a different distribution model from us, one that allows for more efficient digital transactions and an advice-oriented focus in our branches. We launched our new mobile app on iOS in January, which is receiving great reviews with an average of 4.6 stars in the App Store.In commercial, we have built out a robust corporate finance advisory model, which is supporting our geographic expansion efforts. Our capital markets business delivered its second best quarter ever in the first quarter, demonstrating the benefits of the investments we've made over the last few years. On the right on page you can see a high level view of our strategic priorities, all of which remain on track.And now for some high level commentary on the outlook for the second quarter on Slide 15. We expect NII to be up 2% to 2.5% with NIM up modestly, more broadly stable excluding elevated cash. We expect loan growth of 1.5% to 2% in the second quarter followed by an acceleration in the back of the year. Earning assets are expected to be broadly stable in the second quarter. Fee income is expected to be down high-single-digits, reflecting lower mortgage banking fees as gain on sale margins decline further toward more normal levels, partially offset by strength across many of the remaining fee categories. Non-interest expense is expected to be down slightly. We expect net charge-offs will be in the range of 30 to 40 basis points of average loans with a meaningful reserve release through provision.Before I wrap up, I'd like to provide some comments on this transition period toward economic recovery and our 2021 full year outlook. First, we remain confident in our 2021 PPNR outlook with NII higher and fees slightly lower than our original guidance. Let me give you some further color on the puts and takes. We're expecting loan growth to really pick up in 2H '21, driven by student, point-of-sale, auto and mortgage as well as commercial utilization starting to rise from historical lows as the economy finds stable footing and companies begin to invest for growth. Coupled with a steeper yield curve, this improves our NII outlook.Our outlook for fees is slightly lower driven by mortgage as we expect additional pressure on gain on sale margins as they begin to migrate lower. As the curve steepens, we should see a transition to greater contributions from purchase originations and servicing. We have included some additional detail on the mortgage landscape in the appendix on Slide 20.We expect other fee categories, namely capital and global markets and wealth to continue to be strong as we leverage our investments and the economy rebounds. Other categories like card fees and service charges and fees should also benefit as consumer confidence and spending picks up. Given these dynamics, we expect PPNR to bottom in the second quarter and then rebound to levels higher than the first quarter for the remainder of the year given strength in NII and fees as well as well controlled expenses.We also expect to be close to neutral operating leverage in 2Q compared to 1Q followed by meaningful positive operating leverage in the second half. We are also expecting a substantially better credit outlook for the full year. Given the strong performance of the loan portfolio and improvement in the macroeconomic forecast, we are reducing our full year charge-off guidance range to 35 to 45 basis points. And with this improvement, we could also see our ACL ratio decline meaningfully from the current 2.3% -- 2.03% ex-PPP.To wrap up, this was a strong start to 2021 for Citizens as we begin to transition away from the effects of the pandemic to an improving outlook for interest rates and economic growth, all while staying focused on executing across our strategic initiatives.With that, I'll hand it back over to Bruce.Bruce Van Saun -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerAll right. Thanks, John. Operator, let's open it up to Q&A.