  OperatorGood morning. My name is Katie, and I will be your conference facilitator today. Welcome to Chevron's third quarter 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded. I will now turn the conference over to the general manager of investor relations of Chevron Corporation, Mr. Roderick Green. Please go ahead.Roderick Green -- General Manager of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Katie. Welcome to Chevron's third quarter earnings conference call. I'm Roderick Green, GM of investor relations. And on the call with me today are Mark Nelson, EVP of downstream and chemicals; and Pierre Breber, CFO; who will refer to the slides and prepared remarks that are available on Chevron's website. Before we get started, please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates, projections, and other forward-looking statements. Please review the cautionary statement on Slide 2. Now I'll turn it over to Pierre.Pierre Breber -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Roderick. We reported third quarter earnings of $6.1 billion or $3.19 per share. The highest reported earnings in more than 8 years. Adjusted earnings were $5.7 billion or $2.96 per share.

 



 The quarter's results included two special items, asset sale gains of $200 million, and pension settlement costs of $81 million. A reconciliation of non-GAAP measures can be found in the appendix to this presentation. Adjusted ROCE was greater than 13%, and we have also lowered our net debt ratio to below 19%. Strong operating cash flow enabled us to deliver on our financial priorities, including the resumption of share repurchases. Compared to before COVID, operating costs are down, upstream production is up, and we're much more capital efficient. Cost efficiency and capital efficiency are essential to navigate commodity price cycles, providing this resilience through the low periods and leveraging upside when markets are strong. This has been evident over the past several quarters, and then especially in the most recent one, as we generated company-record free cash flow, higher than the strongest quarters in 2008 and '11 when oil prices were well over $100 a barrel. Adjusted earnings -- adjusted third quarter earnings were up more than $5 billion versus last year, primarily on higher prices, margins, and volumes. Compared with last quarter, adjusted third quarter earnings were up almost $2.5 billion. Adjusted upstream earnings increased on higher realizations and positive timing of FX, primarily related to managing LNG portfolio pricing exposure. Adjusted downstream earnings increased primarily on higher refining and marketing margins. The all other variance was positive due to some lower corporate charges and the use of deferred tax assets, which previously had a valuation allowance. Third quarter oil equivalent production increased 7% year over year due to the Noble acquisition and lower curtailments, partly offset by price-related entitlement effects and asset sales. I'll now pass it over to Mark.

 



Mark Nelson -- Executive Vice President of Downstream and Chemicals Thanks, Pierre. In downstream and chemicals, we delivered our best adjusted earnings in more than four years. Demand for our product is strong with recovery of jet fuel sales expected as international travel gradually returns. And while the improving market environment helps, we're focused on what we can control: safe and the reliable operations, capital and cost efficiency, and value chain optimization to drive higher returns. Some examples of our self-help actions include using digital tools to improve planning, scheduling, and prioritization of maintenance activity, leveraging data analytics asset flexibility to increase margins and adopting new technologies like robotic inspections and maintenance procedures. During our Investor Day in March, I highlighted that self-help is expected to drive higher returns for downstream and chemicals. We're on track to meet that guidance with benefits already flowing then to the bottom line. Chemicals performance is also strong as CPChem responds to current market conditions while continuing to keep a focus on longer-term unit cost reduction. GS Caltex reached 100% design capacity of its mixed-feed cracker ahead of schedule and under budget. The CPChem U.S. Gulf Coast II project continues to advance toward a final investment decision in a disciplined way that positions our project to earning attractive returns through the cycle. And the Ras Laffan Project is in FEED, and we continue to evaluate this project. We believe in the long-term fundamentals of chemicals. Our investment focus continues to be on the low end of the supply cost curve, advantaged feedstock, competitive capital and cost structure, and become a strong project execution. Since our Energy Transition Spotlight, we closed the acquisition of an equity interest in American Natural Gas and its network of 60 CNG retail sites with our partner, Mercuria, enabling us to meet customers' needs beyond California. We're also delivering first gas through our Brightmark partnership, and all CalBioGas farms are now online. We sold our first sustainable aviation fuel that's produced from our El Segundo refinery to Delta Airlines at LAX. And earlier this month, we announced an agreement to acquire Neste's Group III base oils business and its NEXBASE brand. Pending regulatory approval, we anticipate closing in the first quarter of 2022. The acquisition is expected to provide a capital-efficient approach to expand our base oil offerings. And that coupled with Novvi's renewable products, position Chevron to be the supplier of choice to meet customers' needs now and into the future. Back to you, Pierre.Pierre Breber -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Mark. We recently released an updated climate change resilience report, which includes a stress test of our portfolio under IEA's Net Zero 2050 scenario, a new target called portfolio carbon intensity that includes Scope 1 and 2 and Scope 3 emissions from the use of our products, and Chevron's net zero 2050 aspiration for upstream Scope 1 and 2 emissions. I encourage everyone to also read the latest report available on our website. Now looking ahead. In the fourth quarter, we expect lower production due to a planned turnaround in Wheatstone, which was completed last week and repairs at the Alba gas plant in Equatorial Guinea. In addition, our participation in the Rokan PSC in Indonesia ended in August. Production from Rokan averaged 84,000 barrels of oil equivalent year to date. We expect earnings from JKM-related spot sales of Australia to increase around $50 million from three quarter -- from third quarter due to some fewer spot cargoes as our long-term customers increase deliveries heading into winter. We're also expecting three discrete cash items: a return of capital from Angola LNG, TCO's first dividend in several years, and a federal income tax cash refund. And there are no P&L impacts from these items. During 4Q, we expect to buy back shares at the high end of our guidance range. Finally, we're lowering our full year C&E guidance to $12 billion to $13 billion, primarily due to COVID-related project spend these deferrals into next year, lower non-op capex in the Permian and continued capital efficiencies. To wrap up the quarter, we continue to make progress toward our objective of higher returns, lower carbon. And we're capital and cost efficient, generated record free cash flow and are taking actions to lower the carbon intensity of our operations and grow lower-carbon businesses. We're executing a straightforward strategy that's expected to deliver value now and well into the future. With that, I'll turn it back over to Roderick.Roderick Green -- General Manager of Investor Relations That concludes our prepared remarks. We're now ready to take your questions. [Operator instructions] Please open up the lines, Katie. 