  OperatorWelcome to the Q2 2021 Datadog earnings conference call. My name is John, and I'll be your operator for today's call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator instructions] And I will now turn the call over to Yuka Broderick, head of investor relations. Yuka, you may begin.Yuka Broderick -- Head of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, John. Good morning, and thank you for joining us today to review Datadog's second-quarter 2021 financial results, which we announced in our press release issued this morning. Joining me on the call today are Olivier Pomel, Datadog's co-founder and CEO; and David Obstler, Datadog's CFO. During this call, we will make statements related to our business that are forward-looking under federal securities laws and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements related to our future financial performance, including our outlook for the third quarter and for the full year of 2021; our strategy; the potential benefits of our products, partnerships, and investments in R&D and go-to-market; and our ability to capitalize on our market opportunity. The words anticipate, believe, continue, estimate, expect, intend, will, and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements or similar indications of future expectations. These statements reflect our views only as of today and not as of any subsequent date. These statements are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. For a discussion of the material risks and other important factors that could affect our actual results, please refer to the quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2021, filed with the SEC on May 7, 2021.Additional information will be made available in our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2021, and other filings and reports that we may file from time to time with the SEC. Our filings with the SEC are available on the Investor Relations section of our website. A replay of this call will also be available there for a limited time. Non-GAAP financial measures will be discussed on this conference call. Please refer to the tables in our earnings release, which you can find on the Investor Relations portion of our website for a reconciliation of these measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Olivier. 

 



Olivier Pomel -- Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Yuka, and thank you all for joining us for our morning call today. We are very pleased with our performance in Q2, which was stronger than expected on robust growth with existing customers, as well as strong new customer sales. We saw real strength both across product lines and across customer segments. For a quick review of the quarter, revenue was $234 million, an increase of 67% year over year and 18% quarter over quarter and above the high end of our guidance range. We ended the quarter with 1,610 customers with an ARR of $100,000 or more, up from 1,015 in the year-ago quarter. Those customers generate about 80% of our ARR. We have about 16,400 customers, which is up from about 12,100 last year. We also continued to be capital efficient with free cash flow of $42 million. And our dollar-based net retention rates continued to be over 130% as customers increased their usage and adopted our newer products. We are pleased that positive business trends from recent quarters continued in Q2. First, usage growth from existing customers remained very robust. Among other factors, we continued to see the impact of our strong new logo growth in the past several quarters as those new customers grow into their commitment.

 



 Second, new logo ARR was again strong, and we continued to execute against our go-to-market strategy. And third, churn continues to remain low and in line with historical rates. Taking all these factors into account, we had a very strong quarter of ARR added with over $100 million of ARR added for the second consecutive quarter. Next, our platform strategy continued to resonate in the market. As of the end of Q2, 75% of customers are using two or more products, up from 68% a year ago. Additionally, 28% of customers are now using four or more products, which is up from 15% last year. And this quarter, approximately 70% of new logos landed with two or more products. Our platform saw strong growth in the second quarter, which included another record of ARR added for infrastructure monitoring in a single quarter. This product is still early in its fast cycle. Meanwhile, we continued to see very strong performance with other products in our platform. Our APM suite, including RUM and Synthetics and log management, together, reached over $400 million in ARR. The APM suite and log management also remained in hyper-growth mode, but our newer other products are growing even faster. As a result, we are very pleased with the customer uptake of our end-to-end observability platform, as well as the beginning of our Cloud Security Platform. Now let's move on to product and R&D. Our teams continued to innovate and solve customer pain points. We announced 73 new features in Q2 and have continued to ship in Q3. To discuss just a few of these, we announced the general availability of two new security products, Cloud Security Posture Management and Cloud Workload Security, which target security issues around infrastructure. Cloud Security Posture Management runs continuous configuration audit so customers can track environments to industry benchmarks and regulatory standards. And Cloud Workload Security performs real-time threat detection directly within the workloads themselves within hosts and containers. These are our second and third GA products in security, alongside Security Monitoring, which performs a threat detection on events and loading data streams. With these offerings, the first building blocks of our Cloud Security Platform are coming together, and we can start delivering on our vision to break down silos between DevOps and security teams. And with the addition of these two products, we now have 11 GA products on the Datadog platform. We are also at the beginning of our opportunity to bring observability to the CI/CD space, and we announced the beta of our CI Visibility product in late July. CI/CD is a combined practice of continuous integration and continuous delivery, allowing software to be consistently written, tested, and released to production. The problem is that developers also don't have visibility into their CI/CD pipelines. They have a hard time figuring out if tests are failing and why and where in their CI/CD pipeline they are experiencing bottlenecks and issues. Our CI Visibility product, based on our acquisition of Undefined Labs last August, helps customers gain visibility into their testing pipeline with the goal of lowering costs and increasing efficiency for their developer teams. So we are excited about these announcements, but we're not standing still on our existing products and we'll continue to expand features to make each and every one best-of-breed. In Synthetics, we have enabled cross-product testing and our customers can now test on Microsoft Edge and Firefox in addition to Chrome. Mobile RUM will now support Android, iOS, and cross-platform frameworks like React Native. Our RUM product now covers the whole user space, including RUM applications on desktop, mobile, and tablets, as well as mobile apps. And finally, we continue to improve the AI/ML capabilities of our platform with our most recent addition, including automatic detection of faulty deployments in APM and anomaly detection in Security Monitoring. These are complemented by the continued extension of Watchdog Insights, the recommendation engine we are embedding directly into our users' workflows across our platform. As you can see, our end-to-end observability platform continues to broaden and deepen. Meanwhile, we are beginning to see -- to move forward in our cloud security, and we are in the early days with our CI/CD use cases. As always, I want to thank our engineering and product teams for their creativity, their productivity, and their continued ability to deliver the right solutions to our customers' problems. Now moving on to sales and marketing. As hinted by our customer growth this quarter, our go-to-market teams continued to be very productive. So let's discuss some more Q2 wins. First, we had an eight-figure upsell with a next-gen financial services company, which is experiencing a surge of traffic in their core application. They rely on Datadog log management as the platform across the organization to find the root cause of issues. They saw a significant increase in usage of our existing product and recently added our Continuous Profiler to better understand their good performance in production. Next, we had a seven-figure up-sell with a European e-commerce company. They were using multiple commercial observability tools, and one of their 2021 strategic initiatives was to consolidate and reduce costs by standardizing on Datadog to satisfy that goal while improving their team's collaboration and communication. Next, we had a seven-figure upsell with a large global accounting firm. This company is experiencing rapid growth with their online product and its teams were forced to jump from tool to tool to try and mitigate problems. With Datadog as their chosen solution for infrastructure monitoring, APM, and Synthetics, they are able to decrease mean time to resolution and free up internal resources. Next, we had a six-figure upsell with a 30-years-old analytics software company. This company is moving more workload to Azure. With this new upsell, they standardized on Datadog for their log management needs. With our Logging without Limits functionality, this company will lower costs by an order of magnitude for log management without sacrificing any of their log data. And finally, we had a seven-figure land with a large back-office software company. This company is growing rapidly and is planning a move to hybrid cloud. But their previous monitoring adoption rate was very low, which made it difficult for their teams to collaborate. With Datadog, their entire team now has a single platform for all their operability needs, and they recognize Datadog's impact on improving adoption and alignment across teams. So as you can tell, we are incredibly proud of the performance of our go-to-market team this quarter, and I want to thank them for their hard work and for partnering with our customers to deliver another quarter of strong results. Now moving on to our longer-term outlook. We see businesses now moving forward with their longer-term digital strategy. Businesses must increasingly be digital-first. Azure platforming remains in its early stages, and we believe we are in a great position to help our customers with our Unified Observability platform. Meanwhile, we are making progress on our long-term vision to break down silos between DevOps and security teams. As a result, we are extremely excited about the opportunities we see to democratize data and help customers increase visibility and manage complexity. And we're confident in our long-term plans and continue to work hard to execute on our strategy. Before turning the call over to David, I want to mention that our teams are busy preparing for Dash 2021, our user conference, which will be held in late October this year. Every year at Dash, we showcase our latest product innovations and we're excited to show everyone what we've been up to this year. We also expect to hold an investor session at Dash. So please look out for that announcement in the fall. With that, I would like to turn the call over to our chief financial officer. David?David Obstler -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Olivier. In summary, we had a very strong Q2. Revenue was $233.5 million, up 67% year over year and up 18% quarter over quarter. Usage trends were strong and showed broad-based growth. New logo generation was also strong, and customers continued to adopt more products across the platform. To provide some more context. First, growth of existing customers was again robust in Q2, and our dollar-based net retention rate remained above 130% for the 16th consecutive quarter. Usage growth was strong, driven by customers' expanded usage of existing products and the adoption of new products. Our customers are continuing to pursue their cloud migrations. And as we expand with our customers, we see opportunities for them to standardize on us and consolidate their observability tool vendors. Next, we saw a -- we saw for the second consecutive quarter of ARR adds over $100 million with broad strength across product lines, including our newer products, and strength across our regions. New logos were also very strong. We had a record number of both gross and net new logo additions in the quarter. Both our enterprise and commercial sales teams executed strongly in the quarter, and we continued to see broad opportunities across industries and customer size. Remember, that our -- given our usage-based revenue model, new logo wins generally do not immediately translate into meaningful revenue but do so over time. Next, our platform strategy continues to resonate with customers. And 70% of our customers are now using two or more products and 28% of our customers are now using four or more of our products. Lastly, churn remained low, in line with historical levels. Our dollar-based gross retention rates remained unchanged in the mid-90s, and they are similar across our customer segments and products. Billings were $270 million, up 69% year over year. And there were no pro forma impacts in the quarter. Remaining performance obligations, or RPO, was $583 million, up 103% year over year, driven by strong sales activity and increased contract duration. The increase in contract duration was driven by a higher mix of annual and multiyear commitments relative to the year-ago quarter. As a reminder, multiyear commitments are billed annually, and we do not incentivize our sales force toward multiyear deals. Current RPO growth was also strong at over 80% year over year. I should note that we continue to believe revenue is a better indicator of our business trends than billings and RPO as those can fluctuate relative to revenue based on the timing of invoicing and the duration of customer contracts. Now let's review the income statement in more detail. As a reminder, unless otherwise noted, all metrics are non-GAAP. We have provided a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financials in our earnings release. Gross profit in the quarter was $178 million, representing a gross margin of 76%. This compares to a gross margin of 77% last quarter and 80% in the year-ago quarter. The year-over-year decrease in gross margin was due to investments in our product and platform innovation. We expect gross margin in the mid- to long term to be consistent with our historical performance. R&D expense was $71 million or 30% of revenue, compared to 27% in the year-ago quarter. We continued to invest significantly in R&D, including high growth of our engineering headcount. We're pleased that we are successfully executing on our hiring and onboarding plans in R&D. Sales and marketing expense was $61 million or 26% of revenue, compared to 33% in the year-ago quarter. We continued to make substantial investments in sales and marketing, but revenue growth has outpaced our investment growth. We had only a few in-person events in Q2, but we continue to plan for increased travel and event costs later in this year, of course, depending on local health and travel guidelines. G&A expense was $16 million or 7% of revenue, down from 9% in the year-ago quarter. Operating income was $31 million or a 13% operating margin, compared to the operating income of $15 million or an 11% operating margin in the year-ago quarter. Although strong in the quarter, we are not optimizing for near-term margins as we see a large and dynamic market opportunity in front of us, and we are striving to invest heavily against that opportunity. But Q2, of course, demonstrates the efficiencies of our business model. Non-GAAP net income in the quarter was $32 million or $0.09 per share on 342 million weighted average diluted shares outstanding. Turning to the balance sheet and cash flow. We ended the quarter with $1.4 billion in cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and marketable securities. Cash flow from operations was $52 million in the quarter. After taking into consideration capital expenditures and capitalized software, free cash flow was $42 million with a free cash flow margin of 18%. Now for our outlook for the third quarter and the full-year 2021. We are optimistic about our long-term opportunities and believe we will deliver high growth for the foreseeable future. We are addressing a very large market and are executing well against that opportunity. Taking this into account with the usual conservatism applied, we are updating our guidance as follows. For the third quarter, we expect revenues to be in the range of $246 million to $248 million, which represents a 60% year-over-year growth at the midpoint. Non-GAAP operating income is expected to be in the range of $18 million to $20 million. And non-GAAP net income per share is expected to be in the range of $0.05 to $0.06 per share based on approximately 344 million weighted average diluted shares outstanding. And then for the full-year 2021, revenue is expected to be in the range of $938 million to $944 million, which represents a 56% year-over-year growth at the midpoint. Non-GAAP operating income is expected to be in the range of $87 million to $93 million. Non-GAAP net income per share is expected to be in the range of $0.26 to $0.28 per share based on an approximate 344 million weighted average diluted shares outstanding. Now some notes on our guidance. First, while usage growth was strong in Q2, when providing guidance, as usual, we use more conservative assumptions. Second, our strategic focus remains on investing to optimize for long-term growth. We are planning for continued aggressive investments in R&D and go-to-market through the remainder of 2021. And next, our model assumes a return to the office and the resumption of travel and in-person events during Q3. That said, we will remain flexible depending upon local regulations and our highest priority is protecting the health of our employees. Regarding items below the operating income line, first, we expect approximately $0.9 million of Q3 non-GAAP net interest and other income, which includes the interest income on our cash and marketable securities and the interest expense on our convertible debt. We do not expect to be a federal taxpayer in Q3 but have a tax provision related to our international entity. And as a result, we expect a tax provision of approximately $600,000 in Q3 and $2 million for the full year. To summarize, we are very pleased with our results this quarter. Customers continue to consume more Datadog, both using more of their existing products and choosing to begin using new products. We added two new products this quarter and now have 11 products to offer to our customers. Our execution against our R&D and go-to-market goals remain strong. And our ability to help customers to manage through their cloud migration and digital transformation effects continues to grow. And with that, we will open the call for questions. Operator, let's begin the Q&A. 