  OperatorWelcome to the Wynn Resorts first-quarter 2021 earnings call. [Operator instructions] This call is being recorded. [Operator instructions] I will now turn the conference over to Craig Billings, president and chief financial officer. Sir, you may begin.Craig Billings -- President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, operator, and good afternoon, everyone. On the call with me today are Matt Maddox and Marilyn Spiegel in Las Vegas. Also on the line are Ian Coughlan, Ciaran Carruthers, Frederic Luvisutto and Brian Gullbrants. I want to remind you that we may make forward-looking statements under safe harbor federal securities laws, and those statements may or may not come true. I will now turn the call over to Matt Maddox.Matt Maddox -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Craig, and good afternoon, everyone. Before we dive right into the quarterly results, I'd like to first talk about how excited we are to announce the merger of Wynn Interactive into the Austerlitz Acquisition Corp. As we've been thinking about online sports betting and the iGaming space over the last few years, we knew that we had to stick to what we do, which is build great products and provide the best customer service. Wynn Interactive is now a company with over 300 people. We have some luminaries from European gaming, people -- co-founders of Bwin that are responsible for a lot of the product that we're developing in this 300-person team. And as we look out into the future and we realize this is likely going to be as large as the commercial casino revenue opportunity of $40 billion over the next five-plus years, which, by the way, that's typically about how long it takes to build one of our bricks-and-mortar properties, around five years, we knew that this was an opportunity that we had to capitalize on. And so as we explored various options, it became very clear that creating a pure-play public company in partnership with Bill Foley, one of the most renowned investors in the United States, was clearly the right thing to do to create those value for the Wynn Resort shareholders and for the Wynn Interactive shareholders. Bill, just for those of you that don't know, has created over $100 billion in shareholder value during his investing career, $100 billion. He's the owner of a professional sports team. He owns luxury hospitality assets around the country. He recently completed the successful de-SPAC of Paysafe, a digital payments company that is now getting into the digital gaming space. So partnering with Bill and our team of 300 people and thinking about the product road map and the marketing dollars and -- that we're going to invest to ensure that we're winners in this space felt like the exact right thing to do, and we're very excited to have $640 million of committed capital injected into this company to launch this venture. We'll be posting a presentation online after this call that has a lot more details around this merger, and we'll be spending time after this call talking about it. With that, I'm going to go ahead and turn over to our quarterly results. And what we've been seeing in our properties in Macau, Las Vegas and in Boston has been a very similar story, momentum each month continuing to accelerate. As an example, in Macau, we generated $43.9 million of EBITDA in the first quarter, but it's moving so fast over there. I feel like talking about what we're seeing now is more relevant than what we experienced in the first quarter as we saw strength continue into February and in March. So that momentum continued in April and in May. And in fact, during the Golden Week, which is the first week of May in Macau, we experienced and generated $3 million of normalized EBITDA per day during Golden Week, by far the highest amount of normalized profit that we've been able to generate since the onset of the pandemic at the beginning of 2020. Even with the junket volumes continuing to fluctuate between 25% and 30% of Golden Week 2019, we were able to achieve these results because we focused our business on mass and premium mass. And as we talked about in previous calls, we've been converting space that was previously for VIP into premium mass space, and we feel very comfortable and confident with our position in the Macau market. In fact, we generated 76% of our mass volumes during the Golden Week this year compared to the Golden Week in 2019. Our hotel occupancy during Golden Week was 93%. And retail, which is continuing to be a shining star across our portfolio in North America and Macau, was up 80% over the Golden Week numbers in 2019. Going forward, in May and into June, we do expect that May will continue to see acceleration over the April results. And we are very, very excited about the summer and what's going to come in Macau. Just seeing the earnings power over Golden Week and understanding where the Chinese consumer is headed and what our position in that market is makes us more confident in our position in Macau, in the Macau market and our future development opportunities in and around Wynn Palace to continue to build on what we do best and to grow our top line and our bottom line in Macau. Moving to North America in Las Vegas. Again, we've seen very encouraging trends. We generated $28 million in EBITDA in the first quarter. And what we really saw was right around March Madness was when the volumes began to pick up in the first quarter, and that has accelerated. As an example, in the month of April, our RevPAR, which is where we're really focused, has increased 50%, 5-0, over the first-quarter results. Retail revenues in the month of April were the second-best month on record. From 2005 until April of 2021, it's the second-best month on record. And what's even more encouraging and much more than a green shoot but a clear indication of the roaring consumer that's coming back. Our slot revenues in April were $25 million which was a property record, more than any other month in the history of Wynn Las Vegas. So you take those things that we're already seeing in Las Vegas and looking at quarter to date, our EBITDA has already exceeded the first quarter in Las Vegas. Our weekends going forward are in the 90s in terms of hotel occupancy. And we're really focused on pricing and pricing power. Our group business is holding on and looking actually quite strong for the back half of the year. In fact, just last week, we hosted our first large group of 600 people, and it went off without a hitch. People are so happy to be back. Conventions work. Customers are excited. And as more restrictions are lifted and we're able to really start to roll out our entertainment and our night clubs and do what we do best, we think that Las Vegas' opportunity is really unique, and the best times are ahead. Moving to Boston at Encore Boston Harbor. We achieved record EBITDA of $30 million for the quarter, and that's even with restricted operating hours and quite significant COVID restrictions in the month of January. And that trend has continued. In fact, in the second quarter, thus far, our daily EBITDA is up 30-plus percent compared to the first quarter. Encore Boston Harbor is hitting on all cylinders right now. We've been able to really rationalize the cost, run the building much more efficiently and focus on our casino customers and being the top super regional casino in the Northeast. I believe that Encore Boston Harbor is going to continue to grow quarter over quarter throughout this year as that property and that management team are really doing an amazing job. With that, I'm going to turn it over to Craig to provide more details on the quarter.Craig Billings -- President and Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Matt. As Matt noted, our Macau operations delivered $43.9 million of EBITDA in the quarter on $417 million of operating revenue. Our EBITDA was driven by encouraging gaming and nongaming performance, combined with solid cost controls. Gross gaming revenue per day in 1Q '21 was approximately 34% of Q4 2019, led by the premium mass segment with particular strength in March. As Matt mentioned, this strength continued into April as mass drop reached $16.8 million per day or 59% of Q4 2019 or a 26% increase compared to 1Q 2021 levels. Our 1Q 2021 results in Macau were positively impacted by higher-than-normal table games hold that increased EBITDA by approximately $10 million to $15 million from a normalized level. With respect to cost controls, our opex, excluding gaming tax, was $2.2 million per day in the quarter. This was down 25% from approximately $3 million per day in Q4 2019 and flattish sequentially. We are well-positioned to drive strong operating leverage as the business continues to recover. At Wynn Las Vegas, we generated $28.1 million of adjusted property EBITDA on $178.7 million of operating revenue from a business that was heavily weighted to weakened occupancy. In the casino, we saw broad-based strength across key segments with slot handle and table drop reaching 86% and 80% of Q4 2019 levels, respectively, during the quarter. The team in Las Vegas has done a great job of controlling costs without negatively impacting the guest experience. Opex per day, excluding gaming taxes, decreased 48% to $1.6 million per day in 1Q '21 from $3 million per day in Q4 2019. And similar to Macau, opex was largely flat compared to Q4 2020. As Matt noted, the business picked up beginning in March, and the strength continued in the second quarter to date. We believe the combination of meaningful permanent cost saves, along with increased group demand, position us well to accelerate our recovery as we move into the back half of 2021. In Boston, we generated record EBITDA of $30.4 million despite curtailed operating hours for much of January and a continued significant limitation on gaming positions. Similar to Las Vegas, we've remained very disciplined on the cost side with opex per day, excluding gaming tax, of $760,000 in 1Q 2021, a 40% decrease compared to $1.3 million per day in Q4 '19 and a modest increase relative to the $680,000 per day in Q4 2020. Turning to Wynn Interactive. Now with approximately 300 employees, as Matt mentioned, and over $100 million in run-rate gross gaming revenue based on March results, we are aggressively scaling our efforts to close key product gaps, develop new and innovative features and create a world-class branding and brand ambassador program. You'll hear more about this exciting business during our video presentation and in our slide deck that will be posted to our Investor Relations website at approximately 2:30 p.m. Pacific today. Turning to the balance sheet. Our liquidity position remains very strong with global cash and revolver availability of nearly $4 billion as of April 30. In Macau, we had approximately $2.09 billion of available liquidity as of the end of April. And in the U.S., we had total available liquidity of approximately $1.85 billion on April 30 with a substantially lower daily cash burn globally compared to the second half of 2020. As a reminder, on February 11, we completed a successful public offering of 7.5 million shares of Wynn Resorts stock with net proceeds of $842 million. Our capex in the quarter was $40 million. With the North American business environment improving, we have made the decision to proceed with the Las Vegas room remodel this summer and have approximately $175 million remaining to spend. Beyond that, we are remaining extremely prudent with respect to capex while we gain further confidence in the recovery. With that, we will now open the line to Q&A. [Operator instructions] Thank you. Operator? 