
OperatorGood day and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Second Quarter 2021 A. O. Smith Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Ms. Patricia Ackerman. Thank you. Please go ahead, ma'am.Patricia K. Ackerman -- Senior Vice President Investor Relations, Treasurer, and Corporate Responsibility and Sustainabilit

 



Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the A. O. Smith second quarter results conference call. I am Pat Ackerman, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability and Treasurer. Joining me today are Kevin Wheeler, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Chuck Lauber, Chief Financial Officer.Before we begin with Kevin's remarks, I would like to remind you that some of the comments that will be made during this conference call, including answers to your questions will constitute forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks that could cause actual results to be materially different. Those risks include among others matters that we have described in this morning's press release. Also, as a courtesy to others in the question queue. [Operator Instructions]I will now turn the call over to Kevin, who will begin our prepared remarks on slide three.Kevin J. Wheeler -- Chairman, President and Chief Operating Officer

 



Thank you, Pat, and good morning, everybody. Our global A. O. Smith team delivered second quarter EPS of $0.73 on a 30% increase in sales, demonstrating solid execution and operational agility despite supply chain and logistic challenges along with rapidly rising material costs.I am thankful for my fellow A. O. Smith employees, who tirelessly navigated through the pandemic, followed by weather-related production disruptions and continue to navigate supply chain constraints. I appreciate the creativity and the collaboration of our team to find solutions to keep our customers supply with water heating and water treatment products.Boiler sales grew 35%, driven by strong demand as a result of completed projects carried over from 2020, as well as an active education end market. For reference, our boiler sales were down 15% in the second quarter of 2020, which was negatively impacted by the pandemic.North America water treatment grew 17%, driven by continued consumer demand for home improvement products, which provide safe drinking water in the home. Our water quality dealers performed particularly well in the quarter and online promotional shopping days also boosted sales.

 



Consistent with our strategy to build out distribution for North America water treatment, we acquired Master Water Conditioning Corporation. The acquisition supplements our presence in the Northeast, and we are excited to add expertise in local water condition and solutions in this region to our family. Our North America water treatment sales, including this acquisition are expected to be over $200 million in 2021.Our volumes of US tank residential water heaters increased in the second quarter. We believe the strong demand is a continued result of extended lead times caused by production constraints due to strain in the supply chain, buying in advance of price increases and incremental new home construction.After our weather-related disruptions in production, which we talked about on our first quarter call, we have seen month-over-month sequential improvement and certain of our suppliers recently noted they see moderation of demand and supply imbalances. But we remain vigilant, as the imbalances are spotty and we expect supply chain challenges to be with us through the remainder of the year.In response to continued material and logistic cost increases, we recently announced a fourth price increase of between 10% and 12%, effective August 1. In China, sales increased over 26% in local currency driven by growth in each of our major product categories, including electric and gas tankless water heaters and water treatment products, including commercial and replacement filters.I will now turn the call over to Chuck, who will provide more details on the second quarter, beginning on slide four.Charles T. Lauber -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Kevin. Record second quarter sales of $860 million increased 30% compared with 2020, which was negatively impacted by the pandemic. Second quarter net earnings increased 74% to $118 million or $0.73 per share compared with $68 million or $0.42 per share in 2020.Please turn to slide five. Sales in the North America segment of $604 million increased 26% compared with the second quarter of 2020 driven by higher volumes of water heaters, boilers and water treatment products and inflation-related price increases. Rest of the World segment sales of $263 million increased 39% from the second quarter of 2020.Growth in each of our major product categories in China contributed to local currency growth of 26% in the quarter. Currency translation of China sales favorably impacted sales by approximately $20 million. India sales more than doubled in the second quarter despite the recent surge in cases of the virus in that region.North America segment earnings of $142 million increased 34% compared with the second quarter of 2020. The impact to earnings from higher volumes and inflation-related price increases was partially offset by higher material and freight costs. As a result of these factors, segment operating margin of 23.5% improved compared with the second quarter of 2020 segment margin of 21.9%.Rest of the World segment earnings of $22 million increased significantly compared with the loss of $5.8 million in the second quarter of 2020, which was negatively impacted by shutdowns and reduced consumer spending resulting from the pandemic. In China, higher volumes and lower selling and administrative costs were partially offset by the absence of social insurance waivers, which were received in 2020.As a result, segment operating margin of 8.5% improved from a negative 3% in the second quarter of 2020. Our corporate expenses of $12 million were higher than last year largely due to management incentives. Our effective tax rate of 21.9% was essentially the same as last year.Please turn to slide seven. Cash provided by operations of $196 million during the first half was higher than during the first half of 2020. Higher earnings in 2021 compared with the prior year were partially offset by a larger investment in working capital during the first half of 2021, compared with the same period in 2020. Our cash balances totaled $582 million at the end of June and our net cash position was $476 million. Our leverage ratio was 5.5% as measured by total debt to total capital at the end of June. Through June 30, we repurchased approximately three million shares of common stock for a total of $198 million.Please turn to slide eight. We upgraded our 2021 EPS guidance this morning with a range of between $2.70 and $2.76 per share. The midpoint of our range represents an increase of 5% compared with our prior quarter full year guidance. We expect cash flow from operations in 2021 to be between $500 million and $525 million compared with $560 million in 2020. We expect higher earnings in 2021 will be more than offset by higher investments in working capital than in the prior year.Our 2021 capital spending plans are between $85 million and $90 million and our depreciation and amortization expense is expected to be approximately $80 million. Our corporate and other expenses are expected to be approximately $50 million similar to 2020. Our effective tax rate is assumed to be approximately 23% in 2021. Average outstanding diluted shares of 160 million assumed $400 million worth of shares are repurchased in 2021.I will now turn the call over to Kevin, who will summarize our guidance assumptions beginning on slide nine. Kevin?Kevin J. Wheeler -- Chairman, President and Chief Operating OfficerOur businesses continue to navigate through supply chain and logistic challenges. That being said, we raised our 2021 top line growth expectation, and now project an increase of between 17% and 18% driven by strong demand and price increases implemented in response to rising material and transportation costs.Our revenue outlook for 2021 includes the following assumptions. With seven months of visibility, we've upgraded our US residential water heater industry volume forecast to increase approximately 3% compared with last year. We expect continued resilient replacement demand and growth in new home construction. With our fourth price increase in the market and continued consumer demand, we no longer believe there will be channel inventory destocking in the back half of the year. We expect commercial industry water heater volumes will increase approximately 2%, as pandemic-impacted businesses reopen and new production and replacement installations come back online. We believe the demand we saw in the last few months was partially driven by a pre-buy activity in advance of the price increases.In China, it is encouraging to see sales of our products continue to remain strong. Our strategy to continue to expand distribution to Tier 4 through 6 cities is on track. We see improvement in consumer trends, toward trading up for higher-priced products across all of our product categories driven by differentiated new products launched in the last 12 months to 24 months. We expect year-over-year increases in local currency sales between 20% and 22% in China. We assume China currency rates will remain at current levels adding approximately $51 million and $4 million to sales and profits over the prior year respectively.Boiler sales grew 24% in the first half of 2021. The comparison will be tougher in the back half of the year, and we expect boiler sales will grow by low double digits for the full year compared with last year. We project 13% to 14% full year sales growth in North America water treatment. We believe the megatrends of healthy and safe drinking water as well as reduction of single-use plastic bottles will continue to drive consumer demand for our point-of-use and point-of-entry water treatment systems.We project margins in this business to grow by 100 basis points above the nearly 10% achieved in 2020. We continue to experience inflation across our supply channel, particularly steel and logistic costs. Steel has increased 23% since our third water heater price increase became effective on June 1. We announced a fourth price increase in late June on water heaters effective August 1st at the rate between 10% and 12%. We expect North America segment margin to be between 23.75% and 23%. And Rest of World segment margins to be approximately 8%.Our procurement and operation team faced continued challenges in the second quarter. And while we expect continued headwinds in supply chain and logistics throughout the remainder of the year, these challenges are moderating, and I have confidence in our team to continue to navigate through this difficult environment.That concludes our prepared remarks, and we are now available for your questions.