  OperatorGood morning. My name is Seeya, and I will be the conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Alaska Air Group 2021 second-quarter Earnings Release conference call. Today's call is being recorded and will be accessible for future playback at alaskaair.com. [Operator instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Alaska Air Group's managing director of investor relations, Emily Halverson. Please go ahead.Emily Halverson -- Managing Director of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Seeya and good morning. Thank you for joining us for our second-quarter 2021 earnings call. This morning, we issued our earnings release, which is available at investor.alaskaair.com. On today's call, you'll hear updates from Ben, Andrew and Shane. Several others of our management team are also on the line to answer your questions during the Q&A portion of the call. Our financial results published this morning reflect a clear step forward in the recovery of our business. In the second quarter, Air Group reported an adjusted pre-tax loss of 3%. For the first time since February 2020, monthly adjusted pre-tax margins turned positive in June at approximately 14%.These results exclude any CARES Act payroll support program benefits. The pace of recovery during the quarter drove approximately $840 million in cash flow from operations, inclusive of the $489 million of CARES Act payroll support program grants received. Our comments today will include forward-looking statements about future performance which may differ materially from our actual results. Information on risk factors that could affect our business can be found in our SEC filings. We will also refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted earnings and unit costs, excluding fuel. And as usual, we have provided a reconciliation between the most directly comparable GAAP and non-GAAP measures in today's earnings release. Over to you, Ben. 

 



Ben Minicucci -- Chief Operating Officer Thanks, Emily and good morning, everyone. The results we published this quarter showed that we are successfully rebuilding our company and returning to profitability. As Emily shared, our second quarter pre-tax loss was 3%, lining us close to breakeven as we had initially forecast during our Q1 call. Margins improved significantly during the quarter, as we exited March with a 41% loss and closed June with a pre-tax income of 14%. Our Q2 adjusted pre-tax margin is the best in the industry among carriers who have reported so far. This quarter, we hit several milestones that validate our strategy is working. The first milestone was our return to profitability, exiting the quarter with solid double-digit margins. The second is that our business returned to positive cash flow generation of $351 million, excluding any PSP grant funding. Third, we used our strong liquidity position to begin to delever, bringing debt to cap down 6 points from the prior quarter to 56%. And lastly, with the strong return of passenger demand, our productivity levels rebounded to near 2019 levels. Underlying these achievements is a dramatic return in leisure demand that began to gain momentum in March. To a lesser extent, business travel demand has been increasing more recently as well.

 



 Air Group's passenger enplanements progressed from down 34% in April to down 18% in July. We are consistently flying about 110,000 passengers per day, and forward bookings are approximately 85% of 2019 normalized levels. This progress and our second quarter results give us confidence that the worst of the downturn is behind us, but the impact of the Delta variant may pose some risk in the recovery trajectory. To date, we are seeing no signs of demand slowing, but we will continue to watch booking trends carefully so that we can appropriately match capacity with demand. With that in mind, our plan is to return to 100% of 2019 flying levels by no later than the summer of 2022. However, given that the recent surge in demand has been consistently strong and has not shown signs of slowing, we may accelerate our return to pre-COVID levels accordingly. To create flexibility for that faster ramp up in capacity, we are planning to reactivate approximately 10 Airbus aircraft and begin flying them this fall and winter. This temporary return of several Airbus airplanes allows us to create capacity quickly and protects against unforeseen events that could be outside of our control, such as supply chain disruptions. Last quarter, we spoke about deleveraging our cost structure, fleet plans and commercial tailwinds to move back to a path of sustained profitability quickly. It's clear from this quarter's financial results that our approach to managing the business is working. For Q2, we expect our pre-tax margin, load factor and unit revenues to be near the top of the industry as a result of our disciplined approach to capacity. With growing passenger counts, our productivity has increased one and a half times between March and June and is expected to be within a few points of 2019 levels in July and beyond. This sets us up well to further close the gap on 2019 CASMex levels. As we look forward to the next six months, we expect to deliver double-digit margins throughout the third quarter and high single-digit margins in the fourth quarter. It's also worth noting that the gap between our 2021 and 2019 margins is closing each quarter. I'm proud of how quickly we've returned to profitability and how, as Shane will detail, we have begun reinforcing the fortress balance sheet that has been a hallmark of our business for many years. Our financial strength sets us up well for sustainable growth in the future. Impressively, our operation performed near the top of the industry in on-time arrivals and completion rates even with the rapid return in traffic during the quarter. At our Seattle hub, where our flying is essentially back to 2019 levels already, we have found that entry-level labor pools are limited, making hiring a challenge, particularly for ramp workers. With this staffing pressure, along with record-breaking heat waves during the quarter, have put stress on our operations. Yet through these challenges, we've delivered for our guests with caring service, creative solutions and teamwork. I want to recognize the incredible efforts of our employees across the operation, including airports, ground handling, contact centers, in-flight, flight operations and maintenance teams, many of whom have covered extra shifts to keep our operation and guest moving as peak summer travel got underway. Even our back-office management employees at all levels have jumped in to help the operation in the past couple of months. One of the things I truly love about this company is our culture, and how our employees support each other and take care of our guests no matter what it takes. While it is inevitable that we will encounter new challenges and uncertainty as the recovery advances, our momentum continues to build. Our measured deployment of capacity allows us to maximize financial results while allowing our operations to scale up successfully. It's exciting to see Air Group's progress as we rebuild our network and operation, harvest savings from cost and productivity initiatives and reinforce our strong balance sheet. I am confident that this is exactly the strong foundation we need to further grow our partnerships with oneworld America, leverage our 737 fleet order and launch our upcoming commercial initiatives. And with that, I'll turn it over to Andrew.Andrew Harrison -- Executive Vice President, Chief Commercial Officer Thanks, Ben and it's great to be with you all again. My comments this morning are going to center around three areas. First, we're going to be talking about our second quarter revenue performance. But I'll focus on sequential monthly improvements in revenue versus quarter over quarter so that the trajectory of our revenue recovery is clear. Second, I will provide capacity and revenue guidance for the third quarter. And then lastly, I'll be touching on revenue initiatives that are getting ready to take effect or will be rolled out in the future to further enhance our revenue performance. Starting with revenue this quarter, our second quarter revenues were $1.5 billion, down 33% from 2019, but nearly double the revenue we generated in the first quarter. As Ben shared, this reflects material increases in passenger volumes as well as sequential improvement in yields. This quarter, we flew 21% below 2019 capacity levels with load factors climbing from 70% in April, 75% in May and 86% in June. This acceleration put us just above our load factor guidance range for the quarter, and we expect load factors in the mid-80s for the rest of the summer. I'll speak more to our guidance in a few minutes. Our RASM was down 15 and a half percent for the quarter, but the improvement from the beginning of the quarter versus the end was dramatic. Our RASM was down 25% in April, 18% in May and only five and a half percent in June. Much of this improvement was driven by passenger volumes, but yield also played an important role, which improved 8.5 points during the quarter from down 14% in April to down five and a half percent in June. Mileage plan revenues, including commission revenues from our co-brand credit card program and award redemption revenue showed particular strength during the quarter. Collectively, mileage plan revenues represent nearly 20% of total revenues and were down just 9% versus the second quarter of 2019, with June down just 0.9%. Bank commission revenues were particularly strong for the quarter, up 7% versus 2019. Additionally, we saw credit card acquisitions for the quarter exceed those of 2019. We're encouraged by loyalty program performance, and it's clear that our guests are excited to engage with our program as they return to travel. So turning to our network. Our strong sequential revenue performance was enabled by our network teams rebuild strategy. Air Group has returned to approximately 80% of its pre-COVID network size. But we prioritize Seattle growth, given the strength of demand here. Our Seattle hub capacity in Q2 was approximately 2% higher than in the second quarter of 2019. And the team also restructured the Seattle hub to gain access to greater flow traffic, which has helped fuel this growth. As of July, our Pacific Northwest flying is only down 4% from 2019. We expect to continue to grow Pacific Northwest capacity from here. And Hawaii capacity has also been returned more quickly than system average and was only down 7% in the second quarter from 2019. We've reallocated some Hawaii flying across different markets, which includes adjustments to frequencies in both California and the Pacific Northwest, which has proven to be a positive move. Our California capacity was down 40% in the second quarter, reflecting the reality that demand in the States has been among the weakest in the nation. As we shared last quarter, we will add back capacity to California as demand returns, which we believe has now started. During the first half of the year, there was an 8-point load factor gap that existed between our California and non-California flying. And with the state reopening mid-June, I can report that the gap has fully closed in the past several weeks. With California load factors improving, we're experiencing relative stronger pricing and yields on flights to touch California are now better than the rest of the system on a year-over-year basis. As with our entire network, our priority is to continue to match supply with demand, and we fully expect to have returned 100% of pre-COVID capacity to California, sometime in the first half of 2022. Even though system capacity remains below 2019 levels, we have been adding new markets to our network to maximize revenues as the recovery takes hold. We've seen a shift in demand during the pandemic to getaway destinations and cities with lower cost of living and our recent focus on growth in places like Boise, Austin and Florida due to this reality. Since the beginning of the pandemic, we will have either commenced or announced over 50 net new markets, which reflects the shifting demand landscape in our network. Booking momentum remains strong, stabilizing at about 85% of pre-COVID levels. This level of demand is consistent with our capacity plans, which are also approximately 85% of pre-COVID levels and supports our objective of returning to 80%-plus load factors and pre-pandemic yields. On the business travel front, we've been encouraged at what appears to be an acceleration of the return of business travel. In fact, over the past three weeks, our indirect corporate bookings have reflected 40% to 50% recovery of 2019 levels, and we're optimistic this will continue to improve. Similarly, direct corporate bookings that utilize EasyBiz were over 50% recovered in the second quarter. EasyBiz users generally skewed geographically toward the Pacific Northwest and State of Alaska customers. But provide a good indicator of recovery trends for small and medium businesses. We mentioned on our prior call that we expect the business to recover to about 50% by the end of the year. But with recent trends, we expect it will reach sustained 50% or better ahead of that. As I also mentioned last quarter, oneworld and our partnership with American have opened the door to greater access to corporate travel. Just to give you a sense of our progress against that opportunity, to date, over 90% of Alaska's top-tier corporate accounts are being executed or are expected to execute a joint contract with Alaska and American, which will offer their travelers greater access to flight options, more competitive fares and seamless elite guest benefits. Additionally, we will soon be working with several TMCs in a much deeper way. We have spent a fair amount of time over the last few quarters, getting ready to fully leverage this distribution channel, which will ensure we are well positioned to get at least our fair share of corporate traffic as business travel recovers. In short, we will be competing on a more level playing field, and I'll have more to share on that soon. With this backdrop, I'll turn to our third-quarter guidance. For capacity, we plan to fly 17% to 20% below 2019 levels. Given the strength we see in summer demand, passengers are expected to be down just 15% to 18%, and load factors will improve to 82% to 85%. Revenue is expected to be in line with capacity at down 17% to 20% versus 2019, which means our unit revenues will be close to flat. Looking beyond this year, I've shared that our larger share of corporate travel, new revenue management system, along with unique benefits available to us as part of oneworld will be critical to our return to sustained and profitable growth. Our team is in the process of sizing these and new commercial opportunities with a directive to deliver at least $300 million of incremental annual revenue to our pre-COVID revenue baseline. We plan to provide a deeper look into these initiatives and our expected delivery time line at a future investor event. As the next stages of this recovery play out, I look forward to bringing clarity to our investors who are eager to hear about our growth plans. June was a turning point for us and delivering an adjusted pre-tax margin of over 14% gives me great confidence that our airlines revenue and cost model is configured to return us to industry-leading margins as we climb out of this pandemic. And with that, I'll pass it over to Shane.Shane Tackett -- Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, Finance Thank you, Andrew and good morning, everyone. As our results this quarter indicate, the initial recovery of our business has been rapid and strong. After a deep loss in Q1, we saw margins improve substantially throughout the quarter, posting the double-digit margin in June that Ben mentioned. Nonfuel costs increased just 9% versus Q1, while capacity increased 29%, and our revenues increased 191%. The our results are solidly among the best in the industry, which is worth noting, particularly given that California was relatively later to reopen than the rest of the country. Our results underscore the strength of Alaska's business model and our ability to execute as a company. My comments will focus on our financial performance, cash flows and liquidity, cost performance and our plans for the rest of the year. Beginning with cash flows and liquidity. We generated $840 million of cash flow from operations this quarter, which is inclusive of $489 million in payroll support grants. Excluding PSP grants, we generated $351 million of cash flow from operations at the business. Most of the cash flow improvement was driven by ATL growth, which ended the quarter at $1.5 billion. $385 million of our ATL represents travel credits which guests continue to utilize for purchasing tickets. In the quarter, $185 million of travel was booked using credits versus our normal $40 million a quarter pre-pandemic. Our on hand liquidity at June 30 was $4 billion, up from $3.5 billion in March. We shared last quarter that we had plans to begin retiring debt in the second half of the year but accelerated that plan given the pace of recovery of cash inflows. Debt retirements in the quarter totaled approximately $570 million, including the repayment of our $135 million balance under our CARES Act loan. We have now closed that facility and the underlying collateral that originally secured the facility is once again unencumbered, the largest of which is our mileage plan program. We expect to end 2021 with around $3.5 billion in on hand liquidity, but we'll continue to reduce this balance throughout 2022. We have not yet determined a new normal level of on hand cash in the future, but I do expect it will be somewhat higher than what we held pre-pandemic. The debt repayments this quarter, as Ben shared, improved our debt to cap by 6 points from 62% to 56%. It's worth noting that our adjusted net debt levels dropped to approximately $725 million this quarter, given the excess cash we have on the books today. If we reduce the cash by $1.5 billion to retire debt, our debt to cap would be at 47%, which is equivalent to when we entered the pandemic. I share this only to give a sense of how strong our balance sheet is as we move into the recovery. We do plan to use cash to pay down more debt this quarter, including our $425 million 364-day term loan. Going forward, we will move from focusing on adjusted net debt, which was an important metric for us during the depths of the pandemic, back to focusing on debt to cap and net debt to EBITDAR. Turning to costs. our cost execution was solid this quarter as productivity levels ramped. Total adjusted nonfuel operating expenses were $1.2 billion for the quarter, up 9% from Q1, while capacity increased 29% sequentially as I mentioned a moment ago. We saw productivity levels rise from 42% below 2019 levels in March to 15% below 2019 levels in June, and we expect July to be within a few points of 2019 levels. Our Q2 unit costs were up 10.4% versus 2019, which was better than our mid-June guidance and was helped by $15 million in onetime favorable adjustments to wage and benefit-related expenses. During the quarter, we also accrued $34 million in expenses related to our performance-based pay incentive plan. As many of you know, our approach to incentive pay is unique in the industry, and we continue to see the value it has in driving clarity and alignment throughout our business on the goals we need to achieve to produce strong results as a company over the long term. Also during the quarter, we were able to finalize three labor agreements, including a new wage agreement with our Horizon pilots and one year contract extensions with Alaska's flight attendants and dispatchers. I'd like to thank our employees and their IDT, ASA and TWU representatives for their diligent work to develop and ratify these agreements. Looking ahead to the end of the year, I expect that our CASMex will continue to progress toward 2019 levels even though we're not fully back to 2019 capacity by year-end, with mainline approaching 2019 levels as we exit the year. To recap our expectations for the third quarter, we plan on flying 17% to 20% below 2019 capacity. Revenue should be down in line with capacity, resulting in unit revenues that are approximately flat to 2019. We expect unit cost to be up 10% to 12%, similar to our Q2 performance, given the relatively modest capacity increase quarter over quarter. Given these ranges, we expect to achieve double-digit margins for the third quarter. Cash flow from operations is expected to be between 0 and $100 million for the quarter. The sequential decline in cash flow from operations is primarily driven by no PSP grant inflows and normal seasonality that we expect to see in ATL, which tends to decline in the third quarter. Before we move on to questions, we want to express our appreciation for all the employees who have tirelessly contributed to our success in recovery. As you've heard today, folks in our operations have been working incredibly hard. The improved financial results that we are excited to be sharing with you today would not be a reality without the hard work of the 22,000 employees who bring our airlines to life each day. And with that, let's go to your questions. 