  OperatorGood afternoon, and welcome to the fourth quarter fiscal 2021 Hewlett Packard Enterprise earnings conference call. My name is Gary, and I'll be your conference moderator for today's call. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded for replay purposes. I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today's call, Mr. Andrew Simanek, vice president of investor relations. Please go ahead.Jeff Kvaal -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



 Good afternoon, everyone. I'm actually Jeff Kvaal of Investor Relations. I'm filling in for Andy today. I'd like to welcome you all to our fiscal 2021 fourth quarter earnings conference call with Antonio Neri, HPE's president and chief executive officer; and Tarek Robbiati, HPE's executive vice president and chief financial officer. Before handing the call over to Antonio, let me remind you that this call is being webcast. A replay of the webcast will be made available shortly after the call for approximately one year. We posted the press release and the slide presentation accompanying today's earnings release on our HPE Investor Relations webpage at investors.hpe.com. As always, elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today.For more detailed information, please see the disclaimers on the earnings materials relating to forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. For a discussion of some of these risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, please refer to HPE's filings with the SEC, including its most recent Forms 10-K and Form 10-Q. HPE assumes no obligation and does not intend to update any such forward-looking statements. We also note that the financial information discussed on this call reflects estimates based on information available at this time, and could differ materially from the amounts ultimately reported in HPE's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2021. Also, for financial information that has been expressed on a non-GAAP basis, we have provided reconciliations to the comparable GAAP information on our website. Please refer to the tables and slide presentation accompanying today's earnings release on our website for details. Throughout this conference call, all revenue growth rates, unless otherwise noted, are presented on a year-over-year basis and are adjusted to exclude the impact of currency. Finally, we will be referencing the slides and our earnings presentation throughout our prepared remarks.

 



 As mentioned, the earnings presentation can be found posted to our website and is also embedded within the webcast player for this earnings call. With that, let me turn it over to you, Antonio. Antonio Neri -- President and Chief Executive Officer Well, thanks, Jeff, and good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for joining our call today. And for those of you who attended our virtual Securities Analyst Meeting last month, thank you. We appreciate the opportunity to discuss how our edge-to-cloud strategy positions us to capture an expanded market opportunity and accelerate shareholder value creation. HPE ended fiscal year 2021 with strong momentum. Customers are responding to our edge-to-cloud value proposition as evidenced by the record demand for our solutions. Demand accelerated in the second half of the year, driving fiscal year 2021 orders growth of 16 percent year over year. Revenue of $27.8 billion in fiscal year '21 grew in line with our long-term outlook, up one percent year over year.

 



 In fiscal year 2021, we executed very well, which enabled us to exceed our commitments across all financial metrics, even with a substantial order backlog. Our as-a-Service annualized revenue run rate or ARR of $796 million was up 36 percent year over year. We significantly improved our gross and operating margins, which increased our fiscal year 2021 non-GAAP operating profit by 25 percent year over year. We delivered fiscal year '21 non-GAAP diluted net earnings per share of $1.96, up 27 percent year over year. And we generated fiscal year 2021 free cash flow of $1.6 billion, up $1 billion year over year, which translates to a growth of 177 percent. This was a very strong performance, and it was particularly impressive against the backdrop of industrywide supply constraints, which continue to challenge our ability to convert orders to revenue as quickly as we would like. We have a world-class global operations team that continues to work closely with a long-standing diverse network of suppliers. We continue to take proactive inventory measures to better position us to deliver against this robust customer demand. Our results in Q4 strengthened and the momentum we have as we enter fiscal year '22. Increased demand in the quarter drove orders growth of 28 percent year over year, with particular strength in our as-a-Service orders, which grew an impressive 114 percent year over year, including a large Network-as-a-Service win. We also saw record levels of orders in key growth areas, including Intelligent Edge, high-performance computing, and artificial intelligence businesses. We delivered $7.4 billion in total Q4 revenue, which was up seven percent sequentially and above normal sequential seasonality. We expanded our gross and operating margins, increasing our Q4 non-GAAP diluted net earnings per share by 27 percent year over year. And we generated Q4 free cash flow of $94 million, in line with the outlook we provided at the end of Q3. Tarek will take you through the -- our quarterly results in detail, but I would like to spend a little more time putting a full fiscal year in context for you. Our fiscal year 2021 results proved the relevance of our strategy to customers and the traction of our transformation to become the edge-to-cloud company. As we discussed at our Securities Analyst Meeting last month, HPE is at the center of several compelling megatrends: the explosion of data at the edge, the mandate for a cloud experience everywhere, and the need to extract value from data to generate insights. HPE's differentiated edge-to-cloud strategy uniquely positions us to capitalize on these trends and capture growing profitable markets. Our solutions and services help customers overcome the challenges of multi-generation IT and enable them to access, control, and maximize the value of all their workloads and data everywhere. We are executing with focus and speed to deliver against our vision and strategy. We are making strategic investments and taking deliberate steps to continue to shift our business. And as I have said previously, this transformation is my No. 1 priority, and I'm proud of the progress we have made in fiscal year '21. Our Intelligent Edge business grew fiscal year '21 revenue 13 percent year over year with orders exceeding, for the first time, $4 billion. Customer demand was up strong double digits year over year as more customers look for ways to create new digital experiences at the edge and capitalize on the data generated there. But the industrywide component shortages kept us from converting our full order momentum to revenue in Q4, and we enter fiscal year 2022 with record levels of backlog. Our market leadership at the Edge remained very strong. HPE was positioned as the leader -- on of the leaders in the Magic Quadrant Gartner provides for wireless access network edge infrastructure, which is notable because HPE is only one of the two companies to be positioned in the Leader Quadrant four years in a row. We continue to drive strong innovation in this business. In Q4, we introduced the industry-first distributed services switch, which brings software-defined services and security rights to where the data is created and processed. Developed in partnership with Pensando, this solution eliminates legacy appliances and whole software needed to build the hybrid cloud demand demanded by modern applications and IT organizations. In Q4, we closed the largest Network-as-a-Service deal in HPE history to help a large US retailer enhance its customer and employee experience throughout the stores. In addition, the Major League soccer franchise, FC Cincinnati, standardized on Aruba at the TQL Stadium to deliver next-generation digital cashless, counterless fund and event experiences. The franchise deployed an end-to-end Aruba Edge Services platform network at its new 26,000-seat stadium to power this game day and special event experiences. Orders of HPE's high-performance computing and AI offerings were also up strong double digits year over year. This record level of demand has generated an order book of awarded contracts now at $2.7 billion, excluding the important $2 billion win with the US National Security Agency. HPE expanded our No. 1 market position in HPC with 37 percent market share as of calendar Q2 data, which is more than 14 points above the closest competitor. And according to the list of the Top 500 supercomputers released just two weeks ago, 33 of the Top 100 most powerful supercomputers in the world were built by HPE. This is more than any company. At the end of Q4, the National Energy Research Scientific Computing Center, NERSC, at Berkeley's Lab accepted the first phase of the Bermuda supercomputer. Powered by the HPE Cray EX system, Bermuda introduced a new generation of supercomputing capabilities to more than 8,000 scientists performing research for the U.S. Department of Energy Office of Science. HPE is uniquely positioned to bring the AI, deep learning, and data analytics capabilities of our most advanced supercomputers to mainstream enterprises through the HPE GreenLake platform. In Q4, we announced that Eni, a global energy company, selected HPE GreenLake to upgrade its existing HPE supercomputer. Through HPE GreenLake, Eni can accelerate discover -- discovery of new energy sources with more accurate modeling and simulations, as well as become more sustainable by monitor utilization and energy consumption within an as-a-Service solution. We continue to strengthen our compute and storage businesses where we saw strong orders and profitability in fiscal year 2021. In compute, orders increased more than 10 percent in fiscal year'21 and we deliver operating margins of 10.8 percent, up 260 basis points year over year. We are making bold moves to transform our storage business into a cloud-native data services business, which resulted in a high-single-digit order growth and gross margin expansion, up 130 basis points year over year. And we continue to see high services attach rate, helping enable HPE Pointnext orders to increase mid-single digits in fiscal year '21. This contributed to the overall performance of HPE Pointnext, which ended fiscal year '21 with a book-to-bill ratio of 1.15 of revenues, highlighting the potential for future revenue growth in fiscal year '22 and beyond. In fiscal year 2021, we generated a strong momentum in our transformation to an as-a-Service company. Our company as-a-Service orders increased 61 percent year over year, with HPE GreenLake orders increasing 46 percent year over year. Our as-a-Service annualized revenue run rate, or ARR, of $796 million was up 36 percent year over year. The growth of our ARR is particularly noteworthy because this recurring revenue stream is high quality and high margin. During our Securities Analyst Meeting last month, Tarek shared that more than 60 percent of our ARR mix is software and services, and we believe that portion will grow to more than three-quarters in the next three years. Our ARR gross margins are well above our corporate average gross margins today, and the addition of high-value software content will drive margins even higher. Our pivot to an as-a-Service company is enabled by HPE Financial Services, which increased fiscal year 2021 financing volume three percent year over year, driven by strong growth within HPE GreenLake. We continue to advance our leadership in our HPE GreenLake offering. In September, we introduced HPE GreenLake for data protection, which are cloud services designed to protect data across edge-to-cloud, overcome ransomware attacks, and deliver rapid data recovery. This new set of solutions marks our entry into the growing data-protection-as-a-Service market. Our acquisition of Zerto enable us to add market-leading data protection to our cloud services portfolio to help enterprises take cyberthreats and ransomware attacks head on. We also launched HPE GreenLake for data analytics, which includes the industry-first, unified modern hybrid analytics, and Data Lake platform. This strategically important solution positions HPE in the growing Unifi Analytics market and helps customers accelerate modernization initiatives for all data across edge-to-cloud. We continue to see incredible response to our HPE GreenLake offering. We added more than 300 new GreenLake customers during fiscal year '21, bringing our customer count to more than 1,250. New GreenLake logos represent an increasing share of orders with approximately one-quarter of Q4 GreenLake orders coming from new customers. Today, more than 900 partners sell HPE GreenLake, one of the largest partner ecosystems selling as-a-Service offerings in the industry. We added more than $1.5 billion of GreenLake total contract value over the last year, bringing the total to more than $5.7 billion. Examples of new GreenLake logos includes Trinchero Family Estates, the second largest family owned winery in the world, which adopted HPE GreenLake through our channel partner, PKA Technologies to add flexibility and scale, its capacity to meet the increasing demand of auto and -- automation. The HPE GreenLake solution powers the -- one of its automated warehouses, where approximately 60 different types of wines are produced, mobile packaged, and prepared for shipping while reducing overall IT costs. We also won a deal with ONGC, India's largest oil and natural gas company, which is used in the HPE GreenLake platform to make one of the largest SAP implementations in the world more manageable and flexible. Our Q4 rounded out an impressive year for HPE, and I'm proud of all we have accomplished. We have made incredible progress in transforming to become the edge-to-cloud leader, executing on our strategy to help customers in truly differentiated ways, and position ourselves for sustainable profitable growth for our shareholders. At the same time, we have advanced our ESG initiatives, which in Q4 earned us a position on a highly competitive Dow Jones Sustainability World Index, placing in the 98th percentile. We exceeded our commitments in fiscal year '21, and our momentum is strong as we enter fiscal year '22 with a strategy more relevant to customers than ever before and a sharp focus on execution. With that, I will turn it over to Tarek to share additional details about the quarter. Tarek, over to you.Tarek Robbiati -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you very much, Antonio. I'll start with a summary of our financial results for the fourth quarter of fiscal year '21. And as usual, I'll be referencing the slides from our earnings presentation to guide you through our performance in the quarter. Antonio discussed the key fiscal year '21 highlights on Slides 1 and 2, so now, let me discuss our Q4 performance starting with Slide 3. I am very pleased to report that we continued to see unprecedented demand across all our businesses with robust order growth, up 28 percent year over year. Building on the strength from the last quarter, we delivered Q4 revenues of $7.4 billion, up seven percent from the prior quarter, above normal sequential seasonality, and this despite increased supply chain challenges that we foreshadowed at SAM last month. It's also worth highlighting that $7.4 billion of revenue represents the highest level since Q1 of fiscal year '19, well before the pandemic. Our non-GAAP gross margin was 33 percent, which was up 230 basis points from our prior year. And this was driven by our deliberate actions to shift toward higher-margin, software-rich offerings, strong pricing discipline, and cost takeout. As previously indicated, gross margins were pressured from prior-quarter levels due to an increasing industrywide shortages of certain components that have resulted in extended lead times and higher commodity costs underpinning backlogged orders. We continue to take proactive inventory measures and display healthy price discipline to minimize the impact of recent disruptions. We expect this dynamic supply chain situation to last well into calendar year 2022. We also continued to invest in high gross margin-rich areas of our portfolio. We've made investments in over -- in our overall go-to-market to accelerate our growth and our shift to an as-a-Service model. Even with these investments, our non-GAAP operating margin was 9.7 percent, up 120 basis points from the prior year, which translates to a 16 percent year-over-year increase in operating profit. Within other income and expense, we benefited from further strong gains related to increased valuations in our Pathfinder venture portfolio and outstanding operational performance in H3C that I will address in more detail later. With strong execution across the business, we ended the quarter with non-GAAP EPS of $0.52, up 27 percent from the prior year and at the high-end of our outlook range for Q4. Excluding $2.2 billion of after-tax proceeds received from Oracle's satisfaction of the judgment in the Itanium litigation, Q4 cash flow from operation was $784 million, and free cash flow was $94 million. For fiscal year '21, this brings our total cash flow from operation to $3.7 billion, up $1.5 billion from the prior year, and our free cash flow to $1.6 billion, up $1 billion from the prior year, driven primarily by an increase in earnings. Our strong execution and cost optimization and resource allocation program has effectively put us one year ahead of schedule with respect to delivering our previous free cash flow targets. Finally, the strength of our cash flow has positioned us to return substantial capital to our shareholders. We paid $157 million of dividends in the current quarter and are declaring a Q1 dividend today of $0.12 per share payable in January. We also reinstated our share repurchase program in Q4, buying $213 million in shares, reflecting our confidence in future cash flow generation and our view that the stock is undervalued. Slide 4 highlights key metrics of our accelerating as-a-Service business. We have made significant progress over the last year by adding over 300 new enterprise GreenLake customers to over 1,250 today and increasing our TCV by over $1.5 billion to our current lifetime TCV of over $5.7 billion. For Q4 specifically, our ARR was $796 million, which was up 36 percent year over year as reported, and total as-a-Service orders were up 114 percent year over year, which represent an acceleration from Q3, demonstrating the strong momentum we are experiencing in this business. It's also important to remember the incremental disclosure we provided at SAM 2021, highlighting the significant proportion of software and services in our offerings that together make up more than 60 percent of the ARR mix today. We expect this mix percentage to expand to more than 75 percent by fiscal year '24 as we add more software capabilities, driving further gross margin improvement. Overall, based on strong momentum this year, I'm very happy with how this business is progressing, which gives us confidence to increase our ARR growth targets by 5 points to a 35 percent to 45 percent CAGR from fiscal year '21 to fiscal year '24. Let's now turn to our segment highlights on Slide 5. Our growth businesses, which now represent nearly 25 percent of our total company revenue, generated record levels of orders, up strong double digits. In the Intelligent Edge, revenue grew two percent year over year in Q4, and for fiscal year '21 was up 13 percent. Demand continued unabated in Q4 with order growth up over 50 percent year over year, but the component shortages we foreshadowed at SAM were more pronounced in our Aruba business. Additionally, our Edge-as-a-Service offerings were up triple digits year over year, significantly contributing to our ARR. We delivered a multimillion-dollar NaaS, Network-as-a-Service deal in Q4, for a large U.S. customer, which represented more than 800-basis-point headwind in the short term to Aruba revenue in Q4, but will help our long-term financial profile in the business. Aruba services also continued to grow strongly, up high-single digits. Looking forward, we expect it will take some time for supply chain challenges to ease, but we finished fiscal year '21 with over $4 billion in orders, which will give us strong momentum through fiscal year '22. In HPC and AI, demand strengthened even further with another record level of orders. Revenue grew 35 percent sequentially and was flat year over year with a difficult compare. We did have customer acceptances of some large contracts get pushed out into fiscal year '22, and we now have $2.7 billion of awarded contracts in addition to the $2 billion contract awarded by the NSA, giving us confidence for next year and beyond. We expect robust revenue growth in fiscal year '22 to get us back within the range of our original long-term 8 percent to 12 percent CAGR outlook. In compute, order growth was up strong double digits. Revenue grew four percent quarter over quarter, reflecting above normal sequential seasonality, and was up double digits year over year when normalizing for the Q4 FY '20 backlog. Operating margins of 9.4 percent were up 280 basis points from our prior year, due to disciplined pricing and the rightsizing of the cost structure in this segment. Within storage, order growth accelerated and was up double digits year over year. Revenue grew two percent year over year and seven percent quarter over quarter, ahead of normal sequential seasonality, driven by strong growth in software-defined offerings. All-flash arrays grew seven percent year over year, led by Primera, up strong double digits. Nimble grew four percent year over year with ongoing strong dHCI momentum growing double digits year over year. Storage operating profit margin was 13.8 percent, reflecting opex investments to continue driving product mix shift toward more software-rich platforms, including our cloud data services. With respect to Pointnext operational services, including Nimble services, orders accelerated and were up high-single digits in Q4 and up mid-single digits for fiscal year '21. Most importantly, revenue also grew as reported overall for fiscal year '21, the first time in several years. This is, again, very important as we enter fiscal year '22 with strong momentum in our most profitable business. Within HPE Financial Services, volume increased 18 percent year over year, driven by strong double-digit growth in GreenLake. Revenue was up three percent sequentially and flat year over year. Our profitability is also benefiting from higher residual values realization and lower borrowing costs as we continue to securitize our U.S. portfolio via the ABS market. Our operating margin was 14.1 percent, up 630 basis points from the prior year, and our return on equity at 23.8 percent is well above the 18 percent-plus target set at SAM 2021. Slide 6 highlights our revenue and EPS performance, where you can clearly see the strong rebound from last year and sustained momentum throughout fiscal year '21. As mentioned previously, Q4 revenue of $7.4 billion is the highest level we've delivered since Q1 '19. With a strong demand environment, our strategic business mix shift, and execution of our cost optimization and resource allocation program, we increased our Q4 non-GAAP EPS to $0.52, up 27 percent year over year. Turning to Slide 7, we delivered non-GAAP gross margins in Q4 of 33 percent. While rates were impacted as expected sequentially from the supply chain challenges previously discussed, we expanded gross margins up 230 basis points from the prior year. This was driven by strong pricing discipline and a positive mix shift toward high-margin, software-rich businesses. In total, in fiscal year '21, we delivered nearly $900 million of incremental gross profit. Moving forward, we will face lingering supply chain challenges in the near term. But longer term, structural gross margins will improve from continuous mix shift toward Intelligent Edge, own IP storage, GreenLake, and all of our as-a-Service offerings. Moving to Slide 8, you can see we have utilized some of the incremental gross profit to make targeted growth investments, while simultaneously expanding non-GAAP operating profit margins. We have increased our investment levels in R&D to fuel our long-term innovation engine and fuel selling costs to accelerate our growth and our shift to our as-a-Service pivot. Even with these investments to drive long-term growth, we delivered operating margins in Q4 of 9.7 percent, up 120 basis points from the prior year. On Slide 9, we want to highlight our unique setup in China through our investment in H3C that has and continues to generate tremendous value for our shareholders. Our investment and commercial agreement gives us a route to market in the second largest, fastest-growing IT market in the world. As you know, we do not consolidate revenue and operating profit from H3C but recognize our 49 percent share of H3C's earnings through the equity interest statement line on our P&L as part of other income and expense. H3C has delivered outstanding operational performance throughout the year and generated $257 million of equity interest in fiscal year '21, which was up 21 percent from the prior year. This makes our business in China a very large contributor to our P&L, one that no other multinational has been able to replicate. Turning to Slide 10, we finished fiscal year '21 generating $3.7 billion of cash flow from operations and $1.6 billion of free cash flow, and this excluding, obviously, the $2.2 billion of after-tax cash received from Oracle's satisfaction of the Itanium litigation. Free cash flow was up $1 billion year over year and is $600 million more than the midpoint of our outlook at the start of fiscal year '20, primarily driven by increased earnings. Our cash flow profile is becoming more predictable and aligned to profitability as our restructuring costs diminish and we grow our as-a-Service business, beginning to recognize more deferred revenues from software and services. Moving on to Slide 11, we have made further progress enhancing our balance sheet strength with a strong free cash flow and payment from Oracle. Following the receipt of the cash from the Itanium litigation, we redeemed early our $1 billion, 4.65 percent coupon outstanding 2024 notes, and this in a positive NPV transaction that is net-debt-neutral. The make-whole premium paid was a GAAP-only expense in Q4, and we will realize meaningful interest expense savings over the next three years. We are now in an operating company net cash position of $1.8 billion. Bottom line, our improved free cash flow outlook and cash position ensure we have ample liquidity available to balance long-term growth investments, with consistent return of capital to our shareholders. Now, turning to our outlook on Slide 12. At our Securities Analyst Meeting last month, we provided our outlook for fiscal year '22, and I would like to encourage you to review my presentation for a more detailed discussion of that outlook. Having said that, let me reiterate and drill down into a few key components. We expect fiscal year '22 revenue growth in constant currency of three percent to four percent. As discussed, the supply chain environment remains very dynamic, and we expect component shortages with increased commodity costs, expedite, and shipping fees to last for the next few quarters impacting near-term revenue and gross margins. In a nutshell, we expect to have more of a back-end-loaded year in fiscal year '22 with the supply chain risk that we discussed reflected in our fiscal year '22 guidance. We expect non-GAAP EPS to be $1.96 to $2.10 and free cash flow to be $1.8 billion to $2 billion. We expect free cash flow to be more in line with historical seasonality, where the second half is a stronger generator of cash than the first half. Now, specific to Q1 revenue, given the very strong backlog balanced by supply chain constraints, we expect revenue to be in line with normal sequential seasonality of down mid-single digits from Q4 of fiscal year '21 and are comfortable with current consensus levels. We also expect gross margins to be pressured in the short term given the supply chain. As a result, for Q1 '22, we expect GAAP diluted net EPS of $0.19 to $0.27 and non-GAAP diluted net EPS of $0.42 to $0.50. So overall, I'm very proud of our progress throughout our strong fiscal year '21. As Antonio said, we exceeded all our key financial targets in fiscal year '21, often by a significant margin. The demand environment has been incredibly strong across our business, with acceleration in the second half of fiscal year '21, demonstrating that our edge-to-cloud strategy is working well and that we are entering fiscal year '22 with strong momentum. We are now well-positioned to capitalize on the opportunity in front of us and deliver against our fiscal year '22 outlook. Now, with that, let's open it up for questions. 