
OperatorGreetings, and welcome to Huntington Bancshares Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Tim Sedabres, Director of Investor Relations. Please proceed.Timothy Sedabres -- Director of Investor RelationsThank you, Latonya. Welcome, everyone, and good morning. Copies of the slides we will be reviewing today can be found on the Investor Relations section of our website, www.huntington.com. As a reminder, this call is being recorded, and a replay will be available starting about one hour from the close of the call. Our presenters today are Steve Steinour, Chairman, President and CEO; and Zach Wasserman, Chief Financial Officer. Rich Pohle, Chief Credit Officer, will join us Q&A. As noted on slide two, today's discussion, including the Q&A portion will contain forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on information and assumptions available at this time and are subject to changes, risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ materially. We assume no obligation to update such statements. For a complete discussion of risks and uncertainties, please refer to this slide and material filed with the SEC, including our most recent Forms 10-K, 10-Q and eight-K filings. Let me now turn it over to Steve.

 



Stephen D. Steinour -- President & Chie Executive OfficerThanks, Tim. Good morning, everyone. I'm very pleased with our third quarter. We delivered good core performance and made enormous progress with the TCF integration. Let me begin on slide three. Thanks to the hard work of our colleagues. We're on track to complete the TCF integration as planned and delivered the resulting deal economics. This combination adds scale, density, new markets and new specialty businesses. At the core of Huntington, we are a purpose-driven company with a vision to build the leading people-first, digitally powered bank in the nation. We remain focused on our core objectives to drive organic growth and to deliver sustainable top quartile financial performance. On slide four, our third quarter performance has included a full quarter benefit from TCF and a record total revenue.We delivered good growth in fee income, that loan growth, excluding PPP and improving credit metrics. Just over a week ago, we successfully completed the conversion of TCF to Huntington Systems and we now offer an integrated set of products, capabilities and experiences to our customers. As a result of the great efforts of our colleagues, we were able to complete the conversion in just 10 months since the announcement of the transaction. We've completed most of the actions to drive our targeted cost synergies and are on track to deliver all of the announced cost reductions. With the conversion behind us, we're now able to focus us on colleagues on new business development activities to close up here strong and carry that momentum into 2022. We are investing in these revenue-producing colleagues as well as new capabilities in the expanded markets.We're seeing substantial momentum in many of our initiatives, including targeted areas of fee revenue generation like wealth and capital markets as well as cards and payments. Both consumer and commercial loan production continued to be robust and commercial pipelines are up over 30% from a year ago and new production activity has nearly doubled. Additionally, we were pleased to be ranked number one nationally for the SBA seven lending by volume, marking the fourth consecutive year we've been recognized in the top 5. As the recovery continues, we will dynamically manage our overall expense base and look for ways to drive incremental efficiencies across the bank. We intend to self-fund the investment capacity necessary for strategic initiatives that will drive additional revenue growth in the years ahead.

 



Our strategy is centered on supporting customers' banking where and when they want and meeting them through their preferred channel. As part of that strategy, we are continually optimizing our distribution network. We will be consolidating 62 branches in the first quarter of 2022, equal to 6% of the combined branch network. And these are in addition to the 188 branch closures announced as part of the TCM transaction. Importantly, we will continue to retain the number one share of branches in both Ohio and Michigan. In addition to branch consolidations, we are continuing to diligently optimize roles and resources within the bank. We're committed to delivering positive operating leverage as we did annually for a decade leading up to 2021. Finally, on the capital front. We accelerated our share repurchase in the quarter as well as announced an increase to the quarterly dividend.These actions demonstrate our confidence in the performance and outlook for Huntington as well as our commitment to our shareholders to actively manage our capital levels. slide five provides an update on the TCF integration. When we announced the transaction, we saw strong potential for expense synergies as we leverage the benefits of scale, but to also drive additional organic growth. And today, I can say that we're even more excited about the revenue opportunities in front of us. The combination of new growth markets and increased density, the addition of more than 1.5 million customers and expanded specialty capabilities collectively set up our future revenue growth. Let me share a couple of the most compelling aspects in middle market and in corporate banking, we're now bringing greater scale in Chicago, Milwaukee in addition to new capabilities in the Twin Cities and Denver.With expanded coverage and product offerings, we're already gaining traction with early wins, including capital markets and treasury management fees. In Consumer and Business Banking, we're deploying Huntington's capabilities, products and services across the entire customer base following conversion. Combined with our fair play philosophy, this will greatly enhance the customer experience, and as we've demonstrated previously, we'll accelerate customer acquisition and improved retention. And with Huntington's digital and competitive product set, we will deepen our customer relationships. Additionally, we are bringing award-winning SBA lending platform and growing our wealth and private banking customer base in our newly expanded markets. Our investments are well timed as we're seeing continued robust economic recovery in our footprint.Our regions have seen economic activity expand year-to-date faster than the national average as well as higher labor force participation. We see a unique moment in time to capitalize on these revenue opportunities as our local economies continue to perform very well. We are entering a new era at Huntington with momentum, and we look forward to growth in the years ahead. Zach, over you to provide more detail on our financial performance.

 



Zachary Wasserman -- Chief Financial Officer & Senior Executive Vice PresidentThanks, Steve, and good morning, everyone. Turning to slide six. We reported GAAP earnings per common share of $0.22 for the third quarter, which included acquisition expenses of $234 million. Earnings per common share adjusted for these notable items were $0.35. Return on tangible common equity, or ROTCE, came in at 11.5% for the quarter. Adjusted for the acquisition-related notable items, ROTCE was 17.9%. As we expected and consistent with guidance we provided in September, we were pleased to see loan balances ex-PPP grow in the third quarter, driven by robust new production. With continued strong liquidity, we are actively managing the balance sheet and have grown the securities portfolio by $3.7 billion from the end of the second quarter. Deposit balances were reduced by $847 million as a result of the branch divestiture.Excluding the divestiture, deposit balances remained relatively stable on a period-end basis. Loans associated with the divestiture totaled $209 million. Fee income was another bright spot, where we continue -- where we saw continued momentum in our capital markets, cards and payments, treasury management and wealth and investment businesses. As Steve noted, we've been actively managing our capital, and we're pleased to complete $500 million of share repurchases in the third quarter. We also announced a $0.05 increase in the common stock dividend in the fourth quarter, which takes us to an annualized dividend rate of $0.62 per share. Finally, credit quality continued to improve with net charge-offs of 20 basis points, while nonperforming assets decreased 12% from the prior quarter.Turning to slide seven. Period-end loan balances totaled $110.6 million. Excluding PPP, loan balances increased by $367 million during the quarter, with underlying growth in C&I, mortgage, auto and RV/Marine portfolios. On the commercial side, while PPP and auto dealer floor plan balances were lower, all other C&I loans increased by a net $466 million during the quarter, driven by growth in asset finance and core C&I. We're seeing very encouraging trends from new commercial loan production and pipelines that continue to grow both year-over-year and sequentially. Consumer growth was somewhat offset by marginal pressure from the continued runoff of the home equity portfolio. Additionally, we continue to observe solid activity levels in our consumer portfolios with residential mortgage, RV/Marine and automobile, all continuing to post sequential quarter balance growth.Auto saw its strongest third quarter for production activity to date with -- while mortgage continued to see robust origination activity in the quarter. Excluding PPP, we believe the trough for underlying loan balances is behind us, and we expect continued modest growth from these levels in the fourth quarter. With respect to commercial portfolio specifically, we expect to see momentum accelerate as we move through the fourth quarter and throughout 2022. Moving on to slide eight. As noted previously, total deposit balances, excluding the divestiture, were relatively stable. We continue to optimize funding given our strong liquidity levels and reduced higher cost CDs by $395 million. Overall, we continue to see much of the excess liquidity remain fairly sticky as core commercial deposit balances increased during the quarter.Turning to slide nine. FTE net interest income increased primarily driven by the full quarter benefit of TCF. Net interest income increased by $323 million, while net interest margin was 2.9%, both driven by the acquired TCF assets. Excess liquidity moderated slightly during the quarter with $8.1 billion of cash at the Fed at quarter end. On an average basis for the quarter, excess liquidity represented a drag on margin of approximately 23 basis points. Core net interest income, excluding PPP and accretion, was $1.085 billion. We expect core net interest income to grow from these levels on an absolute dollar basis in the fourth quarter and throughout 2022. We're positioned to be asset sensitive today, and we are dynamically managing the balance sheet to become increasingly asset-sensitive to capture the benefit from expected future higher interest rates.This includes the hedge roll-offs as well as the addition of pay-fixed swaps. On June 30, our modeled net interest income asset sensitivity and an up 100 basis point scenario was 2.9%. Based on the deliberate actions we took during the quarter, we increased our asset sensitivity to 4%, and we continue to dynamically manage the balance sheet going forward. Over the course of the quarter, we terminated select downside rate protection hedges and added $6 billion of forward pay fixed swaps. Turning to slide 10. Noninterest income increased, primarily driven by the addition of TCF fee income. Several of our businesses performed quite well within the quarter. Cards and payments benefited from higher customer transaction volumes, mortgage banking performed well due to higher production and relatively higher saleable spreads and wealth and investment continued to be driven by positive net asset flows.Capital markets income also grew, driven by solid performance in interest rate derivatives, foreign exchange and syndications. Turning to slide 11. Total noninterest expense came in at approximately $1.3 billion for the quarter, including the $234 million of notable items. Excluding these items, noninterest expense totaled $1.05 billion, primarily driven by the full quarter of TCF expenses. Our overall outlook for the magnitude of expense reductions is unchanged from prior guidance. The timing to realize these benefits, however, has accelerated due to our actions to drive realization of cost savings. As a result, we continue to expect that while Q3 was the high watermark for core expenses, they should benefit earlier than we previously thought as they step down into the fourth and first quarters.Core expenses on an absolute dollar basis should trail down throughout 2022, as we recognize the benefits of the TCF cost synergies while continuing to invest in the initiatives to drive top line revenue growth. slide 12 highlights our well-capitalized balance sheet as well as a few highlights from the recent capital return actions. Common equity Tier one ended the quarter at 9.6%, well within our medium-term 9% to 10% operating guideline. Over the past quarter, we focused on returning capital to our shareholders in alignment with our capital priorities. We executed over half of the $800 million share repurchase program following the authorization as they moved in, and we are pleased to have recently announced an increase to the common stock dividend. As you can see on slide 13, our quarter ending allowance for credit losses represented 1.99% of total loans, down from 2.08% at prior quarter end.The improved economic outlook and our stable credit quality resulted in a reserve release of $117 million for the third quarter. Additional key credit quality metrics are shown on slide 14, further reflecting our improving credit profile. Net charge-offs represented an annualized 20 basis points of average loans and leases, among the lowest levels in recent history, well below our target range of 35 to 55 basis points on average through the cycle. Consumer charge-offs remained low in this quarter of seven basis points with net recoveries in auto, home equity, RV and Marine. Our NPA ratio declined 12% as portfolios continue to perform as expected, and the ACL coverage of NPAs increased to 247%. Finally, turning to our outlook on slide 15. As we operate in a dynamic macro environment, we're focused on managing what we can control.We remain committed to investing in our people-first digitally powered strategy, driving sustained revenue growth while managing expenses within our long-term commitment to positive operating leverage and achieving a 17% return on tangible common equity. We expect a peer group leading efficiency ratio and a normalized effective tax rate of 18% to 19%. We believe these key metrics: revenue growth, return on capital and annual positive operating leverage are a compelling set of financial performance indicators and closely aligned with value creation for our shareholders. Now let me turn it back over to Tim, so we can get to your questions.Timothy Sedabres -- Director of Investor RelationsThank you, Zach. We'll now take questions. We ask that as a courtesy to your peers, each person ask only one question and one related follow-up. And then if that person has additional questions, they can add themselves back into the queue. Thank you, operator, let's open up for questions.