  OperatorThank you for standing by and welcome to the EPAM Systems first quarter of 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] Please be advised that today's call is being recorded. [Operator instructions] I would now like to hand the call over to David Straube, head of investor relations. Please go ahead.David Straube -- Head of Investor Relations Thank you, operator. Good morning, everyone. By now, you should have received your copy of the earnings release for the company's first-quarter 2021 results. If not, a copy is available on EPAM.com in the Investors section.

 



 With me today are Arkadiy Dobkin, CEO and president; and Jason Peterson, chief financial officer. I would like to remind those listening that some of the comments made on today's call may contain forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties as described in the company's earnings release and SEC filings. Additionally, all references to reported results that are non-GAAP measures have been reconciled to the comparable GAAP measures and are available in our quarterly earnings material located in the Investors section on our website.With that said, I'll now turn the call over to Ark. Ark Dobkin -- Chief Executive Officer and President Thank you, David. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. I will begin my summary of the quarter. I want to acknowledge that the past months has been a stark reminder that we are still with a deadly and very major global pandemic and that we must continue to be united in our efforts against COVID.

 



 As we have done over the last year, we will do everything possible to support our people on the ground and the communities in which they live and work. Now, turning to our results, for the first quarter, we delivered APM of $781 million in revenues, reflecting growth of 20% year over year with a reported 18% in constant currencies. Non-GAAP earnings per share of $1.81, a 27% increase over the same quarter in 2020. Both revenue growth, combined with a greater level of profitability enabled us to continue to invest in -- at higher levels across the business. Since we last talked mid-February, we have seen a meaningful increase in demand across our business. The notable consolidation activity in the second half of the quarter. Within fall, core services is very robust as clients doubled down on digital transformation and innovation journeys. Recently, we turned to embark ourselves to not only build new platforms, also to conceive new digital products and services, as well as to modernize and transform the creative technology strategy and delivery models. Digitization trends are driving increasing interests in business strategy, new types of engagement platforms, cloud migration, and modernization efforts, data engineering, and data analytics, engagements, and then to our machine learning, and AI applications. On industry perspective, we are experiencing this dynamic, most notably in life science and healthcare, financial services, insurance, CPG, retail, and to the communications. Today, the focus is on building a stronger vertical expertise to leverage even more effectively our marketing capabilities and current renewed data and cloud. As a result, we still have much more work to do to continue building our integrated consulting propositions on the EPAM Continuum brand. With our increasing depth in vertical domains, we're already realizing the promise of delivering increasingly differentiated all things to our global enterprise customers. One example, EPAM and Equifax is creating a platform developing more than cloud-based applications, products, and services and bringing their data workings to a new generation of consumers. It is a critical part of a multimedia cloud and data-driven reformulation for Equifax where they are working together to build a Google Cloud platform with data fabric to enable Equifax to organize its just great legacy data sources into a single seamless structure while keeping all critical development and separation measures in place. Also worth mentioning that while the variety in Equifax legacy system to the cloud nature would normally take years, EPAM successfully assisted in transforming Equifax mainstream applications in less than one year.

 



 This is only one example which is repeating across most of markets and verticals themselves from financial services to the bulging interest in retail intel platforms. We believe it's in this course, the amount of technology led to change the discussion of linguistics into higher levels of activity. All these dynamics have led to that and hopefully soon in post-COVID environment. The number of business demands and processes which must be digitized is going to be rapidly increasing. Those market drivers, along with opportunities in cloud modernization, composable architecture, data, ML and AI, and cybersecurity will give us sizable room for continuous and sustainable growth. To meet this growing demand, we also continue to focus on scaling up our talent. 2020 challenged us to create a reliable and secure remote operations. 2021 has presented an opportunity to leverage those investments in infrastructure, modern target processes, and tooling project load to explore ways in which we can activate broader talent markets and deploy a more diverse set of capabilities. The result is that our project and net headcount growth is accelerating. For Q1, we welcomed approximately 2,300 net hires to EPAM, which included an increase of senior-level hires coming to us with a strong, consistent experience. And overall, since the beginning of Q4 2020, more than 5,400 net additions have joined the company representing the highest level of performers we have added in two consecutive quarters. So, while this shortage of technical and deep-industry talent is a known industry issue, we are confident that our investment in that area are awaiting brand recognition and expanding employee's great journey. We will continue to draw top-down and too far. Also, part of EPAM's growth strategy is the expansion of our capabilities with very focused acquisition efforts, simply because three acquisitions bring into EPAM talent and experience in the areas of salesforce, business intelligence, and security. Therefore, we announced the acquisition of PolSource, a salesforce consultancy with a talent concentration in the U.S., U.K., and Poland. We'll extend to our salesforce series of supply chains as global footprint and provide consolidation for building additional expertise, IP, and scale at our salesforce ecosystem. This acquisition builds on our earlier acquisition of Mulesoft Partner Ricston. It builds our salesforce API capabilities and to enable customers to leverage a multi-cloud approach. Already working closely with PolSource team to bring together a very different proposition, enterprise clients by joining our expanded consulting and global engineering coherence, and to become one of the top global players in the salesforce services space. On Tuesday, we announced the acquisition of White-Hat, a niche cybersecurity consultancy based in Israel. White-Hat's expertise, methodologies, and team with talented professionals will intensify cyber defense capabilities and help clients to further improve cyber protection within their platforms. And lastly, we recently closed an acquisition [Inaudible], an analytics consultancy firm with offices in Europe and Asia, serving customers who are growth retail consumer in their area. This acquisition will bring a team of trusted advisors and experts to provide the full spectrum of data and analytics consultancy, including strategy advisory data management, market-leading accelerators, customize an end-to-end delivery across multiple vendor platforms and solutions. We are pleased to acquire these three companies due in part. In conclusion, we're encouraged about the road ahead. During the last twelve months, we proved our leadership position in the digital segment of a very competitive global IT services market. EPAM today is much more adaptable, diverse, and global company with increasingly strong market listings, and all the necessary components of a scalable talent ecosystem which are required for growth as we think about to finally becoming a $5 billion to $10 billion company. With that, let me hand the call over to Jason to provide more specifics in our Q1 results, update to our 2021 business outlook.Jason Peterson -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Ark, and good morning, everyone. We're pleased with our performance this quarter. As Ark mentioned, we delivered strong growth across a broad range of industry verticals and geographies. First-quarter APM generated revenues of $780.8 million, a year-over-year increase of 19.9% on a reported basis and 17.8% in constant currency, reflecting a positive foreign change impact of 210 basis points. Revenues came in higher than previously guided due to stronger demand in the second half of the quarter, combined with our ability to accelerate hiring in response to the improving demand environment. Our industry vertical performance produced strong sequential growth across the majority of the portfolio and by higher-level revenues from both new works at existing clients and new customer relationships established over the last 12 months. Looking at the year-over-year performance across our industry verticals, life science and healthcare grew 31.6%. Growth in the quarter was driven by platform development to support new business models and data and analytics to drive deeper customer insights. Financial services grew 28.3%, growth coming from traditional banking, insurance, and to a lesser degree, wealth management. Growth was driven by our clients' need to transform beyond digital banking to modernize core processes and applications, leveraging the cloud. Software and high-tech grew 20.7% in the quarter. Travel and consumer grew 16.3%, driven by strong growth from our consumer clients, along with a solid and improving performance with retail. Business information and media delivered 6.5% growth in the quarter. Growth in the quarter reflected a tougher comparison with the same quarter last year. Several clients having experienced substantial growth in the first half of 2020 with revenues from those programs generally plateauing late last year. And finally, our emerging verticals delivered 23.6% growth, driven by clients in telecommunications, automotive, and materials. From a geographic perspective, North America, our largest region representing 60.2% of our Q1 revenues grew 20.6% year over year or 19.9% in constant currency. Europe, representing 33.2% of our Q1 revenues grew 16.3% year over year or 10.9% in constant currency. CIS, representing 3.9% of our Q1 revenues grew 21.2% year over year and 28.2% in constant currency. Finally, APAC grew 53.9% year over year or 48.4% in constant currency, and now represents 2.7% of our revenues. Growth in the quarter was driven primarily by clients in financial services. Additionally, the shutdown of economic activity in the region in March 2020 produced a beneficial year-over-year comparison. In Q1, revenue growth across the portfolio was more diverse than in previous quarters. Our top 20 clients growing 12.1%, while clients outside our top 20 grew 25.9%. Additionally, we saw good growth in both existing and new clients. Moving on to income statement, our GAAP gross margin for the quarter was 33.5%, compared to 34.9% in Q1 of last year. Non-GAAP gross margin for the quarter was 34.9%, compared to 35.5% for the same quarter last year. The lower gross margin in the quarter was primarily the result of Q1 2021 having one less available day of capacity -- Q1 2020. Additionally, we're beginning to see some degree of elevated labor costs in certain geographies. GAAP SG&A was 17.5% of revenue and compared to 19.2% in Q1 of last year. Non-GAAP SG&A came in at 15.5% of revenue, compared to 17.6% in the same period last year. SG&A continue -- continues to reflect a lower level of corporate spend, which we believe will tick up as we progress throughout the year. GAAP income from operations was $107.3 million or 13.7% of revenue in the quarter, compared to $87.5 million, 13.4% of revenue in Q1 of last year. Non-GAAP income from operations was $136.9 million or 17.5% of revenue in the quarter, compared to $105.3 million, 16.2% of revenue in Q1 of last year. Our GAAP effective tax rate for the quarter came in at 5.1%, which includes a lower-than-expected level of excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation. Our non-GAAP effective tax rate, which excludes excess tax benefits was 22.7%. Diluted earnings per share on a GAAP basis was $1.86. Non-GAAP diluted EPS was $1.81, reflecting a 26.6% increase over the same quarter in 2020. In Q1, there were approximately 58.8 million diluted shares outstanding. Turning to the cash flow and balance sheet. Cash flow from operations for Q1 was $12.8 million, compared to $63.3 million in the same quarter of 2020. Free cash flow was 1.6 million compared to 34.2 million in the same quarter last year. Lower level of cash flow in the quarter was a result of timing of payments related to our annual variable compensation programs returning to more historic norms. Additionally, income tax payments were higher compared to the same quarter in 2020. We ended the quarter with 1.37 billion in cash and cash equivalents. Q1 DSO was 67 days and compares to 64 days in Q4 2020. 76 days in the same quarter last year. We believe we can continue managing DSO levels in the upper 60s. Moving on to a few operational metrics. We ended the quarter with more than 38,800 engineers, designers, and consultants, a year-over-year increase of 17.3% and a sequential increase of 5.7%. Total headcount for Q1 was 43,450 employees. Utilization was 81.4%, compared to 79.5% in Q1 of last year and 77.9% in Q4 2020. Now let's turn to guidance. We continue to see strong demand across a broad range of our offerings. The elevated demand across the portfolio, combined with improvements in staffing capacity, we are raising our revenue and EPS outlook for 2021. I mentioned during our last earnings call, throughout 2021, we will be investing at elevated levels across the business to support growing demand, and we will continue our expansion into new geographies, underpinning our long-term growth objectives and goal of becoming a large -- both a larger and increasingly global EPAM. Starting with our full-year outlook. Revenue growth will now be at least 29% on a reported basis, and in constant currency terms, will now be at least 28% after factoring in an approximate 1% favorable foreign exchange impact. We now expect approximately 200 basis points of revenue contribution to come from acquisitions we closed in the last 12 months. We expect GAAP income from operations to continue to be in the range of 13.5% to 14.5%, and non-GAAP income from operations to continue to be in the range of 16.5% to 17.5%. As mentioned earlier, our income from operations reflects a higher level of investment in the planned expansion of our capabilities and geographies in 2021. We expect our GAAP effective tax rate to continue to be approximately 12%, and our non-GAAP effective tax rate, which excludes excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation, to continue to be approximately 23%. Earnings per share, we expect GAAP diluted EPS will now be in the range of $7.09 to $7.31 for the full year. Non-GAAP diluted EPS will now be in the range of $7.54 to $7.76 for the full year. We expect weighted average share count of 59 million fully diluted shares outstanding. In Q2 of 2021, we expect revenues to be in the range of 853 million to 861 million, producing a year-over-year growth rate of approximately 35.5% at the midpoint of the range. We expect a favorable impact of FX on revenue growth to be approximately 3%. Lastly, we now expect approximately 250 basis points of revenue contribution to come from acquisitions we closed in the last 12 months. In the second quarter, we expect GAAP income from operations to be in the range of 13.5% to 14.5%, and non-GAAP income from operations to be in the range of 16.5% to 17.5%.  We expect our GAAP effective tax rate to be approximately 11% and our non-GAAP effective tax rate, which excludes excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation, to be approximately 23%. Earnings per share, we expect GAAP diluted EPS to be in the range of $1.76 to $1.83 for the quarter. Non-GAAP diluted EPS to be in the range of $1.88 to $1.95 for the quarter. We expect a weighted average share count of 59 million diluted shares outstanding. Finally, a few key assumptions that support our GAAP to non-GAAP measurements. Stock-based compensation expense is expected to be approximately 21.8 million in Q2, 21.5 million in Q3, and 21.2 million in Q4. Monetization on intangibles is expected to be approximately $3.1 million for each of the remaining quarters. Impact of foreign exchange is expected to be approximately a $1.5 million loss for each of the remaining quarters. Tax-effective non-GAAP adjustments is expected to be around $5.7 million in Q2 and approximately $5.5 million in each remaining quarter. And finally, we expect excess tax benefits to be around 14.2 million in Q2, 2.2 million in Q3 to 8.6 million in Q4. In summary, we are pleased with the high-quality results we delivered in the quarter, which combined with the broad-based strength we see across the business, provide support for strong 2021 performance. Operator, let's open the call for questions. 