  OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the APA Corporation first quarter 2022 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to Gary Clark, vice president of investor relations. Please go ahead, sir.Gary Clark -- Vice President, Investor Relations Good morning, and thank you for joining us on APA Corporation's first quarter 2022 financial and operational results conference call. We will begin the call with an overview by CEO and President John Christmann. Steve Riney, executive vice president and CFO, will then provide further color on our results and outlook. Also on the call and available to answer questions are Dave Pursell, executive vice president of development; Tracey Henderson, senior vice president of exploration; and Clay Bretches, executive vice president of operations. Our prepared remarks will be around 20 minutes in length, with the remainder of the hour allotted for Q&A. In conjunction with yesterday's press release, I hope you've had the opportunity to review our first-quarter financial and operational supplement, which can be found on our Investor Relations website at investor.apacorp.com. Please note that we may discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of the differences between these non-GAAP financial measures and the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in the supplemental information provided on our website.Consistent with previous reporting practices, adjusted production numbers cited in today's call are adjusted to exclude noncontrolling interest in Egypt and Egypt tax barrels. I'd like to remind everyone that today's discussion will contain forward-looking estimates and assumptions based on our current views and reasonable expectations. However, a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from what we discuss today. A full disclaimer is located with the supplemental information on our website. And with that, I'll turn the call over to John. John Christmann -- Chief Executive Officer and President Good morning, and thank you for joining us. The first quarter brought a strengthening in both oil and gas prices to levels unseen since 2014. This quickly shifted the prevailing energy narrative to questions about spare capacity, energy security and whether producers could realistically deliver more reliable and affordable oil and natural gas. These are all very good questions and hopefully represent a more thoughtful outlook for our energy dialogue. At APA, we significantly increased our capital activity coming out of 2021, and we will remain squarely focused on executing on our three-year plan, generating strong free cash flow, delivering on our shareholder return framework and continuing to deleverage our balance sheet. Since the beginning of 2021, we have made tremendous progress with debt reduction, which enabled the initiation of our capital return framework. In that time frame, we have reduced our outstanding bond debt by $3 billion, repurchased $1.1 billion of APA stock or roughly 10% of shares outstanding and increased annualized dividend to $0.50 per share. At current strip prices, we expect to generate approximately $2.9 billion of free cash flow in 2022. Based on our capital return framework, this would imply a minimum of $1.8 billion of return to shareholders. Thus, if commodity prices sustain at these levels, you should expect an acceleration in the pace of share buybacks through the rest of the year. With regard to our operational strategy and three-year capital activity plan, we anticipate no material changes at this time. In Egypt, we have been increasing our rig count over the past year, investing in shorter cycle projects designed to deliver 8% to 10% compounded gross oil production growth over the next three years. In the U.S., a fourth rig, which was contracted in September, recently arrived and has begun operations. This should help return U.S. oil production to a modest rate of growth as planned. Given the substantial supply chain bottlenecks and scarcity of oil service equipment and field personnel, any attempt to increase activity in the U.S. would be logistically challenging and capital inefficient. In the North Sea, our plan calls for a stable drilling program with one floater and one platform rig, which should be capable of broadly sustaining production over the next three years. And lastly, we continue to explore and appraise our two large blocks offshore Suriname, which we believe have the potential to deliver a significant new source of lower carbon intensity oil production. Of equal importance to this investment activity is continuing to reduce emissions throughout our global operations and improving the health and welfare of our employees and the people in the communities where we operate. Turning now to some details of the first quarter. Our results continue to demonstrate the power of our unhedged diversified global upstream oil and gas portfolio. Some of the key highlights for the quarter include: free cash flow generation of $675 million, up 39% compared with $485 million in the preceding quarter. In addition to strong operational cash flows, we realized approximately $1 billion in proceeds from the sale of selected minerals acreage in the Delaware Basin and the monetization of a portion of our shares in Kinetic. We continue to return cash to shareholders through the dividend and ongoing share buybacks. During the first quarter, we repurchased $261 million of APA shares. Since initiating the buyback last October, we have repurchased more than 10% of the company's shares through the end of March at an average price of $29. We believe our stock is a compelling value and remain committed to this program as an important part of our returns framework. We also took another significant step forward in strengthening the balance sheet with $1.3 billion of bond debt reductions during the quarter. In terms of operational highlights, we exceeded our oil production target in the Permian Basin and continue to deliver significant productivity improvements in both the Delaware and Southern Midland Basins. We also announced an exploration discovery at Krabdagu on Block 58 in Suriname. Upstream capital investment in the quarter was approximately $360 million or $30 million below guidance, which was mostly driven by the delay of some activity into the second quarter. Despite the lower first quarter spend, we are increasing full-year capital investment guidance by about 8% to $1.725 billion. Approximately half of this increase is associated with Suriname as we now plan to keep the Noble Jerry Desouza drillship in country following conclusion of operations at the Rasperwell in Block 53. Non-operated spending as well as some changes in our U.S. activity mix account for most of the remaining capital increase. Total adjusted production in the first quarter was 322,000 BOE per day, which was down about 3% from the fourth quarter and in line with expectations. Total U.S. volumes decreased 7% from the fourth quarter, driven primarily by well completion timing in the Delaware Basin Minerals divestiture in early March. U.S. oil production was nearly 70,000 barrels per day and continues to exceed expectations with Permian Basin wells demonstrating excellent performance. This offset some softness in natural gas and NGL production caused by weather events and unplanned third-party downtime. We have been consistent in noting that U.S. production will bottom in the second quarter as an increase in the number of wells placed on production in the second half of the year and incremental activity from a fourth rig should drive volumes higher. That fourth rig is now running in the Delaware Basin, where it is drilling out a previously unfinished six-well pad at DXL in Reeves County. Following this, the rig will mobilize to Alpine High to resume gas and NGL development drilling in the summer. Outside the Permian Basin, one rig is currently delineating the Austin Chalk in Brazos County, where we are in the early stages of flowback on the first three-well pad. Moving to international. First-quarter adjusted volumes increased 8% compared to the fourth quarter driven by the positive impacts of our recently modernized PSC terms in Egypt. Adjusted production in Egypt was just over 68,000 BOEs per day consisting of 57% oil. We deferred a number of high rate uphole recompletions from the first quarter into the second quarter as the producing zones in these targeted wells were still delivering at economic rates. As a result, first quarter Egypt oil production was a bit below expectations. However, we are now seeing a significant uptick as this recompletion work is performed. We are in the process of adding our 13th rig in the Western Desert, with the 14th and 15th rigs expected by midyear as planned. Dave Pursell can provide more color on our Egypt operations during Q&A. In the North Sea, production of 43,000 BOE per day was impacted by unplanned downtime at the Forties Echo platform. This resulted in the loss of 2,300 barrels of oil per day for approximately half of the first quarter, and we expect required repair work will keep these volumes offline through the end of the second quarter. Scheduled turnaround repair and maintenance work will also be conducted at both barrel and Forties through the summer. So we expect North Sea production to decrease for the next two quarters before rebounding in the fourth quarter. Moving on to Suriname. In Block 53, we spread the Rasp per exploration well in late March and are drilling above the target zones at this time. We will update the status of this prospect at the appropriate time. In Block 58, we are focused on drilling a prioritized list of exploration and appraisal wells in the central portion of the block to assess and appraise resource, scope and scale to underpin and optimize a potential first development. At the previously announced Krabdagu discovery, flow testing is complete and we are now in the buildup stage in both tested zones. After we have obtained and analyze this data, we will provide more details. Following conclusion of operations at Krabdagu, the Maersk Valiant will mobilize to the nearby Dico exploration prospect. Before turning the call over to Steve, I'd like to make a few remarks about our ESG progress. We have multiple initiatives underway within our focus areas of air, water and people, and we are piloting and investing in a number of technologies to support the measurement, understanding and reduction of our emissions footprint. In Egypt, we recently completed two projects that are making an immediate and material contribution toward our goal this year of reducing upstream flaring in our Western Desert operations by 40%. I will close by commenting on a frequent question that E&P companies are receiving from industry watchers. That is how will capital investment programs and capital return frameworks change in the context of sustained higher oil and gas prices. As I noted at the beginning of the call, we do not currently anticipate any significant changes to the activity levels set forth in our three-year program. APA remains committed to safe and steady and efficient operations in all of our regions and returning a minimum of 60% of our free cash flow to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. And with that, I will turn the call over to Steve Riney.Steve Riney -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thanks, John. For the first quarter of 2022, under generally accepted accounting principles, APA Corporation reported consolidated net income of $1.88 billion or $5.43 per diluted common share. As is commonly the case, our results include several items that are outside of APA's core earnings. The most significant of these was $1.1 billion of after-tax gains on the divestments of Altus Midstream and the Delaware Basin minerals package. Other material items included a $187 million benefit, related to a release of tax valuation allowance to offset deferred U.S. income tax expense or a $53 million charge for early extinguishment of debt associated with our March bond tender. Excluding these and some other smaller items, adjusted net income for the first quarter was $668 million or $1.92 per diluted common share. In our financial and operation supplement, you can find detailed tables for all of our non-GAAP financial measures, including one for adjusted earnings. Our first-quarter results underscore APA's strong free cash flow generating capacity. The impact of the Egypt PSC modernization on production volumes, combined with the higher commodity price environment, drove a 39% increase in first quarter free cash flow compared to the preceding quarter. Cost inflation has become a popular topic in quarterly earnings calls and for good reason. We embedded a good amount of cost pressure into the budgets we laid out in February. And for the most part, costs are tracking close to that plan. However, one cost issue in the first quarter that was not fully captured in guidance is related to equity-linked compensation. So let me go through a few details on that with you. You may recall that we have multiple equity-linked compensation plans that are denominated in APA shares. As these plans vest, some are paid out in actual shares and some are paid out in cash, we accrue the anticipated cost of these plans each calendar quarter through their various vesting periods. For the payers that pay out in cash, the accounting is a little more complicated. In the fourth quarter of 2021 and now, again, in the first quarter of 2022. These plans had a significant impact on our results for three key reasons, all related to improved underlying business performance and share price performance over the last several months. First, since we accrue the cost of these plans at the quarter end share price, our quarterly cost accrual has been increasing substantially with the near doubling of our share price since the beginning of October. Second, the cumulative number of shares that are accrued but not yet paid out must be mark-to-market at the end of each quarter. The first-quarter results include a large mark-to-market impact again due to the significant share price increase since January 1. Third, as a result of the improved business performance and relative share price, the variable payout plans now appear likely to pay out at a higher level than previously anticipated. So we are increasing the accrual levels accordingly. These stock plans apply to nearly the entire employee base. So some costs will flow to LOE and some to capex, but most will flow through G&A. As a result, G&A is notably above our previous guidance and market expectations. We have revised our G&A guidance for the remainder of this year accordingly. That said, stock price movement due to its unpredictable nature will continue to impact quarterly results beyond our revised guidance. We achieved a significant milestone during the first quarter with the closing of the Altus Midstream Eagle Claw business combination and the monetization of a portion of our ownership in the resulting entity Kinetic Holdings. Accounting rules require that we consolidate Altus' profit and loss through the February 22nd merger date. So you will see a partial quarter for these items reflected on our income statement. From a balance sheet perspective, upon closing of the transaction and reduction of our ownership to a minority interest, we will no longer consolidate Altus' balance sheet. As a result, $1.4 billion of debt and redeemable preferred equity from the 2021 year-end balance sheet are no longer consolidated. This could have a significant positive impact on various APA debt metrics, depending on how you calculate it. Subsequent to the completion of the transaction, APA sold 4 million shares of our Kinetic common stock holdings in March for net proceeds of $224 million. At quarter end, the market value of APA's remaining 8.9 million Kinetic shares was approximately $580 million. At this point, we view Kinetic as a noncore holding and following the expiry of our lockup period in February of 2023, we will evaluate the potential for further monetization of our position. In the meantime, we continue to see this as an attractive investment with a leading Delaware Basin footprint, stable [Inaudible] a strong dividend and attractive near-term growth potential. Turning now to the progress we've made during the quarter on our balance sheet. In addition to the deconsolidation of Kinetic, APA completed two important steps on the path to reducing leverage and maintaining strong liquidity. First, we initiated a tender offer in March for $500 million of outstanding bonds. We upsized the tender to $1.1 billion, with a focus on repurchasing shorter maturity bonds. This extended our average maturity to approximately 16 years and reduced our annual bond interest expense by approximately $50 million. To accommodate the upsized tender we temporarily drew on our revolver, which ended the quarter with a balance of $880 million. By the end of April, however, we reduced the revolver balance to $680 million. By the end of the year, we plan to use a portion of free cash flow to pay off the revolver and to call at par $123 million of bonds maturing in January 2023. We also recently refinanced Apache Corporation's revolving credit facility. The new facilities, which have been moved up to the APA corporation level and had five-year primary terms, consist of a $1.8 billion revolving credit facility and a GBP 1.5 billion letter of credit facility, which will be used for LC postings related to the abandonment obligations in the North Sea. These efforts, along with our robust cash flow generation and deconsolidation of Kinetic have already been recognized by one rating agency. Fitch recently upgraded Apache to investment grade with a BBB- rating and a stable outlook. I would like to close by discussing some changes to our 2022 production guidance, which can be seen in our financial and operational supplement. Our full-year U.S. production guidance is unchanged at this time, with oil volumes continuing to perform well. Reported production guidance for Egypt is down roughly 4%, the majority of which is associated with the impact of higher oil prices on our PSC cost recovery volumes. In the North Sea, we have reduced our full year production outlook by 1,000 BOEs per day, primarily to reflect first-half unplanned downtime. Outside of these production impacts and the activity changes that John spoke of, the only other material change to our full-year guidance is an $85 million increase in G&A expense, which reflects the equity-linked compensation-related accrual impacts previously discussed. Please refer to our financial and operational supplement or follow up with Gary and his team for any questions related to our updated guidance. And with that, I will turn the call over to the operator for Q&A. 