  OperatorGood afternoon. [Operator instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Jud Henry, senior vice president and Head of investor relations for T-Mobile U.S. Please go ahead, sir.Jud Henry -- Senior Vice President and Head of Investor Relations Welcome to T-Mobile's first-quarter 2021 earnings call. On our call today, we have Mike Sievert, our president and CEO; Peter Osvaldik, our CFO; as well as other members of the senior leadership team. During this call, we will make forward-looking statements, which involve a number of risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements. We provide a comprehensive list of risk factors on our -- in our SEC filings, which I encourage you to review.

 



 Our earnings release, investor fact book and other documents related to our Q1 results as well as reconciliations between GAAP and non-GAAP results discussed on this call can be found in the Quarterly Results section of the investor relations website. I'd also like to note that historical results prior to the second quarter of 2020 represent the stand-alone T-Mobile prior to our merger with Sprint. With that, let me turn the call over to Mike.Mike Sievert -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Jud. Hi everybody. Thanks for being here, and may the fourth be with you all. I don't know if you can see us. If you're not watching, we're coming to you live from our T-Mobile Fight Night Octagon here at our T-Mobile headquarters. And I'll tell you, it is great to be here in Bellevue with so many of our leadership team members as we gradually and safely find the right ways to be together in person at work. And even better, we have another great quarter of results to talk about today, results that show incredible work done by this team as we continue to push T-Mobile even further ahead of the competition while doing what we do best: putting customers at the center of what we do. We are off to a terrific start in 2021, from accelerating our network leadership, which is fueling customer momentum, to delivering merger synergies and expanding our addressable markets for growth.

 



 We have again demonstrated that our unique winning formula and balanced approach enables us to grow share while delivering strong financial results. In our increasingly connected world, we recognize our role as stewards of this profitable company and industry while continuing to use our Un-carrier DNA to bring change to wireless and broadband alike to disrupt the status quo, and ultimately, benefit customers. And this quarter, was no exception. We achieved our three core ambitions: first, delivering industry-leading growth by expanding our addressable market and growing customer relationships; second, delivering substantial enterprise value by realizing merger synergies faster and bigger and beginning to transform our business; and finally, positioning the company for long-term success with sustained 5G leadership, our strong and getting stronger brand and the best customer experiences. I'll start off with a few highlights. First, T-Mobile led the industry in net add growth yet again, building on our existing fame for superior value and customer service while making big strides in network perception to fuel our momentum. And we did it while simultaneously delivering better-than-expected service revenues and core adjusted EBITDA. Second, we continue to further expand our 5G leadership to deliver America's largest, fastest and most reliable 5G network, with multiple third-party experts now taking notice and network perception metrics on the rise. This is so great to see because it will translate into overall network leadership as we serve both businesses and consumers. And third, this unmatched 5G advantage is already unlocking new and underpenetrated segments of customers for T-Mobile. We're giving more consumers and businesses the opportunity to experience the best 5G combined with the best value and delivered from the best team. Fourth, we've been busy this year, executing on our growth plan with a number of Un-carrier moves and strategic initiatives. And finally, yes, it's another beat-and-raise quarter for T-Mobile. We beat expectations with continued customer growth, increased profitability and rapid unlocking of merger synergies, which enables us to raise guidance for 2021 just one quarter into the year, something Verizon and AT&T were not confident enough to do despite all of their happy talk on their calls. All right. So let's talk about some of these in a little more detail.

 



 As I mentioned, we led the industry in total net adds in Q1. We delivered 1.2 million postpaid net adds, including 773,000 postpaid phone net adds. And our postpaid phone churn improved sequentially to 0.98%. We've mentioned before how our opportunity to improve the elevated churn from our Sprint base would be a tailwind for our business. And this is already starting to unfold. As we were the only wireless provider to improve churn sequentially as we execute the same worst-to-first playbook that has led us to the industry best churn rates for our T-Mobile-branded customers. This quarter's results are particularly important and show that we continue to make great strides, improving churn for both our T-Mobile and Sprint customers by providing them with best-in-class experiences, while others in the industry saw their churn rates flat to up from Q4. On prepaid, we delivered 151,000 net adds, which were the highest in three years and reflected record-low industry-leading prepaid churn of just 2.78%. As I mentioned, perception is absolutely catching up to reality that T-Mobile is the clear 5G leader, with 5G quickly becoming one of the top things that customers say they're looking for in their next wireless provider. And we're extremely encouraged by our perception trends in the quarter. They showed that our network is increasingly becoming a catalyst for customers to choose T-Mobile. In fact, the percentage of customers who say T-Mobile is the 5G company has increased nearly 120% over the last just year and a half. And we saw an immediate uptick in customers switching to T-Mobile with the launch of Magenta MAX, which provides additional momentum for us to continue to outgrow this industry. As you heard me say before, and I plan to keep reminding you, T-Mobile has the scale and the resources to do something that has truly never been done before: offer the best value and the best network, freeing customers across the country from having to compromise and providing them with our team's award-winning customer service experience on top, which is our secret sauce. This opens the door to further penetrate prime consumers and businesses that require the highest-quality network experience and compelling reasons for them to adopt more premium plans. Another differentiator is that only T-Mobile is operating with a synergy-backed model, which allows us to simultaneously grow customers and profits while also investing big in the business. And with the rapid expansion of free cash flows likely ahead for us, we are positioned to have great strength and flexibility from a balance sheet perspective. OK now, let's talk about those merger synergies and our continued progress on integration for a moment. Last quarter, we shared our initial 2021 guidance: to be more than double the $1.3 billion in synergies that we delivered in 2020. Today, we're already raising our synergy guidance for 2021. This progress includes continuing to migrate Sprint customers to the T-Mobile network to improve their experience, which is key to unlocking synergies. We've already moved 20% of Sprint customers to the T-Mobile network and have really hit our stride in the pace of our migration process. In addition, this is important: we're now carrying approximately 50% of the total Sprint customer traffic on the T-Mobile network. When you include the seamless roaming that we provide those customers to improve their experience, this is twice as much as just last quarter. In Q1, we took another important step forward in our integration process as we transitioned many of the Sprint customers onto our go-forward rate plans. This migration is important for two reasons. First, it brings our Sprint customers closer to having the full Un-carrier experience by giving them the new value proposition with all of the associated T-Mobile benefits. And second, it sets us up for a seamless billing migration in the future. It's important to understand that separating the brand, network, rate plan and billing migrations into discrete events, which can be done at the convenience of the customer and our business plan, that's a unique and powerful feature of our integration approach and one that's already proving its value. As we shared with you on analyst day, we're executing our integration playbook to deliver the merger synergies bigger and faster than originally promised to ultimately provide run rate synergies of $7.5 billion, 25% higher than the original merger plan and over $70 billion on an NPV basis. This will enable us to invest in initiatives to maximize our long-term growth and cash flow generation and to deliver truly innovative, transformational experiences for customers for years to come. Those amazing experiences really begin with the network. T-Mobile is already America's largest, fastest and most reliable 5G network. The country has never seen anything like our network build. We're tracking ahead of schedule, and the results are clearly beginning to differentiate, not just on 5G but on network performance overall. With so much focus on 5G, it is worth noting that with this build, we have already quietly eliminated the legacy advantages that AT&T and Verizon previously enjoyed on LTE, which is where most traffic remains today. In fact, our LTE coverage and performance are essentially the same as AT&T and Verizon now across the country. And with that common foundation in mind, our demonstrable lead in 5G really becomes the differentiating factor in overall network performance. This is putting T-Mobile in the pole position to become the only provider with a network that can kick-start this new era of connectivity by delivering our Ultra Capacity 5G to nearly everyone across the U.S. T-Mobile's extended range 5G now delivers coverage across 1.6 million square miles, reaching roughly 295 million people, offering roughly 33% more geographic coverage than the so-called nationwide 5G of AT&T and Verizon combined, about one-third more than the two of them combined. But with our rapid expansion of Ultra Capacity 5G, that's our game changer. We're rolling it out at an unprecedented pace to deliver the truly transformational speeds and capabilities enabled by 2.5 gigahertz and above. We brought Ultra Capacity 5G to over 100 million people by the end of last year, and we've already expanded that to over 140 million people today. And we're well on our way to covering 200 million people nationwide by the end of 2021. That's this year. In the last month alone, multiple independent third parties, including Ookla, OpenSignal and umlaut gave numerous accolades to T-Mobile's 5G network based on real customer usage from millions of device measurements. This shows that not only does T-Mobile have the fastest 5G but, and this is equally important, as you know, T-Mobile delivers dependability where customers live, work and travel. And umlaut recognized T-Mobile's 5G as the most reliable and the most available. The bottom line is this. We're really starting to pull away from the pack, like we told you we would. Last week, OpenSignal released their latest report, also showing that T-Mobile customers' average 5G download speed increased by 23% just since the beginning of the year, while speeds on other networks stayed virtually unchanged, widening the gap to competitors as T-Mobile now has nearly 50% faster speeds than Verizon and 30% faster speeds than AT&T. This increase is all about our rollout of superfast Ultra Capacity 5G. And as I said earlier, consumers and businesses are taking notice as perception is finally starting to catch up with reality. For consumers, that is reflected in positive early trends around our Magenta MAX plan, giving customers the industry's only truly unlimited plan, putting the full capabilities of our Ultra Capacity 5G in the palm of their hand. The early indicators that we see from Magenta MAX customers underscore that the most discerning customers increasingly consider T-Mobile when we offer the right plan that really showcases our 5G network. And Magenta MAX customers are taking full advantage of that differentiated 5G network with usage levels 40% higher than other 5G customers and a whopping 70% higher than our LTE average usage with more video, music and social media engagement on their smartphones. OK listen, I know I've said a lot about our 5G leadership. And the truth is, I'm not here to convince you that we're well ahead. I think you know that. What will become increasingly clear is that contrary to what you may be hearing from our competitors, T-Mobile is positioned to maintain our 5G leadership for the duration of the 5G era, thanks to our superior spectrum portfolio, our unprecedented deployment momentum and our synergy-backed model. And second, that this will matter greatly to the choices that consumers and organizations make. We have the best portfolio of spectrum and the most mid-band spectrum both today and into the future with our recent C-band purchase. And we're using the latest technologies, like massive MIMO and uplink carrier aggregation to unlock the full potential of Ultra Capacity 5G. The result will be amazing customer experiences that drive brand choices. At our March analyst day, we spent some time unpacking the different growth opportunities we see to expand our addressable markets through new or underpenetrated segments. Well, we aren't wasting any time, as you may have noticed from all of the activity we've announced so far this year. With the rapid deployment of our high-capacity 5G network, we commercially launched our 5G Home Internet offering to more than 30 million households at the beginning of this quarter. Meanwhile, others in the industry are still in the planning phases of what wireless home broadband could look like in the future. For businesses, we saw one of our best-ever quarters for phone net adds in Q1. And more importantly, we see increased engagement around how these 5G capabilities available only from T-Mobile in a meaningful way can really benefit their companies. We're bringing the Un-carrier to the business space and breaking down antiquated constructs just like we did for consumers by increasing our specialized sales force and building tailored products for large enterprises and government customers. This includes our recent WFX launch, an innovative suite of products that are ideally suited to help companies adapt to the hybrid workspace of the future with fully featured secure calling and broadband products and the peace of mind of having unlimited data for those customers who've been handcuffed by the pooled data plans from the other carriers. I mean at a certain level, can you believe that? I mean we drag this industry, kicking and screaming into the unlimited era for consumers, and yet the carriers are still selling pooled, shared and limited data to enterprise customers. All that is about to change because of T-Mobile. We've long said that smaller markets and rural areas, which make up 40% of U.S. households, are a major upside for our business. And we've made major progress there as well as a result of all of our focus. But now we're kicking it all into a higher gear. This quarter, we kicked off plans to add significantly more points of distribution to reach beyond our urban areas, including our innovative new Hometown Experts distribution model. This will create 7,500 new jobs in small towns and rural communities over the next few years, many of them beginning to be filled this year. And we announced that we're building on our decade-long relationship with Google to give customers a broad range of premium Pixel devices, a great messaging experience on Android, which is so needed; and the evolution of our TVision initiative to offer YouTube TV as our premium cable alternative product on our TVision platform. So as I get ready to turn it over to Peter to comment on our financials, I do want to just take a moment to thank our team for delivering just a remarkable quarter while operating in the pandemic and weathering so much uncertainty. We continued to overcome these challenges and delivered the highest total customer growth in the industry while simultaneously delivering strong service revenue, core adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow growth. We continue to execute our unique integration approach to unlock merger synergies. And we continue to offer the nation's largest, fastest and most reliable 5G network, as backed by multiple third parties. And the thing is customers are just starting to notice. With positive momentum on our network perception and many initiatives we have launched across multiple customer segments, we are well positioned to continue profitably growing over time and to deliver on our mission to be the best in the world at connecting customers to their world. OK, now let me turn it over to Peter to comment on our financials and our guidance. Take it away, Peter.Peter Osvaldik -- Chief Financial Officer Awesome. Thanks, Mike. As you can tell, this team is firing on all cylinders. We kicked off 2021 with strong Q1 results and good momentum across the business as we look at our expectations for the full year. We executed on our winning playbook and beat expectations yet again in Q1. So let's briefly touch on these great results. Service revenues grew to $14.2 billion driven primarily by our continued customer growth. Cost of services of $3.4 billion reflects the continued volume of site upgrades to support the rapid deployment of our 5G network with lower merger-related costs than last quarter as timing of these costs will vary each quarter. SG&A expenses were $4.8 billion as we advanced our integration efforts and included benefits from increased synergy realization. Net income of $933 million and diluted earnings per share of $0.74 were both better than consensus expectations and included merger-related costs of $220 million or $0.18 per share on an after-tax basis. Our Q1 effective tax rate amounted to 20.9%, which reflects Q1 rate benefits from stock-based compensation. Core adjusted EBITDA was $5.9 billion, driven by continued service revenue growth and synergy realization. Net cash provided by operating activities totaled $3.7 billion, while cash purchases of property and equipment, including capitalized interest, amounted to $3.2 billion as we continue to aggressively invest in the build-out of our nationwide 5G network. Free cash flow amounted to $1.3 billion, which was fully burdened by merger-related costs of $277 million and increased over Q4 driven by our strong operating performance. Postpaid ARPA or average revenue per account was $132.91, and our postpaid account net additions were nearly double what we saw in Q4. Meanwhile, postpaid phone ARPU was $47.30, in line with our guidance of a roughly 1% sequential decline as a result of lower Sprint customer ARPU arising from rate plan migrations, growing lines per account and lower late and reconnect fees with improving customer payment activity. With the great momentum in the business, we now expect Q1 to be the low watermark for ARPU this year and for ARPU to be above Q1 levels for the remainder of 2021 and be within less than a 1% dilution compared to 2020 on a full-year basis. Taking a look at our financing activity. In January, we issued $3 billion of senior notes that set record low yields for five year, eight year and 10-year tranches in the high-yield market, including issuing 10-year unsecured notes below 3%. Then in March, we issued $3.8 billion of senior notes at an average interest rate of 3.18%, which also allowed us to redeem $2 billion of our 6.5% senior notes, continuing our opportunistic approach to drive down our cost of debt. Also in Q1, we paid $8.9 billion related to our C-band spectrum purchases, funded by cash on hand from some prefunding we had done in Q4 and a portion from our financing in Q1. This excludes our estimated C-band relocation expenses of $1.2 billion, which will be paid over time through 2024. OK, let's talk about how this momentum impacts our outlook for 2021 with another beat-and-raise quarter from T-Mobile. Our guidance reflects the opex investments ahead of us in the network and growth initiatives that Mike discussed while simultaneously delivering on our promise of continued profitable growth. We now expect total postpaid net additions to be between 4.4 million and 4.9 million, up from our original guidance of 4 million and up to 4.7 million, reflecting our continued focus on profitable growth, building on our current momentum and the share-taking opportunities anticipated in the second half of the year with an increasing switching environment. Core adjusted EBITDA is now expected to be between $22.8 billion and $23.2 billion, an increase from our original guidance range of $22.6 billion to $23.1 billion primarily driven by higher merger synergies, along with customer and ARPU growth. This assumes a continued reduction in leasing revenues, now expected to be between $3.7 billion and $3.9 billion for the year versus original expectations between $3.8 billion and $4.0 billion driven by a faster transition of leases and newer device step-ups on older lease promotions. Merger-related costs not included in core adjusted EBITDA are now expected to be between $2.7 billion and $3.0 billion before taxes, primarily driven by network activities compared to original expectations of between $2.5 billion and $3.0 billion before taxes. These costs will continue to be lumpy quarter to quarter, as you saw in Q1 relative to Q4, and we expect a significant sequential increase in Q2 and again in Q3. Net cash provided by operating activities, including payments for merger-related costs, is now expected to be in the range of $13.2 billion to $13.6 billion, up from our original guidance of $13.0 billion to $13.5 billion. We expect cash purchases of property and equipment, including capitalized interest, to be at the high end of the original guidance range of $11.7 billion to $12.0 billion as we continue the robust pace of our 5G deployment and network integration while also realizing procurement savings from our increased scale, enabling our investment dollars to go further. Together, this results in expected free cash flow, including payments for merger-related costs, to be in the range of $5.1 billion to $5.5 billion, higher than prior guidance of $4.9 billion to $5.4 billion, reflecting growth in the strong cash flow-generation capabilities of this business and does not assume any material proceeds from securitization. We continue to expect full-year effective tax rate to be between 24% and 26%. And lastly, we expect higher merger synergies in 2021 of between $2.8 billion and $3.1 billion compared to our original expectations of between $2.7 billion and $3.0 billion driven by strong execution of our merger integration. Altogether, our momentum and execution gives us confidence in 2021 while continuing to invest in our network and the business to unlock the significant expansion in future free cash flow. We're excited about the mid- and long-term guidance that we shared with you at our analyst day, with massive free cash flow generation and free cash flow margins on service revenue better than our peers. We're on track with our plans to unlock significant value for shareholders, including substantial potential share repurchases ahead. All right. Enough for me. Let's get to your questions. You can ask questions via phone or via Twitter. We will start with a question on the phone. Operator, first question, please. 