  OperatorGood day, everyone, and welcome to Pfizer's second-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Chris Stevo, senior vice president and chief investment relations officer. Please go ahead, sir.Chris Stevo -- Senior Vice President and Chief Investment Relations Officer

 



 Thank you, Sylvia. Good morning. It's my pleasure to be welcoming you to Pfizer's second-quarter earnings call for the first time as the head of investor relations at Pfizer. I'm joined today by Dr. Albert Bourla, our chairman and CEO; Frank D'Amelio, our CFO; Mikael Dolsten, president of worldwide research and development and medical; Angela Hwang, group president, Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group; John Young, our chief business officer; and Doug Lankler, general counsel. We'll begin the call with remarks by Albert, followed by a pipeline update from Mikael, and Frank will then give you his thoughts on the numbers and our updated guidance before we open up the call for Q&A. Finally, Albert will come back for concluding comments. We expect this call to last 90 minutes.The materials for this call, as well as all the other earnings-related materials have been posted to the investor relations section of pfizer.com. As you can see on slide three, we will be making forward-looking statements during the call regarding, among other topics, our anticipated future operating and financial performance, business plans and prospects, and expectations for our product pipeline and marketed products, which are subject to risks and uncertainties, as well as the use of non-GAAP financial information. Additional information regarding forward-looking statements and our non-GAAP financial measures is available in our earnings release including under the disclosure notice section and under risk factors in our SEC Forms 10-K and 10-Q. Forward-looking statements on the call speak only as of the call's original date, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any of the statements. With that, I will turn over the call to Dr. Bourla. Albert, please go ahead. 

 



Albert Bourla -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Chris, and I think there was a problem with your line at the last leg, so you can have a look on that. Welcome to your first Pfizer earnings call as our new chief investor relations officer. Hello, everyone. I'm proud to say that Pfizer delivered an outstanding second quarter. Most notably, we delivered extremely strong financial results, even excluding direct lines -- even excluding direct sales and alliance revenue provided by our COVID-19 vaccine. We generated 10% operational revenue growth compared to the prior-year quarter. And I would note that the year ago quarter was also very strong, delivering 6% operational growth for the comparable business. At the same time, we continued to accelerate the production and delivery of the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine. And in collaboration with BioNTech, we have now shipped more than 1 billion doses since last December. This is truly remarkable, especially when you consider that prior to the pandemic, Pfizer produced approximately 200 million doses annually across our entire vaccines portfolio. Let me start with the commentary on some of our biggest growth drivers in the quarter. The Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine contributed $7.8 billion in global revenues during the second quarter, and we continue to sign agreements with governments around the world.

 



 Just last week, we announced that the US government has purchased an additional 200 million doses of the vaccine, bringing the total number of doses to be supplied to the US government under its existing supply agreement to 500 million. This is in addition to the 500 million doses that we agreed to provide to the US government at a not-for-profit price to be donated to the poorest countries in the world. We anticipate that the significant amount of the remaining 2021 vaccine manufacturing capacity will be delivered to middle- and low-income countries where we price in line with income levels or at a not-for-profit price. In fact, we are on track to deliver on our commitment to provide this year more than 1 billion doses or approximately 40% of our total production to middle- and low-income counties and another 1 billion in 2022. Vyndaqel and Vyndamax revenues were up 77% operationally to $501 million globally. Our disease educational efforts in the US continue to support increases in appropriate diagnosis, while the main driver of growth in Japan has been the successful establishment of several referral networks in select areas, resulting in new patient starts. We anticipate these efforts will continue to support a strong trajectory for the franchise. Eliquis continued its strong performance, with revenues up 13% operationally to $1.5 billion. This was led by growth in the US and emerging markets, driven primarily by strength of the clinical profile, ease of use for both patients and clinicians, continued increased adoption in non-valvular atrial fibrillation and overall oral anticoagulant market share gains. Prevnar 13 in the US was up 34% overall to $642 million. This growth was due primarily to higher levels of healthcare activity and wellness visits compared with the prior-year quarter, which was heavily impacted by COVID-19-related mobility restrictions and limitations. Growth in the pediatric indication was also due to year-over-year government processing patterns and was partially offset by lower year-over-year birth rates. Growth in the adult indication was partially offset by the continued impact of the lower remaining eligible unvaccinated population. During the quarter, the US Food and Drug Administration approved Prevnar 20 for adult ages 18 and over for the prevention of both invasive disease and pneumonia caused by the 20 pneumococcal serotypes in the vaccine. I would note that a 15-valent vaccine also recently received FDA approval in adults. However, that approval did not include the pneumonia in the case. We believe the only way to add that indication to the 15-valent vaccine in the US will be to conduct a post-licensure efficacy -- effectiveness trial, which we believe means that for the foreseeable future, Prevnar 20 likely will be the only vaccine with an indication against vaccine type pneumonia for the 20 serotypes. For Ibrance, we continue to be pleased by the double-digit growth in international markets and are encouraged by signs of recovery in several key markets. In the US, Ibrance continues to be the leading CDK4/6 inhibitor, with 83% total patient share and 73% share of first-line metastatic new patient starts. While total prescription volume was stable in the second quarter, paid demand for Ibrance was down due to increased enrollment in our patient assistance program, which we referenced last quarter. This resulted in a second-quarter revenue decline in the US of 7% compared with the year-ago quarter. Inlyta's global revenues were up 29% operational to $257 million, primarily reflecting increased adoption in the US and developed Europe of combinations of certain immune checkpoint inhibitors and Inlyta. Xtandi in the US was up 14% to $303 million, driven by strong demand across all approved indications. Our global biosimilars revenue grew 88% operationally to $559 million, driven by several recent oncology biosimilar launches. As you can see, biosimilars have become a meaningful part of our business while delivering lower-cost patient care options that can help reduce overall healthcare spending levels. Now, let me share two brief updates from our JAK Inhibitor portfolio. We continue to remain confident in the importance of the JAK inhibitor class for appropriate patients with inflammatory diseases given the role of JAK pathways in inflammatory processes. In addition, we have taken a targeted approach to developing selective JAK inhibitors based upon our extensive knowledge of JAK biology, coupled with our medical chemistry capabilities, that suggests the best target for a specific indication. We believe this approach may optimize the benefit-risk profile. Of course, patient safety is of utmost importance, and we continue to monitor all compounds in our portfolio to identify signals both in development, as well as after regulatory approval. Global Xeljanz' revenue were down 9% operationally in the quarter to $286 million, driven primarily by a 15% decline in the US, while prescription volume increased 2%. This revenue decline reflects an unfavorable change in channel mix toward lower-priced channels and continued investments to improve formulary positioning and unlock access to additional patient lives. Also, a negative impact on new patient starts, resulting from an ongoing review by the FDA of safety data from the post-marketing ORAL Surveillance study of Xeljanz in subjects with rheumatoid arthritis who were 50 years of age or older and had at least one additional cardiovascular risk factor. International developed markets achieved 11% operational growth in the same quarter. The FDA recently notified Pfizer that it would not meet the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, the PDUFA, goal date for the supplemental New Drug Applications for Xeljanz, Xeljanz XR for the treatment of adults with active ankylosing spondylitis. No revised PDUFA goal date has been set for these NDAs -- supplementary NDAs. The FDA also recently notified Pfizer that it would not meet the PDUFA goal date for the New Drug Application for abrocitinib for the treatment of adults and adolescents with moderate to severe atopic dermatitis. The FDA cited its ongoing review of Pfizer's post-marketing safety study, ORAL Surveillance, evaluating tofacitinib in patients with rheumatoid arthritis as a factor in the expansion. No revised PDUFA goal has been set by this NDA -- for this NDA. Now, I'm going to touch on the Biden administration's recent executive order on promoting competition. While I believe there may be better alternatives that some of these policies put forward in the executive order, we can agree that fostering competition and lowering cost for patients should be the focus of any regulatory or legislative action. We continue to support more affordable options for patients, like biosimilars, improving the medical program to cap out-of-pocket costs, and also lower cost saving for seniors and making insurance work by requiring that patient's share in rebate savings at the pharmacy counter. We believe these meaningful solutions would have an immediate impact for patients without sacrificing future innovation. Overall, I believe the second quarter was a clear and part of demonstration of the capabilities of the new Pfizer. Looking forward, we intend to build upon these successes by continuing to follow the science, trust in our people and remain focused on delivering breakthroughs for the patients we serve. As such, we continue to expect a revenue CAGR of at least 6% on a risk-adjusted basis through the end of 2025 and double-digit growth on the bottom line. I would note that these projections do not include any potential impact from our COVID-19 vaccine, the recent or subsequent business development activities or potential future mRNA programs. We remain very confident in our ability to achieve these growth rates because of the strength of both our current product portfolio and our R&D pipeline. At the same time, we will continue to pursue business development opportunities with the potential to further enhance our long-term growth prospect. Just last week, we announced a global collaboration with Arvinas to develop and to commercialize ARV-471, an investigational oral product, estrogen receptor protein degrader. The estrogen receptor is a well-known disease driver in most breast cancers. And we are excited to work with Arvinas on the first potential product for breast cancer, which with its encouraging early clinical data has the potential to become a novel hormonal therapy backbone for HR-positive breast cancer. Now, I will turn it over to Mike to speak more about our R&D efforts. And then, of course, Frank will provide financial details on the quarter and our outlook for the remainder of 2021. Mikael?Mikael Dolsten -- President of Worldwide Research and Development and Medical Thank you, Albert. I'm delighted to share some highlights from Pfizer's R&D pipeline, which continues to be one of our greatest strength. Today, I will share updates on eight select programs in which we are pursuing first-in-class breakthrough science, and which have estimated approvals before 2030 and the potential to have a profound impact on millions of patients. Last week, we announced a global collaboration with Arvinas to develop and commercialize ARV-471, potentially the first PROTAC or PROteolysis TArgeting Chimera, estrogen receptor protein degrader. 471 represents breakthrough drug design technology. PROTAC protein degraders efficiently eliminate rather than inhibit disease-causing proteins. To our knowledge, 471, which was designed to be an oral, high-potency estrogen receptor degrader with a favorable safety profile is the only ER-targeting PROTAC degrader in clinical development and has a distinct mechanism action from the many SERDs in development. In the future, novel assets like 471 have the potential to be the new endocrine therapy backbone, either alone or in combination with CDK inhibitors, such as Ibrance, other targeted therapies and/or therapies with novel mechanism of action. Early clinical data show 471 has the potential to be an endocrine therapy of choice across treatment settings in breast cancer. 471 is being evaluated as a treatment for metastatic breast cancer in a phase one dose escalation study, a phase 1b combination study with Ibrance and a phase two monotherapy dose expansion study. Starting in 2022, we expect to initiate phase three studies across lines of therapy in metastatic breast cancer, including in combination with Ibrance, followed by pivotal studies in the early breast cancer setting. Let me share some of the preclinical data that has us excited. The chart on the left shows 471 demonstrated impressive antitumor activity in combination with Ibrance/palbociclib in preclinical studies. In the phase one interim analysis was 21 patients, 471 demonstrated a compelling efficacy signal in heavily pretreated patients, the majority with prior fulvestrant treatment and all with prior CDK4/6 inhibition treatment. The images on the right show one patient on 471 monotherapy who had a confirmed partial response of the four cycles with a 51% reduction in target lesion size, as indicated by the arrows. Two patients had unconfirmed partial responses, and one patient demonstrated stable disease with more than 50% target lesion shrinkage. Five paired tumor biopsies demonstrated ER degradation up to 90%, with an average of 62%. The next program is ROBO2, details of which we have not shared previously. No disease-specific treatment are currently available for focal segmental glomerulosclerosis or FSGS for short. We have developed in collaboration with Boston University and Boston Medical Center a potentially novel and first-in-class disease modifying biological therapy comprising a SLIT-2 ligand antibody Fc trap that lowers activation of the ROBO2 receptor for treating FSGS, as well as adjacent renal glomerulopathies. Preliminary results from an interim analysis of our ongoing phase 2a study in adult patients with steroid-resistant FSGS demonstrated promising data with a statistically significant and clinically meaningful reduction in urine protein to creatine ratio or UPCR. We are advancing the program to potentially demonstrate proof of concept in '22 and preparing for pivotal studies. This chart shows the change in UPCR, a marker of renal function, from baseline in steroid treatment resistant patients in A Phase 2a study. There was a favorable reduction in proteinuria at 13 weeks, based on data from approximately half of the first dose cohort of the study. Please note, after stopping the treatment as per study protocol, the UPCR deteriorated, indicating the need for continuous therapy. Treatment every two weeks was well tolerated with no significant safety signals to date. Next, let's turn to our gene therapy programs in hemophilia A and B and Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Pfizer continues to advance the broadest late-stage gene therapy portfolio of potentially transformational treatment. We expect phase three interim analysis for all three programs in '22. In a phase 1/2 hemophilia A study, we have seen durable expression of Factor 8 through 78 weeks, with an annual bleed rate in the first 52 weeks of zero. In a phase 1/2 hemophilia B study, we have seen sustained expression of Factor 9 activity into year four of the phase 1/2 long-term follow-up study, with an annual bleed rate of less than one. In a phase 1b Duchenne muscular dystrophy study, statistically significant expression of mini-dystrophin and a 35-point increase in the North Star Ambulatory Assessment score have been observed. Now, we'll turn to our Lyme disease vaccine, the only active Lyme vaccine candidate in clinical development today, being co-developed with Valneva. The ongoing phase two study, which completed recruitment of adult and pediatric participants last week, will evaluate the optimal vaccination schedule for use in phase three. We expect potential proof of concept in January '22 and a phase three study in the first half of '22. This chart shows that more than 90% of subjects seroconverted to all six serotypes with a three-dose vaccination schedule at zero, two and six months in the phase 2b study, demonstrating a favorable immune response. Our respiratory syncytial virus vaccine is the most advanced bivalent protein-based vaccine with phase two data published, showing high neutralization titers against both RSV A and B subtypes, which has not been demonstrated in clinical development by a monovalent prefusion F vaccine. We have been advancing these assets for both adults through direct vaccination and infants through maternal immunization. Today, I will focus on adults. In 2020, we initiated a phase 2a study to evaluate the safety, immunogenicity and efficacy of the recombinant RSV pre-fusion vaccine in a virus challenge model in healthy adults, 18 to 50 years of age. I will show you data on the next slide, which we plan to submit for peer-reviewed publication soon. Results from a phase two challenge study of 62 subjects show the vaccine was 100% effective against mild-to-moderate symptomatic infection. And most participants in the study experienced minimal to no side effects. As a performance benchmark, the Ad26.RSV preF vaccine showed 52% observed efficacy in the same human challenge model. In this slide, we show very favorable protective changes of the vaccine on viral load, left side, and in reducing drastically RSV disease severity, right side. Based on these overwhelmingly positive data, we will accelerate the development of our RSV vaccine in adults. We plan to initiate a global phase three trial in the third quarter and hope to conclude the study swiftly in part due to the recent spike in RSV infections reported by CDC. The swift delivery of the world's first mRNA-based vaccine made a scientific opportunity of mRNA technology clear. Our strategy to advance and unlock the full potential of mRNA is focused in three core areas. We're strengthening the core COVID-19 vaccine franchise, growing an infectious disease vaccine pipeline, and exploring therapeutic areas, like rare disease and oncology, with the strongest potential. Let's start with the mRNA flu vaccine, which we began working on with BioNTech in 2018. Having a flu vaccine with much better efficacy, better T cell, and innate immune responses and more timely manufacture soon after strains are known could dramatically change trajectory of disease. We are projected to start first in human trial for a modified RNA or modRNA flu vaccine in the third quarter subject to regulatory approval. Preclinical studies were performed with a first-generation modified mRNA tetravalent flu vaccine, and the data were compared to data from a marketed FLUAD vaccine. Immunogenicity in mice for a first-generation modRNA flu candidate across the 2018-19 northern hemisphere strains were higher or as high as the trivalent adjuvanted subunit vaccine. We are encouraged by these data and look forward to progressing this program. We now turn to our COVID-19 vaccine program in collaboration with BioNTech. The Delta variant, which is the most transmissible we have yet seen, is expanding rapidly worldwide and now represent approximately 83% of sequence cases in the US We continue to believe it is likely that the third dose booster may be needed within six to 12 months after full vaccination to maintain the highest level of protection. And studies are underway to evaluate the safety and immunogenicity of a third dose. We are in ongoing discussion with regulatory agencies regarding a potential third dose boost of current vaccines, and assuming positive results, anticipate an emergency use authorization submission as early as August. Pending regulatory approval, we'll also plan to start an immunogenicity and safety study in August to evaluate an updated version of our vaccine, specifically designed to target the Delta variant. Here, we show initial data from a small number of patients receiving a third dose of existing vaccine. We observed a significant boost in utilizing antibodies following a third dose of the current vaccine for both wild type and the Beta variant. At eighht months post dose two, antibody levels start to decline from earlier peak. In our initial analysis, a third dose given more than six months after the second dose elicited neutralizing antibodies, which are more than five times higher than the wild type and more than 10 times higher against the Beta variant than of the two primary doses. The third dose elevates the neutralizing antibodies in our laboratory studies up to 100x higher levels post dose three compared to pre-dose three. Just as we saw in the analysis of neutralizing antibodies from those in the original phase three trials, the levels in the older population were comparable to the younger population. Here, we show new breaking data from a small number of participants that the third dose boost with the current vaccine elicited neutralizing titers that when tested against the Delta variant were more than fivefold post dose two in younger people and more than 11-fold post dose two in older people. Receiving a third dose more than six months of the vaccination, when protection may be beginning to wane, was estimated to potentially boost the neutralizing antibody titers in participants in this study to up 100 times higher post dose three compared to pre-dose three. These preliminary data are very encouraging as Delta continues to spread. Finally, let's turn to our potentially first-in-class COVID-19 antiviral protease inhibitor. If successful, our protease inhibitor has the potential to provide patients infected with COVID-19 with a new oral therapy that could be prescribed for a five-day treatment course at the first sign of infection before patients are hospitalized or in critical care. For patients who are in close contact with someone who contracts COVID-19, we will study both five and 10-day post-exposure prophylaxis courses. The goal is to reduce SARS-CoV-2 viral load, thereby hopefully decreasing or preventing symptoms of COVID-19 and minimizing the risk of hospitalization. In July, we initiated a Phase 2/3 trial to evaluate the efficacy, safety and tolerability of the orally administrated protease inhibitor in participant with COVID-19. If successful, we project a potential US Emergency Use Authorization submission in the fourth quarter. Our protease inhibitor exhibits potent, selective in vitro antiviral activity against SARS-CoV-2 and other coronaviruses and potentially all currently known COVID-19 variants. It also has demonstrated a robust preclinical antiviral effect on cells and in SARS-CoV-2 infected animals, enabled by selectivity that is more than 100 times higher for coronavirus 3CL proteases than human proteases. The chart on the left shows robust dose-dependent reductions in disease microscopical scores in mice. In phase one human studies today, we have seen desirable drug exposure, good tolerability and no safety findings up to a dose of 500 milligrams twice a day over 10 days in healthy volunteers. The chart on the right of the phase one pharmacokinetic study shows high drug exposure over the entire treatment period, exceeding greater than five times exposure predicted to inhibit SARS-CoV-2 viral replication. This concludes our review of eight selected breakthrough programs among many more to come this decade. Now, let me turn it over to Frank.Frank DAmelio -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Mikael. I know you've seen our release, so let me provide a few highlights regarding the financials. The COVID-19 vaccine again had a dramatic positive impact on our quarterly results, and Albert has already addressed the key points on the COVID-19 landscape. Looking at the income statement. Revenue and adjusted cost of sales was significantly impacted by COVID-19 vaccine sales and the associated 50% gross profit split with BioNTech, which we recognize on the cost of sales line. Revenue increased 86% operationally in the second quarter of 2021, driven by COVID-19 vaccine sales and solid performance from a number of our other key growth drivers. And looking at the revenue growth excluding the COVID-19 vaccine contribution from direct sales and alliance revenues, I want to reiterate what Albert said in that we saw a continuation of solid performance from the business again this quarter, delivering 10% operational growth despite a negative 4% impact from price. This nicely supports our projected revenue CAGR of at least 6% through the end of 2025. Of course, there will be some variability in quarterly growth rates due to a variety of factors, but we continue to expect at least 6% through 2025. There was no impact from the number of selling days in the quarter as compared to the year ago period, like we saw in our first quarter, where we had more selling days compared to the year ago period. I'd remind you that the offset to this imbalance will be seen in the fourth-quarter results, where we have fewer selling days as compared to the year ago quarter. For the full year, this results in essentially the same number of selling days in 2021 as 2020. The adjusted cost of sales increase shown here reduced this quarter's gross margin by 19 percentage points compared to the second quarter of 2020, which primarily reflects the impact of the COVID-19 vaccine, gross profit split and applicable royalty expenses, in addition to much smaller impacts from foreign exchange and product mix. Adjusted SI&A expenses increased, owing to a more normalized level of promotional and sales force activity, along with some impact from foreign exchange. The increase in adjusted R&D expense this quarter was driven by increased investments in the COVID-19 vaccine and antiviral programs, as well as other programs within our pipeline. Given the tax effect of increased COVID-19 vaccine revenue, our tax rate [Audio gap] which will impact our guidance, which I will speak to in a minute. Reported diluted EPS for the quarter was up 58% compared to the year ago quarter, while adjusted diluted EPS grew 73% for the quarter. Foreign exchange movements resulted in a 6% benefit to revenue, as well as a 6% benefit or $0.03 to adjusted diluted EPS. Now, let's move to our revised 2021 guidance. We've again provided total company guidance, which includes the business with the COVID-19 vaccine, and then we provided some additional subledger detail on our assumptions regarding the projected COVID-19 vaccine contribution. So you can also see our projection for the business without the COVID-19 vaccine. Our revenue projection has increased. And we now expect it to be in the range of $78 billion to $80 billion, with the COVID-19 vaccine revenue for the year being projected to be approximately $33.5 billion based on contracts signed through mid-July. I note that this projection does not include the doses with our contract with the US government announced last week. For adjusted cost of sales, the range has increased to between 39% to 40%, which incorporates the incremental anticipated COVID-19 vaccine revenue, which has a significantly higher cost of sales due to the gross profit split with BioNTech as compared to the rest of the business. The projected COVID-19 vaccine revenue as a percentage of total company revenue at the midpoint has increased to 42% as compared to 36% in our previous 2021 guidance. On adjusted SI&A, we have made a small increase to the projection. We now expect $11.5 billion to $12.5 billion. In addition, we increased our adjusted R&D guidance range to $10 billion to $10.5 billion to incorporate anticipated spending on incremental COVID-19-related programs and other mRNA-based projects that are not part of the BioNTech collaboration. Given the tax effect of increased COVID-19 vaccine revenues, we are increasing our projected tax rate for the full year to approximately 16%. This yields an increased adjusted diluted EPS range of $3.95 to $4.05 or 77% growth, at the midpoint compared to 2020, including an expected 4% benefit from foreign exchange. Let me quickly remind you of some assumptions and context on the projected COVID-19 vaccine contribution and our collaboration agreement. As discussed earlier, the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine collaboration construct is a 50-50 gross profit split. Pfizer books the vast majority of the global collaboration revenue, except for Germany and Turkey, where we receive a profit share from BioNTech, and we do not participate in the China region. We now expect that we can manufacture up to 3 billion doses in 2021, subject to continuous process improvements, expansion of current facilities and adding new suppliers and contract manufacturers. As of mid-July, we have contracted for approximately 2.1 billion vaccine doses for delivery in 2021, which drove our projection of approximately $33.5 billion in revenue for the year. Our cost of sales for the COVID-19 vaccine revenue continues to include manufacturing and distribution costs, applicable royalty expense, as well as a payment to BioNTech, representing the 50% gross profit split. We continue to expect that the adjusted income before tax margin for the COVID-19 vaccine contribution to be in the high 20s as a percentage of revenue. This margin level also includes the anticipated spending on additional mRNA programs. Let me add that if we contract the delivery of additional doses during the year, we will provide a guidance update in our subsequent earning releases. If we remove the projected COVID-19 vaccine contribution from both periods, you will see that we slightly increased the 2021 revenue range to $45 billion to $47 billion, representing approximately 7% operational revenue growth at the midpoint. In terms of adjusted diluted EPS, without the contribution from the COVID-19 vaccine, we have increased the range to be between $2.55 and $2.65 for the year, which represents approximately 11% operational growth at the midpoint. These growth rates are all consistent with how we've been publicly positioning the business post the Upjohn separation. And going forward, we will continue to maintain a prudent stance toward our capital allocation activities, with the opportunities for deployment shown here on this slide. In summary, a strong quarter and first half of the year, and we have increased our revenue and EPS guidance for the remainder of the year. In addition, we've had pipeline advances and just completed a very promising business development agreement with Arvinas. I'll now turn it over to Chris to start the Q&A session.Chris Stevo -- Senior Vice President and Chief Investment Relations Officer Thank you, Frank. Operator, if we could have the first question, please. 