
OperatorGood afternoon and welcome to the Hologic Fourth Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. My name is Sarah and I am your operator for today's call. This conference is being recorded. All lines have been placed on mute.I would now like to introduce Mike Watts, Vice President, Investor Relations and Corporate Communications to begin the call. Please go ahead, sir.Michael Watts -- Vice President, Investor Relations and Corporate CommunicationsThank you, Sarah. Good afternoon and thanks for joining us for Hologic's fourth quarter fiscal 2021 Earnings Call. With me today are Steve MacMillan, the company's Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Karleen Oberton, our Chief Financial Officer and Ryan Simon, our new Vice President, Investor Relations.Our fourth quarter press release is available now on the Investors section of our website. We also will post our prepared remarks to our website shortly after we deliver them today. And a replay of this call will be archived through December 3.Before we begin, I'd like to inform you that certain statements we make today will be forward-looking. These statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied. Such factors include those referenced in the safe harbor statement included in our earnings release and in our filings with the SEC.Also during this call, we will be discussing certain non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation to GAAP can be found in our earnings release. One of these non-GAAP measures is organic revenue, which we define as constant currency revenue excluding the divested Blood Screening business and revenue from acquired businesses owned by Hologic for less than one year.Finally, any percentage changes we discuss will be on a year-over-year basis, and revenue growth rates will be in constant currency unless otherwise noted.Now I'd like to turn the call over to Steve MacMillan, Hologic's CEO.Stephen P. MacMillan -- Chairman, President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you Mike, and good afternoon everyone. We are pleased to discuss our strong financial results for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021. Revenue was $1.32 billion, and non-GAAP earnings per share was $1.61. Both figures significantly exceeded our guidance.Since this quarter marked the end of our fiscal year, we want to highlight some annual numbers and themes today. First the numbers. For the year, total revenue was $5.63 billion, up 47% versus 2020. Non-GAAP EPS was $8.41, more than double the prior year. Some really big numbers, and a truly impressive performance that was driven by our COVID test sales, as well as the recovery of our core women's health businesses. Along these lines, if you back out COVID test sales, as well as revenue from COVID-related products such as instruments and collection kits, we grew about 12% in the quarter, a very nice start versus the long-term guidance of 5% to 7% that we introduced in our last call. So we believe we are well-positioned for success regardless of the future direction of the pandemic. If it drags on, we have shown that we can respond aggressively and generate financial upside. For example, since the beginning of the pandemic we have provided more than 130 million highly accurate COVID tests to our customers in more than 50 countries. And when the pandemic subsides, we can rely on a base business that has never been stronger or more diversified than it is today.Now let's turn to those annual themes. We want to focus on the strengthening of our major businesses over the last 12 months, as well as two very important social initiatives that help improve health access and equality. We're so proud of everything that Hologic has done to help fight the COVID pandemic. And the resulting financial success has made us a significantly stronger company for the future. Our core businesses are more diverse, with more growth drivers, than ever before. Our R&D pipelines are producing innovative new products and our commercial organizations are fully engaged. And our international business has emerged as a consistent growth driver with passionate teams on the ground who are building relationships and market presence all around the world. On top of all this, we have used the strong cash flow we are generating from COVID test sales to acquire companies that we expect to generate more than $150 million in revenue in 2022. Although these acquisitions are slightly dilutive to near-term EPS, we expect them to accelerate our top line growth rate.Now let's get into the specifics by division. First, in Diagnostics, our Panther footprint continues to grow as we respond to the pandemic. In our fourth quarter, we placed 167 Panther instruments worldwide, and about 650 for the year, well ahead of what we originally forecast. Our Panther installed base currently stands at more than 1,500 in the US, and almost 2,900 worldwide. Remarkably, this represents a two-thirds increase in our total installed base since the end of fiscal 2019, when we had about 1,700 instruments in the field. And looking forward to 2022, we continue to see strong demand for additional placements globally. Utilization of this growing footprint and leveraging our robust portfolio of 19 assays will be key to driving the business forward in a post-COVID world. Toward this end, in 2021 we signed up more new assay business in the US than ever before. While our legacy women's health assays are leading the way, we also expect newer assays to make material contributions. For example, sales of our vaginosis panel almost doubled to nearly $30 million in 2021. We expect significant growth in 2022 as well, which would make this product our most successful Diagnostics launch ever, aside from COVID.In addition, we completed the back-to-back-to-back acquisitions of Biotheranostics, Diagenode and Mobidiag in 2021, our first diagnostic acquisitions in nearly a decade. These deals are broadening our product offering and customer base, and strengthening our R&D capabilities around the world. While still in the early innings, Biotheranostics continues to exceed expectations, with sales of more than $16 million in our fourth quarter. In addition, the broad European launch of the Novodiag system represents a meaningful, early achievement in our integration process, and we have already secured some encouraging customer wins. We are excited about opportunities to invest in these businesses in the near term, and expect them to accelerate our top line growth in the years to come.Second, in Breast and Skeletal Health, we are well-positioned for fiscal year 2022 and beyond. Our Genius 3D mammography systems remain the core of our business, and our market share remains very high. Despite COVID pressures, we placed almost 950 3D units in the United States in 2021. We now have a domestic installed base of almost 8,700, which we can build on with new software and hardware upgrades. At the same time, our business is now more balanced than ever as we operate across the entire continuum of breast healthcare, from screening and diagnosis through surgery and treatment. As a result, we are now less susceptible to the boom-and-bust cycle of years past, and better able to capitalize on opportunities as demand continues to recover from the headwinds created by the pandemic.Third, in our Surgical division, we are executing on our plan to broaden the division from a two product hysteroscopy business to a more diverse provider focused on the OB/GYN. In fiscal 2021, we broadened our portfolio by adding Acessa, a laparoscopic fibroid removal system used to treat larger, more complicated fibroids that MyoSure cannot reach. We are pleased that insurance coverage for the Acessa procedure has steadily expanded, and with this tailwind, we expect to grow Acessa into a third important surgical brand alongside MyoSure and NovaSure.Taking another step forward, we are also very excited about the recent signing of an agreement to purchase Bolder Surgical, which offers additional laparoscopic devices. We expect this deal to close later this calendar year. Bolder offers a portfolio of advanced energy, vessel sealing surgical devices currently marketed primarily in the pediatric space. Once the deal is closed, we expect to again leverage our strong customer relationships to grow Bolder sales in the OB/GYN market, which we estimate to be five times the size of the pediatric market. Bolder and Acessa represent solid examples of executing against our tuck-in acquisition strategy, using our strong cash flow to add products that leverage our existing channel strength and accelerate our growth.Fourth, let's discuss our International business, which was growing nicely before COVID, but has become even stronger thanks to our pandemic contributions. Even excluding COVID, our International revenue has nearly doubled in just five years, and the business is positioned to continue its impressive string of double digit core growth. I recently had the pleasure of being with Jan Verstreken's leadership team in Dubai as they made plans to kickoff fiscal 2022. It was inspiring to see the deep talent that Jan has assembled, and the passion for women's health that helps them build and strengthen commercial relationships. I saw a business benefiting from tremendous leadership, and from years of dedication transitioning from a distribution model to direct, on-the ground commercial expertise. Further, the acquisitions of Diagenode, based in Belgium, Mobidiag, based in Finland, and Somatex, based in Germany, provide tailwinds to our international business going forward. Since the close of each deal, dozens of team members, including technical experts and leadership, have made numerous trips across Europe and across the Atlantic to ensure successful integration of these companies, all while dealing with strict COVID protocols. Truly a global, collaborative effort that we expect to accelerate growth for years to come.Now let's shift gears and discuss two groundbreaking social initiatives that we launched this year, and that were made possible by our financial success. These efforts represent unique ways that we can extend our Purpose, Passion and Promise even further for the benefit of women's health. First, in May of this year, we launched Project Health Equality, a $20 million dollar initiative to address the structural and cultural barriers that prevent Black and Hispanic women in the US from receiving the same quality healthcare as white women. By teaming up with leading non-profit groups focused on minority health, our goals are to drive culturally competent care, improve public health policy, increase access, and ultimately decrease disparities that lead to disproportionate mortality rates for Black and Hispanic women.Second, in September, we released the findings of our inaugural Hologic Global Women's Health Index. As leaders in diagnostics, we understand the importance of data, and know that what we can measure, we can improve. We also know that women's health has been overlooked for centuries. That's why we created the Index, the first to statistically represent the health of 2.5 billion women and girls worldwide. Developed in partnership with Gallup, the Hologic Global Women's Health Index is an unprecedented, in-depth examination of critical markers for women's health, by country and territory, and over time. Notably, 60% of those surveyed, equating to about 1.5 billion women and girls, had not been tested in the last year for four common diseases that affect women's health cancer, diabetes, high blood pressure and sexually transmitted infections. As we share this kind of data with international leaders and health organizations, our goal is to provide an actionable, science-backed data roadmap for improving life expectancy and quality of life for women around the world.While we have made a tremendous impact around the world with our innovative products, the Hologic Global Women's Health Index may ultimately prove to be our most important accomplishment for women's health. We hope that sharing a little about these initiatives is helpful to all our investors, but especially those who are focused on ESG issues. We also are pleased to share that we recently received some recognition for our efforts, as Investor's Business Daily just named us one of their top 100 ESG stocks.Before I turn the call over to Karleen, let me wrap up by saying that based on the stabilization, growth, and diversification of our core businesses, we expect to grow revenue at least in line with our 5% to 7% long-term guidance in 2022. And on top of this, we have the potential for significant financial upside based on our sales of COVID tests. To state the obvious, our success in 2021 and our optimism for 2022 would not be possible without our 6,000 plus employees. I am incredibly proud of them for their continued dedication and resilience. In a year marked by day-to-day, hour-by-hour management of highly variable pandemic demands, Hologic continues to make an enormous impact on humanity.As I visit Hologic sites and talk to employees, the sense of pride, morale and engagement is palpable. The belief in our mission to enable healthier lives everywhere, every day is real. I personally have never been more proud or excited for our organization. As a reflection of our Global Leadership Team's gratitude, in the fourth quarter we provided all our employees a special, one-time cash bonus regardless of function and level. In an environment where finding and developing talent is increasingly challenging, we've strengthened our talent across all levels of the organization with individuals who embody our Purpose, Passion and Promise. To all of you around the world, thank you.Now let me hand our call over to Karleen.Karleen Oberton -- Chief Financial OfficerThank you Steve, and good afternoon everyone. We are very pleased to share fourth quarter results that significantly exceeded our guidance. In our last earnings call, we said that while we were forecasting conservatively, we were well prepared to generate upside if COVID testing demand increased due to the Delta variant. And that's exactly what happened. Increased COVID test sales in the fourth quarter more than compensated for macro headwinds that have affected many medtech companies recently. Our fourth quarter performance demonstrates that we are in a strong position regardless of how COVID evolves. We benefit from our invaluable testing contributions if the pandemic drags on, or from a strong base business when it wanes.In the fourth quarter, revenue and EPS were down compared to the prior year, when COVID-19 testing volumes were near their peak. Total revenue of $1.32 billion declined almost 3%, and 6% organically. But these figures mask the solid recovery of our base businesses. As Steve said, if you back out COVID assay revenue, as well as collection kits, instruments and ancillaries that are shared by our COVID and other tests, revenue grew by 12% organically. This growth, which compares favorably to the 5% to 7% long-term guidance we provided last quarter, was driven by resilience across all our divisions, despite utilization pressure from the Delta variant and customer staffing shortages.EPS of $1.61 in the fourth quarter was down 22% compared to the prior year, as expected. But earnings exceeded the midpoint of our guidance by about 68%. Underlying this, our cash flow conversion remains tremendous, allowing us to continue pursuing tuck-in M&A and share repurchase, which I'll touch on in a moment.Before I do that, let me provide some detail on our divisional revenue results. To provide a more complete picture of our performance, I will at times compare our results to both 2020 and 2019, as well as exclude the impact of COVID-19 where applicable.In Diagnostics, global revenue of $836.8 million, declined 11.5% compared to the prior year. However, excluding COVID assay sales and related items, worldwide Diagnostics revenue increased 5%. Although COVID testing revenue declined compared to the prior year, it still far exceeded our expectations, as the Delta variant surged throughout the quarter. In Q4 2021, we shipped about 21 million COVID tests to customers, generating assay revenue of $443 million globally. Demand in the United States was robust and represented about two-thirds of total COVID assay revenue. This dynamic highlights the breadth of our Panther installed base, our commitment to respond to customer needs, and our flexibility to capture testing demand wherever and whenever it occurs.To better understand the underlying performance of our non-COVID molecular business, I will again exclude COVID assay sales and related ancillary items. If we do this, we see that base molecular revenue grew about 6.5% organically in the fourth quarter. Compared to the same quarter of 2019, molecular grew about 10%. Rounding out Diagnostics, cytology and perinatal grew 3% compared to the prior year. But compared to 2019, these businesses were still down low-single digits, as well woman visits have not yet fully recovered from the pandemic.In Breast Health, global revenue of $334.2 million grew 15%, as the business rebounded from a weak prior year period and showcased its increasing diversity in the face of the latest Delta surge. Both breast imaging and interventional business increased, with imaging growing 12% and interventional up 27%. Furthermore, our strategy to increase recurring revenue continues to pay off, as global service revenue was approximately 40% of the division's total in the quarter, nearly twice as large as global gantry sales.In Surgical, fourth quarter revenue of $122 million grew 21%. This strong performance was driven by MyoSure, which had another impressive quarter, growing in the mid-teens. While surgical procedures were depressed in August and September, the impact was far less than what we experienced at the beginning of the pandemic. In fact, compared to 2019 levels, Surgical was up mid-single digits. Further, we continue to add products to the bag of our best-in-class sales force. The acquisition of Acessa and agreement to acquire Bolder set us up nicely for fiscal 2022 and beyond.Lastly, in our small Skeletal business, revenue of $23.6 million increased 26% compared to the prior year period, and mid-single-digits compared to 2019.Now let's move on to the rest of the P&L for the fourth quarter. Gross margin of 69.4% exceeded our forecast, driven by higher-than-expected COVID-19 testing volumes in the period. Compared to the prior year, gross margin declined 480 basis points. Total operating expenses of $353.2 million increased 28% in the fourth quarter, but recent acquisitions contributed about a third of this increase. In addition, we deliberately reinvested for future growth with incremental spending in R&D and marketing, spent $9 million on the one-time employee bonus that Steve mentioned, and made a $10 million donation to our charitable fund in the quarter. Finally, our non-GAAP tax rate in the quarter was 21.5%, consistent with prior periods. Putting all this together, operating margin declined 1,120 basis points versus the prior year period, but came in above our forecast at a very healthy 42.5%. Net margin also declined 880 basis points, but was a very strong 31.6%. Non-GAAP net income finished at $415.7 million, and non-GAAP earnings per share were $1.61, far above the top end of our forecast.Before we cover our 2022 guidance, I'll touch on a few other financial metrics. Cash flow from operations was $465 million in the fourth quarter. This completed our best ever cash flow year, as we generated more than $2.3 billion of operating cash in 2021. These strong cash flows continue to give us tremendous financial and strategic flexibility. For example, in the fourth quarter we agreed to acquire Bolder Surgical for $160 million. And although we did not repurchase any shares in our fourth quarter, we have bought back more than a million shares so far in the first quarter of 2022.Finally, I should mention that we recently refinanced our Credit Agreement. This further strengthened our balance sheet and financial flexibility by extending the maturity date to 2026, increasing our revolver's borrowing capacity to $2 billion, and lowering our borrowing costs. Based on our strong operational performance, we had $1.17 billion of cash on our balance sheet at the end of the fourth quarter, and our leverage ratio was 0.6 times. We intend to continue using our cash on division-led, tuck-in acquisitions and share repurchases that improve our top and bottom line growth rates. Finally, ROIC was 32.6% on a trailing 12-month basis, a significant increase of 1,410 basis points.Before we open the call for questions, let me discuss our financial expectations for the first quarter and full-year of fiscal 2022. Although the pandemic remains highly unpredictable, and we are not immune from the supply chain challenges you've been hearing about, we believe we have good visibility into the recovery of our base businesses, as well as a valuable hedge to COVID-19 outbreaks with our testing revenue. In the first quarter of fiscal 2022, we expect strong financial results again, with total revenue in the range of $1.1 billion to $1.15 billion. For all of fiscal 2022, we expect total revenue in the range of $3.75 billion to $4.00 billion, significantly exceeding our pre-pandemic sales. To help with your constant currency modeling, we are assuming foreign exchange headwinds of approximately $2 million in the first quarter of 2022 and $25 million for the full year.In terms of our divisions, we expect Breast and Skeletal Health, Surgical and core Diagnostics, excluding COVID effects, to grow in line with the 5% to 7% guidance we provided last quarter. In Diagnostics, molecular should continue to lead the way, based on our larger Panther installed base, uptake of new assays like our vaginosis panel, international expansion opportunities, as well as the recent change in chlamydia gonorrhea screening guidelines that supports opt-out testing. In Breast Health, we have quietly been adding multiple growth drivers through acquisitions in breast conserving surgery, ultrasound and specimen radiography, as well as internal development of software and hardware upgrades. Further, we have significant opportunities to expand our 3D installed base and service business internationally.Finally, in Surgical, we expect MyoSure to continue to drive growth, but to get help from a broadening portfolio of products such as Fluent and Acessa's ProVu. Bolder is not included in our guidance because the deal has not yet closed.In terms of COVID assay sales, let me remind you that in the last 12 months, we have seen testing demand increase rapidly, then decline rapidly, then increase rapidly again. Said another way, demand remains unpredictable, and a lot can change between now and the end of our fiscal '22. So we continue to forecast conservatively, and view COVID as upside to our strong base business. But we will act aggressively to meet testing demand when and where it arises. With this perspective, we expect COVID assay sales to be at least $200 million in the first quarter of 2022, and at least $300 million for the full year. COVID-related items in Diagnostics are expected to be approximately $45 million in the first quarter, and at least $120 million for the full year. Finally, COVID has given us the opportunity to discontinue certain older products in our Diagnostics franchise. We expect a headwind of about $11 million from rationalizing these products in 2022.Let me remind you that our organic guidance backs out acquired revenue until the first full quarter after the deals annualize, as well as revenue from our divested blood screening business. We expect blood screening revenue of $5 million to $6 million in Q1, and $20 million to $25 million for the full year. In total, we are backing out roughly $100 million of inorganic revenue for the year, which means that we expect organic revenue to decline 34% to 30% in fiscal '22, based on lower sales of COVID tests. However, to appreciate the underlying growth in our base women's health franchises, it's important to back out of organic revenue COVID assay sales, related ancillary items, and the small amount of SKU rationalization that I mentioned. On this measure, we expect revenue in 2022 to be at least in line with the 5% to 7% long-term guidance that we provided last quarter.Moving down the P&L, for the full year we forecast our gross margin percentage between 63% and 65%, and our operating margin percentage to be in the low- to mid-30s. We expect both percentages to decline sequentially throughout the year, since the vast majority of COVID testing revenue will likely be recorded in the first half of 2022. In addition, we have incorporated some inflationary pressure in our supply chain into our guidance. Despite this, for the full year both gross and operating margins should be better than before the pandemic.In terms of operating expenses, we expect spending to be flat to down slightly versus elevated levels in 2021, even as we absorb cost increases and continue to invest proactively in our acquisitions and base business to drive future growth. Below operating income, we expect other expenses, net, to be a little less than $25 million a quarter. Our guidance is based on a tax rate of 21.5%, and diluted shares outstanding of around 260 million for the full year. All this nets out to expected EPS of $1.15 to $1.25 in the first quarter and $3.55 to $3.85 for the year.As you update your forecasts, let me remind you that macro uncertainty due to the pandemic is still high. We would therefore encourage you to model at the middle of our ranges, which incorporate both potential upsides and downsides.Let me wrap up by saying that Hologic posted a strong end to our fiscal 2021, with results in our fourth quarter that far exceeded expectations and guidance. With organic investments and multiple acquisitions, we are emerging from the pandemic as a stronger company with core top line growth rates of 5% to 7% and potential upside from COVID.With that, I will ask the operator to open the call for questions. Please limit your questions to one plus a related follow-up, then return to the queue. Operator, we are ready for the first question.