
OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the A. O. Smith Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Call Conference. [Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Patricia Ackerman. Thank you, and please go ahead.Patricia K. Ackerman -- Senior Vice President, Investor Relations, Treasurer, and Corporate Responsibility and SustainabilitThank you, Angeline. Good morning, and welcome to the A. O. Smith Third Quarter conference call. I'm Pat Ackerman, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations, Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability and Treasurer. Joining me today are Kevin Wheeler, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Chuck Lauber, Chief Financial Officer. A friendly reminder that some of our comments and answers during this conference call will be forward-looking statements that are subject to risks that could cause actual results to be materially different. Those risks include matters that we have described in this morning's press release, among others. [Operator Instructions] We will be using slides as we move through today's call. You can access them on our website at investor.aosmith.com.

 



I will now turn the call over to Kevin to begin our prepared remarks. Please turn to the next slide.Kevin J. Wheeler -- Chairman, President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Pat, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. I'd like to start today's call with a quick snapshot of A. O. Smith. I'm on slide four. We're a global leader in applying innovation and energy-efficient solutions to water heating and treating products that we manufacture and market worldwide with annual sales of approximately $3 billion. In market-leading brands, our products including water heaters, boilers and water treatment systems manufactured in 22 facilities across the globe. North America is our largest and most profitable market, followed by China, which accounts for 25% of sales. Turning to slide five and our quarterly results. We are pleased with our performance in the third quarter. Our team delivered a record-setting quarter in a turbulent macro environment. Demand for water heaters in North America remains very strong.Our Rest of World segment performed well in the quarter led by China, delivering operating margins of approximately 10%. Costs continue to increase sequentially, and in response, we have taken appropriate pricing actions. We continue to successfully navigate the supply chain and transportation issues facing most companies and have improved our delivery performance since the first quarter. We acquired Giant the water heater manufacturer in Canada, growing our market share in North America and welcoming a talented group of employees to the A.O. Smith family. And finally, based on our strong performance and continued demand, we're raising our full year outlook for sales and earnings. Please turn to slide six. Our global A.O. Smith team delivered record third quarter EPS of $0.82, a 26% increase that was driven in part by a record 20% increase in sales compared with the third quarter of 2020.

 



Demand for our products is robust, particularly in North America, resulting in record quarterly sales and operating earnings. We achieved this strong performance as a result of continued solid execution, despite the challenging environment of component shortages, logistical bottlenecks and materials and transportation cost inflation. I want to take this opportunity to thank my fellow A.O. Smith employees for their dedication and ingenuity as we work to overcome these challenges to meet strong market demand and deliver for our customers. North America water heater sales grew 24%, benefiting from both pricing actions and strong demand. Commercial unit industry demand increased by more than 10% due to resumption of new construction and replacement in the hospitality end market. Residential water heater unit demand also increased in the quarter. In addition, sequential improvements to our product delivery performance enabled us to improve our share position, which was temporarily lag in our expectations earlier this year.Our North America boiler sales grew 7%, driven by new construction and replacement demand as well as new products. We ended September with a record backlog, largely composed of commercial condensing boilers and October continues to generate strong order rates for these market-leading energy-efficient boilers. We believe green building incentives and favorable return on investment outcomes contributed to strong demand for our condensing boilers. As natural gas prices increase, the return on investment for highly efficient products becomes more compelling, and we are well positioned to capture share. North America water treatment sales grew 8% in the third quarter. Our water quality dealers performed particularly well. We believe our dealers have been outperforming the market and gaining market share. In China, sales increased 12% in local currency.Each of our major product categories grew year-over-year, including electric and gas tankless water heaters and residential and commercial water treatment products, along with replacement filters. We estimate that replacement demand for our water heaters in China is about 50% of our units sold. Our newer categories, including A.O. Smith branded commercial water treatment as well as Range Hoods and Cook Tops continue to gain traction. As a result, we project that combined sales of these products will top $50 million this year. Please turn to slide seven and an overview of our recent acquisition. We are very pleased to welcome the team from Giant Factories to A. O. Smith. Giant is a Canada-based manufacturer of residential and commercial water heaters with a strong position in residential electric water heaters, a trailing 12-month sales of approximately USD105 million.Giant fits squarely in our core North America water heater business and is consistent with our strategy to grow through acquisition and further penetrate existing markets. The transaction met several of our acquisition criteria, including expanding our presence and growing our core water heater business in the stable Canada market, leveraging our existing presence in Canada; adding to our sustainability efforts, given most of Giant water heaters are fueled by renewable energy sources; and the expectation that it will be accretive to EPS in 2022 with an ROIC in excess of our cost of the capital in 2023, ahead of our three-year goal for acquisitions. We are excited to welcome our colleagues from Giant to the A. O. Smith team and look forward to continued excellent customer experience that they have come -- become known for. I'm now on slide eight. Before I conclude, I'd like to highlight some of our ongoing ESG and sustainability efforts.

 



In China, we have reduced energy use in both our non-production activities and our production facilities. As outlined in our 2020 Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Report, we were honored to be awarded the rating of "Model Enterprise" in 2020 by the Nanjing Economic and Technological Development Zone as an environmental protection pace setter. This distinction recognizes the depth of our environmental focus and operational processes to measure and reduce our environmental impact since 2016. As an industry leader, committed to innovation and investment in more environmentally sustainable and efficient technologies to heat and treat water, we published a white paper and analytical tool in September to help Federal, State and Local policymakers navigate the complexities of building decarbonization policies currently being designed and implemented around the country as part of a broader economywide effort to meet U.S. greenhouse gas reduction goals.An executive summary of the white paper is available in the Sustainability section of our website. I will now turn the call over to Chuck, who will provide more details on our third quarter.Charles T. Lauber -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Kevin, and good morning, everyone. I'm on slide nine. We delivered record third quarter sales of $915 million, up 20% year-over-year, driven by continued strong demand and inflation-related pricing actions. These higher volumes led to third quarter net earnings of $132 million or $0.82 per share, which is a 25% increase compared with net earnings of $105 million or $0.65 per share in 2020. Please turn to slide 10. Sales in the North America segment rose to $658 million, a 21% increase compared to the third quarter of 2020. Pricing actions largely on water heaters represented approximately 80% of the increase. Higher volumes in water heaters and boilers were driven by strong replacement and new construction demand. The higher volumes of water treatment products added to segment growth also. North America segment earnings of $152 million increased 14% compared with the third quarter of 2020.The earnings benefit of inflation-related price increases and higher volumes was offset somewhat by higher material and freight costs. Pricing actions led rapidly rising steel costs, which resulted in a lower segment operating margin of 23.1% compared with the third quarter of 2020 segment market. Moving to slide 11. Rest of the World segment sales of $263 million increased 19% year-over-year, approximately 60% of which was due to volume increases. Currency translation of China sales favorably impacted sales by approximately $14 million. Growth in each of our product categories in China contributed to local currency growth of 12% in the quarter, impacted largely by channel inventory changes, which remained at levels similar to the beginning of the year. Our products with higher selling prices, particularly our super-quiet gas tankless water heaters and water treatment products that deliver hot and ambient filtered water, contributed to sales gains.India sales grew 38% in the quarter as the economy begin to regain its footing after the COVID-19 delta variant wave subsided in that region. Rest of the World earnings of $27 million increased 60% from the third quarter of 2020. In China, higher volumes were partially offset by employee incentive costs and higher advertising as well as an absence of social insurance waivers, which were received in 2020. Segment operating margin improved to 10% compared with the third quarter of 2020, primarily as a result of improved operating leverage from higher volumes. Please turn to slide 12. We generated strong free cash flow of $332 million during the first nine months, 13% higher than during the same period in 2020, partially impacted by a larger investment in working capital to support demand levels. Free cash flow conversion was 95%, slightly below our historical performance of a 100%.Our cash balance totaled $685 million at the end of September, and our net cash position was $579 million. Our leverage ratio was 5.3% as measured by total debt to total capital at the end of September. Our free cash flow and solid balance sheet enables us to focus on capital allocation priorities and return cash to shareholders. Earlier this month, our Board approved an 8% increase in our quarterly dividend, which is now $0.28 per share. This marks the 30th consecutive year of dividend increases and is consistent with our capital deployment strategy to return value to shareholders through sustained and increasing dividend. Year-to-date through September 30, we repurchased approximately 3.2 million shares of common stock for a total of $212 million and have the ability to repurchase 5.4 million shares more on our current authorization. We took a pause in our measured stock repurchase pace in the third quarter as we enter the blackout period due to the acquisition of Giant.We plan to resume our repurchase program in early November, targeting $400 million for a total share repurchase in 2021. Let's now turn to slide 13. In addition to returning capital to shareholders, we continue to target strategic acquisitions with a focus on water heating and water treating assets that we believe can return our cost of capital in three years. Giant is a great example. The purchase price of USD192 million represents a multiple of approximately 9.5 times projected 2023 adjusted EBITDA, and the acquisition returns our cost of capital in the second full year, this is inclusive of the present value of an expected tax benefit of approximately $6.5 million that will be realized by treating the transaction as a purchase of assets for tax purposes and projected operating synergies of approximately $5 million achieved over a two-year period.We expect no impact to fourth quarter EPS due to customary purchase accounting adjustments and one-time transaction expenses. Purchase accounting headwinds are expected to run into the first quarter of 2022, as a result of Giant's conservative practice of carrying high levels of inventory, which are valued as of the acquisition date by marking the value to market. Giant's practice of carrying safety stock has served them well, especially during the current challenges within the supply chain and rapidly rising costs. We continue to finalize our purchase accounting and currently project the acquisition will add between $0.06 to $0.08 per share in 2022. Please turn to slide 14, at our updated full year 2021 outlook. We are now projecting full year sales to increase between 20% and 21% year-over-year. Based on this updated forecast and improved profitability, we are increasing our EPS range to between $2.86 and $2.90 per share.The mid-point of that range represents an increase of 5% compared with our previous guidance. We expect cash flow from operations for the year to be between $550 million and $575 million compared with $560 million in 2020. For the year, capex should be between $70 million and $75 million, and we expect to generate strong free cash flow of approximately $490 million with an over 100% conversion rate. We continue to experience inflation across our supply chain, particularly steel and logistics. Steel indices have increased 100% since the beginning of the year. We announced a fifth price increase on water heaters to be effective November 15 at a rate of up to 8.5%. These 2021 price increases are projected to have a cumulative effect on water heating prices of approximately 50% when fully effective in late December of this year. Based on that, we are raising the lower end of our North America segment margin guidance to between 22.75% and 23% and an improvement from our previous outlook.And Rest of the World segment margins to be approximately 8%, which is unchanged. Our updated outlook is based on key assumptions, including I've announced inflation-related price increases compounding to approximately 50% for water heaters as we exit 2021. Mid- to high single-digit inflation-related price increases in the remainder of our global portfolio. Strong demand in backlog in North America for all of our water heating product categories, driven by growth and replacement demand and new construction spending, along with the price increase announcements in our water heater and boiler end markets. No material changes -- and no material changes in the current macro environment. As for other housekeeping assumptions, corporate and other expenses are expected to be approximately $50 million, similar to 2020.Our effective tax rate is estimated to be approximately 22%. Important to note, our effective tax rate of 20.9% in the third quarter was lower than the prior year as it was favorably impacted by approximately $4 million or $0.03 per share, relating to amending previously filed tax return along with the change in our geographic earnings mix. Finally, we expect to end the year at outstanding diluted shares of 161 million. I will now turn the call back to Kevin, who will provide more color on our top line growth outlook for 2021, which is on slide 15. Kevin?Kevin J. Wheeler -- Chairman, President and Chief Executive OfficerOur revenue outlook for 2021 includes the following assumptions: we increased our U.S. residential tank water heater industry volume forecast and project unit volumes to grow 6% from last year; we expect continued strength in replacement demand, partially driven by an increase in proactive replacement along with growth in new home construction; we see improvement in the growth trend and increased our commercial industry water heater volume projections to approximately 10% growth this year as pandemic-impacted businesses has continued to reopen and new construction and replacement installations come back online. China performance has shown consistency in the past four quarters. We are on track with our strategy to continue to expand distribution to smaller Tier four, five and six cities in China.Consumer trends show increased demand for higher-priced products across all our categories, driven by differentiated new products that we have launched in the last 12 to 24 months. We expect year-over-year increase in local currency sale between 20% and 22% in China. We assume China currency rates will remain at current levels, adding approximately $54 million and $4 million to sales and profits over the prior year, respectively. After currency impact, the majority of the projected sales growth is driven by a reduction in channel inventory levels in 2020. Power shortages in China have been sporadic. To date, we have had minimal disruptions to our operations, our managing through shortages by reducing energy use and nonproduction-related activities and supplementing power with generators on an as-need basis. Boilers sales grew 17% this year through September 2021. We are encouraged by the stability of our record backlog and expect 13% growth in boilers for the full year.We project 12% growth in full year sales for our North America water treatment products. This is slightly lower than our July outlook of 13.5% due to deceleration of growth in online and retail sales. However, we believe sales growth for our point to use and point of entry water treatment systems will continue to be driven by consumer demand for safe drinking water and reduce single-use plastic bottles. We estimate 2021 market growth of around 7%. Please turn to slide 16. Thanks to the tremendous effort by our procurement and operation teams, our supply chain is stabilizing. Our manufacturing lead times remained consistent since mid-year. Through our focus and determination, we believe we will close out the year on a high note and continue strong into 2022. We remain confident in our ability to capitalize on opportunities as we continue to execute our strategy. That concludes our prepared remarks, and we are now available for your questions.