  OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to ServiceNow's fourth quarter fiscal 2021 earnings call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator instructions] Thank you. Darren Yip, vice president of investor relations, you may begin your conference.Darren Yip -- Vice President of Investor Relations Good afternoon and thank you for joining ServiceNow's fourth quarter and full year 2021 earnings conference call. Joining me are Bill McDermott, our president and chief executive officer; and Gina Mastantuono, our chief financial officer. During today's call, we will review our fourth quarter 2021 results and discuss our guidance for the first quarter and full year 2022. Before we get started, we want to emphasize that some of our information discussed on this call such as guidance is based on information as of today and contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, including those related to the impact of COVID-19 on our business and global economic conditions. We undertake no duty or obligation to update such statements as a result of new information or future events. Please refer to today's earnings press release and our SEC filings, including our most recent 10-Q and our 2021 10-K that will be filed for factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in such forward-looking statements. We'd like to also point out that we have presented non-GAAP measures in addition to and not as a substitute for financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. Unless otherwise noted, all financial measures and related growth rates we discuss today are non-GAAP, except for revenues, remaining performance obligations, or RPO, and current RPO.To see the reconciliation between these non-GAAP and GAAP measures, please refer to today's earnings press release and investor presentation, which are both posted on our website at investors.servicenow.com. A replay of today's call will also be posted on our website. With that, I'd now like to turn the call over to Bill. Bill McDermott -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you very much, Darren, and a warm welcome to everybody joining us on today's call. ServiceNow has once again delivered results that significantly beat the high end of expectations. Here's the Q4 rundown in constant currency. Subscription revenue growth was 30%. CRPO growth was 32%. Free cash flow growth was 32%. Adjusted subscription billings growth was an exceptional 33%. Operating margin was 23%, 1 point over our guidance. We had a record 135 deals over $1 million, which was up 50% year over year. There has long been a Rule of 40 benchmark for highly successful software companies. These results demonstrate that ServiceNow operates beyond the Rule of 60. The company is expanding in all geographies, industries, and buyer personas. Gina will share the details in a few moments, including our strong 2022 guidance. ServiceNow is uniquely positioned. We're growing like a fast-moving start-up with the profitability of a global market leader. We're on a clear growth trajectory to $15 billion plus by 2026. While our strong cash position preserves optionality, we don't depend on M&A for growth. While rising interest rates challenge others, ServiceNow's business model is built to flourish in any economic environment. We are not opportunity constrained as our customers' need for digital transformation is ever expanding. Our organic growth machine is in full flight, and our pipeline is stronger than ever. Our 99% renewal rate is one of several lead indicators for sustained performance moving forward. I'd like to thank all of our stakeholders, especially our customers, for their steadfast confidence in ServiceNow. I'll give you the breakdown of our portfolio results, but first, let's discuss the market dynamics. We're in a sustained demand environment here. There are structural challenges facing every industry in every geographic region. The great resignation, supply chain disruption, inflation, to name a few. These underscore a point we have made consistently: the technology strategy has become the business strategy. Digital technologies are growth-stimulating deflationary force. They power new business models, accelerating productivity while reducing costs. Eighty-five percent of chief executives will sustain or increase technology budgets this year, and that's according to IDC's global CEO survey. IDC has increased their forecast for digital transformation, now a $10.7 trillion opportunity through 2025. Gartner forecasts worldwide software spending will increase 12% in 2022. The data shows this is clearly more than a pandemic-induced transformation. A CEO I spoke to last week said it perfectly, "I have a long list of strategic priorities. Technology isn't one of them. It runs through all of them." ServiceNow's Q4 results clearly validate the structural incline of this digital economy. As enterprises build, deploy, monitor, and service technology, our IT workflow business is at the core. IT service management was in 16 of our top 20 Q4 deals, with 19 deals over $1 million. IT operations management was in 18 of our top 20, with 21 deals over $1 million. Bell Canada, Canada's largest telco company, uses IT workflows and IT operations management to enable its operations. Our platform will improve critical dimensions of both asset management and the employee experience. ServiceNow will also be supporting the United States Space Force to connect its space operators with warfighters across the globe. The hyper-focus on hybrid work continues to propel our Employee Workflows business. HR service delivery was in 11 of our top 20 deals with an exciting 24 deals over $1 million. Johnson Controls International, a smart building solutions leader, will use employee workflows to unlock productivity for its 105,000 employees. Together with ServiceNow, they are focused on creating a human-centered approach to the employee experience. NVIDIA is using employee workflows to support its employee experience transformation. With ServiceNow, NVIDIA will provide its global employees a unified service model to support its mission by providing a frictionless employee experience. CVS Health will also leverage our technology and employee workflows to help deliver a best-in-class colleague experience. As business integration is key to customer service, our Customer Workflows business is thriving. Customer service management was in 13 of our top 20 deals, with 10 deals over $1 million. Google Cloud plans to use our customer workflows to enhance its customer support operations. British Telecom chose ServiceNow to address the needs of its next generation of customers. The ServiceNow platform will help BT accelerate the delivery of new services from 36 weeks to three. Our new industry vertical solutions also continue to gain traction with wins at major brands, including SAS Institute, Deutsche Telekom, and Wellstar. Technology teams alone can't build the 500 million new applications IDC forecasts by 2023. Our Creator Workflows business is leading the citizen developer revolution. Our platform solutions were in 19 of our top 20 deals. Lockheed Martin, the world's largest aerospace and defense company, is using ServiceNow to support its enterprise digital transformation. They will use our creator workflows to help automate processes globally. Petrobras, a Brazilian energy company, is using creator workflows as the foundation for its application development function. They have already built over 26 applications such as onboarding for oil platforms and managing data privacy regulations. Together, these businesses, IT, customer, employee, creator, represent a next-generation suite built on a pure-play born in the cloud architecture. Our intuitive consumer-grade experience is expanding adoption of this platform everywhere, already 70 million users strong. This has created a unique moat in terms of ServiceNow's strategic relevance in the enterprise. From a geographic perspective, we've continued to see momentum worldwide. This includes APJ with wins at Samsung SDS in South Korea and NEC in Japan. In EMEA, we're partnering with the French postal service, La Poste; and leading Italian energy company, Enel. As you can see, the digital opportunity is expanding dramatically for ServiceNow. Already, in 2022, we're taking significant steps on our long-term road map. We're introducing a state-of-the-art new solution, ServiceNow Impact. Leaders need a command center to navigate the fully connected world. ServiceNow Impact includes an intuitive consumer-grade mobile application that visualizes the value from transformation investments in real time on their device. As this experience speeds up user adoption, we anticipate a significant halo effect with broader consumption of our growing solutions portfolio. As our market opportunities expand, we are promoting strong leaders for scale. As a result of the consistent speed and unmatched quality of our innovation teams, we are expanding CJ Desai's role to chief operating officer of the company. He will continue to lead products and engineering while also assuming industry and solution responsibilities for the company. Our top sales leader, Kevin Haverty, has executed at an art form level for more than 10 years at ServiceNow. Kevin will also step into a strategic role for the company, serving as a mentor for the next generation of ServiceNow leaders. He will work directly with me on expanding our footprint in the public sector worldwide. Paul Smith will become chief commercial officer, assuming our global sales responsibility. As ServiceNow's president of Europe, Middle East, and Africa, Paul has established himself as a leader of consequence who can broaden the geographic reach of ServiceNow. All regions in the company have outstanding leadership in place, and I'm very, very proud of the work they are doing indeed. We're also recruiting outstanding new leaders to the company. Karen Pavlin has joined ServiceNow to become chief diversity, equity, and inclusion officer. Karen joins from our great partner, Accenture, where she led this function. She will help us embed diverse strategies directly into our business strategy because inclusive companies outperform all the others. While our leadership team continues to strengthen, our inspired global workforce remains ever loyal. Look at our retention rate. ServiceNow is not only recruiting great talent. We keep it. In the engineering function as an example, we see much lower attrition rates than any of our peer group benchmarks. While no company is immune from the war on talent, our unique culture puts us in a highly differentiated position. Our high rankings from Glassdoor show that our people are invested in ServiceNow's bright future. We see growth everywhere for ServiceNow. Our customers now view us as the standard platform for digital transformation. Our engineers continue to strengthen this highly innovative, scalable platform architecture. Our customer success teams have navigated the COVID challenges without missing a beat. Our partner ecosystem continues to build ServiceNow practices with even bigger commitments for long-term growth. The market forces are moving even more intensely in our direction. For the future of work, businesses need to integrate disparate systems. Leaders are more invested in ESG than ever. There are two common threads here. First, ServiceNow's platform is purpose-built for each opportunity. Our new integrated ESG-in-a-box offering is a perfect example. Second, every company wants to become an exponential business. They cannot do that with linear processes. Of the 20 most valuable companies 30 years ago, zero are in the top 20 today. The question is then which companies will be on that list 10 years from now. To be in that conversation, leaders need outcomes really fast. ServiceNow gives them the speed advantage they're looking for. We're empowering digital-first leaders to accelerate their vision. Our purpose is to make the world work better for everyone. Our ambition is to be the defining enterprise software company of the 21st century. ServiceNow's 2021 results and strong 2022 guidance signal our unshakable confidence in that goal. Our performance should leave no doubt. We are executing on all cylinders, and we will continue to do so. The world is looking for market leaders to build a new inclusive, sustainable wave of economic value, and ServiceNow is delivering. This is why we embrace the brand, the motto, and the maxim. The world works with ServiceNow. Thank you for your time. I look forward to your questions. Now over to our great CFO, Gina Mastantuono. Gina, over to you.Gina Mastantuono -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Bill, and Happy New Year to everyone listening in. Q4 was a fantastic quarter, capping an already phenomenal 2021. Despite increased FX headwind, ServiceNow outperformed across all of our top-line guidance metrics in Q4. Our performance over the past couple of years not only exemplifies our unwavering focus on delivering customer success but is a testament to the innovation and flexibility the Now Platform provides to our customers. Whatever the macro challenges were, ServiceNow adapted to deliver value. ServiceNow's ability to quickly respond to the needs of enterprises when and where they require us most is why we've become the trusted digital platform to drive transformation. It's why our renewal rates are best in class, creating a solid foundation from which we grow upon each year. It's why in 2021, we added more incremental subscription revenues than we reported in 2016. I want to pause there for that to sink in. In 2021, we added a whole other 2016 ServiceNow to the top-line, incredible organic growth at scale while generating over 30% free cash flow margin. Now turning to our Q4 results. Subscription revenues were $1.523 billion, growing 30% year over year in constant currency. We exceeded the high end of our guidance range by $3 million when adjusting for the incremental $15 million FX headwind we saw in the quarter we beat by $18 million. RPO ended the quarter at approximately $11.5 billion, representing 32% year-over-year constant currency growth. Current RPO was approximately $5.7 billion, representing 32% year-over-year constant currency growth and a nearly 4-point beat versus our FX-adjusted guidance. Q4 subscription billings were $2.420 billion, a $110 million beat versus the high end of our guidance. This represents 32% year-over-year growth on a reported basis and 33% year-over-year growth on an adjusted basis as FX and duration were a headwind of 100 basis points. From an industry perspective, energy, and utilities more than doubled its net new ACV contribution from the year-ago period. Business services and healthcare and life sciences also had a robust Q4 with very high double-digit net new ACV growth. Our renewal rate was a best-in-class 99%, continuing to demonstrate the stickiness of our business as the Now Platform remains a mission-critical part of our customers' operations. These enterprises not only remain loyal ServiceNow customers, but our customer cohorts have continued to show solid expansion over time. As of the end of Q4, we had over 1,350 customers paying us over $1 million in ACV. Our strategy of targeting the right enterprise customers that drive the best ROI and can grow with us over time is bearing fruit. In Q4, we closed 135 deals greater than $1 million in net new ACV in the quarter, up over 50% year over year. In addition, our better together story is resonating as 18 of our top 20 deals included five or more products. Turning to profitability. Operating margin was 23%, 1 point above our guidance, primarily driven by the strong revenue beat. Our free cash flow margin in the quarter was 46%. For full year 2021, operating margin was 25% and free cash flow margin was 32%, representing $1.9 billion of free cash flow. We ended the year with a healthy balance sheet, including $4.9 billion in cash and investments, putting us in excellent shape to continue investing in strategic initiatives to drive organic growth. Together, these results show the power of our business model and our ability to drive a balance of growth and profitability. What's more? We're achieving all of this with a focus on ESG and winning the right way. Last quarter, I announced our commitment to reaching our net-zero emissions goal by 2030, two decades earlier than our previous goal. This quarter, you heard Bill introduce Karen Pavlin, who will lead our efforts to strengthen our culture, ensuring equity and creating an even deeper sense of belonging. Diversity, equity, inclusion are business imperatives for ServiceNow; and in 2021, we outperformed all six of our representation and hiring goals across three categories: Black, Hispanic and Latinx and women in leadership. At its core, ServiceNow's culture is one of belonging. It is core to who we are, and it will be one of the keys to our company's growth for many years to come. Moving on to guidance. Since the end of Q3, we've seen an incremental strengthening of the U.S. dollar, resulting in a material FX headwind in 2022. To help provide investors better visibility into the underlying strength of the business, I'll be providing constant currency guidance. I would also note that, in January, we completed an assessment of the useful life of our data center equipment and determined that we could extend their estimated life from three to four years. As a result, we expect a reduction in depreciation expense, which will contribute approximately 100 basis points to gross margin in 2022, trending down to just 50 basis points in 2024. With that in mind, I'll turn to our 2022 outlook. Last year was a strong year, and I'm excited to announce that our momentum will carry into 2022 as we do not expect any change in constant currency growth year over year. We expect subscription revenues between $7.02 billion and $7.04 billion, representing 26% year-over-year growth. That's 28% on a constant currency basis, the same growth as 2021. It's an amazing achievement when you think about the fact that the base we are growing off of is $1.3 billion higher when we started just last year. We expect subscription gross margin of 86%, up 100 basis points year over year. We expect an operating margin of 25%. With regard to operating expenses, we have reopened many offices and are planning in-person conferences and user events this year. Our sales force has also already begun to travel again. As such, we expect certain COVID-related savings we've seen over the past two years to fade in 2022. We expect free cash flow margins of 31%, and we expect diluted weighted average outstanding shares of 204 million. For Q1, I'm pleased to announce that we expect subscription revenue growth to accelerate year over year on a constant currency basis. We expect subscription revenues between $1.61 billion and $1.615 billion, representing 25% year-over-year growth or 27.5% constant currency growth. We expect cRPO growth of 28% year over year or 29.5% on constant currency basis. We expect an operating margin of 25%, and we expect 203 million diluted weighted outstanding shares for the quarter. In summary, we had a very strong Q4, and I'm so proud of what our team has accomplished over the past year and what they continue to achieve. The pace of digital investment is accelerating. Demand in 2022 continues to be strong. Enterprises are turning to ServiceNow to create new business models to address the new ways employees and customers want to engage. The Now Platform offers the speed, flexibility, and innovation companies need. We're well on our way to $15 billion and beyond and becoming the defining enterprise software company of the 21st century. Before moving on to Q&A, Bill and I want to thank our employees around the world for a tremendous year. You are the key to ServiceNow's success, and you all continue to make us ServiceNow strong. And with that, I'll open it up for Q&A. 