  OperatorWelcome to Visa's fiscal fourth-quarter and full-year 2021 earnings conference call. All participants are in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session. Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time. Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time. I would now like to turn the conference over to your host from investor relations, Ms. Jennifer Como and Mr. Mike Milotich. Ms. Como, you may begin. 

 



Jennifer Como -- Investor Relations Thanks, Michelle. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to Visa's fiscal fourth-quarter and full-year 2021 earnings call. Joining us today are Al Kelly, Visa's chairman and chief executive officer; and Vasant Prabhu, Visa's vice chairman and chief financial officer. This call is being webcast on the investor relations section of our website at www.investor.visa.com. A replay will be archived on our site for 90 days. A slide deck containing financial and statistical highlights have been posted on our IR website. Let me also remind you that this presentation includes forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance, and our actual results could differ materially as a result of many factors.Additional information concerning those factors is available in our most recent reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q, which you can find on the SEC's website and the Investor Relations section of our website. For non-GAAP financial information disclosed in this call, the related GAAP measures and reconciliation are available in today's earnings release. And with that, let me turn the call over to Al. 

 



Al Kelly -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Jennifer, thank you very much, and good afternoon, everyone, and thanks for joining us today. In the fourth quarter and throughout fiscal 2021, Visa has delivered strong results against the backdrop of economic uncertainty and the lingering impacts of the COVID pandemic. In doing so, we demonstrated the resiliency of our business and validated our growth strategy as we continue to drive the rapid growth of digital payments and enable innovation in money movement globally. A quick summary of Q4 results. Fourth-quarter payments volume was 121% of 2019, up about 0.8 points from Q3 and up 17% year over year. Despite the backdrop of a global pandemic, this quarter, we also set a record with total global payments volume of $2.8 trillion. Cross-border volume, excluding intra-Europe, was 86% of 2019, 4 points better than Q3 and up 46% year over year. And processed transactions were 124% of 2019, up 4 points from Q3 and up 21% year over year. Our net revenues grew 29% year over year, and non-GAAP EPS was $1.62, up 44%. In talking to many of you over the last few months, I know you're wondering what's ahead for Visa and the payments ecosystem as we emerge from the pandemic. So rather than doing my usual report card on the quarter, I'm going to speak more broadly today about the four key reasons why we believe that Visa is even better positioned for growth than before the pandemic. One, there's still enormous opportunity ahead in consumer payments.

 



 Two, we continue to enhance our network of networks capability to facilitate money movement more seamlessly and securely for all players in the ecosystem and accelerate the penetration of new flows. Third, value-added services simultaneously help our clients leverage our scale and sophistication while diversifying Visa's business and driving more volume. Four, we enable much of the disruption and innovation in the payments ecosystem, which helps to accelerate Visa's growth. So let me start with number one, the enormous opportunity in consumer payments. We see that the pandemic has helped to further digitize cash. In the last 12 months, global debit cash volumes, which are primarily the amount of cash withdrawn from Visa debit cards, has increased 4%, while debit payments volume has grown 23%, both on a constant dollar basis. In 2021, the number of monthly active e-commerce credentials and spend per active credential continued to grow strongly. For example, in the United States, monthly active credentials and active spend per credential both grew by more than 20% on average versus 2019. We've grown credentials for both traditional and new players to 3.7 billion, up 7% year over year. After renewing client contracts that represented 55% of our payments volume in the previous two years, we renewed contracts that represented nearly 20% in 2021. Let me just highlight a few of those deals in Q4. In our Asia Pacific region, we renewed three of Visa's top 20 issuers, including China Merchants Bank and Bank of China. And in North America, we renewed three of the top 15 issuers. PNC renewed the prepaid consumer credit and debit, commercial credit, and small business credit and debit portfolios. Regions also renewed the prepaid consumer credit and debit, commercial credit, and small business credit and debit portfolios. And RBC and Visa have entered into a renewal of their agreement with respect to the issuance of credit, debit, and prepaid cards in Canada. Fintechs have also fueled our growth. In the last year, nearly 30% more fintechs issued Visa credentials, and they have more than doubled their payments volume. Furthermore, fintechs are scaling. We've also grown acceptance to more than 80 million merchant locations, up 14% year over year. And when you include small businesses behind players like Stripe and Square, the number is north of 100 million merchant locations. We've grown tap to pay to 70% of all face-to-face transactions globally. Excluding the United States, we have more than 70 countries with over 50% contactless penetration. U.S. penetration is now over 15%, more than double from just a year ago with 400 million cards, quadruple what we had two years ago. We know from other markets that tapping brings increased spending and transactions while digitizing cash. We also continue to innovate to make it easier for partners to access and utilize our platforms and capabilities. One recent example is Visa Cloud Connect, which enables clients to connect to VisaNet via the cloud, eliminating the need for investment in local data centers, telecommunications infrastructure, and any specialized payment hardware. To summarize, consumer payments is an opportunity and it's Visa's credentials, acceptance and innovation that make us feel confident about our ability to accelerate growth in the future. Moving now to our network of networks. We continue to enhance our capabilities to facilitate money movement seamlessly and securely for all players in the ecosystem while accelerating the penetration of new flows. The total new flows opportunity is $185 trillion. Payments infrastructure, regulations and settlement systems are all very local in nature, which creates a lot of complexity in a world of global trade. Our network of networks capability enables Visa as a single connection point to help clients to move value domestically and cross-border over all networks, including Visa's own networks, RTPs, ACHs, and new networks in the future, like stable coins and public blockchains. In FY '21, we continue to build out Visa Direct's global reach, surpassing 5 billion transactions across 500 programs and nearly 550 enablers, such as acquirers, processors, banks, and fintechs. In the U.S. alone, nearly 120 million cards have sent or received funds using Visa Direct. Visa Direct is unique as it is more -- has more endpoints and more use cases compared to the next competitor and offers flexible technology. Our growth plan for Visa Direct focus is on four key levers. First, entrench existing use cases. P2P is our largest use case. And in FY '21, we surpassed 200 P2P programs globally. Insurance disbursements is another use case. In this quarter, we added Nationwide to begin distributing claims. Second, we want to capture the cross-border opportunity. For cross-border P2P, during the fourth quarter, we added Paysend. And soon, Western Union's U.S. customers will be able to send funds to eligible Visa cards in the Philippines, Thailand, Colombia, and Jamaica, followed by a robust expansion plan for other countries. Beyond remittances, we're also leveraging our cross-border capabilities for marketplaces, supplier payments, student tuition payments, and more. Our third lever to grow is scale the over 20 live use cases. Recent examples include tipping fundraising, brokerage account funding and airline vouchers. And in the fourth quarter, we added Yardi in the rental space area for property managers to distribute security deposits. Finally, scale new markets. Visa Direct has scaled rapidly in several markets, but there are many more where the market conditions are right for acceleration. For example, in Peru, we have a strong P2P footprint and are now adding new use cases like the innovative payroll solution, launched a partnership with Tu Sueldo Y, a salary on-demand provider that also seeks to improve financial inclusion. Globally, we have more than quadrupled the number of earned wage access providers on our platform since 2019. In short, we are just scratching the surface on Visa Direct and expect to drive rapid growth in the years ahead to capture the $65 trillion market opportunity. We also have many examples of partners utilizing Visa Direct and our B2B capabilities. This quarter, we're pleased that BIM will offer their 400,000-plus business customers the ability to make B2B payments via Visa Direct and through Visa virtual cards. We also have wins with Credorax in Europe for travel virtual cards and Ignition and Standard Bank in CEMEA in fleet and an exclusive agreement for physical and virtual cards with ramp of P2P, finance automation fintech here in the United States. We also continue to strengthen and expand our relationship with JPMorgan commercial card through a new commercial card agreement and through JPMorgan's participation in Visa's Commercial Pay solution. These initiatives will support virtual card capabilities, spur growth and new payment flows and drive incremental volume over time. Visa B2B Connect now operates in more than 100 markets and offers a multilateral network with distributed ledger technology that addresses the pain points of existing solutions, which include transparency and speed. We're also pleased to have launched a partnership with Citi to be a global settlement bank for Visa B2B Connect, which broadens the endpoints available for clients to include cities, business accounts for moving money cross-border, and their clearing capabilities for banks that have not yet been integrated into the B2B Connect network. Given the size and breadth of Citi and our role in facilitating money movement, we're very excited about this capability to expand the Visa B2B Connect network. Looking ahead, open banking plays in a central role in the network of networks. We believe Visa can accelerate the adoption of open banking in Europe with our pending acquisition of Tink. Together, we can provide a secure, reliable platform for innovation that could be expanded globally. Whether it's leveraging account data for value-added services or facilitating account-to-account or pay-by-bank money movement, open banking creates opportunities for Visa to offer our clients and partners a one-stop-shop for money movement, security, data, and valuable customer experiences. Blockchains also will continue to expand our network of networks. Our settlement capabilities and our continued innovation around crypto APIs and services have been key to winning new partnerships. We have nearly 60 crypto platform partners with the capability to issue Visa credentials, and we're already capturing over $3.5 billion of payment volume in FY '21. The third reason we're even better positioned for growth post-COVID is value-added services, where our scale and sophistication simultaneously help our clients be more successful while diversifying Visa's business and driving more value. Our value-added solutions differentiate Visa's network, enable our clients to adapt to the changing payments ecosystem, and deliver valuable services across other rails, enhancing our network of network capabilities. In 2021, 40% of our clients used five or more value-added services, and nearly 30% used 10 or more, which is up from 20% in 2020. Let me highlight a few services that have grown significantly in 2021. CyberSource added 28 new acquirer partners and 45,000 merchants as a result -- and as a result, we are growing payments volume twice as fast as our broader client base, and our risk solution on CyberSource called Decision Manager grew over 30%. We have doubled the number of tokens over the past year to 2.6 billion and enhanced the capabilities to manage them through Visa Cloud token. Across more than 8,600 issuers and 800,000 merchants, tokens have led to a 2.5% increase in approval rates and a 28% reduction in fraud rates. Visa Advanced Authorization and Visa Risk Manager utilize artificial intelligence and machine learning capabilities, which helped reduce fraud by $26 billion, screening 30% more transactions in 2021 than in 2020. All of our efforts in authentication, risk, identity, and authorization optimization have led to cross-border card-not-present approval rates increasing by nearly 2% in the past year. Therefore, value-added services revenue grew 25% in Q4 and also drove additional volume. Since the pandemic began, our VAS revenue has averaged a quarterly growth rate in the high teens and was approximately $5 billion in FY '21. Finally, the fourth reason that we believe we have great room to grow is that we can enable much of the disruption and innovation in the payments ecosystem, which helps accelerate Visa's growth. Visa's past, present, and future are about fostering innovation and enabling new partners, capabilities, and use cases. We enable the disruptors. We help them scale. Disruptors are good for payments and good for Visa. Given our role in the ecosystem, we don't pick winners and losers, and we're well-positioned for growth across many potential outcomes. Let's take wallets as an example. Wallets have done a tremendous job of building a user base, in some cases building acceptance. But at some point, they reach a point where they are seeking additional growth, and many of them are embedding Visa credentials in their wallets so the consumer can use it anywhere Visa is accepted, as well as receive and send cross-border P2P payments. LINE Pay is an excellent example with four portfolios totaling 5.6 million Visa credentials across three countries, including a new co-brand in Thailand that was launched in the fourth quarter. Buy now pay later, or BNPL, is a newer example but, we think, will have a similar outcome. While installments are fast-growing, they're just a fraction of the total industry's payment volume estimated to be about $100 billion to $150 billion, but we are bringing scale to disruptors. We have a two-pronged strategy where we provide a network solution, as well as solutions for our BNPL fintech partners. The network solution offers issuers the ability to extend installments to their existing credit clients and merchants to offer a seamless installment option to their customers with flexible terms. We continue to expand our partnerships in Q4 with HSBC in Malaysia; Moneris, Canada's largest payment processor by volume; and ANZ in Australia with 2022 large payments. We also partner with fintechs in a number of ways. We generate revenue when customers pay their installments with a Visa card through virtual cards for B2B or consumer payments and through value-added services. The majority of the installment payoffs are on cards today. For example, in Canada, over the last year, the number of Visa cards used to repay installments has grown more than 300%. We believe we're currently experiencing BNPL 1.0. Individual fintechs and companies are cutting individual deals merchant by merchant. Eventually, we believe the business model will evolve to BNPL 2.0, where fintech partners issue Visa credentials to leverage our acceptance and platforms to overcome the difficulty of scaling acceptance globally, merchant by merchant. We're already seeing this evolution begin to take shape. Just this quarter, a partner signed a global brand deal to accelerate expansion and scale into several markets. So to close, Visa is better positioned than before the pandemic to capture the opportunity ahead, supported by the strong growth in consumer payments, the scale of our platforms, network and capabilities, and new flows and value-added services becoming a greater portion of our revenue. And as cross-border volumes return over the next two years, it will only help to further drive our growth. Furthermore, over the history of our company, we have demonstrated that our innovation, willingness to partner, and compelling and competitive offerings have made our business resilient and successful. With that, I'll now turn it over to Vasant to review Q4 and also provide a view of what we believe these -- all these opportunities mean for Visa's financial performance in the coming year. Vasant, over to you.Vasant Prabhu -- Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Al. Good afternoon, everyone. Fiscal year 2021 was certainly a year of two very different halves. In the first half, net revenues declined 4% and non-GAAP EPS was down 2% as we lapped a pre-COVID first half of 2020. In the second half, the recovery was well underway and we were lapping some of the worst 2020 COVID impacts. As a result, net revenue grew 28%, and non-GAAP EPS was up 43%. Fiscal fourth-quarter results were better than we expected, with net revenues up 29%, driven by strong U.S. domestic trends, robust value-added services growth, and higher cross-border volumes from a faster-than-anticipated recovery in travel. Had we recognized service revenues on current quarter's payment volumes, net revenue growth would have been approximately 22%. GAAP EPS grew 70%, including equity investment gains and a one-time noncash tax expense last year. Non-GAAP EPS rose 44%, helped by a lower tax rate. Exchange rate shifts increased both net revenue and EPS growth by approximately 0.5 point. In constant dollars, global payments volume was up 17%, led by continued strength in debit, as well as improving credit spending. Compared to the fourth quarter of 2019, global payments volume was 21% higher, a 0.8 percentage point acceleration from Q3, with debit slowing 1 point and credit improving by 3 points versus Q3. Excluding China, total payments volume growth was 18% or 26% higher than 2019 and a 1-point acceleration from the third quarter. Chinese domestic volumes continue to be impacted by dual-branded cost conversion, which have minimal revenue impact. U.S. payments volume was up 30% over 2019, consistent with the third quarter. Credit improved 3 points to 17% above '19, helped by consumer, small business, and commercial spending. Debit slowed 4 points but remained very strong at 44% above 2019 without much benefit from economic impact payments. Card-present spend improved 3 points to 15% above 2019, its highest level yet in the pandemic, driven by higher fuel and restaurant spending. Card-not-present volume, excluding travel, slowed 6 points to 53% over 2019 as some food and drug spending shifted back to card-present and retail spend was not as strong without the benefit of stimulus payments. International constant dollar payments volume improved 3 points from Q3, up 15% over 2019 levels. A few regional highlights. Latin America was up 58% from 2019, accelerated 10 points from the third quarter with robust performance across the region, fueled by cash digitization and client wins. Our CEMEA region remained strong, up 48% from 2019 levels, consistent with Q3, also fueled by cash digitization and client wins. Europe was up 20% from 2019, improving 3 points from Q3 due mostly to strong performance across Continental Europe. Asia Pacific remains our weakest region, up 5% from 2019 and consistent with Q3 excluding China. Many countries instituted restrictions in the quarter, including Australia, New Zealand, Japan, and Singapore, but all have started to recover in the past few weeks. India payments volume has fully recovered from the severe COVID outbreak in Q3. Global processed transactions were 24% over 2019, improving 4 points from the third quarter as transactions improved faster than volume. Tap to pay penetration increased in many markets and ticket sizes started to return to normal in the U.S. Visa Direct transactions grew 35%, down from the 50s in the previous three quarters. This quarter, we lapped a very strong Q4 of fiscal year '20 when Visa Direct hit 1 billion transactions for the first time. Stimulus payments have ended, and we are lapping the COVID-related spike in P2P, which is moderating U.S. growth rates. Meanwhile, the international business is ramping nicely, as well as growth from use cases such as cross-border remittances earned wage access and marketplace payouts. The cross-border volume recovery continued as more countries open their borders while e-commerce spending, excluding travel, remains strong. Constant dollar cross-border volume, excluding transactions within Europe, was at 86% of 2019 volumes, a 4-point improvement from Q3 driven by the continued recovery in travel that started in May. Cross-border card-not-present volume, excluding travel, continued to be very strong at 43% above 2019, declining 13 points from the third quarter but consistent with Q2. As a reminder, the boost we saw in Q3 was primarily from cryptocurrency purchases. Cross-border travel-related spending, excluding intra-Europe, versus 2019, improved 13 points from Q3 to Q4. It has risen from 40% of 2019 in April to 50% in June to 61% in September. In terms of where travel-related spending is improving, aside from Asia Pacific, outbound spend in each region is indexing at similar levels versus 2019, and each improved by between 10 to 20 points in Q4 versus Q3. The largest improvements were in Canada, the Middle East, and across Europe. Europe's inbound spend improved by 24 points versus 2019 as popular travel destinations such as France and Italy relaxed their border restrictions. As we have seen consistently during the pandemic, there is pent-up demand for travel as bookings accelerate when a border is opened. Latin America remains by far the strongest destination, well over 2019 levels. U.S. to Mexico travel remained robust, with spend more than 60% above 2019 levels in Q4. Asia Pacific remains mostly closed and did not meaningfully improve in the fourth quarter, remaining below 30% of 2019, both inbound and outbound. Moving now to a quick review of fourth-quarter financial results. Service revenues grew 41%, consistent with 39% nominal growth in third-quarter payments volume and helped by small pricing modifications. Data processing grew 20%, in line with 21% processed transactions growth with a small impact from unfavorable country mix. International transaction revenues were up 41%, 7 points lower than nominal cross-border volumes, excluding intra-Europe, due to lapping high currency volatility last year and unfavorable regional mix. Other revenues grew 36%, led by consulting and data services, as well as travel benefits. In total, value-added services revenue grew 25%, led by security and identity, as well as consulting and data services with some benefit from COVID-related lapping effects. Client incentives were 26.7% of gross revenues, in line with our expectations. The 90-basis-point increase from Q3 was primarily driven by strong performance in the U.S. and Latin America and fewer adjustments for underperformance in certain geographies, partially offset by improving cross-border volumes. Operating expenses grew 15%, in line with our expectations. Marketing expenses grew 58% in the quarter as we stepped up spending and also lapped reductions in Q4 last year. Personnel and professional services spend also accelerated as we continue to invest in our growth initiatives. We recorded gains from our equity investments of $101 million. Excluding investment gains, non-GAAP nonoperating expense was $118 million. Our non-GAAP tax rate of 16.5% was lower than expected due to the resolution of a tax matter. GAAP EPS was $1.65. Non-GAAP EPS was $1.62, up 44% over last year. We bought 13.2 million shares of Class A common stock at an average price of $231.33 for $3.1 billion this quarter. Including our quarterly dividend of $0.32 per share, we returned over $3.7 billion of capital to shareholders in the quarter. On October 22, Visa's board of directors authorized a 17% increase in the quarterly dividend to $0.375 per share. For the full year, net revenues increased 10%, and non-GAAP EPS of $5.91 was up 17%. We returned $11.5 billion in capital to shareholders by repurchasing 39.7 million shares of Class A common stock at an average price of $219.34 for $8.7 billion and by paying dividends of $2.8 billion. Before we discuss the year ahead, let me share performance through the first three weeks of October. U.S. payments volume was up 32% above 2019, consistent with September, with debit at 44% and credit at 22% above 2019. Processed transactions were 26% above 2019. Cross-border volume, excluding transactions within Europe, on a constant dollar basis was 94% of 2019, which is up 8 points from Q4 and 2 points from September. Travel-related spending versus 2019 improved 4 points compared to September to 65% of 2019. Card-not-present non-travel was 49% above 2019, up 6 points from the fourth quarter and down 2 points from September. Looking ahead to fiscal year 2022. Our business has been on a recovery track for the past three to four quarters. However, we are not back to normal yet globally. There are many factors to consider as we project the trajectory of the recovery. Debit and e-commerce have outperformed and stayed resilient even as credit recovers and in-store shopping returns. The full impact of stimulus payments and support programs ending remains to be seen. Cross-border travel is recovering well but still well below pre-COVID levels with a pace of recovery dependent on cross-border -- on border openings. Asia has not reopened to the degree the rest of the world has. The timing of reopening in key countries across Asia, both domestically and for cross-border travel, is a key variable. Most importantly, COVID variants are still with us, and vaccination rates remain low in large parts of the globe. With these factors as the backdrop, forecasting the trajectory of the return to normalcy remains difficult. Visibility four quarters out, while improved, is still not great. For the past few quarters, we have been providing you our best sense of the business one quarter at a time, and we will continue that practice in fiscal year '22. Assuming current trends are sustained through December, we would expect first-quarter net revenue growth in the high teens. Client incentives as a percent of gross revenue are likely to be in the 26% to 27% range, in line with the fourth quarter of fiscal year '21. Sustained investment spending, combined with low comparables last year, leads to operating expenses continuing to grow in the mid-teens. Nonoperating expense is expected to be in the $120 million to $130 million range and tax rate in the 19% to 19.5% range. Looking four quarters out, projecting gross revenue growth poses the greatest challenge. It is significantly dependent on the pace of the cross-border travel recovery, as well as the other factors I just mentioned. It is all a function of your assumptions for these variables. In order to be helpful, we will share the assumptions we are making for internal planning purposes. For domestic volumes and transactions, we are assuming no disruptions from COVID-related lockdowns. As such, we assume that the recovery trajectory underway in payments volume and processed transactions stays intact through fiscal year '22. For cross-border travel, we assume the recovery underway continues steadily through fiscal year '22 to reach 2019 levels in the summer of 2023. We assume the index to 2019 climbs from around 60 currently to around 80 by September 2022. We also assume the strong growth in cross-border e-commerce continues. We expect new flows and value-added services growth in the high teens. We expect client incentives as a percent of gross revenues to range between 26% to 27% for the year, consistent with the fourth quarter fiscal year '21 levels. Pre-COVID, this percentage increased by 50 to 100 basis points each year due to the impact of new deals and renewals. In fiscal year '22, we expect to benefit from revenue mix improvement as cross-border travel continues to recover, partially offset by the lapping of incentive reductions we had in fiscal year '21 due to the COVID impact. These assumptions result in high end of mid-teens net revenue growth for fiscal year '22, including over 0.5 point of exchange rate drag from the strengthening dollar. First-quarter growth in the high teens will moderate through the year as we lap the recovery in fiscal year '21. As I said, these are our assumptions for internal planning purposes. We will continue to provide our outlook for the business one quarter at a time through fiscal year '22. In terms of the other elements of the P&L, we expect operating expenses to grow in the low teens in fiscal year '22 as we step up investments across all three lines of business to lay the foundation for sustained higher growth post-COVID. We have already increased marketing investment. We will invest heavily in our technology platforms to continue to enhance functionality, flexibility, security, and reliability. We will invest to sustain the high growth we have in our new flows and value-added services business, and we will continue to add resources in market to help our clients utilize all of our new capabilities. Expense growth will be higher in the first half and moderate in the second half as we lap the resumption of investment spending in fiscal year '21. Nonoperating expense is expected to be in the $120 million to $130 million range each quarter, and our tax rate for the year is also expected to stay in the 19% to 19.5% range. None of these assumptions include Tink or Currencycloud, which we expect to close in the first half of the fiscal year. They will not be material to fiscal year '22 revenue or non-GAAP EPS. Visa remains a network of choice for innovators and money movement. We enable the innovators and disruptors. We help them scale, and in turn, innovators drive our growth. We have continued to enhance the functionality and flexibility of our network to substantially expand the money movement use cases we serve, supporting the new generation of fintechs, as well as driving growth in our new flows business. Our value-added services add differentiation and create more value for our clients than alternative networks can. Our network of network strategy substantially increases our nodes, which we believe can create more value for all network participants than any closed-loop or geographically limited network. As we said at our Investor Day, we have a 10x growth opportunity ahead of us, and we are well-positioned to capture it. We ended fiscal year '21 with good momentum, a high-growth, resilient debit and e-commerce business, recovering credit and cross-border travel, and new flows and value-added services are newer growth engines driving further acceleration. With that, I'll hand it over to Mike for Q&A.Mike Milotich -- Senior Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you, Vasant. We're ready to take questions, Michelle.  