
OperatorGood morning, and welcome to the Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc. Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to turn the conference over to Drew Anderson. Please go ahead.Drew Anderson -- Senior Director of Product Management

 



Thank you, Gary. Good morning, and welcome to the third quarter 2021 conference call for Old Dominion Freight Line. Today's call is being recorded and will be available for replay beginning today and through November 3, 2021, by dialing (877) 344-7529, access code 10160197. The replay of the webcast may also be accessed for 30 days at the company's website. This conference call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation ReformAct of 1995 including statements, among others, regarding Old Dominion's expected financial and operating performance. For this purpose, any statements made during this call that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. Without limiting the foregoing, the words believes, anticipates, plans, expects and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. You are hereby cautioned that these statements may be affected by the important factors, among others, that are set forth in Old Dominion's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in this morning's news release.And consequently, actual operations and results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. As a final note, before we begin, we welcome your questions today, but we ask in fairness to all that you limit yourselves to just a couple of questions at a time before returning to the queue. Thank you in advance for your cooperation.At this time, for opening remarks, I would like to turn the conference over to the company's President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Greg Gantt. Please go ahead, sir.

 



Greg C. Gantt -- President and Chief Executive OfficerGood morning, and welcome to our third quarter conference call. With me on the call today is Adam Satterfield, our CFO. After some brief remarks, we'll be glad to take your questions. During the third quarter, the Old Dominion team produced strong profitable growth that included new company records for quarterly revenue and profitability. The third quarter of 2021 was our third straight quarter with double-digit revenue growth and the fifth straight quarter of double-digit growth in earnings per diluted share. While our revenue results reflect the unprecedented demand for our best-in-class service, our ability to grow at these impressive rates is the result of our long-term commitment to consistently invest in capacity. We continue to have available network capacity as well as best-in-class service, both of which are qualities that differentiate us within our industry and provide a distinct competitive advantage for Old Dominion.These qualities have also supported our ability to win market share and produce profitable growth over the long term. With continuing strength in the macroeconomic environment and limited industry capacity, we believe demand for transportation services will continue through the fourth quarter of this year and into 2022. As a result, we expect that our business level momentum that began in the third quarter of 2020 will also continue. To take advantage of these opportunities and produce further profitable growth, we believe that it will be important for us to continue to execute on the long-term strategic plan that we have operated under for many years. This strategy focuses on delivering a value proposition of superior service at a fair price to our customers, which generally creates the capital for us to further invest and the capacity and technology to support our customers' supply chain needs. Our most important investment, however, will continue to be in the OD family of employees.Our people are critical to our success as they work tirelessly each day to provide service, value to our customers. We added over 1,000 new full-time employees between June and September of this year. These additions resulted in a 20.9% increase in our average full-time headcount as compared to the third quarter of 2020. While we have grown the OD family this year, the capacity of our people continues to be our biggest need to support future growth. As a result, we expect that we will continue to add new full-time employees to our team during the fourth quarter and next year. We believe further additions will be necessary to prepare for anticipated growth and to also reduce the use of third-party purchase transportation. We expect to use third-party purchase transportation during the fourth quarter at levels similar to the third quarter.

 



While we would like to reduce this level of utilization, we must continue to supplement the capacity of our people and our fleet in support of our top line revenue performance. We hold the third parties that we work with the same standards of excellence and our team remains fully committed to providing best-in-class service to our customers. Our customers' expectation for excellence do not change regardless of how we move their freight. And given the supply chain challenges that many of them are currently facing, we want them to have complete confidence in our ability to deliver. Old Dominion sets the standard in our industry with our ability to provide superior service and service center capacity to support our customers' growth. As a result, we believe we are in a better position than any other carrier to win additional market share and further increase shareholder value over the long term.Thank you for joining us this morning, and now Adam will discuss our third quarter financial results in greater detail.Adam N. Satterfield -- Senior Vice President-Finance, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant SecretaryThank you, Greg, and good morning. Old Dominion's revenue grew 32.3% in the third quarter to $1.4 billion, and our operating ratio improved to 72.6%. The combination of these changes led to a 44.4% increase in earnings per diluted share to $2.47 for the quarter. Our revenue growth was balanced between LTL volumes and yield, both of which were supported by the strong domestic economy and capacity issues within the industry. Our LTL tons increased 13.7% and LTL revenue per hundredweight increased 15.7%, which also reflects the impact on our fuel surcharge program from the increase in diesel fuel prices. Excluding fuel surcharges, LTL revenue per hundredweight increased 10.1% as a result of the continued success with our yield improvement initiatives as well as changes in the mix of our freight. On a sequential basis, third quarter LTL shipments per day increased 3.2% over the second quarter of 2021 as compared to a 10-year average sequential increase of 2.9%. LTL tons per day increased 1% as compared to a 10-year average sequential increase of 1.9%. These 10-year average trends exclude our 2020 metrics for a more normalized comparison. At this point in October, with only a few work days remaining in the month, our revenue per day has increased by approximately 33% to 35% when compared to October of 2020.We will provide the actual revenue related details for October in our third quarter Form 10-Q. The operating ratio for the third quarter improved 190 basis points to 72.6% as a result of the operating leverage created by our revenue growth as well as our continued focus on operating efficiencies. Many of our cost categories improved as a percent of revenue during the quarter, although our operating supplies and expenses increased 200 basis points due primarily to the rising cost of diesel fuel and other petroleum-based products. As a percent of revenue, salaries, wages and benefits improved 320 basis points between the periods compared. Our productive labor cost within this expense category improved 200 basis points which more than offset the 130 basis point increase in purchase transportation. Old Dominion's cash flow from operations totaled $364.3 million and $872.6 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2021, respectively, while capital expenditures were $178.6 million and $384.7 million for the same periods.We noted in our release this morning that our capital expenditures are now estimated to be $565 million for this year. The $40 million decrease from our prior estimate is mainly due to the timing of large real estate projects that will be pushed into next year. We will provide further details about our 2022 capital expenditure plan with our fourth quarter earnings release. But at this time, we expect to increase our expenditures to support our ongoing market share initiatives and to reduce the average age of our fleet. We continue to return capital to shareholders during the third quarter through our dividend and share repurchase programs, including the $250 million accelerated share repurchase agreement that will expire no later than March of 2022. For the first nine months of this year, the cash utilized for share return programs included $599 million for share repurchases and $69.4 million of cash dividends. Our effective tax rate for the third quarter of 2021 was 25.2% as compared to 24.8% in the third quarter of 2020. We currently anticipate our effective tax rate to be 25.8% for the fourth quarter.This concludes our prepared remarks this morning. Operator, we'll be happy to open the floor for questions at this time.