  OperatorGood morning, and welcome to the General Dynamics fourth quarter and full year 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] Please note, this event is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to Howard Rubel, vice president of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Howard Rubel -- Vice President of Investor Relations Thank you, operator, and good morning, everyone. Welcome to the General Dynamics fourth quarter and full year 2021 conference call. Any forward-looking statements made today represent our estimates regarding the company's outlook. These estimates are subject to some risks and uncertainties. Additional information regarding these factors is contained in the company's 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K filings. We will also refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures. For additional disclosures about these non-GAAP measures, including reconciliations to comparable GAAP measures, please see the slides that accompany this webcast which are available on the investor relations page on our website, investorrelations.gd.com. Now I'd like to turn the call over to our chairman and chief executive officer, Phebe Novakovic.Phebe Novakovic -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Good morning, and thank you, Howard. Earlier today, we reported fourth quarter revenue of 10.3 billion, net earnings of 952 million, and earnings per diluted share of $3.39. This is, in most respects, consistent with our previous guidance, and sell-side consensus. The results in comparison with prior periods are rather straightforward and set out in our press release. I'll go through some of that detail quite briefly as I give you my thoughts on the business segments. As we indicated it would be, the final quarter is our strongest quarter of the year in both revenue and earnings. In fact, earnings, operating margin, net earnings, and return on sales improved quarter over the prior quarter throughout the year. It was a nice steady progression of sequential improvement. On a sequential basis, suffice it to say that revenue is up 724 million, operating earnings are up 106 million, and earnings per share are up $0.32. So all in all, a solid quarter with good operating performance. For the full year, we had revenue of 38.5 billion, up 1.4% from 2020; net earnings of 3.26 billion, up 2.8%; and earnings per fully diluted share of 11.55, modestly better than consensus and up $0.55 over 2020. We ended the year with a total backlog of 87.6 billion and total estimated contract value of 127.5 billion. Our business was strengthened by significant growth in aerospace backlog to 16.3 billion. I'll have more to say about that when we get to the business segment comments. The total company book-to-bill was 1:1 for the quarter and the year, led by the powerful order performance of Gulfstream. Our cash performance for the quarter and the year is very strong. The conversion rate for the quarter is 136% of net income and 104% for the year. Jason will have more fulsome comments on this subject and backlog in his remarks. Now let me turn to reviewing the quarter and paying some attention to quarter over quarter and sequential comparisons as well as the full year in the context of each group and provide color as appropriate. So first, aerospace. Aerospace revenue of 2.6 billion is up 5.1% over the year-ago quarter on the delivery of 39 aircraft, 35 of which were large cabin. While this was the strongest delivery quarter of the year, it fell short of our expectation by one aircraft, which has slipped into 2022. For the full year, revenue of 8.14 billion is up modestly from the prior year, even though we delivered 119 aircraft, eight fewer aircraft than we did in 2020. The increase was driven by higher service revenue at Gulfstream and a nice increase in revenue at Jet Aviation. Fourth quarter aerospace earnings of 354 million are down 47 million from a year-ago quarter even though revenue was 125 million higher, resulting in a 270 basis point reduction in operating margin. The major source of the variance is a $50 million increase in net R&D costs driven by the certification on the G700 and G800 and accelerated work on the G400. The year-ago quarter was also helped by a significant launch assistant payment that was an offset to gross R&D. Nevertheless, aerospace operating earnings and margins are better than anticipated by consensus, the same can be said for the full year result. I should also point out that aerospace margins improved throughout the year, and that was true with respect to both Gulfstream and Jet Aviation. At midyear last year, we told you to expect revenue of about 8.2 billion, operating margin around 12.4% with earnings of 1.01 billion. We finished the year with revenue of 8.14 billion, operating earnings of 1.03 billion, and a 12.7% operating margin. In sum, we were slightly better on earnings and margin, but very close to our forecast on revenue. Far and away, the most important story in the quarter for aerospace and frankly, for the company was the extraordinary order activity at Gulfstream. Last quarter, I told you that orders in the third quarter boarded on the spectacular. This quarter, they were significantly better. Order activity in the quarter was beyond anything we had seen since 2008 with the introduction of the G650. Demand had turned very good in mid-February and continued through the second and third quarters, was red hot on fourth quarter. Let me give you the particulars. The aerospace group in dollar-denominated orders had a book-to-bill of 1.7:1. Gulfstream alone was 1.8:1. In unit terms, it was over two times. Remember that these multiples are off of an increased denominator with 39 deliveries. This translates into very significant backlog growth. Aerospace added 1.6 billion to backlog in the quarter and 4.7 billion for the year. As we go into the new year, the sales pipeline remains robust and sales activity is brisk. The buildup in backlog and the pace of current demand leaves us with a rich problem, but a problem nonetheless. How do we satisfy the demand manifest in our current backlog supplemented by continuing brisk activity having previously turned down production? Can the supply chain support us? Are we ready? Well, the answer is we will increase production in 2022, but not to where it needs to be. Remember also that some of our increased production in '22 will be in building G700 and G800 that will not deliver in '22, a prebuild, if you will. As it turns out, the long pull in the 10 is manufacturing wings, which we do ourselves. You may recall that we previously vertically integrated wing supply because of the [Inaudible] in the supply chain. So what do we need to do? We need to expand our new modern wing facility and acquire another set of tools and fixtures. All of this is underway and will be in place to satisfy our needs for '23 and beyond. This leads to the question of what are the implications of this for 2022 guidance. I'll address '22 guidance a little later. Further, given the robust and enduring backlog at Gulfstream, we also feel comfortable with giving you a look at what is anticipated for '23 and '24 as well. Finally, on the new product development front, all five G700 flight-test aircraft are flying and have over 2,200 flight test hours. We have completed over 65% of all required testing. Next, combat systems. Revenue in the quarter of 1.89 billion is off 3.7% from the year-ago quarter. Operating earnings of 281 million are off 28 million on a 90 basis point decrease in operating margin. Let me point out, however, that a 14.9% margin in the quarter is highly respectable. For the full year, revenue of 7.35 billion is up 128 million, a 1.8% increase after strong growth in 2019 and moderate growth in 2020. Operating earnings for the year of 1.07 billion are up 26 million, a 2.5% increase. By the way, this performance is in line with the guidance we provided earlier in the year. As we look forward for the next few years, we believe that Combat volume will soften somewhat in the increasingly constrained budget environment faced by the U.S. Army. While our platform programs remain critical to the Army War fight, we may see some contraction, in part offset by international growth in Abrams and wheel combat vehicles. We will continue to drive margins as we always have. Remember that combat systems has had very good margins and much more constrained revenue environments. In short, this group has had a positive revenue growth for several years now, continued its history of strong margin performance, has good order activity, and has a strong pipeline of opportunity as we go forward. Next, marine systems. The marine systems' growth story continues. Fourth quarter revenue of 2.9 billion was up less than 1% over the year-ago quarter. However, revenue is up 8.8% sequentially and 5.5% for the full year. Similarly, operating earnings are down somewhat in the quarter, but up sequentially and for the full year. Once again, this is the highest full year of revenue and earnings ever for the Marine group. In our initial guidance to you, we anticipated revenue of about 10.3 billion, operating margin of 8.3%, and operating earnings of 855 million. We came in above that for both revenue and earnings and spot on the predicted operating margin. Our shipyards have continued to perform well, overcoming most of the challenges that COVID lay in our past. First, continuing to operate without ceasing throughout COVID and more recently, managing labor shortages, part shortages, supply chain disruptions, and increasing commodity prices. Importantly, on the latter point, our long-term shipbuilding contracts provide protection from material escalation. I'm happy to report that we are working very well with the Bath unions and workforce. And together, we have worked to put the past behind us and concentrate on improving schedule and performance. As a result, that has begun to see improvement on both scores. In response to significant increased demand from our navy customers that you'll see in these results, we continue to invest in each of our yards, particularly at EB to prepare for Virginia Block V and the Columbia ballistic missile submarine. Suffice it to say that we are poised to support our navy customers as they increase the size of the fleet and deliver value to our shareholders as we work through this very large backlog. Finally, the Technologies group, which consists of GDIT and mission systems. Just to remind you, this is the group in the defense segment that had, had the most impact from COVID-19, with the most remote participation from employees and the most difficulty accessing customer locations whose employees also have been working remotely. It is also where we have the most impact from the short supply of chips and other key components of mission systems. With that said, let's turn to the results and commentary on the group and the specific businesses. For the quarter, Technologies had revenue of 2.98 billion, off 7.9% from the year-ago quarter. Operating earnings, however, of 334 million are off only 5.1% on a 30 basis point improvement in margin. The operating margin of 11.2% is the strongest since the formation of this group. Revenue for the full year at 12.46 billion is off 1.5%, but earnings are up 64 million or 5.3% on a 60 basis point improvement in operating margin. All considered, the group performance showed good strengths and earnings are in line with guidance from us. Revenue came in at 543 million below our guidance, driven by mission system challenges that we have discussed last quarter, offset in part by a 2.2% growth at GDIT. Margins at both companies were very good, enabling us to meet our earnings forecast. So very good operating leverage in a very challenging environment. The group enjoyed a nice order quarter with significant wins and a book-to-bill of 1:1, a little bit stronger at GDIT and a little bit lower at mission systems. Mission systems did a very good job overcoming many of their supply chain challenges and working hard to satisfy the pent-up demand that was driven by a significant backup of work orders in some customer sites and by supply chain shortages. Turning to IT. Our fed and civilian division had a particularly strong year in '21 and helped drive a 60 basis point improvement in margin over 2020. And as has been the case since the acquisition, GDIT's cash performance was outstanding, well in excess of 100% of their imputed net income. GDIT's backlog at the end of 2021 was 8.7 billion, 4% higher than year-end 2020. Book-to-bill was 1.1:1 on sales growth of 2.2%. This is notable in light of the dollar value of GDIT wins and snared and protests that went from about 800 million at the end of 2020 to a whopping 6 billion at the end of '21. While we expect these protests will resolve in our favor, protest resolution timing is outside our control. As we look into '22 we have a healthy pipeline of opportunities to pursue as customers focus on digital modernization and over 32 billion of bids, largely all new work, awaiting customer decisions. So all in all, we expect a good year for the business. Let me turn the call over now to Jason Aiken, our CFO, for additional commentary and then return with our guidance for next year. Jason?Jason Aiken -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Phebe, and good morning. The first thing I'd like to address is our cash performance for the quarter and the year. As you can see from our press release exhibits, we generated $1.3 billion of free cash flow in the fourth quarter or 136% of net income, with strong cash performance across all four segments. That resulted in free cash flow for the year of 3.4 billion, a cash conversion rate of 104%. That was nicely ahead of our anticipated 95 to 100% of net income and again, reflective of solid performance across the company, but in particular, the strong order activity at Gulfstream. That strong performance enabled us to continue our balanced and robust capital deployment activities. To that point, capital expenditures were $385 million in the quarter or 3.7% of sales. That's up more than 10% from the prior year and brings us to $887 million for the full year. Of course, Marine systems continues to drive the elevated capex with facilities investments in support of the unprecedented growth the group is experiencing now and for the next decade plus. The full year total for capital investments at 2.3% of sales is slightly below our original expectation of 2.5%. That's due strictly to the timing of the phasing of those projects. While our investments to support the navy submarine programs have peaked, we expect capital expenditures to remain somewhat elevated at about 2.5% of sales in 2022, slightly higher than 2021 before returning, as we forecast for some time, to our more typical 2% range in 2023 and beyond. We also paid $332 million in dividends in the fourth quarter, bringing the full year to 1.3 billion. And we repurchased 1.8 million shares of stock in the quarter, bringing us to just over 10 million shares for the year for $1.8 billion at just under $179 per share. With respect to our pension plans, we contributed $135 million in 2021, and we expect that to decrease to approximately 40 million in 2022 as a result of the ARPA funding release. As we've discussed for some time, we expect to continue to generate cash in the 100-plus percent conversion range in 2022 and beyond. Our outlook assumes the unfavorable impact of the capitalization and amortization of research and development expenditures for tax purposes beginning in 2022 as called for under current law. There's proposed legislation to delay the effective date of this requirement, but we'll have to wait and see if it's approved by Congress and signed into law. Assuming there is a deferral of the R&D capitalization provision, we would expect our free cash flow to be in the 110% conversion range. We ended the year with a cash balance of $1.6 billion and no commercial paper outstanding, leaving us with a net debt position of $9.9 billion, down approximately $300 million from last year and the first time we've ended the year with net debt below 10 billion since 2018. Our net interest expense in the fourth quarter was $93 million, bringing interest expense for the full year to $424 million. That compares to 120 million and 477 million in the respective 2020 periods. The year-over-year reduction in interest expense is due to the retirement of $1.5 billion of long-term debt back in May. Our next scheduled debt maturity is $1 billion in the fourth quarter of this year. And based on the declining net debt balance, we expect interest expense to drop to approximately $380 million in 2022. Turning to income taxes. We had a 15.9% effective tax rate in the fourth quarter and for the full year, consistent with our previous guidance. Looking ahead to 2022, we expect the full year effective tax rate to remain around 16%. The rate for 2022 is not impacted by the R&D matter I discussed earlier because that legislation impacts cash taxes, not the effective tax rate. The 2022 rate also assumes there's no other enacted legislation impacting corporate tax rates. From a quarterly phasing perspective, we expect the first quarter rate to be lower due to the timing of certain tax items, so the rate for the remainder of the year will naturally be higher given the full year forecast. Order activity and backlog were once again a strong story with a 1:1 ratio for the company in the fourth quarter and for the full year. As Phebe mentioned, order activity in the aerospace group led the way with a 1.7 times book-to-bill in the quarter and 1.6 times for the full year. As a result, the group's backlog was up 40% in the past year. Technologies recorded a book-to-bill of 1:1 and within that group, GDIT was 1.1 times. We finished the quarter with a total backlog of $87.6 billion and total estimated contract value, which includes options and IDIQ contracts of over $127 billion. That concludes my remarks, and I'll turn it back over to Phebe to give you guidance for 2022 and wrap-up remarks.Phebe Novakovic -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Jason. And with that, I'll turn to our expectations for 2022. So let me provide our operating forecast for '22 initially by business group and then a companywide roll-up. In aerospace, we expect 2022 revenue to be around 8.4 billion, up around 4% over 2021, with about 123 deliveries, up from 119 last year. Operating margin will be around 12.8%. So a little color here about what is driving this forecast. While anticipated deliveries are up only four units from '21, production of completed aircraft is considerably more than in 2021. Last year, we produced fewer than 119 aircraft that were delivered. We delivered a number of test aircraft that were either produced and completed in prior periods as well as a few demonstrators all up about 11 aircraft. In 2022 production, we are building some G700 and G800 test articles that will not deliver this year. Finally, our ability to ramp up further in '22 is limited by the wing supply issue I described earlier, which will be remedied for '23. This leads me to a quick look at '23 and '24. In 2023, we expect to deliver 148 airplanes, 25 more than in 2022, and have revenue of approximately 2 billion more than '22, with margin improvement around 200 basis points. In '24, we expect to deliver around 170 airplanes, up another 22 driving another 1.6 billion of revenue over '23 and another 100 basis points of margin growth. So all up, over that two-year near-term time frame, we expect to see 3.6 billion of revenue growth over '22 and 300 basis points of higher operating margins. Mind you, none of this is supported by heroic assumptions about continuing demand. We assume a book-to-bill of around 1:1 during the period, a notable reduction from this year's demand. If demand is greater, it will impact favorably '24 and '25. In short, we fully expect aerospace to be a significant growth engine for both revenue and earnings in 2023 and 2024. In combat systems, we expect revenue in the range of 7.15 billion to 7.25 billion, a modest reduction against '21 million. We expect operating margin to be about the same at 14.5%. Growth should resume later in our planned period as developmental programs move into production and several anticipated international orders should be received. The marine group is expected to have revenue of approximately 10.8 billion, a 300 million increase over '21. Operating margin in '22 is anticipated to improve to around 8.6%. The long-term driver of growth here is submarine work which will expand as the supply chain improves its efficiency and delivers modules to the grant and waterfront in a more timely fashion. Our biggest upside opportunity in this group is to increase margins in the period. We expect revenue in technologies in the range of 12.8 to 13 billion. This is a growth of around 2.5 to 4.5%. We expect operating margins around 10%. So for 2022, companywide, we expect to see approximately 39.2 billion to 39.45 billion of revenue and an operating margin of 10.8%. This all goes up to a forecast range of $12 to $12.15 per fully diluted share. On a quarterly basis, we expect EPS to play out much like it has in prior years, with Q1 about $2.45 and progressively stronger quarters thereafter. Let me emphasize that this forecast is purely from operations that assumes a 16% tax provision and assumes we buy only enough shares to hold the share count steady with year-end figures so as to avoid dilution from option exercises. So much like last year, beating our EPS guidance has come from outperforming the operating plan, achieving a lower effective tax rate, and the effective deployment of capital.Howard Rubel -- Vice President of Investor Relations Thanks, Phebe. [Operator instructions] Operator, could you please remind participants how to enter the queue? 