  OperatorThank you for standing by. Welcome to the AbbVie third quarter 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] I would now like to introduce Ms. Liz Shea, vice president of investor relations. Ma'am, you may proceed.Liz Shea -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



 Good morning, and thanks for joining us. Also on the call with me, today are Rick Gonzalez, chairman of the board and chief executive officer; Michael Severino, vice chairman, and president; Rob Michael, executive vice president and chief financial officer; and Jeff Stewart, executive vice president, commercial operations. Before we get started, some statements we make today may be considered forward-looking statements for purposes of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. AbbVie cautions that these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. Additional information about these risks and uncertainties is included in our SEC filings. AbbVie undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements, except as required by law. On today's conference call, non-GAAP financial measures will be used to help investors understand AbbVie's business performance. These non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled with comparable GAAP financial measures in our earnings release and regulatory filings from today, which can be found on our website.Unless otherwise noted, our commentary on sales growth is on a comparable basis which includes full current year and historical results for Allergan. For this comparison of underlying performance, all historically reported Allergan revenues have been recast to conform to AbbVie's revenue recognition accounting policies and exclude the divestitures of ZENPEP and Biocase. References to operational growth further exclude the impact of exchange. Following our prepared remarks, we'll take your questions. So with that, I'll now turn the call over to Rick. 

 



Rick Gonzalez -- Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Liz. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. I'll discuss our third quarter performance and outlook, and then Jeff, Mike, and Rob will review our business highlights, pipeline progress, and financial results in more detail. AbbVie continues to perform very well. We once again delivered an outstanding quarter with adjusted earnings per share of $3.33, exceeding the midpoint of our guidance by $0.13. Total adjusted net revenues of more than $14.3 billion was up 10.8% on an operational basis, with balanced growth across each of the major growth platforms. We continue to see double-digit revenue growth in immunology, where Skyrizi and Rinvoq have established very strong launch trajectories. These two assets are either approved, under regulatory review, or in late-stage development across all of Humira's major indications, and we remain confident that they will both be significant contributors to AbbVie's long-term growth. Aesthetics is also demonstrating impressive double-digit operational sales growth. Our dedicated global Aesthetics structure and increased investment are driving accelerated category growth across both toxins and pillars, where there is substantial room for additional market penetration. Our strategic investments and targeted field force expansions have improved overall customer retention rates and significantly increased the number of first-time patients to our leading brands. We are once again raising our full year guidance for Aesthetics this quarter, and we view this portfolio as an extremely attractive growth opportunity over the long term with high single-digit compounded annual growth rates expected through the end of the decade.

 



 Our Neuroscience business drove robust double-digit revenue performance again this quarter and we added a compelling new product to our migraine portfolio with the approval of Qulipta, a once-daily oral medication for the preventative treatment of episodic migraine. Our hematological oncology portfolio delivered operational sales growth of approximately 8% this quarter despite a protracted market recovery in CLL, which remains below pre-COVID levels. Beyond the significant contributions of Imbruvica and Venclexta, we have an exciting oncology pipeline with several promising programs in development for blood cancers and solid tumors, to support sustainable long-term growth. These include navitoclax for myelofibrosis, eculizumab for B-cell malignancies, ABBV-383 for multiple myeloma, lemzoparlimab for AML and MDS as well as Ubrelvy for non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer. Lastly, we continue to make excellent progress with the integration of Allergan. Our financial results show that we have created a stronger and much more diverse company with numerous products across our newly combined portfolio, delivering robust growth. Overall, I'm extremely pleased with our momentum, and we are once again raising our full year 2021 EPS guidance. We now expect adjusted earnings per share of $12.63 to $12.67 reflecting growth of nearly 20% at the midpoint. Additionally, as noted in our news release, today, we're announcing an 8.5% increase in our quarterly cash dividend from $1.30 per share to $1.41 per share, beginning with the dividend payable in February 2022. Since our inception, we've grown our quarterly dividend by more than 250%. In summary, we're demonstrating strong execution across our portfolio. We've assembled an impressive set of diversified assets with significant growth potential, giving us a high degree of confidence in the long-term outlook for our business. With that, I'll turn the call over to Jeff. Jeff?Jeff Stewart -- Executive Vice President, Commercial Operations Thank you, Rick. We continue to demonstrate strong and balanced growth across our therapeutic portfolio. I'll start with immunology, where we remain well-positioned for sustained leadership with a portfolio of best-in-class medicines. Total immunology revenues were approximately $6.7 billion, up 14.9% on an operational basis. Global Humira sales were more than $5.4 billion, up 5.2% on an operational basis with 10.1% revenue growth in the U.S., offset by biosimilar competition across the international markets, where revenues were down 16.7% on an operational basis. Skyrizi is performing extremely well. Global sales of nearly $800 million were up 18.1% on a sequential basis, reflecting continued market share gains. In the U.S., Skyrizi's leading in-play psoriasis patient share, which includes both new and switching patients, is now roughly 36%, more than double the share capture of the next nearest biologic competitor. Skyrizi's total prescription share in the U.S. psoriasis biologic market is now nearly 20%, second only to Humira. Internationally, Skyrizi continues to ramp nicely, having also achieved in-play patient share leadership in more than a dozen key markets. This compelling share performance will be further supported by two important near-term enhancements: the availability of more simple delivery forms for Skyrizi as well as the potential indication expansion in psoriatic arthritis. First, we recently launched the new and convenient Skyrizi single-dose 150-milligram self-injectable pen and syringe in major territories around the world. The market response has been very favorable, and the approval now makes Skyrizi the only quarterly dose brand that is available in a single self-injectable pen for patients. Second, we are preparing for the global launch of Skyrizi in psoriatic arthritis as we near approval decisions in both the U.S. and Europe. We received a CHMP positive opinion earlier this month with anticipated approval in Europe by year-end, and we continue to expect FDA approval early next year. The addition of this indication, once approved, will round out Skyrizi's dermatology label and give patients with PSA access to a new compelling therapeutic option. We are also making excellent progress with Skyrizi's development in Crohn's disease, which was recently submitted for U.S. regulatory review with commercialization expected next year. Rinvoq also continues to demonstrate robust growth. Global sales of more than $450 million were up nearly 20% on a sequential basis. Total in-play RA share remains strong and now reflects approximately 17% patient share in the U.S. as well as leadership in a half a dozen key countries around the world. Internationally, Rinvoq's share continues to ramp in RA and we are making excellent progress with the recent commercial launches of PSA, AS, and atopic dermatitis where we have secured strong labels for each of these indications. As many of you are aware, the FDA issued a safety communication regarding new and updated warnings for JAK inhibitors, including Rinvoq in early September. While we do not yet have an updated label, we are closely monitoring prescription trends and feedback from the field and we have not observed a significant impact to Rinvoq's utilization at this time. That said, should the updated label restrict use to TNF inadequate responders, we would certainly expect a near-term impact to new patient starts in RA. Based on the robust data we have generated across our development program against multiple biologics and later lines of RA therapy. We do expect that Rinvoq will ultimately obtain higher share growth in the second line plus setting as most patients ultimately fail TNF therapies over time. Overall, we continue to feel very good about the performance and profile of Rinvoq and remain confident this asset will be a major contributor to AbbVie's long-term growth. In hematologic oncology, global revenues were nearly $1.9 billion, up 8.1% on an operational basis. Imbruvica and Venclexta have a strong position across multiple heme indications, including CLL, where AbbVie's combined portfolio remains the clear market share leader across all lines of therapy. Global Imbruvica revenues were approximately $1.4 billion, up 0.3%. In the U.S., performance continues to be primarily impacted by a slower-than-expected market recovery in CLL and as well as some modest share erosion from newer therapies, including Venclexta and other BTK inhibitors. New patient starts in CLL remain below pre-COVID levels. and it is difficult to predict when this dynamic may fully recover. Venclexta sales were up 38.7% on an operational basis with increasing momentum across all indications, including a strong AML launch trajectory in the international markets. In neuroscience, revenues were nearly $1.6 billion, up 25% on an operational basis. I'm particularly pleased with the results and outlook for our emerging migraine portfolio, where we are now the only company to have a portfolio of distinctive therapies to address the spectrum of this common complex and debilitating disease, including Botox Therapeutic, a unique foundational treatment for the prevention of chronic migraine, which is performing very well. Total sales of $645 million for all the therapeutic Botox uses were up 22.5% on an operational basis. Ubrelvy, our leading oral CGRP treatment for acute migraine is also demonstrating rapid growth. Total sales of $162 million were up nearly 30% on a sequential basis. Based on Ubrelvy's competitive profile, continued strong new patient starts, and a rapidly expanding market, we remain confident that Ubrelvy represents a $1 billion-plus peak sales opportunity. And now we are just launching Qulipta, the only oral CGRP specifically developed for the preventative treatment of migraine, which is already off to an excellent start. Early feedback from our physicians has been very positive, given Qulipta's strong efficacy, safety, and convenient dosing profile relative to the current standards of care. The Qulipta launch is being supported by our existing migraine sales force with commercial access expected to ramp strongly through the first half of 2022. Qulipta also represents a $1 billion-plus peak sales opportunity. Now we believe having three distinct and competitively positioned therapies across the spectrum of migraine conditions with Botox therapeutic, Ubrelvy, and Qulipta which each have been optimized for a specific migraine indication, enables physicians to tailor treatment for the broadest range of patients. Our portfolio of migraine therapy puts us in a very strong position that capture growth in this dynamic market. Turning to psychiatry. We also see robust performance with Vraylar, which remains the fastest-growing atypical antipsychotic. Total revenues of $461 million were up 29% on an operational basis with continued strong demand across schizophrenia, bipolar one disorder, and bipolar depression. Lastly, in our other key therapeutic areas, we saw a significant contribution from Eye Care, which had revenues of $871 million, up 2.9% on an operational basis. Mavyret sales were $426 million, up 2.9% on an operational basis as treated patient volumes still remain suppressed compared to pre-COVID levels. And we saw double-digit growth operationally for both Creon and Lupron. So overall, I'm pleased with our continued execution across the therapeutic portfolio, which is demonstrating strong revenue growth. And with that, I'll turn the call over to Mike for additional comments on our R&D programs. Mike?Mike Severino -- Vice Chairman and President Thank you, Jeff. I'll start with immunology, where we had several regulatory updates and data readouts for both Rinvoq and Skyrizi across therapeutic areas. Following successful completion of the registrational programs for Rinvoq in ulcerative colitis and Skyrizi in Crohn's disease, we submitted our regulatory applications for each asset in their respective indications. We saw very strong data for both Rinvoq and Skyrizi as induction and maintenance treatments in UC and Crohn's, respectively. And based on these results, we believe both drugs have the potential to become a highly effective, differentiated therapies in these indications. We anticipate approval decisions for both in 2022. Earlier this month, we announced positive top-line results from our phase 3 Select-AXIS two program for Rinvoq and axial SpA, which included data from two stand-alone studies. One for ankylosing spondylitis patients who had an inadequate response to biologics and another for patients with non-radiographic axial SpA. In the ankylosing spondylitis biorefractory study, Rinvoq performed very well, demonstrating significantly greater improvements in signs and symptoms as well as physical function and imaging endpoints compared to Placebo. We saw levels of efficacy in this difficult-to-treat refractory population similar to those more typically observed in bio-naive patients. These results will be added to our submission package for Rinvoq and AS, which is currently under review by the FDA. In the non-radiographic axial SpA study, Rinvoq also performed very well, meeting the primary and key secondary endpoints. We plan to submit our regulatory applications in this indication later this quarter as well. Rinvoq's safety profile in these axial SpA trials was consistent with previous studies, and there was no evidence for increased risk of DVT, PE, MACE events, or malignancies in either study. Based on the data generated in the Select Access program, we believe Rinvoq has the potential to improve care for patients suffering from axial spondyloarthritis by providing sustained disease control and rapid, and durable pain reduction as well as improving function. As you're likely aware, in September, the FDA communicated that they will require new warnings for JAK inhibitors, including Rinvoq and their use will be limited to certain patients who have not responded to or cannot tolerate anti-TNFs. We continue to work with the FDA regarding updated labeling language for the RA indication while simultaneously engaging with the agency on our files for atopic dermatitis, psoriatic arthritis, and ankylosing spondylitis. We remain confident in our submission packages for these three new indications and continue to expect approvals following completion of the RA label update. In the area of oncology, we continue to make good progress advancing all stages of our pipeline. We're nearing completion of several indication expansion programs for Venclexta. In our study in previously untreated higher-risk MDS patients, which recently received a breakthrough therapy designation, we expect to make a data cut early next year to include six-month follow-up data for duration of response. Based on this data cut, we plan to submit our regulatory application to the FDA in the first half of 2022. And for an accelerated approval. We continue to make good progress with Venclexta in the CANOVA trial, which is evaluating Venclexta in relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma patients with a T114 mutation. Venclexta has shown strong anti-myeloma activity in this biomarker-defined population and, if successful, has an opportunity to play an important role in the treatment paradigm for multiple myeloma. We expect the data readout from this event-driven trial next year. In our early  to mid-stage Hemon pipeline, we continue to expand the cohorts in the epcoritamab phase one/two studies in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma and follicular lymphoma. And we're evaluating epcoritamab as both a monotherapy and in combinations. We expect to see data from both the monotherapy and combo studies next year, and we will discuss the monotherapy data with regulators regarding a file for accelerated approval. We also recently began the dose-escalation stage of the Phase one-b studies for lemzoparlimab in AML, MDS, and multiple myeloma. And ABBV-383, our BCMA CD3 bispecific antibody is currently in the expansion stage of its phase one study in multiple myeloma patients. and we expect to begin registrational phase three studies next year. Moving to neuroscience, where we had several notable pipeline events since our last earnings call. In September, we received FDA approval for Qulipta, the only oral CGRP specifically designed as a preventative treatment for migraine. We're very pleased with the label, which reflects Qulipta's strong benefit-risk profile and is supported by a robust clinical development program. In our registrational program, which evaluated Qulipta in nearly 2,000 patients suffering from episodic migraine, treatment with Qulipta resulted in a significant reduction in mean monthly migraine days compared to Placebo. And approximately 60% of patients achieved at least a 50% reduction in migraine days. We think these data compare favorably to other preventative migraine treatments on the market and believe our new oral treatment option will be competitively positioned in the prevention market. Our migraine portfolio now includes Ubrelvy for acute treatment of migraine, Qulipta for preventative treatment of episodic migraine, and Botox for preventative treatment of chronic migraine. With this distinct portfolio, AbbVie is uniquely positioned to address the full spectrum of this complex and debilitating disease. This morning, we announced top-line results from two phases three studies evaluating Vraylar as an adjunctive treatment in major depressive disorder. In the 301 study, the 1.5-milligram Vraylar dose met the primary endpoint, demonstrating a clinically meaningful improvement in total MADRS score compared to Placebo at week six with a highly statistically significant p-value of 0.005. In this study, the three-milligram Vraylar dose did not reach statistical significance, but it did show a clear trend toward improvement with a nominal P value of approximately 0.073 at week six. In the second phase three trial, the 302 study, neither Vraylar dose met the primary endpoint of changing total moderate score at week six, but both the 1.5 and three-milligram doses demonstrated clear trends toward a clinically meaningful benefit at weeks two and four, with nominal p-values less than 0.05 for a number of comparisons. Additionally, as a reminder, we had 1 prior positive registrational phase two-b study, where Vraylar demonstrated efficacy in MDD when added to ongoing antidepressant treats. Based on precedent in the field and the totality of the data, we believe we have a viable regulatory pathway for Vraylar as an adjunctive treatment in major depressive disorder. We plan to engage with regulatory agencies to discuss these results and expect to submit our regulatory application to the FDA in the first half of next year. We also recently announced positive top-line results from a phase three study comparing our novel subcutaneous levodopa, carbidopa delivery system, ABBV-951 to oral levodopa-carbidopa in patients with advanced Parkinson's disease. In this pivotal study, treatment with 951 resulted in clinically meaningful improvement in on-time without troublesome dyskinesia as well as similar improvements in normalized off time compared to oral levodopa-carbidopa. We're very pleased with these results, which we believe support our view that 951 has the potential to become a transformative improvement to current treatment options for patients with advanced Parkinson's disease. We plan to submit our regulatory application next year with approval decisions anticipated in the U.S. and Europe in early 2023. And in eye care. We announced a partnership with REGENXBIO to develop and commercialize RGX-314, a potential gene therapy for the treatment of wet AMD, diabetic retinopathy, and other chronic retinal diseases. RGX-314 is a very attractive addition to our pipeline and complements our Eye Care portfolio with a potential flagship product in retinal disease. REGENXBIO recently presented initial data from two phases two studies evaluating RGX-314 in wet AMD and diabetic retinopathy using in-office suprachoroidal delivery. While early, these results are encouraging with RGX-314 demonstrating efficacy at the lowest dose and the study showing that the drug and delivery method both appear to be well tolerated. Also in eye care, we continue to expect approval for beauty shortly, formerly known as AGN-190584, and for the treatment of symptoms associated with presbyopia. This once-daily eye drop was developed to help address the presbyopia that is often corrected through reading glasses and once approved, would be a convenient on-demand solution for patients with mild to moderate presbyopia, who may not want to wear reading glasses. This has been a very productive year thus far for our R&D organization and we anticipate several additional milestones in the coming months. We expect this momentum to continue into next year, which is looking to be a milestone-filled year for AbbVie as well. With that, I'll turn the call over to Rob for additional comments on our third quarter performance and financial outlook. Rob?Rob Michael -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Mike. As you have heard from Rick, Jeff and Mike, we once again delivered outstanding performance this quarter, while also advancing our strategic priorities. Our results demonstrate the strong momentum of the business and support AbbVie's long-term financial outlook. Turning to third quarter results. We reported adjusted earnings per share of $3.33, up 17.7%, compared to the prior year and $0.13 above our guidance midpoint. This includes $0.05 from accelerated synergies and $0.03 from mark-to-market equity gains. Total adjusted net revenues were $14.3 billion, up 10.8% on an operational basis excluding a 0.5% favorable impact from foreign exchange. The adjusted operating margin ratio was 51.1% of sales, an improvement of 230 basis points versus the prior year. This includes adjusted gross margin of 83.2% of sales, adjusted R&D investment of 11.4% of sales, and adjusted SG&A expense up 20.6% of sales. Net interest expense was $585 million, and the adjusted tax rate was 12.6%. As Rick previously mentioned, we are raising our full-year adjusted earnings per share guidance to between $12.63 and $12.67, reflecting growth of 19.8% at the midpoint. Excluded from this guidance is $6.34 of known intangible amortization and specified items. This guidance continues to contemplate full-year revenue growth of 10.7% on a comparable operational basis. At current rates, we now expect foreign exchange to have a 0.7% and favorable impact on full-year comparable sales growth. This implies a full-year revenue forecast of approximately $56.2 billion. Included in this guidance are the following updated full-year assumptions. We now expect Aesthetics global revenue of approximately $5.1 billion. We now expect international Humira sales of approximately $3.3 billion. For Imbruvica, we now expect global revenue of approximately $5.5 billion, reflecting a slower recovery of the CLL market. For Mavyret, we now expect global sales of approximately $1.7 billion, and we now expect organic expense synergies of approximately $1.8 billion. As we look ahead to the fourth quarter, we anticipate net revenue approaching $15 billion. At current rates, we expect foreign exchange to have a modest unfavorable impact on sales growth. We expect adjusted earnings per share between $3.24 and $3.28, excluding approximately $1.14 of known intangible amortization and specified items. Finally, AbbVie's strong business performance continues to support our capital allocation priorities. We generated $17 billion of free cash flow in the first nine months of the year, and our cash balance at the end of September was $12 billion, underscoring our confidence in AbbVie's long-term outlook, today, we announced an 8.5% increase in our quarterly cash dividend, beginning with the dividend payable in February 2022. And we remain on track to achieve $17 billion of cumulative debt paydown by the end of this year with further deleveraging through 2023. This will bring our net leverage ratio to 2.3 times by the end of 2021 and approximately two times by the end of 2022. In closing, AbbVie has once again delivered outstanding results and our financial outlook remains very strong. With that, I'll turn the call back over to Liz.Liz Shea -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thanks, Rob. We will now open the call for questions. [Operator instructions] Operator, we'll take the first question. 