
OperatorGood day. And welcome to Northern Trust Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded.At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Mark Bette, Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Mark Bette -- Senior Vice President, Director of Investor Relations

 



Thank you, Stephanie. Good morning, everyone. And welcome to Northern Trust Corporation's second quarter 2021 earnings conference call. Joining me on our call this morning are Mike O'Grady, our Chairman and CEO; Jason Tyler, our Chief Financial Officer; Lauren Allnutt, our Controller; and Briar Rose from our Investor Relations team.Our second quarter earnings press release and financial trends report are both available on our website at northerntrust.com. Also on our website, you will find our quarterly earnings review presentation which we will use to guide today's conference call.This July 21st call is being webcast live on northerntrust.com. The only authorized rebroadcast of this call is the replay that will be made available on our website through August 18th. Northern Trust disclaims any continuing accuracy of the information provided in this call after today.Now for our Safe Harbor statement. What we say during today's conference call may include forward-looking statements which are Northern Trust's current estimates and expectations of future events or future results.

 



Actual results, of course, could differ materially from those expressed or implied by these statements because the realization of those results is subject to many risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict.I urge you to read our 2020 annual report on Form 10-K and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for detailed information about factors that could affect actual results.During today's question-and-answer session, please limit your initial query to one question and one related follow-up. This will allow us to move through the queue and enable as many people as possible the opportunity to ask questions as time permits. Thank you again for joining us today.Let me turn the call over to Mike O'Grady.

 



Michael G. O'Grady -- Chairman, President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Mark. Let me join in welcoming everyone to our second quarter 2021 earnings call. During the second quarter, we continued to successfully execute on our growth strategies across each of our businesses. In our wealth management business, our goals-driven approach and last year's launch of the Northern Trust Institute continue to resonate with our clients, further increasing client satisfaction levels.Our digital Navigate the Now campaign, which we introduced last year, is successfully generating new contacts and leads, creating more opportunity. Uncertainty in tax law changes has also contributed to new business momentum. And earlier in the quarter, we announced the launch of our Tax Policy Resource Center, an extension of the Northern Trust Institute.Within asset management, we continue to see momentum in our liquidity products as well as strong growth in our FlexShares ETF and ESG strategies. We continue to focus on expanding Sustainable Investment Solutions, and earlier this month announced the launch of the quality, low-volatility, low carbon world strategy, an actively managed strategy focusing on high-quality, low volatility stock, while maintaining a low carbon footprint relative to the MSCI World Index.We also introduced the Northern Trust ESG Vector Score, which measures financially relevant ESG-related criteria that could impact the operating performance of publicly traded companies. Within our asset servicing business, we continue to see growth that was well diversified across regions, products and client segments. Recent notable public wins include Fundsmith, Marks & Spencer Pension Trust, Martin Currie Investment Management and Coal Pension Trustees Services Limited.We continue to invest and expand our asset servicing solutions as evidenced by us finalizing our acquisition of Parilux Investment Technology, which underscores our commitment to the front office solutions business.The execution of our growth strategies, combined with favorable markets, resulted in 12% year-over-year growth in our trust fees, despite significant headwinds from money market fee waivers. Our expense growth of 8%, inclusive of a pension settlement charge, generated 4 points of positive fee operating leverage. The expense growth reflected new business as well as investments in both technology and our staff as we continue to build a diverse engaged workforce with skills for the future.I also want to draw your attention to our latest Corporate Social Responsibility report, which we published last week, marking a full decade of transparent detailed CSR reporting about the company. The report details our progress toward creating long-term value for our clients, employees, shareholders, communities and other key stakeholders.Moving into the second half of 2021 and beyond, we remain focused on continuing to effectively navigate the persistent low interest rate environment, focusing on driving greater efficiencies as well as continuing to grow organically in a scalable and profitable manner.With respect to the public health environment, we continue to operate in what we call resiliency mode, which means we're focused on providing our clients continuity of service, while the majority of our employees worldwide are working remotely.However, during the third quarter, we expect to see more of our staff returning to the respective locations. Our return to office plans are being driven, first, by robust health and safety protocols specific to each location and, second, by business function needs and timelines.Finally, I want to express my sincere appreciation for our employees, whose commitment, expertise and professionalism continues to be exceptional.Now, let me turn the call to Jason to review our financial results in greater detail for the quarter.Jason J. Tyler -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Mike. Let me join Mark and Mike in welcoming you to our second quarter 2021 earnings call. Let's dive into the financial results for the quarter starting on page 2.This morning, we reported second quarter net income of $368.1 million. Earnings per share were $1.72 and our return on average common equity was 13.7%. This quarter's results included a $17.6 million pension settlement charge within the employee benefits expense category.As you can see on the bottom of page 2, equity markets performed well during the quarter. Recall that a significant portion of our trust fees are based on quarter lag or month lag asset levels, and both the S&P 500 and EAFE Local had strong sequential performance based on those calculations.As shown on this page, average one month and three-month LIBOR rates were stable during the quarter, with only modest declines. US dollar was weaker on a year-over-year basis, which had a favorable impact on our reported revenue, but it's unfavorable to our expenses.Let's move to page 3 and review our financial highlights of the second quarter. Year-over-year, revenue was up 5% with non-interest income up 10% and net interest income down 9%. Expenses increased 8%, while net income was up 18%.In the sequential comparison, revenue and expense were both flat, while net income, taking our credit provision and taxes into account, was down 2%. The provision for credit losses reflected a release of $27 million in reserves in the current quarter compared to a provision of $66 million in the prior year and a release of $30 million in the prior quarter. Return on average common equity was 13.7% for the quarter, up from 12.2% a year ago and consistent with the prior quarter.Assets under custody and administration of $15.7 trillion grew 30% from a year ago and 6% sequentially. Assets under custody of $12.2 trillion grew 32% from a year ago and 6% sequentially. Assets under management were $1.5 trillion, up 22% from a year ago and 6% sequentially.Now, let's look at results in greater detail, starting with revenue on page 4. Trust, investment and other servicing fees, representing the largest component of our revenue, totaled $1.1 billion and were up 12% from last year and up 1% sequentially. Foreign exchange trading income was $71 million in the quarter, down 1% year-over-year and down 10% sequentially. The sequential decline was driven by lower client volumes as well as lower volatility.The remaining components of non-interest income totaled $99 million in the quarter, down 3% from one year ago and down 2% sequentially. Within this, securities commissions and trading income was flat with the prior year and down 5% sequentially. The sequential performance was driven by lower trading within our core brokerage business, partially offset by higher transition management revenue.Other operating income totaled $54 million and was down 4% from one year ago and down 1% sequentially. Net interest income, which I'll discuss in more detail later, was $344 million in the second quarter, down 9% from one year ago and down 1% sequentially.Let's look at the components of our trust and investment fees on page 5. For our Corporate & Institutional Services business, fees totaled $612 million and were up 8% year-over-year and down 1% sequentially. Favorable currency translation benefited total C&IS fees on a year-over-year basis by approximately 3 points.Custody and fund administration fees were $455 million and up 21% year-over-year and up 2% on a sequential basis. Both the year-over-year and sequential increases were driven by favorable markets and new business, with the year-over-year comparison also benefiting from currency translation.Assets under custody and administration for C&IS clients were $14.8 trillion at quarter-end, up 30% year-over-year and up 6% sequentially. Both the year-over-year and sequential growth were driven by favorable markets and new business, with currency translation also a benefit in the year-over-year comparison.Investment management fees in C&IS was $101 million or down 2% year-over-year and down 13% sequentially. Higher money market fund fee waivers were the key driver of both declines, partially offset by favorable markets and new business. Fee waivers in C&IS totaled $50 million in the second quarter compared to $28 million in the prior quarter.Assets under management for C&IS were $1.2 trillion, up 22% year-over-year and up 7% sequentially. The growth from the prior year was driven by favorable markets, client flows and favorable currency translation. The sequential growth was driven by favorable markets and net flows.Securities lending fees were $19 million, down 29% year-over-year and up 7% sequentially. The year-over-year decline was primarily driven by lower spreads, partially offset by higher volumes, while the sequential performance was driven by higher spreads and volumes. Average collateral levels were up 19% year-over-year and up 3% sequentially.Moving to our Wealth Management business. Trust, investment and other servicing fees were $464 million and were up 17% compared to the prior year and up 5% from the prior quarter. Fee waivers in Wealth Management totaled $29.2 million in the current quarter compared to $22.2 million in the prior quarter. Across the regions, both the year-over-year and sequential growth were impacted by favorable markets and new business, partially offset by higher fee waivers. Within Global Family Office, the favorable impact of markets and new business were offset by higher fee waivers.Assets under management for our Wealth Management clients were $371 billion at quarter-end, up 22% year-over-year and up 4% sequentially. The year-over-year growth was driven by favorable markets and client flows, while the sequential performance primarily reflected favorable markets.Moving to page 6, net interest income was $344 million in the quarter and was down 9% from the prior year. Earning assets averaged $142 billion in the quarter, up 13% versus the prior year. Average deposits were $128 billion and were up 15% versus the prior year, while loan balances averaged $36 billion and were up 2% compared to the prior year.The net interest margin was 0.97% in the quarter and was down 25 basis points from a year ago. The net interest margin decreased primarily due to lower average interest rates as well as mix shift within the balance sheet.On a sequential quarter basis, net interest income declined 1%. Average earning assets and average deposits each increased 1% on a sequential basis, while average loan balances were up 6%. The net interest margin declined 3 basis points sequentially, primarily due to lower average rates.Turning to page 7, expenses were $1.1 billion in the second quarter and were 8% higher than the prior year and flat with the prior quarter. The current quarter included a $17.6 million pension settlement charge within the employee benefits category. This charge represented approximately 1.5 points of year-over-year and sequential growth. The year-over-year comparison for expenses was also unfavorably impacted by currency translation by approximately 2 points of growth.Compensation expense totaled $486 million and was up 6% compared to the prior year and was down 6% sequentially. The year-over-year growth was primarily driven by higher cash-based incentive accruals as well as higher salaries.The growth in salaries was primarily attributable to unfavorable currency translation. The sequential decline was primarily due to the prior quarter's equity incentives, including $32 million in expense associated with retirement eligible staff. Excluding the previously mentioned pension settlement charge employee benefits expense was up 11% from one year ago and down 3% sequentially. The year-over-year increase was primarily related to higher medical expense, while the sequential decline was due to lower payroll withholding, partially offset by higher medical expense.Outside services expense was $218 million and was up 24% from a year ago and up 11% from the prior quarter. Revenue and business volume expenses accounted for nearly two-thirds of the year-over-year growth and nearly half of the sequential growth. The remaining growth within the category included higher technical services, consulting and legal expense reflecting investment in the business as well as the timing of engagements.Equipment and software expense of $178 million was up 9% from one year ago and up 1% sequentially. The year-over-year growth reflected higher software support and amortization costs.Occupancy expense of $52 million were down 13% from a year ago and up 3% sequentially. The prior year included costs associated with our workplace real estate strategies.Other operating expense of $68 million was down 21% from one year ago and down 6% sequentially. The year-over-year decline was driven by lower miscellaneous expenses, including account servicing activities, mutual fund co-administration costs and supplemental compensation plan expense. The sequential decline was due to lower miscellaneous expense, partially offset by higher business promotion and staff-related costs.Turning to page 8. Our capital ratios remain strong, with our common equity Tier 1 ratio of 12% under the standardized approach, flat with the prior quarter. Our Tier 1 leverage ratio was 7.1%, up slightly from 6.9% in the prior quarter.During the second quarter, we repurchased 252,000 shares of common stock at a cost of $30 million. We also declared cash dividends of $0.70 per share, totaling $148 million to common stockholders.The current environment continues to demonstrate the importance of a strong capital base and liquidity profile to support our client's needs, and we continue to provide our clients with the exceptional service and solution expertise they've come to expect from us.Our competitive positioning across each of our businesses, wealth management, asset management and asset servicing continues to resonate well in the marketplace.So, thank you again for participating in Northern Trust second quarter earnings conference call today. Mike, Mark, Lauren and I would be happy to answer your questions. Stephanie, will you please open the line?