
OperatorGood morning, and welcome to the Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. My name is Rishay [Phonetic] and I will be your operator. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Ms. Andrea DeMarco, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations, Corporate Communications and ESG. Ms. DeMarco, please proceed.Andrea DeMarco -- Senior Vice President from Investor Relations, Corporate Communications and ESG

 



Thank you, Rishay, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us for our second quarter 2021 Earnings Call. I'm joined today by Frank Del Rio, President and Chief Executive Officer of Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings; and Mark Kempa, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. We would also like to welcome a special guest joining us today, Dr. Scott Gottlieb, former commissioner of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, Chairman of our Company's SailSAFE global health and wellness Council, and author of the soon to be released book "Uncontrolled Spread".Frank will begin the call with opening commentary after which Mark will follow to discuss our financial results before handing the call back to Frank for closing remarks. We will then open the call for your questions. As a reminder, this conference call is being simultaneously webcast on the Company's Investor Relations website at www.NCLHLtd.com/investors. We will also make reference to a slide presentation during this call which may also be found on our Investor Relations website. Both the conference call and presentation will be available for replay for 30 days following today's call.Before we begin, I'd like to cover just a few items. Our press release with second quarter 2021 results was issued this morning and is available on our Investor Relations website. This call includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from such statements. These statements should be considered in conjunction with the cautionary statement contained in our earnings release. Our comments may also reference non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure and other associated disclosures are contained in our earnings release and presentation.And with that, I'd like to turn the call over to Frank Del Rio. Frank?

 



Frank J. Del Rio -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Andrea, and good morning, everyone. As always, I hope that all of you joining us today as well as your loved ones remain healthy and safe. Before I go into my prepared remarks and if you haven't already heard the good news, I would like to congratulate Andrea on her new appointment to Chief Sales and Marketing Officer of our luxury brand, Regent Seven Seas Cruises. After more than 30 earnings calls with our Company, we will all miss her but wish her the very best of luck in her new role. Jessica John, who many of you have already met, will assume the role of Vice President of Investor Relations, Corporate Communications and ESG, beginning September 1. Congratulations, Andrea and Jessica.I am pleased to say that we are taking this morning's call from Seattle, Washington, as we prepare for a very exciting day tomorrow, the relaunch of our first ship from the United States in over 16 months. And as Andrea mentioned, we also have a very special guest with us today, former FDA Commissioner, Dr. Scott Gottlieb. After over a year of working together remotely to reach his long-awaited milestone, it is truly a pleasure to finally meet Dr. Gottlieb and the other public health experts on our SailSAFE Global Health and Wellness Council in person. And for the first time today, as we kick off our Great Cruise Comeback.Today, we will focus our commentary on the progress we have made on our return to cruising, our comprehensive plan for the phased resumption of operations for our entire 28-ship fleet, and the record-setting strength we continue to experience in consumer demand, which has translated into a record load and record pricing for calendar year 2022 and beyond.

 



As you can see on Slide 4, our return to service plan is centered around three key phases. First, we developed our multi-layered SailSAFE health and safety strategy, including mandatory FDA, WHO, or EMA authorized vaccinations for all guests and crew at its cornerstone. In addition, we test all guests at the terminal prior to embarkation and all crew undergo weekly routine testing. Next, we have now announced voyage resumption plans for all 28 ships in our fleet. And lastly, we are intently focused on the flawless execution of the phased relaunch of our fleet, which we expect to complete by April 1, 2022.Against a still ever-changing COVID backdrop, we remain vigilant and ready to adapt as needed, keeping a close watch on port availability, travel restrictions, and any changes to the global public health environment which could affect our planned operations. Overall, we are encouraged to see some relaxation of travel restrictions and opening of borders in recent weeks, particularly for vaccinated travelers. Just a few weeks ago, Canada moved up its plans to allow the return of cruise ships in November, four months earlier than previously announced. Many countries in the EU are now allowing travelers from the U.S. and in the past few weeks, both Canada and the U.K. announced entry to back air [Phonetic] travelers without quarantine.Travel restrictions and port closures do remain in place in other parts of the world, but we are ready to execute on our cruise assumption strategy and have backup plans ready to go, which we can implement and adapt to as needed. Slide 5 details our voyage resumption plans by brand and by vessel. After 500 days, the time has finally come and I could not be more pleased to say that our Great Cruise Comeback officially commenced last week with Norwegian Jade operating Greek Isle voyages out of Athens. The relaunch went off without a hitch and demonstrated that strict vaccination requirements, comprehensive pre-boarding testing, and a suite of other robust protocols are working as designed to help mitigate the introduction and transmission of COVID-19 aboard our vessels.A special thank you goes out to the offices and crew of Norwegian Jade, who even after 16 months of not operating, seamlessly adapted our new protocols and delivered the same exceptional service and world-class cruise experience that our guests expect from our Company. As an indication of this top-notch service delivery, our onboard revenue on this first significantly exceeded our target which was focused on 2019 actual results by over 50%. All of our incredible team members around the world worked tirelessly to prepare for this critical moment, and I am truly grateful for the privilege to work day in and day out alongside such a dedicated, passionate, and talented team. I also want to express our sincere thanks to our loyal guests, valued travel partners, and all of our stakeholders for their patience and support during these challenging times as we ramp up our return to cruise plans.Norwegian Jade's successful relaunch is just the first of many to come, including our much anticipated return to cruising in the United States. Tomorrow Norwegian Encore, the line's newest and most innovative ship will make her West Coast debut with a seven-night sailings to Alaska from Seattle. We are looking forward to once again bringing guests to explore the last frontier, one of the most popular destinations with our guests and providing some much needed economic relief to the communities, families, and small businesses throughout coastal Alaska, who have been devastated by the loss of cruise tourism revenue during this prolonged suspension.The next step in our relaunch plan is our return to Miami, the cruise capital of the world. I'd like to address a request for a preliminary injunction that we filed last month which will allow us to confirm guests' vaccination status for sailings departing from the State of Florida that has been heard in [Indecipherable] Miami Federal Court today. Combating this virus is an unprecedented historic challenge that requires everyone, including governments at the local, state, and federal levels, plus private enterprise and society at large, to do their part. I have a tremendous empathy for our elected officials, business leaders, friends and families, neighbors, who are all doing the best they can under enormously difficult circumstances to beat back this virus.Having had the pleasure to work in the cruise industry for nearly 30 years, I am confident that in the current global health environment and especially with the rise of the Delta variant, having a fully vaccinated and tested population onboard our vessels is the best path to keeping our guests, our dedicated crew members, and the people of the communities we visit, safe from COVID. In order to do that, we must be able to confirm vaccination status of our guests at every port we sail from, including those in the State of Florida. We owe it to all our stakeholders who do everything possible to make sure we deliver on this critical mission. We hope that the Federal Court will agree with our vision and our mission.When we say the health and safety of our guests, crew, and communities we visit is a number one priority, we mean it. It is not a slogan nor a tag line. The legal actions we have taken in Florida reflect our deep commitment to resume sailing in accordance with our robust, science-backed SailSAFE health and safety protocols outlined on Slide 6. Our policy of 100% vaccinations coupled with pre-boarding testing of guests and routine testing of crew is in place without issue in the nearly 100 ports we sail to and from around the world except Florida ports. Nothing takes priority over health and safety, and we have gone to great lengths and expense to pursue this commitment to our guests, crew, and all stakeholders.Again, this commitment is not a slogan nor a tag line. Health and safety is far and away the most important principle to guide how our Company operates at all levels, and this fundamental philosophy has never been more important than right now. We want to use every tool available to us that science and medicine have developed to prepare our ships to return to service and vaccines are the most powerful tool. Given that we have Dr. Gottlieb here today, who is not only a world-renowned expert but is also the Chairman of our SailSAFE Global Health and Wellness Council, I'd like to give him the floor for his thoughts on our health and safety program. Dr. Gottlieb?Dr. Scott Gottlieb -- Chairman, SailSAFE Global Health and Wellness CouncilThank you, Frank. It's a great pleasure to be here with you today and to witness the culmination of over a year's collaboration on enhancing Norwegian's health and safety protocol. All of the scientific and medical experts on our SailSAFE Council fully support and recommend a fully vaccinated and tested population to relaunch cruising as it's the most effective way to mitigate the introduction or spread of the virus onboard a cruise ship or anywhere else in society. Even with vaccines, however, the risk can't be fully mitigated but this approach mitigates the risk to the greatest extent possible and significantly reduces the severity of any potential breakthrough cases. While the Delta variant is fueling the current rising cases, if the U.K. is any guide, and I believe we're perhaps further into this epidemic surge and we'll hopefully be turning a corner in the next several weeks. In fact, some of the states hardest hit by the Delta surge in the south are already showing some indication that their epidemic waves could be starting to peak.In the meantime, the vaccines are highly effective, even against the Delta variant and Norwegian is taking the extra step of coupling vaccines with multiple additional layers of protection against COVID-19, including universal testing prior to boarding the ship. This goes well beyond what we're seeing in other travel and hospitality sectors and with the controlled environment a cruise ship provides, it can offer one of the safest vacation options. And I look forward to seeing our protocols in practice with you tomorrow on Norwegian Encore.Frank J. Del Rio -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Dr. Gottlieb, for your insights. I again want to thank you and the members of the SailSAFE Global Health and Wellness Council for all the hard work and expert guidance that you and the Council have provided us.Now, with our safety protocols in place and our voyage resumption plan in full swing, we'll shift the discussion to our booking trends, which you can see on Slide 7. In short, pent-up demand for cruise vacations, especially for 2022 sailings, are very strong, as we have experienced record-breaking demand for future cruise vacations across all three of our brands. This outsized demand is even more impressive when considering that this strength is true despite significantly reduced levels of demand-generating marketing investments in the absence of a full complement of our all [Phonetic] important travel agent partners throughout the world. The unparalleled pent-up demand I speak of is demonstrated by our record book position and pricing.For full-year 2022, load factor continues to be meaningfully ahead of 2019 record levels by a wide margin. And when you look at our booking curve with the same point in time versus two years and three years ago, we are now booked nine weeks to 10 weeks ahead of those levels. Pricing is also higher than 2019's record level, even when including the dilutive effect of future cruise credits. The strength we are experience [Phonetic] is evident throughout 2022 but particularly strong sequentially as we move through the year and our fleet rollout is completed, it becomes fully operational.In addition, approximately 75% of our book position in 2022 is comprised of new cash bookings, with the remainder comprised of future cruise credit bookings. So far, approximately 45% of our outstanding future cruise credits have been redeemed. The strong demand is also extending beyond 2022. Last month Regent Seven Seas Cruises easily broke the opening day booking record for its World Cruise for the third year in a row. The 2024 World Cruise, a 132-night sailing, surpassed all expectations and sold out in under three hours, and at higher price than the 2023 World Cruise.Not only was this without a doubt the strongest World Cruise launch day in the line's history, but it also saw a strong increase in new-to-brand guests, which comprise approximately one-third of bookings. This is further evidence of the continued demand we are seeing both from our loyal past guests and new-to-brand cruisers even for these long exotic itineraries.As I have said time and time again, the pent-up demand is real. Last quarter, we reached an inflection point in our advanced ticket sales build, which continued its positive trajectory throughout the quarter. Our advanced ticket sales increased approximately $300 million on a gross basis or over 50% versus the prior quarters' builds.As we begin phasing in the rest of our fleet, we expect this momentum to continue to accelerate, sequentially. As we look to the future, the growth opportunity we have planned for as we emerge from this crisis is impressive. In May, Norwegian Cruise Line unveiled Norwegian Prima, the first of six Prima class ships, which mark the first new class of vessels for the brand in nearly a decade. Debuting in summer 2022, Norwegian Prima, which you can see a rendering of on Slide 8, is absolutely stunning, offering the most outdoor deck space of any new cruise ship including more total pulled back space than any other ship in the line's fleet as well as multiple infinity pools and vast outdoor walkways. She'll also take the Line's groundbreaking ship within a ship concept with the haven to the next level. Most importantly, however, she is resonating with guests, unlike any other new ship launch we have ever seen before. Her sales debut in May set a single best booking day and best initial booking week record, doubling the previous record set by Norwegian Bliss in 2018, and at prices approximately 20% higher than Bliss commanded.Turning to Slide 9. We also had an exciting announcement from Regent Seven Seas Cruises which unveiled the name of its newest ship, Seven Seas Grandeur, the sith ship in the world's most luxurious fleet. Seven Seas Grandeur will host 750 guests and is a sister ship to Seven Seas Explorer and Seven Seas Splendor. There are more reveals to come, leading up to her launch in the fourth quarter of 2023 with her inaugural season set to be unveiled and opened for reservations next month.As you can see on Slide 10, we have an industry-leading growth profile, with nine ships coming online through 2027. These newbuilds represent approximately 24,000 additional berths, growing our fleet by approximately 40%. In 2023, when our fleet is back in full force, we expect our capacity to be approximately 20% higher than 2019 pre-pandemic levels, with the benefit not only of our four 2022 and 2023 newbuilds, but also our full-year, both Norwegian Encore which joined the fleet in November of 2019, and Regent Seven Seas Splendor, which launched in February of 2020.With a smaller footprint of 28 ships in our fleet, the addition of our new nine ships strongly positions us to further diversify our product offerings and penetrate unserved and underserved markets globally, which is expected to drive meaningful growth to both the top and bottom line. As Slide 11 clearly demonstrates our excellent track record speaks for itself and our ability to successfully absorb capacity and turn that capacity growth into outsized revenue, EBITDA, and net cash flow growth. Our new ships are expected to be accretive to earnings and to cash flow, and I expect our historical industry-leading performance to continue in the years to come, with the addition of our new ship deliveries.I'll be back later to provide an update on our ESG efforts as well as provide closing remarks, but now I'd like to turn the call over to Mark for a financial update. Mark?Mark A. Kempa -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Frank. Our remarks today will focus on the continued execution of our COVID-19's financial action plan, our liquidity profile, and our all-important phased voyage resumption plan. I am pleased with the significant progress we've made on our return to cruising. As Frank mentioned, we are here in Seattle ready to relaunch Norwegian Encore, tomorrow. We have a comprehensive voyage resumption plan in place and are focused on the execution of this phased relaunch. We expect to have eight ships representing approximately 40% of our total capacity, operating by the end of the third quarter, and 17 ships representing approximately 75% of our capacity by year-end.The last ship, Oceania's Nautica will emerge better than new after an extensive drydock and reinspiration and join the rest of the fleet on April 1, 2022. While we've reached several important milestones on our road to recovery, we recognize that the global health environment is still fluid, so we remain focused on maintaining our cost discipline and pulling all available levers to conserve cash and maximize financial flexibility as we execute our relaunch plan.As you can see on Slide 12, since the halt in global cruise operations in March of 2020, we worked quickly to implement our COVID-19 financial action plan. During the pause in operations, we successfully reduced operating expenses by nearly 60% and capital expenditures by over 75%. As we ready our ships to return to service, costs will increase as expected, but we will do so in a strategic and disciplined manner to balance our cash needs while maintaining a strong liquidity profile. Since the beginning of the second quarter, we've taken several additional proactive measures on our financial action plan. We continue to significantly reduce or defer near-term demand-generating marketing expenses and non-essential capital expenditures. In July, we amended nine credit facilities for our newbuild program to increase the commitments by approximately $770 million to cover owner supply costs, modification costs, and financing premium fees. We want to thank our banking partners for their continued support of our Company during these extremely challenging times.Turning to our liquidity and cash burn on Slide 13. We had approximately $2.8 billion of cash and cash equivalents as of June 30. This provides us with significant financial flexibility to continue to navigate through this fluid environment and execute on our return-to-service plan. As for cash burn for the second quarter, our average monthly cash burn rate was approximately $200 million per month. This was slightly higher than our guidance of $190 million, driven by the announcement of additional ship relaunches in our voyage resumption plan and the associated restart expenses. As for the third quarter, we expect our average monthly cash burn rate to increase to approximately $285 million as restart expenses accelerate with additional vessels entering service. Restart expenses are primarily related to repositioning, provisioning, and staffing of vessels, implementing new health and safety protocols, and a measured ramp-up of demand-generating marketing investments. Note that this cash burn estimate does not include our expected cash inflows from both new and existing bookings.We will continue to take a disciplined approach to reintroducing costs as voyages resume, while at the same time balancing the need to drive new cash bookings. Looking ahead, based on our resumption plan, we expect to reach a crucial inflection point with operating cash flow turning positive over the course of the first quarter of 2022. To assist with modeling, Slide 22 details additional guidance we have provided for certain metrics, including depreciation and amortization, interest expense, and newbuild related capital expenditures.Turning to Slide 14. We ended the second quarter with approximately $2.8 billion of cash. Our cash balance in the second quarter decreased driven primarily by approximately $600 million of operating cash burn, including operating expenses, SG&A, interest and capex, customer cash refunds for canceled voyages of approximately $150 million, and net working capital and other outflows of approximately $10 million, which includes health and safety investments.Before handing the call back to Frank, I want to reiterate that as we continue to navigate through this crisis and relaunch our fleet over the next few quarters, we have not taken our focus off the future. Our relaunch milestones bring us one step closer to executing on our medium and long-term financial recovery plan as outlined on Slide 15. And to rebuild and continue to drive margin expansion, maximize cash flow generation, and optimize our balance sheet.With that, I'll hand the call back to Frank to provide closing comments.Frank J. Del Rio -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Mark. Before we wrap up our prepared remarks, I'd like to provide an update on our global sustainability program, Sail & Sustain, shown on Slide 16. This summer, we reached several key milestones on our ESG journey, starting with the publication of our first comprehensive ESG report, which included disclosures aligning with the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board or SASB Index. This was a significant step forward in our efforts to enhance our transparency and I encourage you all to take a look at the report, which is on our website if you haven't done so already.We also unveiled our redesigned Sail & Sustain program, which is structured around five pillars developed through cross-functional collaboration with key internal and external stakeholders. The pillars include reducing environmental impact, sailing safely, empowering people, strengthening our communities, and operating with integrity and accountability. In addition, we have aligned to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and have identified 10 goals, where we believe we can make the greatest contribution to achieve a more sustainable future for all. In conjunction with the report, we have also developed a new sustainability website, which we will use to continue to provide critical disclosure to all of our stakeholders.On the environmental front, we were pleased to announce our newly created long-term climate action strategy and our goal to reach carbon neutrality. This ambitious program is centered around three key action areas, including reducing carbon intensity, identifying and investing in technologies including exploring alternative fuels, and implementing a carbon offset program. We continuously seek opportunities to reduce our overall footprint by minimizing fuel consumption, and in fact, our ongoing investments in systems and technologies have resulted in a reduction of fuel consumption per Capacity Day of approximately 17% from 2008 to 2019 for our entire 28-ship fleet.With the introduction of our nine new and more fuel-efficient vessels through 2027, we expect to see further improvement in our intensity rates. In addition to ongoing initiatives to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions rate, we have committed to purchasing high-quality verified carbon credits to offset 3 million metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent over a three-year period beginning last year. This is a measurable step in the near-term emissions reductions, which will help bridge the gap in our decarbonization efforts until new technologies become available. Our 3 million ton commitment is sizable. To put it in perspective, that is the equivalent of over 7.5 billion miles driven by an average passenger car and we plan to increase offset purchases in future years to help us reach our goal of carbon neutrality.We are very proud of the progress we have made so far in ESG and we are committed to making a lasting impact on the world as responsible corporate citizens and ESG leaders. I look forward to sharing additional details with you as we continue on our ESG journey.Turning to Slide 17. I'd like to leave you with a few final key takeaways. First, we are putting health and safety at the forefront of our return-to-service as demonstrated by the great lengths we are taking to resume cruising in the safest manner possible with a universal mandatory vaccination and pre-boarding testing policy across our three brands. Our Great Cruise Comeback has commenced and we are focused on the flawless execution of our phased voyage assumption plan with a target to have our full fleet in operation by April 1, 2022.We continue to experience strong future demand for cruising with very positive booking and pricing trends for 2022 and beyond. And lastly, as we emerge from the pandemic and focus on our longer-term prospects, we have an attractive and well thought out growth profile, which we expect will provide a meaningful boost to our financial results and shareholder value in the coming years. Overall, while we still have a long road to full recovery ahead of us, we are encouraged by the significant milestones we have reached in recent days and our return to cruising. Tomorrow, we will take another monumental step forward with our official U.S. relaunch and I look forward to getting back to what we do best: providing exceptional vacation experiences and lifetime memories for our guests.And with that, we can open the call for questions.Andrea DeMarco -- Senior Vice President from Investor Relations, Corporate Communications and ESGAnd before we take our first question, we ask that you please refrain from asking any questions regarding pending litigation. We appreciate your understanding and cooperation in this regard as we will not be commenting any further.Richay, please take the first question.