  OperatorGood morning, and welcome to the General Motors Company first-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded, Wednesday, May 5, 2021. I would now like to turn the conference over to Rocky Gupta, treasurer and vice president of investor relations.Rocky Gupta -- Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations Thanks, Tabitha. Good morning, and thank you for joining us as we review GM's financial results for the first quarter of 2021. Our conference call materials were issued this morning and are available on the GM investor relations website. As usual, we are also broadcasting this call via webcast. I'm joined here today by GM Chairman and CEO Mary Barra, GM CFO Paul Jacobson, and GM Financial President Dan Berce. Before we begin, I would like to direct your attention to the forward-looking statements on the first page of the chart set. The content of our call will be governed by this language. I will now turn the call over to Mary Barra.Mary Barra -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Good morning, and thanks for joining our first-quarter earnings call. Our start to this year was very strong with a record Q1 performance that was driven largely by robust product demand in the U.S., as well as an outstanding quarter for GM Financial. We remain confident that we will achieve our full-year guidance. We are on a path to transform our company on the timeline we have shared with you, and we are demonstrating our ability to accelerate our plan. Before I discuss the progress we've made on our transformation and growth strategy, I'll provide some highlights about our performance. I'm very pleased with the strength of our global business, which contributed to EBIT adjusted of 4.4 billion and an EPS diluted adjusted of $2.25. The strong quarter was a full team effort, with people working in our plants all the way to our dealers. Global purchasing and supply chain, engineering, and manufacturing have been especially nimble and opportunistic as we managed through the semiconductor shortage. For example, our engineers are creating effective solutions using chips that are more readily available or by identifying alternatives that can serve semiconductors where possible. Their work helped us maximize production of our highest-demand and capacity-constrained vehicles, reducing downtime and further demonstrating our team's agility. While we have production downtime in the second quarter, we expect to have a strong first half with EBIT adjusted around 5.5 billion-ish. We are also reaffirming our guidance for the full year. And based on what we know today, we see the results coming in at the higher end of the $10 billion to $11 billion EBIT adjusted range that we shared earlier this year. We remain committed to fund $7 billion in EV and AV investment that includes capital and engineering this year and accelerating 12 EV programs as we first announced last November. Paul will discuss our Q1 numbers and outlook in more detail in a few minutes. Looking ahead, I think there are many reasons why we are confident. For starters, we have great product momentum. Despite tight inventories, we maintain a clear lead in the full-size SUV market in the U.S. and our full-size pickups are in high demand. In China, our sales are rebounding sharply with the economy, and Cadillac achieved a record first quarter led by its SUV lineup of XT4, XT5, and XT6. In addition, we are executing one of the fastest production launches in our history. Last November, we said we would return full-size pickup production to Oshawa assembly in Canada in early 2022. Because of the team's speed, we are pulling the start of retail production ahead into the fourth quarter of this year. The new timeline and incremental volume will begin to have a meaningful impact next year as we ramp up production. But I'm sharing it with you now as another example of how we are working urgently to achieve key milestones. Let's turn now to our growth strategy, starting with a battery update. We intend to lead on all aspects of battery development and cost reduction, and we are moving quickly on every front. Our vertical integration approach to battery technology, which includes building our own cells, will help us scale quickly and efficiently to deploy new innovative chemistries that boost energy density and reduce cost over time. Ultium batteries are unique in the industry because of their large-format pouch-style cells that can be stacked vertically or horizontally inside the battery pack. This allows engineers to optimize battery energy storage and layout for each vehicle design. Depending on the vehicle, Ultium enables a GM-estimated range of up to 450 miles or more on a full charge with zero to 60 miles per hour acceleration in three seconds. As we previously said, we realized -- we will realize a 40% battery cost reduction with our first-generation Ultium platform compared with today's Chevrolet Bolt EV. And we're already on the road to delivering a 60% cost reduction compared to the Bolt EV, with the next generation of Ultium, and we expect costs will continue to decrease from there. Currently, our next-gen lithium metal prototypes have completed about 150,000 simulated test miles, and we expect them to have nearly double the energy density of our current EV batteries. The team has already secured 49 patents for GM's lithium metal battery development, with another 45 pending. Our own work, along with the intellectual property from SolidEnergy Systems, will form the basis of our recent joint development agreement with SES, one of the companies we're working with to commercialize lithium metal batteries. We are targeting production of our next-gen Ultium battery by mid-decade, and we're also expanding our battery cell manufacturing footprint to control our cost and cell supply. Last month, Ultium Cells LLC, our joint venture with LG Energy Solution, announced its second high-volume battery cell plant in the United States, and construction begins immediately on the site adjacent to our Spring Hill assembly plant in Tennessee. The new facility will create about 1,300 new manufacturing jobs when it comes online in late 2023. It will join the Ultium Cell LLC facility in Lordstown that is opening next year. And this is just the beginning, and we'll continue to expand our battery cell capacity on our way to achieving our goal of EV market share leadership in North America. Let's turn now to our Ultium-powered products. During the quarter, we unveiled the second new Hummer EV, the 2024 GMC Hummer EV SUV, which launches in 2023 and will be built at Factory ZERO and Detroit-Hamtramck. It will be available loaded with new GM-developed software-driven technologies, including crab lock, extract mode, and many more features that are either industry-leading or segment differentiators. The Cadillac team unveiled the stunning LYRIQ production model, which we accelerated by nine months. And as we've previously said, we have cut the development time of most of our EVs in half because of our use of virtual engineering and other software tools. Cadillac will take reservations beginning in September, with initial availability in the first half of 2022. We were also excited to confirm that Chevrolet will introduce a Silverado full-size electric pickup truck for retail and fleet buyers with a GM estimated 400 miles of range on a full charge for certain configurations. The initial interest has been overwhelming, especially from commercial and government customers. We gave a small number of them a sneak peek at the interior and exterior design. They said it exceeded their high expectations, with zero emissions, long-range, pickup capability, innovative storage, and strong value along with a powerful design. What's especially important is that this truck will be in a high-volume entry in one of the most popular and competitive segments in the industry. In addition to Ultium propulsion, Super Cruise is a feature that connects all of these vehicles and an increasing number of vehicles we're selling today. Since its debut in 2017, Super Cruise has twice been ranked as the best driver assistance technology in the industry by a leading third-party consumer group. Super Cruise is enhancing our reputation, elevating our brands, and laying the foundation to generate substantial feature subscription revenue for us as we move forward. To creatively illustrate how fun and liberating Super Cruise can be, Cadillac recently wrapped up its Time to Let Go campaign. It captured celebrities as they drove the 2021 Cadillac Escalade with Super Cruise and its new lane-change capability. It was really fun to watch the reactions and how people quickly shifted from being cautiously curious to just peer excitement. We'll roll out Super Cruise to 22 models by the end of 2023, and we plan to add even more features. Our ultimate vision is that this system enables hands-free transportation in 95% of driving scenario. What makes our large-scale deployment of Super Cruise and all of its new features possible is our Vehicle Intelligence Platform, or VIP, which connects every vehicle system into one advanced, high-speed, and very secure network. VIP's 4.5 terabytes of data processing power per hour represents a fivefold increase from our previous electrical architecture. That's enough capacity to manage all of the data loads of our self-driving technology, driver assistance systems, electric propulsion, over-the-air updates of every vehicle module, plus capacity to manage feature applications. It's also an enabler for Software as a Service, including new apps and capabilities that we can market to our customers, such as the latest must-have trailering and parking apps. By the end of '23, VIP will be on 7 million vehicles and 38 global models. Another major element of our growth strategy is our BrightDrop commercial delivery business, and it is progressing and on track. In March, our product and manufacturing teams reached an important milestone as they conducted EV 600 prototype builds. Plans to build the BrightDrop EV 600 at Cadillac -- excuse me, at GM Canada's CAMI Assembly at Ingersoll, are progressing rapidly. The BrightDrop team remains on track to reach its goal of delivering EV 600s to its first customer, FedEx Express, by Q4 of this year. Interest is high, and we continue to have active discussions with many prospective new customers who are seeking the efficient and zero-emission delivery solutions that BrightDrop offers. And this is encouraging as third parties estimate that the addressable market for eLCVs could be $30 billion by 2025 and double that in 2030. As our EV volumes grow, we are also investing in relationships to build a robust, reliable, and easy-to-use public charging infrastructure. Last week, we revealed Ultium Charge 360, an innovative and holistic approach that integrates charging networks, GM vehicle mobile apps, and other products and services to simplify the charging experience for GM EV owners. It builds on our existing work and partnerships to support a charging ecosystem that will give GM EV owners more confidence and convenience. We have signed agreements with seven major charging network, giving customers a more seamless access to nearly 60,000 plugs across the U.S. and China. As part of our existing collaboration with EVgo, we've opened the first three fast-charging stations in California, Florida, and Washington, on our way to 2,700 plugs by the end of 2025. And we expect about 500 fast-charging stalls to go live by the end of this year. We'll continue to provide updates about Ultium Charge 360, including new elements and collaborations. The last major EV development I want to share follows up on our joint announcement last year with Honda that we will co-develop two Ultium-based EVs for Honda to be built in North America by the GM team. Honda recently confirmed these vehicles, a large SUV for the Honda brand and one for the Acura brand, and will launch in North America market for the 2024 model year. This further validates our Ultium technology, and we continue to work closely with Honda to expand our partnership and cooperation in key areas such as purchasing, research and development, and connected services. Turning to AVs. Cruise continues to establish itself as a leading force in commercializing self-driving vehicle technology. And the latest funding round that closed after raising 2.75 billion, it included investments for Microsoft and Wal-Mart, and this brings the valuation of Cruise to more than $30 billion with GM continuing to own a majority stake. Cruise is moving steadily closer to commercialization. Its real-world driverless vehicle testing in San Francisco and its last-mile delivery pilot with Wal-Mart in Scottsdale, Arizona will help pave the way for new commitments like the one Cruise just signed with the city of Dubai. Cruise will be the city's exclusive provider of self-driving taxis and ride-hailing services, with plans to deploy up to 4,000 self-driving vehicles by 2030. Dubai chose crews over several competitors, so it's another great validation of Cruise's technology and our overall approach to autonomous vehicles. Before I turn the call over to Paul, I want to quickly update you on our coronavirus measures. We remain diligent and disciplined with our safety protocols to keep employees safe as variants in new hotspots emerge. The GM medical team continues to monitor new COVID-19 cases globally, and our vaccine task force teams are working to understand vaccine administration priorities for each country and determine how we can best assist our employees, including operating vaccine clinics in several of our U.S. facilities. All the work GM medical has done behind the scenes was crucial as we restarted production last spring. And their work has helped the rest of the team stay focused on driving our business today and driving our growth strategy. I also want to recognize the entire GM team for its hard work, flexibility, and resilience. In addition to our suppliers and our dealers who are helping us manage the semiconductor issues, we are also working to serve our customers and leveraging everything we can do to turn inventory quickly. Everyone has been remarkably dedicated, and it shows in our results, and we appreciate everyone's hard work. This is just the beginning for the next generation of General Motors. We are well on track with our plans to transform our company and lead the industry into the future, and we are pleased with the significant progress we have made on all fronts during the quarter. We look forward to building on the strong momentum and providing a more comprehensive update on our growth initiatives and progress later in the year. We plan to have an investor event in the Detroit area and will announce a date later in the summer because we would like this event to be face to face. We'll use this event to go deeper into our growth strategy, and financial opportunities, and everything that drives them, including software, hardware, and services, along with our strong brands. So with that, I'll turn it over to Paul to provide more details on our financial performance and our full-year guidance.Paul Jacobson -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Mary, and good morning, everyone. Thanks for taking the time to join us this morning. This has been a very exciting first full quarter for me at GM. I see so much opportunity here for us to use our world-class capabilities in manufacturing, engineering, and customer loyalty to really leverage these with our scale to achieve our growth initiatives. First, to set the stage before I get into the details, we had a great quarter, a first-quarter record, in fact, despite the volatile backdrop. Our strong Q1 performance continues to highlight the resiliency of our business, as well as our ability to take decisive actions to adapt to the fluid supply chain environment. In Q1, for example, we were able to build and wholesale more vehicles than forecasted and defer anticipated plant downtime. The strong operational execution, combined with the additional actions on price and expense reductions, enabled us to deliver stronger than expected results for the quarter. We are collaborating across the global supply chain and working tirelessly to route available parts to the appropriate plants in order to maximize plant efficiency. We've been focused on leveraging every available semiconductor to build and ship our most popular and in-demand products, including our highly profitable full-size pickups and full-size SUVs. I'm very proud of the team for everything they've accomplished in the first quarter and what they're continuing to do, including strong pricing for every vehicle that we're able to produce, prioritizing production of higher demand vehicles, continuing to be very controlled on costs, and being agile across the board. As Mary mentioned, the full-year 2021 guidance we outlined last quarter and reiterated a couple of times remains intact. And we expect to be at the higher end of our EBIT-adjusted range. We expect Q2 to reflect the largest impact of the production disruptions resulting from supply shortages. The retiming of vehicles we produce without certain modules in plant downtime in the second quarter is expected to be significantly higher than Q1, resulting in lower EBIT-adjusted quarter over quarter. Our current view is that our first happy -- her first-half EBIT-adjusted will be around $5.5 billion. Recognizing the situation remains fluid, we're cautiously optimistic that our second half will be similar to or better than the first half. Importantly, our commitment to the acceleration of our EV product programs has not changed. Our important upcoming launches, including our GMC Hummer EV supertruck and Cadillac LYRIQ, are on track, and the construction in Lordstown, Factory ZERO, Spring Hill, and CAMI is progressing on schedule. We're still planning to invest $9 billion to $10 billion of capex in 2021. Finally, our earnings power in cash generation potential remains robust. In a more normalized environment, we expect that certain headwinds we're facing today will dissipate but the strength of the underlying business powered by exceptional demand for our brands will remain. We expect that our normalized EBIT-adjusted performance will be strong as we continue producing and selling our in-demand and highly profitable full-size trucks and SUVs while continuing to launch new and exciting products and services that position GM to win in the future of mobility. So let's get into the strong results of the quarter in more detail. In Q1, we generated $32.5 billion in net revenue, $4.4 billion in EBIT-adjusted, 13.6% EBIT-adjusted margin, and $2.25 in EPS diluted adjusted, and minus $1.9 billion in adjusted automotive free cash flow. We exceeded expectations by driving strong price and mix performance in North America through our production prioritization actions and our go-to-market strategy. Additionally, high used vehicle prices due to low new vehicle inventories in part drove record results at GM financial. Our adjusted automotive free cash flow of minus $1.9 billion was lower $1 billion year over year, primarily driven by the working capital impact from plant downtime and inventory carrying value of approximately $1.2 billion associated with vehicles built without certain modules due to the shortage of chips, which will reverse when those vehicles are completed, partially offset by strong EBIT performance. We ended Q1 with a strong automotive cash balance of $19 billion and total automotive liquidity of more than $37 billion. So let's take a closer look at North America. In Q1, North America delivered EBIT-adjusted of $3.1 billion, up $900 million year over year, and a 12.1% EBIT-adjusted margin, driven by continued strong pricing on our full-size pickups and performance from the launch of our new -- all-new full-size SUVs. Our average transaction prices were up 9% year over year for the quarter, with full-size trucks up 10% and full-size SUV is up over 20%, helping to overcome headwinds from commodity inflation and lower volumes. These results speak to the strength of the consumer and the strong brand equity we have in our products which we plan to leverage as we roll out our EV portfolio. On the cost side, we continue to leverage efficiencies executed during COVID, including opportunities directly related to third-party services, travel, and all discretionary spend. Teams across the organization have also gone above and beyond to meet strong and rising demand where they can. To drive strong sales with lower inventory, GM has introduced a new proprietary software application that helps dealers track vehicles from when they're completed at the plant to when they're released at their final destination. With many of our full-size trucks and SUVs being sold prior to arriving at the dealer or within days of hitting the lot, this software called VINVIEW allows dealers to both track vehicles and provide an informed estimated delivery time, enhancing the customer's arrival confidence and experience. Additionally, we also have a software application called focused ordering that includes a dashboard, which combines vehicle trim options with market data to help dealers ensure they're ordering the most in-demand products to meet customer preferences. This has been a huge help in our prioritization efforts. For example, of all the 2021 light-duty crew cab sales in the first quarter, about 60% were based on this focused ordering dashboard. And these models are turning five and a half days faster than non-focused orders. In addition to these near-term benefits, we expect this technology to drive long-term cost efficiencies and lower inventories within the dealer network. And we still have a lot of excitement ahead of us this year as we complete renovation of Factory ZERO to launch the GMC Hummer EV supertruck this fall. Factory ZERO will also build a GMC Hummer EV SUV and the Chevy Silverado full-size electric pickup, which is the first of many high-volume EV entries to come. And it will be the home of the Cruise Origin, a purpose-built all-electric and shared self-driving vehicle. And also, as Mary announced, our second battery plant recently in the last 18 months, which is a great indicator of our acceleration. Combine these plants will have a capacity of over 70-gigawatt hours of production, and there are more being planned. We'll make additional cell capacity announcements as we progress in our product rollout. Let's move to GM International. We continue to be encouraged by our progress in GMI with the first-quarter EBIT-adjusted of $300 million, up $900 million year over year as we move past the initial effect of the pandemic in China. We also experienced positive price and mix benefits, as well as benefits from our structural cost actions across the segments. We delivered $300 million of equity income in China in Q1 due to higher volumes, stabilization in pricing, and continued cost actions. EBIT-adjusted in GMI, excluding China, was up $400 million year over year, the second consecutive profitable quarter, as the semiconductor and commodities impact in the quarter was more than offset by the favorable pricing and mix. With continued semiconductor-driven plant downtime and low inventory levels, we expect Q2 to be challenged, but these results underscore the improvements in the region. A few comments on GM financial, Cruise, and our corp segments. GM financial has provided a significant offset to some of the semiconductor headwinds. Strong used-vehicle prices, combined with consumer credit strength, helped to drive Q1 EBIT-adjusted of $1.2 billion, up $1 billion year over year. We received $600 million in dividends from GM financial in Q1, and we anticipate dividends in 2021 from GMF will significantly exceed the 2020 dividend of $800 million, due in part to their expected upside in 2021. Cruise costs in the quarter were $200 million. And as Mary mentioned, Cruise continues to make great progress toward commercialization every day. Corp segment EBIT was $30 million in the quarter, a better than historical quarterly run rate primarily due to mark-to-market gains in the period. Turning to our 2021 outlook for the calendar year. Last quarter, we outlined strong full-year 2021 guidance of EBIT-adjusted in the $10 billion to $11 billion range, including an estimated net semiconductor impact of $1.5 billion to $2 billion, which is calculated by taking lost contribution margin, offset by tactical efforts through costs, go-to-market actions, and earnings growth at GM financial. EPS diluted adjusted in the range of $4.50 to $5.25 and adjusted automotive free cash flow guidance in the $1 billion to $2 billion range, including an estimated semiconductor impact of $1.5 billion to $2.5 billion. Since we shared guidance with you in February, the business has faced additional pressures due to semiconductor shortages, as well as commodity inflation. Even though the gross impact of these headwinds has increased, the net impact remains the same as the company has identified additional mitigation initiatives, including pricing and mix go-to-market strategies, growth at GM financial, pull ahead of Oshawa full-size pickup production, and other cost efficiencies. And what we've been able to prove in the fluid environment we're facing today is that we have the resiliency to flex to the challenges. In spite of the volatility in semiconductor availability, we're confident in achieving our full-year 2021 outlook, including EBIT-adjusted at the higher end of $10 billion to $11 billion, with the expectation that first-half EBIT-adjusted will be around $5.5 billion. We continue to expect EPS diluted adjusted of $4.50 and $5.25 and adjusted automotive free cash flow $1 billion to $2 billion. Our expectation is that Q2 will be the weakest quarter of the year as we increase plant downtime and continue to build vehicles without modules, impacting Q2 EBIT-adjusted and working capital as we hold vehicles in inventory to wholesale later in the year once the semiconductors are received. We are managing the shortage through select plant downtime in the second quarter, which may extend into the second half. However, we plan on operating through the traditional U.S. summer shutdown in early Q3 at select facilities. We do not believe this short-term semiconductor headwind will affect our long-term earnings power, and we remain committed to our growth initiatives in the EV acceleration we've previously communicated. In the medium to long term, we are focused on working cooperatively with our supply base and the semiconductor manufacturers to improve our line of sight on the full supply chain mapping and gain more control over the chip itself. We're working to proactively implement risk mitigation strategies that will help avoid future disruptions to the supply chain. And we've also learned a lot over the last year about our and our dealers' ability to manage at lower inventory levels. We're taking these learnings to implement dealer efficiency tools to optimize inventory levels, and we are creating sales tools to allow for more online shopping and purchase options. Finally, I want to reiterate our capital allocation priorities. I mentioned that the top priority for us is to invest in both new and existing businesses, with more than half going to accelerate EV growth, as well as continuous strong ICE portfolio that funds our journey while maintaining our investment-grade balance sheet. To summarize, we had a strong beginning to the year, highlighting the strength of our underlying business. We've again demonstrated our strength, our flexibility, our laser focus on execution, and our ability to manage through a significant disruption while still generating strong results. There are still big challenges ahead of us, but we have the team and expertise to navigate this while not losing sight of our vision. We will continue investing in exciting new growth opportunities, including EVs, battery supply and technology, and software solutions that will drive growth and desirable differentiated products and services for our customers. Despite the challenging environment, we remain confident in our ability to deliver strong results in 2021, and I couldn't be more proud of the GM family. This concludes our opening comments, and we'll now move to the Q&A portion of the call. 