  OperatorHello, everyone, and welcome to the Ingersoll Rand first quarter 2022 earnings call. My name is Victoria, and I'll be coordinating you call today. [Operator instructions] I'll now pass it over to your host, Chris Miorin, to begin. Please go ahead.Chris Miorin -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you, and welcome to Ingersoll Rand 2022 first quarter earnings call. I'm Chris Miorin, vice president of investor relations. And joining me this morning are Vicente Reynal, chairman and CEO; and Vik Kini, chief financial officer. We issued our earnings release and presentation yesterday, and we will reference these during the call. Both are available on the investor relations section of our website, www.irco.com. In addition, a replay of this conference call will be available later today. Before we start, I want to remind everyone that certain statements on this call are forward-looking in nature and are subject to the risks and uncertainties discussed in our previous SEC filings, which you should read in conjunction with the information provided on this call. Please review the forward-looking statements on Slide 2 for more details.In addition, in today's remarks, we will refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures. You can find a reconciliation of these measures to the most comparable measure, calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in our slide presentation and in our earnings release. Both of which are available on the investor relations section of our website. On today's call, we will provide a strategy update, review our company and segment financial highlights, and provide an update to 2022 guidance. For today's Q&A session, we ask that each caller keep to one question and one follow-up to allow time for other participants. At this time, I'll turn the call over to Vicente. Vicente Reynal -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Chris, and good morning to everyone. Starting on Slide 3, Ingersoll Rand's unwavering commitment to our purpose of making life better is evident in the sustainability of our products, which help our customers reduce their energy consumption and water usage. We deliver another strong quarter in the first quarter with our teams leveraging the IRX process to outperform, even with ongoing challenges in supply chain, accelerating inflation, and geopolitical uncertainty. The performance in Q1 is attributed to our highly engaged employee base who think and act like owners. Because they are. Our latest engagement scores highlight this dynamic, where we now rank in the upper part of the top quartile, scoring over 500 basis points above the manufacturing benchmark. But the most critical question of how happy are you working at Ingersoll Rand, we rank in the top 10% of all manufacturing organizations. Not only are we focused internally, but also on the needs of those outside our organization. Last quarter, we made a $1 million commitment to support Ukrainians impacted by the war with humanitarian aid. Demand for our products and services remained strong, with our backlog at an all-time high and our leading indicators showing resiliency in our markets. We remain attuned to the dynamic environment around us and are hyper-focused on executing on what we can control. Moments Slide 4, we've spoken before about how operating sustainably is embedded in our company and is intentionally at the center of our core values as it underpins our very existence. Ingersoll Rand makes life better for customers by making them more sustainable. We'd like to take time today to highlight that even in an uncertain environment, customers have significant opportunities to reduce their emissions and materially reduce their energy cost and water usage. And this is how we think about our sustainability strategy, growing sustainably by providing mission-critical solutions to customers that reduce energy and water usage and operating sustainably in the processes we employ to deliver those solutions. We spoke at our recent investor day in November about the sustainability megatrend. And despite the uncertainty in today's market, we strongly believe that this trend will drive customer decision-making to invest on more efficient, low-creation devices, like air compressors, blowers, and pumps, which has been an underinvested area over the past decade or so. Turning to Slide 5, our customers are increasingly realizing that air compressors and air treatment optimization is an essential opportunity to reduce their Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. Air compressors consume up to 30% of a manufacturing site's electricity. And with the recent significant rise in energy costs, this will continue to increase. Ingersoll Rand's products provide industry-leading efficiency that enables customers to reduce the energy cost from air compressors up to 50%, and air treatment solutions or dryers up to an incredible 90%. As we have forecasted out our potential impact of our Scope 3 emissions, we have established a goal of helping our customers achieve a combined 15% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from the use of our products, which equates to more than 40 million megatons of CO2. Our customers are becoming more educated about the impact the compressor optimization can have on their emissions. We have shown two examples in this slide of global leaders in both the consumer electronics and paper industries who clearly identified compressor optimization as a top priority for greenhouse gas emission reduction in their latest sustainability reports. In addition to energy usage, our customers are also faced with water shortage and a need to improve water management and quality. And you can see at the bottom of the page, where a global paper company and a world leader in consumer packaged goods have committed to reducing water usage by 25% and 20% per unit, respectively, a significant commitment and one we're very well-positioned to solve with our products. Approximately 30% of our total revenue base is generated from products focused on improving water management, purification, and reducing water consumption. And we're committed to helping customers save over 1 billion gallons of water annually through the use of our products. Turning to Slide 6, not only are our largest customers making buying decisions based upon opportunities to improve energy efficiency, but we believe that almost all of our customers take energy efficiency into account. Additionally, governments are now regulating energy conservation standards for compressors, and we anticipate this trend will continue to accelerate. And we intend to remain at the forefront of these requirements. Last year, just in the U.S., we conducted over 4,000 customer compressor system audits, which is an increase of 60% from 2019. After the audit, we made upgrade recommendations based upon evaluations of energy efficiency and several other factors. And these led to $100 million in sales directly attributable to these audits. And this is a great example of how we connect and educate our customer base on total cost of ownership and energy efficiency. We estimate that two-thirds of our current global info base could realize meaningful improvements in efficiency by upgrading their compressor system. And with a midpoint of 15% energy efficiency uplift across that portion of the installed base, a customer with a typical compressor system will realize on average a payback of less than two years at current energy prices. So, you can see the savings here are real and meaningful, and we're highly engaged in educating our entire customer base about these opportunities. Moving to Slide 7, in addition to helping our customers progress on their sustainability journey, we're leveraging IRX to achieve our goal of being recognized as a top-quartile ESG company by operating sustainably. Those efforts have delivered a significant progress. And within the past six months, we've been materially upgraded by all of our targeted ESG rating agencies, including MSCI, Sustainalytics, S&P Global, and CDP. And in fact, Sustainalytics and S&P Global now rank us in the top 15% of companies in our sector, exceeding our goal of becoming top quartile in half the time we had committed to it. But we're not finished with this journey. We're just getting started. We take a role as sustainability leader very seriously, and we're committed to continuous improvements and progress toward achieving our other sustainability goals. I will now turn the call over to Vik to provide an update on our Q1 financial performance.Vik Kini -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Vicente. Moving to Slide 8, we continue to be encouraged by the performance of the company in Q1, which saw a strong balance of commercial and operational execution fueled by IRX to overcome persistent inflationary pressures, a challenging supply chain environment, increased geopolitical uncertainty, and lockdowns in Shanghai. Despite these challenges, we continue to remain on track to deliver on our $300 million synergy commitment, with $50 million expected to be realized in 2022. Total company orders and revenue increased 25% and 18% year over year, respectively, with strong double-digit orders growth in ITS and double-digit organic revenue growth across both segments. Our orders in the quarter were a record for the company, and revenue was a first quarter record, setting us up for continued strength in 2022. The company delivered first quarter adjusted EBITDA of $304 million, a 24% year-over-year improvement, and adjusted EBITDA margins of 22.7%, a 110 basis-point improvement from prior year. Incremental margins for the company were 29% despite the aforementioned challenges. Free cash flow for the quarter was $32 million and remained positive despite working capital headwinds, most notably, an increase of approximately $100 million in inventory to support the growing backlog and elevated incentive compensation costs coming off the strong 2021 performance. Total liquidity was $3.1 billion at quarter end, and cash was up approximately $400 million from prior year. This takes our net leverage to 1.2 times, an 0.7 times improvement from prior year, and a slight increase of 0.1 times from prior quarter. Turning to Slide 9, for the total company, Q1 orders grew 21% and revenue increased 14%, both on an organic basis. Overall, we posted a strong book-to-bill of 1.22 times for the quarter. We remain encouraged by the strength of our backlog, which is up approximately 70% from Q1 of 2021. Total company adjusted EBITDA increased 24% from the prior year. ITS segment margin improved 70 basis points, while PST segment margin declined 260 basis points, with the largest driver of the decrease coming from M&A. When adjusted to exclude the impact of M&A completed in the 12 months ending March 31st, PST margin declined by 130 basis points, driven mainly by the impact of inflation, FX, and product mix. It's important to note that both segments did remain price cost positive in terms of dollars in the first quarter, which speaks to the nimble actions of our team despite ongoing inflationary headwinds. Finally, corporate costs came in at $29 million for the quarter, down year over year, primarily due to lower incentive compensation costs and general cost savings, while continuing to invest in critical growth areas like demand generation and industrial Internet of Things. We expect corporate costs to normalize back to the low-30s in terms of millions of dollars per quarter for the remainder of the year. Adjusted EPS for the quarter was up 26% to $0.49 per share. And the tax rate for the quarter was 23%. And we anticipate the full year being in the low-20s as well. Turning to Slide 10, free cash flow for the quarter was $32 million on a continuing ops basis, remaining positive despite the aforementioned increases in net working capital. Capex through the quarter totaled $18 million, which is an approximately 25% increase compared to last year, further demonstrating our continued investment in the business. Free cash flow included $8 million of synergy and stand-up costs related to the IR merger. Leverage for the quarter was 1.2 times, which was an 0.7 times improvement versus the prior year. And total company liquidity now stands at $3.1 billion based on approximately $2 billion of cash and $1.1 billion of availability on a revolving credit facility. Liquidity decreased by approximately $100 million in the quarter, which included outflows of $30 million toward strategic M&A, $101 million in share repurchases, and $8 million for our dividend payments. Our M&A funnel remains robust and active, with six bolt-on acquisitions currently under exclusive letters of intent. We remain prudent and disciplined to generate strong returns on transactions with highly strategic and synergistic characteristics. But clearly, we have significant firepower to deploy to M&A, which is a strong driver of our compounding growth model. I will now turn the call back to Vicente to discuss our segments.Vicente Reynal -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Vik. And turning to Slide 11, our Industrial Technologies and Services segment delivered strong organic revenue growth of 14%, including approximately 6% in price and 8% volume growth, both of those year over year, while also demonstrating solid sequential acceleration on both price and volume. Adjusted EBITDA grew 17% year over year, with an adjusted EBITDA margin of 23.8%, up 70 basis points from prior year, with an incremental margin of 29%. Organic orders were up 25% with a strong book-to-bill of 1.24 times. Starting now with compressors. We saw orders up approximately 30%. A further breakdown shows orders for oil-free products growing over 30%, and oil-lubricated products increased approximately 30%. The Americas team delivered strong performance, with orders in North America up approximately low-30%, while Latin America was up in the low-40s. In mainland Europe, orders were up solidly in the 20s, with no material deceleration of note sequentially during the quarter. While India and Middle East were up in the mid-40s. Asia Pacific continues to perform well, with orders of mid-20s, driven by mid-20s growth in China and high-teens growth across the rest of Asia Pacific. In vacuum and blowers, orders were up low-20s on a global basis. In the power tools and lifting business, orders for the total business were up high teens and saw continued positive momentum. As we discussed during the investor day, our demand generation capabilities provide us with the most forward-looking indicators of customer demand through the data-driven approach to developing marketing qualified leads or MQLs. And we gained an additional several months of insight by leveraging this data. And we're aware of the uncertainties related to the global economy. But as we review MQLs across our business and across geographies each week, these indicators show double-digit growth year over year across all major geographies, including America, mainland Europe, the Middle East, India, and Asia Pacific. China has clearly been impacted due to the Shanghai lockdown. But even in the most recent weeks, MQLs are very near last year's level. As I mentioned earlier, we're very focused in our approach to delivering sustainable, innovative solutions. As such, I want to spend time highlighting our LeROI gas compression business, which we acquired in mid-2017. Since then, we have been very focused on repositioning the portfolio of LeROI to further penetrate biogas market, which has seen strong growth as customers are able to capture gas emitted from sources such as landfills and cattle farms and monetize it as an energy source. And as you can see on the page, the growth we have realized from these efforts has been phenomenal and continues to rapidly accelerate. Orders were over $100 million in the past 12 months. And revenue is expected to be more than double in 2022, bringing a total organic growth of over five years to over 440% and creating a post-synergy multiple of the acquisition to around 1 time. We greatly exceeded our mid-teens return on capital target and expect to achieve approximately 70% ROIC by this year. LeROI is just a fantastic example of a highly strategic and synergistic company, whose value has been unleashed in the transition from a family owned business to ownership under Ingersoll Rand. A few weeks ago, I got a chance to visit the LeROI team in Sidney, Ohio. And the transformation the team is making is very impressive. You can feel the energy, passion, and engagement of the employees as you enter the manufacturing floor. We heard a lot of feedback around how the ownership mentality we had and the equity we granted has positively impacted not only the performance we show here, but, more important, the lives of many of our employees in a very positive way. Moving to Slide 12, revenue in the Precision and Science Technology segment grew 12% organic, with approximately 5% price and 10% volume growth. Additionally, the PST team delivered strong adjusted EBITDA of $85 million, which was up 27% year over year with incremental margins of 22%. Adjusted EBITDA margin was 28.6%, down 260 basis points year over year, primarily driven by the impact of M&A. And again, this segment was down 130 basis points, excluding the impact of acquisitions, with an adjusted EBITDA margin of 29.9% ex-M&A. Overall organic orders were up 6%, which is on top of 13% year-over-year organic growth in Q1 of 2021. In addition, we continue to be excited about our funnel for the hydrogen fueling business, which now stands in excess of $100 million. The integration of Seepex, which we acquired in September of 2021, continues to progress very well, with strong growth in new geographies and an acceleration of margin expansion into the low-20 from the mid-teens level inherited at the transaction closed just a couple of quarters ago. I also got a chance to visit the Seepex team in the U.S. And once again, our unique approach to ownership grants is playing a very crucial role in accelerating engagement and performance. I left very excited about the future potential of Seepex as part of Ingersoll Rand. A further example of our focus on sustainable, innovative solutions is the Thomas Pumps brand, a compression technology primarily serving the life science market with a $2.5 billion addressable market. Thomas pumps, they serve the patient care end market, both in facility through applications like ventilators and also at-home through oxygen concentrators. Adjacent to these is the in-vitro diagnostic end market. And we have leveraged our highly translatable technology to grow 40% within this market, with a very strong focus on OEM and with significant runway ahead. We have recently secured several sizable orders from large pharma customers in the in-vitro space, who designed our Thomas Pump into their new products, which will generate strong recurring revenue over the customer's product life cycle. Moving to Slide 13, after a strong start to the year, we're raising 2022 guidance. We're raising organic revenue growth 100 basis points from 8% to 10%, driven by a 100 basis-point increase in organic growth expectations from both the ITS and PST segments as compared to the original guidance. FX is expected to now contribute a headwind of approximately 2% versus 1% on the prior guidance. And these leads to a total company revenue, up 11% to 13%. We're also increasing the adjusted EBITDA range to $1.35 billion to $1.425 billion. We continue to expect free cash flow conversion to adjusted net income to be greater than or equal to 100%. We anticipate our adjusted tax rate to be in the low-20s and capex to be approximately 2% of revenue. Lastly, we want to provide some color on mainland Europe and lockdowns in Shanghai. During the quarter and into April, we have not seen any material slowdown in orders. In fact, we monitor our marketing qualified leads or MQLs, as we said, fairly close as they are really a leading indicator for order activity. And MQLs in Europe have been quite stable throughout 2022. As per the lockdowns in Shanghai, we're starting to see the ease of the lockdowns trending positively. We remain encouraged. But as you know, this is a fluid situation that we continue to monitor closely. And although we don't provide quarterly guidance, the best way to think about it is we are not making significant changes to the first half and second half pacing as compared to our original guidance, as we're taking a prudent view in the second quarter due to the lockdowns in Shanghai. Having said this, we still see continued Q1 to Q2 sequential growth in revenue and adjusted EBITDA but expected to be modest. Turning to Slide 14, as we wrap up today's call, I want to reiterate that Ingersoll Rand is in a very strong position. We delivered record performance in the first quarter, and our backlog provides momentum into the second quarter. 2022 is poised to be a strong year despite known challenges and dynamic market conditions. We will continue to remain agile and leverage IRX across every facet of our business to deliver on our commitments. To our employees, I want to say thank you for your continued engagement and making thoughtful, action-oriented decisions like the owners that you are. This engagement continues to drive the accomplishment of our mission to make life better for our customers, the environment, and the shareholders. Our balance sheet is very strong. And with our disciplined and comprehensive capital allocation strategy, we remain resilient and have the ability to deploy capital to investments with the highest return on capital as we continue our track record of market outperformance. So with that, I'll turn the call back to the operator and open for Q&A. 