
OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Caesars Entertainment Incorporated 2021 Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]. I would now like to hand the call over to your speaker today, Mr. Brian Agnew, Senior Vice President, Corporate Finance, Treasury and Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Brian Matthew Agnew -- SVP of Finance, Treasury & Investor RelationsThank you, Boena, and good afternoon to everyone on the call. Welcome to our conference call to discuss our second quarter 2021 earnings. This afternoon, we issued a press release announcing our financial results for the period ended June 30, 2021. A copy of the press release is available on the Investor Relations section of our website at investor.caesars.com. Joining me on the call today are Tom Reeg, our Chief Executive Officer; Anthony Carano, our President and Chief Operating Officer; and Bret Yunker, our Chief Financial Officer. Before I turn the call over to Anthony, I would like to remind you that during today's conference call, we may make certain forward-looking statements about the company's performance. Such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and therefore, one should not place undue reliance on them.Forward-looking statements are also subject to the inherent risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed. For additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ from those discussed in our forward-looking statements, you should refer to the cautionary statements contained in our press release as well as the risk factors contained in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Caesars Entertainment undertakes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after today's call. Also during today's call, the company may discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined by SEC Regulation G.The GAAP financial measures most directly comparable to each non-GAAP financial measure discussed and the reconciliation of the differences between each non-GAAP financial measure and the comparable GAAP financial measure can be found on the company's website at investor.caesars.com by selecting the press release regarding the company's 2021 second quarter financial results. Starting with our earnings press release today, we are now breaking out sports and iGaming into our new Caesars Digital segment. This segment includes sports betting, iGaming and poker. And finally, as we mentioned in our press release today, we have divested London Clubs, so starting in the third quarter of this year, our former Managed and International segment will just reflect our managed operations on a pro forma basis. I will now turn the call over to Anthony.Anthony Carano -- President & Chief Operating OfficerThank you, Brian, and good afternoon to everyone on the call. The second quarter of 2021 represented a consolidated EBITDA and EBITDA margin record for the company. Starting with Las Vegas, demand trends accelerated meaningfully versus Q1. We generated $425 million of adjusted EBITDA in the quarter and $436 million of property level EBITDA excluding real rent payments. EBITDA improved 162% on a quarterly sequential basis. EBITDA margins were 50.9% excluding the real rent payment, up 1,200 basis points versus Q2 of 2019. Total occupancy for Q1 was 89%, with weekend occupancy 99% and mid-week occupancy 85%. We delivered these outstanding Las Vegas segment results despite operating with capacity and social distancing restrictions for the first 2-plus months of the quarter. In addition, we had minimal group business and weak table hold in the quarter.Looking ahead, we remain encouraged by booking trends for the second half of '21 and into 2022. We're expecting groups to start returning to Vegas with each month getting better as we progress throughout the second half of the year. Group and convention revenues on the books for the second half of '21 versus '19 are currently pacing up approximately 18%. 2022 group revenues on the books are pacing up approximately 15%. CAESARS FORUM continues to exceed the original underwriting expectations with over 176 events booked currently representing 1.7 million room nights and $657 million of revenues for all future periods. 76% of this business is brand new to Caesars. Turning to our regional markets. Operating results improved significantly versus Q2 of 2019 with EBITDA growth of 56%, excluding Lake Charles, which remains closed.EBITDA margins in our regional segment were 40.4%, excluding Lake Charles, and expanded 1,280 basis points versus Q2 of '19. On a same-store sales basis, we achieved the highest EBITDA and EBITDA margin in the regional segment in the history of the company. 26 regional properties set all-time quarterly EBITDA records with 31 properties setting all-time EBITDA margin records during the quarter. In our newly disclosed Caesars Digital segment, we generated revenues of $117 million in Q2 of '21. We currently operate sports betting in 17 states plus Washington, D.C., 13 of which offer mobile sports betting. Our apps are now rebranded to Caesars Sportsbook and our new marketing campaign launched August 2. We have now integrated our digital offerings with Caesars Rewards, and our customers can interact with us both online and our physical casinos while earning loyalty rewards.On the development front, construction is well underway on our new land-based facility in Lake Charles. This significantly upgraded property should be completed and ready for business in the second half of '22. In New Orleans, construction work has started on our new hotel tower and property upgrades. In Las Vegas, the remodeling of the entrance to Caesars Palace has begun, and we look forward to a dramatically improved arrival experience later in the year. In Indiana, we are well underway with our casino expansion at Indiana Grand, which should be finished by January of 2022. We have come a long way in a short time. Our operating teams are collaborating and sharing best practices across the enterprise. This is leading to continued efficiencies. We believe our margin gains are sustainable, and we'll continue to look for incremental cost savings opportunities. I'm extremely proud of our operating teams, their execution and their exceptional guest service during the second quarter. With that, I'll now turn the call over to Tom for some additional insights on the second quarter.Tom Reeg -- Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Anthony. Good afternoon, everyone. When I spoke last quarter and threw out that I'd expect us to hit $1 billion in EBITDA in a quarter in 2021, I wasn't thinking it was going to be second quarter. I was actually thinking it would be this quarter. So we're a little bit ahead of schedule. As you look at the quarter, Anthony touched on some of this, but remember that particularly with mask mandates coming back in Nevada, remember, the Las Vegas numbers that you're looking at included a little over two months of social distancing, restricted occupancy and masks, restricting occupancy in restaurants and on the casino floor plus masks, and we were able to put up the numbers that we put up in the quarter. If you think about drags in the quarter, we held poorly in Las Vegas, the loss from the London Clubs business flowed through in the quarter because we didn't close the transaction until the middle of July and Lake Charles was closed for rebuilding post the hurricane.The drags that I look at in the quarter were about $40 million in aggregate versus what you would expect to see normally. We were 89% occupied in Las Vegas. If you look forward -- if you start in May, May was the best month in the history of Las Vegas for Caesars from an EBITDA perspective. June was better than May, and then July was better than June. And I would expect that third quarter occupancy will finish significantly ahead of second quarter's 89%. Brian touched on the way that we're presenting our financials. Now you can see Caesars Digital on its own, you'll be able to measure our progress. I'll talk a little more about that in a moment. You'll be able to see the bricks and mortar business.And now you can see the managed business, which was in that jumble that the historical Caesars used to have of Managed and International and other, but you can see that, that business generates a little over $100 million of annual EBITDA and that will grow when the Southern Indiana transaction closes because we'll get a management fee and licensing stream from the Cherokee tribe at that property. If you look at the bricks-and-mortar business, I touched on Las Vegas. If you look at it on a consolidated basis, as we sit here today, we are run rating well north of $10 a share in free cash flow, significant ramp from June to July. Obviously, we see the same public health situation that you see and there could be bumps along the way in terms of masks and protocols that we need to follow, but the demand is exceedingly strong, and has continued to build. So we feel very good about where we are in the bricks-and-mortar business.On yesterday morning, we launched Caesars Sportsbook. We closed the William Hill transaction a little over 100 days ago, and we have spent -- and that was kind of a standing stock. Because of the rules in the U.K., we really could not do much in terms of preparing for when we would close the transaction, and we wanted to be in position to launch ahead of football season. So what you're going to see is us leaning the entire organization into this vertical. You see the ad campaign with J.B. Smoove, Patton Oswalt, our first national commercial will air during the USA Men's basketball game, Thursday night in the Olympics. You're -- we are activating the entire enterprise. So connecting to Caesars Rewards more than 60 million people tiered levels of service, ability to earn and use points on or offline. We're activating our player development teams across the organization to sign up new accounts. We're activating our entire workforce.Our frontline labor force will each have their own individual QR code, and will be able to sign up customers and be incentivized to help us do that. So this is really a true lean in by this organization that has not happened before. The numbers that you see and that we've generated before have been in this kind of lame duck universe where we had bought Caesars, we had the partnership that needed to be restructured and then we had the time between announcing the William Hill deal and closing it where that -- the business that we were doing was kind of just incidental, not enough real focus. This is truly leaning the whole organization in. And if you -- in terms of how I think about it, I look at this like I look at any business opportunity within the business. I think that we can generate cash-on-cash returns in this business at maturity well in excess of 50% of what we'll invest.But we realize that we're -- we operate in a world that is competitive and that we've got to jump in and compete. So you should expect us to spend over $1 billion in the next 2.5 years to build our customer base. I can't give you a more precise number because a lot of the acquisition spend is success-based. But I would expect it to be over $1 billion, and I'd expect to, at maturity, be generating at least 50%, possibly approaching 100% of that in EBITDA. And the difference in terms of a bricks-and-mortar investment that -- if I could find a brick-and-mortar investment like that, we would do that every day of the week. The difference is you're going to see that flow through our income statement, which is why it's important that we're able to separate this and show you what does the brick-and-mortar business look like versus what does the digital business look like.But with us free cash flowing in excess of $10 a share, we think we have plenty of capital to invest in this business. We know this is not going to be just a straight line up. We expect that we will make mistakes. We'll have to continue to evolve both from a marketing strategy and a technology strategy, but the tools that we have in our portfolio to prosecute this opportunity, I'm really excited to play this hand and we're just getting started as of yesterday. And with that, I'm going to turn it to Bret to talk about liquidity.Bret Yunker -- Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Tom. Our record-setting operating performance in the second quarter generated over $500 million of free cash flow, which, in turn, we applied to retire our remaining convertible debt and make a onetime payment to acquire the license rights for Planet Hollywood in Las Vegas in perpetuity. This combination of debt repayment and license fee buyout results in over $40 million of annualized free cash flow and set the table for further free cash flow benefits from deleveraging and refinancing activity. With investment plans for Caesars Digital now formalized, our 2021 calendar year capex moves to $500 million to $550 million, which includes approximately $100 million for Caesars Digital and acceleration of spend in New Orleans. Net of growth capex, our annual core capex remains approximately $400 million. We commenced the sale process for William Hill's non-U.S. assets in the second quarter and expect to announce the transaction no later than early Q4 of this year. With that, I'll turn it back to Tom.Tom Reeg -- Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Bret. Boena, with that, we'll turn it back to you for question and answers.