  OperatorWelcome to the MPC first-quarter 2021 earnings call. My name is Sheila, and I will be your operator for today's call. [Operator instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded. I will now turn the call over to Kristina Kazarian. Kristina, you may begin.Kristina Kazarian -- Managing Director

 



 Welcome to Marathon Petroleum Corporation's first-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. The slides that accompany this call can be found on our website at marathonpetroleum.com under the Investor tab. Joining me on the call today are Mike Hennigan, CEO; Maryann Mannen, CFO; and other members of the executive team. We invite you to read the safe harbor statements on Slide 2. We will be making forward-looking statements today. Actual results may differ. Factors that could cause actual results to differ are included there, as well as in our SEC filings. With that, I'll turn the call over to Mike.Mike Hennigan -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Kristina, and thank you for joining our call this morning. Before we get into our results for the quarter, we wanted to provide a brief update on the business. During the first quarter, our industry continued to struggle with a reduction in global economic activity and demand for transportation fuels that resulted from the mobility restrictions related to COVID-19 pandemic. As we started the second quarter with the rollout of vaccinations, we still see industrywide gasoline demand down around 5% from historical levels and jet demand down around 25% to 30%.

 



 To the extent that a pent-up desire to travel starts to brighten the macro outlook for our business, our team and our assets are poised to take advantage of these opportunities. But in the meantime, as the challenging backdrop holds, we'll continue to concentrate on the elements of our business that are within our control. Our near-term priorities remain the same. Each quarter, we're focused on strengthening the competitive position of our assets, improving our commercial performance, and lowering our cost structure. Slide 4 highlights some of our actions around our strategic priorities this quarter. First, we're close to completion on the sale of our Speedway business. Second, we continue to take steps to reposition our portfolio. Our board of directors approved our plans to convert our Martinez asset to a 48,000 barrel per day renewable facility. We expect commissioning of Martinez to begin in the second half of 2022 with approximately 17,000 barrels per day of capacity. Additionally, we expect to reach full capacity of approximately 48,000 barrels a day by the end of '23. In line with our commitment to lowering the carbon intensity of our operations and products, we're planning to install wind turbine generators at Dickinson facility. Sourcing electricity from wind will lower the carbon intensity of the renewable diesel product at that facility. We'll continue to seek out the right opportunities for investing and partnering on renewables and evolving technologies. Finally, we also continue to exercise strict discipline on how capital and expense dollars are spent. In this quarter, we were able to hold refining operating expenses roughly flat with the prior quarter. I'd like to take a moment on Slide 5 to reinforce our priorities for the proceeds from the sale of our Speedway business.

 



 As we approach the close of the transaction, we've appreciated the continued dialogue we've had with many of you. We remain committed to use the Speedway sale proceeds to strengthen our balance sheet and return capital to MPC shareholders. An important priority is our commitment to maintain a solid investment-grade credit profile. As we said before, we intend to maintain an appropriate level of leverage for this business. And recently, Fitch affirmed our investment-grade credit rating at BBB and improved the outlook for our MPC from negative to stable. With respect to debt reduction, we previously indicated $2.5 billion of debt that could be retired with minimal friction costs. We've repaid approximately $2.1 billion, as was announced, since October by issuing commercial paper, which we intend to pay down immediately with the proceeds from the Speedway sale. We'll be thoughtful on how to reduce our debt to minimize costs while not jeopardizing our investment-grade credit rating. Within this framework of maintaining a solid balance sheet, we expect the remaining proceeds will be targeted for shareholder return, and we plan to announce more details around these plans in conjunction with the closing of the transaction. Slide 6 demonstrates our execution around lowering our cost structure. Our refining and corporate cost results this quarter illustrate the impact of the team's commitment to cost discipline. And while rising utilization will bring variable costs as volume increase, we believe that the structural cost reductions we have made are sustainable. While our results reflect our focus on cost discipline, we have not compromised on our commitment to safely operating our assets and protect the health and safety of our employees, customers, and the communities in which we operate. As you may recall, 2020 was the company's best performance ever in the area, with nearly 30% improvement across both process and personal safety rates and our very best environmental performance. And recently, four of our refineries received safety awards from the American Fuel and Petrochemical Manufacturers trade association. These awards recognize facilities that go above and beyond to keep their people, facilities, and surrounding communities safe. Robinson, Detroit, and Anacortes, and Dickinson all demonstrated outstanding safety performance and leadership that set them apart. Lastly, I'd like to take a moment to provide some comments on our commitment to ESG. From a strategic standpoint, our focus is to meet the needs of today while investing in the energy-diverse future. This includes lowering the carbon intensity of our operations and products, expanding renewable fuels and technologies, conserving natural resources, engaging with stakeholders, and investing in our communities. We have three companywide targets many of our investors know well: first, a 30% reduction in our Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions by 2030; second, a 50% reduction in our midstream methane intensity by 2025; and lastly, a 20% reduction in our freshwater withdrawal intensity by 2030. Our focus on sustainability is pervasive across everything we do. And to ensure this, our compensation now includes a sustainability metric in our bonus target weighted at 20%. We've also linked the diversity metric to compensation in the same way that last year we linked greenhouse gas intensity reductions to our compensation. Reflecting our current commitment on ESG, we are pleased for the second consecutive year to have earned U.S. EPA's ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year Sustained Excellence Award. MPC is the only company with fuels manufacturing as its primary business to earn this award, and we're very proud of the work our employees do in this area. At this point, I'd like to turn it over to Maryann to review the first-quarter results.Maryann Mannen -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Mike. Slide 8 provides a summary of our first-quarter financial results. This morning, we reported an adjusted loss per share of $0.20. Adjusted EBITDA was $1.552 billion for the quarter. This includes results from both continuing and discontinued operations. Cash from continuing operations, excluding working capital, was $613 million, which is a nearly $500 million increase since the prior quarter. This also marks the first time since the start of the pandemic that cash from continuing operations has been above our quarterly dividend payment, which was $379 million. Slide 9 shows the reconciliation from net income to adjusted EBITDA, as well as the sequential change in adjusted EBITDA from fourth-quarter 2020 to first-quarter 2021. Adjusted EBITDA was nearly $650 million more quarter over quarter, driven primarily by higher earnings in refining and marketing. As a reminder, both the fourth and first-quarter results reflect Speedway as a discontinued operation. Moving to our segment results. Slide 10 provides an overview of our refining and marketing segment. The business reported positive EBITDA for the first time since the start of the COVID pandemic with first-quarter adjusted EBITDA of $23 million. This was an increase of $725 million when compared to the fourth quarter of 2020. The increase was driven primarily by higher refining margins, which were considerably improved across all regions in the first quarter as compared to the fourth quarter. Total utilization for refining was 83%, which was roughly flat with the fourth-quarter utilization of 82%. Operating expenses were in line with the previous quarter despite the slight increase in utilization. Distribution costs were lower by $69 million due to variations in quarter-to-quarter timing of costs. In March, severe winter storms impacted our industry. We estimate that the cost impact across our refining and marketing business was roughly $39 million this quarter, with an additional $12 million to be incurred in the second quarter. Although our Galveston Bay and El Paso refineries both had to shut down for a period of time, neither experienced any significant mechanical damage or safety incidents as the team was steadfast in safeguarding our operations and ensuring the safety of our employees and the surrounding communities. El Paso was able to quickly resume operations, and Galveston Bay was able to begin its planned turnaround during the period. The efforts of our people during this time demonstrate the values that are integral to the way we conduct our business. Slide 11 shows the change in our midstream EBITDA versus the fourth quarter of 2020. Our midstream segment continues to demonstrate earnings resiliency and stability with consistent results from the previous quarter. Here again, the team continues to make excellent progress on reducing operating expenses, which helped to partially offset headwinds from lower gathered and processed volumes and reduced revenues. We estimate the cost impact from storms on our midstream business was approximately $16 million. Slide 12 provides an overview of Speedway results as a discontinued operation. Speedway fuel and merchandise volumes were impacted by usual seasonality in the first quarter. Fuel margins decreased and merchandise revenues were lower due to rising crude and product costs in the quarter. Overall, we continue to see lower foot traffic and transaction counts than pre-COVID levels. Fuel margins were $0.26 per gallon. Slide 13 presents the elements of change in our consolidated cash position for the first quarter. It reflects both our continuing and discontinued operations. Within continuing operations, operating cash flow before changes in working capital was $613 million in the quarter. Changes in working capital was a $348 million use of cash in the quarter. This was primarily driven by the rebuilding of our inventory position in the first quarter and partially offset by a benefit for the increase in crude prices this quarter. During the quarter, net debt increased $865 million as we used our short-term debt facilities to manage capital needs during the quarter. In March, we retired $1 billion in senior notes utilizing short-term liquidity. We returned $379 million to shareholders through our dividend. Our cash balance at the end of the quarter for both continuing and discontinued operations was $758 million. Turning to guidance on Slide 14, we provide our second-quarter outlook. We expect total throughput volumes of roughly 2.7 million barrels per day. Planned turnaround costs are projected to be approximately $100 million in the second quarter, which includes activity at our Galveston Bay refinery. Total operating costs are projected to be $5.20 per barrel for the quarter. Distribution costs are expected to be approximately $1.25 billion for the second quarter. With that, let me turn the call back over to Kristina.Kristina Kazarian -- Managing Director Thanks, Maryann. As we open the call for your questions, as a courtesy to all participants, we ask that you limit yourself to one question and a follow-up. If time permits, we will reprompt for additional questions. We will now open the call for questions. Operator? 