
OperatorGood day, and welcome to Xcel Energy's First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]At this time, I would like to introduce your host for today's call, Paul Johnson, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Paul A. Johnson -- Vice President --Investor Relations

 



Thank you. Good morning, and welcome to Xcel Energy's 2021 First Quarter Earnings Conference Call. Joining me today are Ben Fowke, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer; Bob Frenzel, President and Chief Operating Officer; Brian Van Abel, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Amanda Rome, Executive Vice President and General Counsel. This morning, we will review our '21 -- 2021 results and share recent business and regulatory developments. There are slides that accompany today's call are available on our website. As a reminder, some of the comments during today's call may contain forward-looking information. Significant factors that could cause results to differ from those anticipated are described in our earnings release and our SEC filings. Today, we will discuss certain metrics that are non-GAAP measures, including ongoing earnings and electric and natural gas margins. Information on the compatible -- comparable GAAP measures and reconciliations are included in our earnings release. With that, I'll turn it over to Ben.Ben Fowke -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerWell, thank you, Paul, and good morning, everyone. Today, we reported strong first quarter earnings of $0.67 per share compared with $0.56 per share last year. We're off to a good start, and we are reaffirming our 2021 guidance range. But I want to start out by thanking our employees for their outstanding work to ensure that our customers did not experience any material outages during Winter Storm Uri. I'm proud of our strong performance of our power plants, and our electric and natural gas systems during that serious event. I think there are a lot of lessons learned from Uri, the need to invest in resiliency, the increased interdependency between the gas and electric sectors and the need to have 24/7 dispatchable generation available are a few that come to mind. So despite strong operational performance, we incurred $1 billion of incremental fuel costs during the winter storm. It's important to recognize that we followed all the policies and procedures regarding natural gas purchasing and hedging as approved by regulators in our states. We're in the process of seeking recovery for incremental fuel cost and we'll propose to defer the cost recovery over one year or two to mitigate the impact on our customers.Well turning to our investment plans. In February, we filed our proposal to buy out a repowered 120-megawatt wind PPA from ALLETE for $210 million. The buyout will save our customers money while extending the life of our renewable energy resource. We also filed our proposal to build 460 megawatts of solar facilities near our retiring Sherco Coal plant for an estimated investment of $575 million. The project takes advantage of existing transmission and will bring good, high-paying local construction jobs to our economy. We requested a commission decision on both projects later this year and are confident the commission will see the customer and economic benefits. In March, we filed our resource plan in Colorado, which details our plans to reduce carbon emissions by 85% and increase renewables to 80% of our fuel mix by 2030. The plan includes the early retirement of two coal units at Hayden in 2027 and 2028, the conversion of Pawnee to natural gas in 2028, the early retirement of Comanche three in 2040 with reduced operations beginning in 2030.

 



Now under the plan, we will add 2,300 megawatts of wind, 1,600 megawatts of universal scale solar, 400 megawatts of storage, 1,300 megawatts of flexible resources and 1,200 megawatts of distributed solar resources through our renewable energy programs. In addition, we are continuing to make progress on the Minnesota resource plan and expect a decision later this year. Between the Minnesota and Colorado resource plans, we anticipate adding nearly 10,000 megawatts of renewables to our system to meet our 80% carbon reduction goal by 2030. We also filed our pathway transmission expansion plan in Colorado. The proposal request approval to build 560 miles of 345 kV transmission lines creating a backbone that will enable 5,500 megawatts of incremental renewables and help Colorado achieve its 2030 carbon reduction goals. The estimated cost of the backbone is $1.7 billion, with an incremental investment of up to $1 billion for network upgrades, voltage support and addition transmission line and interconnection work. We expect decisions on the Colorado pathway project later this year. Turning to the NSP system. MISO recently presented its long-range transmission planning roadmap, which identified potential scenarios for future system development based on constrained areas and options for regional transmission expansion. This conceptional roadmap highlighted an initial set of projects in the MISO footprint, which could drive $30 billion of investment and a full rollout could result in up to $100 billion of investment. While this is very preliminary, a high level conceptual framework, it does highlight the need for significant transmission over the next 15 years.The transmission expansion and resource plans will provide transparency into our long-term opportunities and will likely lead to robust capital investment in the second half of this decade. Now as you know, one of my highest priorities is ensuring Xcel Energy is a positive force for racial justice and reconciliation. We are deeply committed to supporting our communities in advancing racial equity, rebuilding following civil unrest and addressing COVID-19 impacts, which continue to disproportionately affect black communities. I'm proud that our company is engaged in a community dialogue and we are investing in organizations that are having a real impact. We've got more work to do as a company, a community, and a country toward creating a more just society. But by working together, we can all be part of the solution. We're also proud of the recognition we're receiving for our actions. For example, Xcel Energy was named among the world's most admired companies by Fortune Magazine for the eighth consecutive year, ranking second among gas and electric companies. And we continue to be cited as a top company for LGBTQ equality, earning a perfect score in the human rights campaign's 2021 Corporate Equality Index and a Best Place to Work for LGBTQ Equality designation for the fifth consecutive year. So with that, I'll turn it over to Brian.Brian Van Abel -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Ben. Good morning, everyone, and thanks for joining us. We had a good start to the year, booking $0.67 per share compared to $0.56 per share last year. Most significant earnings drivers for the year include the following: higher electric and natural gas margins increased earnings by $0.18 per share, primarily driven by riders and rate outcomes to recover our capital investments and increase margin from our small trading operation, reflecting higher market prices. In addition, a lower effective tax rate increased earnings by $0.06 per share. As a reminder, though, production tax credits lower the ETR. PTCs are flowed back to customers through lower electric margin and are largely earnings neutral. Offsetting these positive drivers were increased depreciation and interest expense which reduced earnings by $0.09 per share, reflecting our capital investment program.

 



Lower AFUDC decreased earnings by $0.02 per share, largely due to placing several larger wind farms into service last year. In addition, other items combined to decrease earnings by $0.02 per share. Turning to sales. Weather and leap year adjusted electric sales declined by 1.9% in the first quarter. Our sales forecast assumed that there was a lingering impact from COVID-19, and we expected a slight decline in Q1. However, the adverse impacts of COVID on sales were largely felt starting in the second quarter of last year. As a result, we anticipate a positive quarter-over-quarter sales comparison next quarter. And for the year, we continue to anticipate modest weather-adjusted sales growth of approximately 1%. Shifting to expenses. O&M increased slightly for the quarter. We expect annual O&M expenses to be relatively flat in 2021, reflecting incremental costs for new wind farms, offset by a decline in base O&M. Now turning to our regulatory filings. In January, we filed a New Mexico electric rate case seeking a net rate increase of $48 million after reflecting fuel savings and PTCs from the Sagamore wind farm. A commission decision and implementation of final rates are anticipated in the fourth quarter of this year. In February, we filed a Texas electric rate case seeking a net rate increase of $74 million after reflecting fuel savings and PTCs from the Sagamore wind farm.A commission decision is expected in the first quarter of 2022 with a surcharge back to March 2021. The Texas and New Mexico rate cases are driven by the Sagamore wind farm, investment in transmission and distribution due to significant growth, the loss of a wholesale customer, changes in depreciation to reflect the planned early retirement of our coal plant, a requested ROE of 10.35% and an equity ratio of 54.6%. In November 2020, we filed a request in North Dakota seeking an electric rate increase of approximately $19 million based on a requested ROE of 10.2% and an equity ratio of 52.5%. Interim rates were implemented in January and the decision is expected later this year. As far as future filings go, we anticipate filing a Colorado electric rate case this summer with rates going into effect in the first half of 2022. We are working with parties to reach settlement agreements regarding our plans for Wisconsin rate case. And finally, we also anticipate filing a Minnesota electric rate case in November, with interim rates going into effect in January of 2022. Shifting to renewables. We continue to achieve important milestones in our PPA buyout strategy. In March, we closed on the acquisition of the 99-megawatt repowered Mower wind farm. We expect Mower will provide significant customer savings in carbon reduction for our customers.We've gotten off to a great start for the year and are reaffirming our 2021 earnings guidance of $2.90 to $3 per share. We've updated our guidance assumptions, and we expect incremental interest expense due to the lag in recovery of the $1 billion of unplanned fuel costs associated with Winter Storm Uri. As we work with our commissions to recover the fuel costs, we're not seeking to recover the carrying costs from our customers, as we help to manage the overall bill impacts. We continue to expect to deliver earnings around the midpoint of the guidance range. With that, I'll wrap up with a quick summary. We continue to execute on our PPA buyout strategy with the acquisition of the Mower wind farm and filing of the elite PPA repowering buyout. We filed our solar proposal in Minnesota. We filed our Colorado resource plan and transmission expansion plan, which will provide transparency into our long-term opportunities and will likely lead to robust capital investment in the second half of the decade. We reaffirmed our guidance range and finally, we remain confident we can deliver long-term earnings and dividend growth within our 5% to 7% objective range. This concludes our prepared remarks. Operator, we will now take questions.