  OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the fourth quarter 2021 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speaker presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, vice president of finance and investor relations, Mr. Brad Delco. Please go ahead.Brad Delco -- Vice President of Finance and Investor Relations

 



 Good afternoon. Before I introduce the speakers, I would like to take some time to provide some disclosures regarding forward-looking statements. This call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as expects, anticipates, intends, estimates, or similar expressions are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. These statements are based on J.B. Hunt's current plans and expectations and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause future activities and results to be materially different from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. For more information regarding risk factors, please refer to J.B. Hunt's annual report on Form 10-K and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.Now, I would like to introduce speakers on today's call. This afternoon, I'm joined by our CEO, John Roberts; our CFO, John Kuhlow; Shelley Simpson, chief commercial officer and EVP of people and human resources; Nick Hobbs, chief operating officer and president of contract services; Darren Field, president of intermodal; and Brad Hicks, president of highway services. At this time, I'd like to turn the call to our CEO, Mr. John Roberts, for some opening comments. John? 

 



John Roberts -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Brad, and good afternoon. Thank you for joining our call today. We all thought 2020 was a remarkable year in our history, but I'll consider 2021 as a good contender for being equally challenging. And in the midst of perpetual challenge, we have continued to see our collective resiliency and strength carry us during these unique times. Our teams have adjusted and adapted to multiple scenario changes impacting our customers' ability to thrive. In 2021, our leaders made bold calls to increase investments in our people, our technologies, and in expanding our fleets across our asset base. We've long been committed to following a disciplined approach for all capital allocations and believe these investments are good for our customers in the long term. I can't say enough about the way every one of our team members has risen to the opportunities presented in this current environment. Accordingly, we have done exhaustive research on where we stand regarding being competitive in total compensation for our people as we move into 2022. Our team leaders have unilaterally approved comprehensive changes to our base wages, incentive compensation, and benefits. Increasing our awareness for how we approach tracking and retaining the best talent is critical to our mission of creating the most efficient transportation network in North America. The overall growth we experienced in 2021 is unprecedented, once again revealing the necessity of our services and confirming the approach our people take on solving our customers' challenges.

 



 We added 1,778 tractors to DCS, 6,284 containers to Intermodal with 531 net tractor adds, and 2,605 trailers for our 360box program in highway. We continue to work strategically with our equipment providers on build and delivery plans as we head into 2022. With the growth coming out of '21, we anticipate ongoing demand for all types of power and trading equipment. We also look forward to working with our rail service providers to find improvements across all aspects of intermodal service, capacity management, and utilization. Lastly, I will comment on our efforts relating to sustainability. Over the past several years, we have worked to better understand, communicate, and advance our positioning in this important area. While we have seen good progress and have been recognized by many third parties for our efforts, we also believe we have important work to do. We are committed to our mission to create the most efficient transportation network in North America, and we are also committed to being transparent on the progress of our sustainability journey. This concludes my remarks. Our executives will provide more specific information. So, I would like to turn the call over to our CFO, John Kuhlow.John Kuhlow -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, John, and good afternoon, everyone. My comments today will follow a similar pattern as our previous calls, where I'll review our recent performance on a consolidated level. I'll then provide some commentary on our capex plans for 2022 and as well as our approach to allocation. And then I'll close with some thoughts on our financial priorities for the coming year. Overall, we are pleased with our fourth quarter performance highlighted by growing revenues, 28%, and operating income, 55%, over the prior-year period. We saw positive year-over-year revenue performance across all segments and positive operating income performance in all segments except for DCS, which Nick will cover in greater detail in his remarks. As I look across our business, the common denominator in terms of our pain points continues to be labor-related in wages, salaries, benefits, and recruiting trends in both driver and nondriver. We continue to elevate investments in our people, as was evidenced by our decision to provide a special bonus in December of nearly $11 million to our frontline workers for their efforts in working through the supply chain challenges facing our customers and the industry. Below the line, interest expense was slightly lower, and the tax rate is slightly higher than the prior period, resulting in GAAP EPS of $2.28 a share for the quarter or a 58% increase versus the prior-year period. As has been stated in previous calls, the impacts of network congestion, labor shortages, and general supply chain challenges are well known and have continued to have a meaningful impact on our business and are likely to persist, particularly given the heightened challenges evolving around COVID infections across our country. We ended the quarter with $356 million of cash, which was slightly higher than planned. Last quarter, I provided you with updated thoughts on our 2021 net capex, and that would fall within the $1 billion range, which we missed by approximately $130 million. This miss was almost entirely due to supply chain delays continuing to impact our ability to take timely delivery of our equipment. We remain committed to these investments and capacity to help serve our customers, and we anticipate net capex for 2022 to approximate $1.5 billion. We continue to prioritize our capital to invest in our business, support our dividend, repurchase shares and opportunistically execute on our M&A strategy, all while maintaining a modest net leverage ratio of around one times EBITDA and, importantly, continuing to maintain our investment-grade status. Before I close out my comments, and in light of expecting some questions around our 2022 outlook, I'd like to provide you some context, not guidance but context, for our financial priorities in 2022. These priorities include continuing investments in our people, maintaining a strong balance sheet to support all of our planned investments, and focusing on generating appropriate returns on the capital we are investing to grow our businesses and serve our customers. This disciplined focus on the priorities enables us to manage the business for long-term growth and success. That concludes my remarks, so I'll turn it over to Shelley.Shelley Simpson -- Chief Commercial Officer and Executive Vice President of People and Human Resources Thank you, John, and good afternoon. Today, I want my commercial update to focus first on a quick review of 2021 and how we were able to deliver for our customers. I will then focus my comments on the market and how we're going to approach the ongoing supply chain challenges for and on behalf of our customers. Finally, I'll finish up with some updates on our priorities for J.B. Hunt 360 multimodal digital freight platform as we move forward. As we've discussed over the past year, the freight environment has been extremely volatile and unpredictable and not just for capacity providers but also for those that we are providing capacity for to meet their needs. In this environment, we, as an organization like our customers, have had to adapt to this disruption. And I firmly believe that our mode-agnostic, comprehensive supply chain solutions approach has been a key to help our customers over the last year, where we were able to honor our commitments and particularly during peak season. Another key element of our success was a significant commitment and investment in physical assets across all of our business segments, from containers and chassis to trucks and trailers. That said, I would be remiss to leave out the most critical element of our success, and that is our people, our drivers, mechanics, load planners, and all of those behind the scenes, helping our frontline workers succeed. Tying it all together, of course, was our technology platform, J.B. Hunt 360, which I believe gives us a distinct advantage in sourcing efficient capacity for our customers. Simply put, our investments, people, and technology put us in a position to say yes in 2021 and has me excited for our future growth as more and more customers are leaning in. As we look at the market today and try to prepare for the year ahead, many components of our business plan and go-to-market strategy are similar to those exercised here in our recent past. The market remains challenging, capacity-constrained, and unpredictable, and we will need to remain agile in our approach to securing capacity for our customers. Some unique areas I see impacting capacity is the ability to source new equipment, which is likely to keep used truck prices elevated, and as a result, small carrier rates as well. I see customers wanting to lock up more capacity in dedicated arrangements and lean into technologies that drive efficiency in their supply chain and how they procure capacity. As an organization, we see tremendous pent-up demand to convert highway freight to intermodal with elevated truck rates, the tight labor market, higher fuel prices, and a 60% improvement in carbon efficiency intermodal offers versus truck. Needless to say, 2022 will present us with many opportunities to grow, and we will approach the market similar to how we always have, serving our customers as our top priority while maintaining sound financial discipline. Finally, as I look at the investments we've made building out and scaling J.B. Hunt 360, I continue to be encouraged where we are relative to our long-term plan. As we have discussed, user activity and engagement continue to accelerate and break records across both carrier and shipper platforms, solidifying the value of optimizing and transacting in real time, in a frictionless process. As we look ahead to this year, we see opportunities to further acceleration as we continue the rollout of our new automated tools and to drive even greater efficiency in our organization and higher service quality for our customers. These tools will enable, enhance, and leverage our people and core technologies to drive more efficiencies in the marketplace, which gets us even closer to our mission to create the most efficient transportation network in North America. To wrap up, we continue to uncover innovative ways to accomplish that mission, including the collaborative work with Google and the recently announced strategic alliance with Waymo, where I see tremendous opportunity for us to explore solutions that merge two of the most innovative companies in the transportation industry: autonomous driving and our multimodal digital freight platform, J.B. Hunt 360. That concludes my comments, and I'd now like to turn it over to Nick.Nick Hobbs -- Chief Operating Officer and President of Contract Services Thank you, Shelley, and good afternoon. Today, I'm going to review the performance of both final mile and dedicated segments, as well as provide some thoughts on the priorities for these businesses as we move forward. I will also provide some updated thoughts from an operational perspective on our ability to source equipment and some updated views on the driver market. I'll start with final mile. As we have discussed over the last several quarters, we have been focused on making the right investments in our people and processes to ensure a high level of service quality and execution for the safe and timely delivery of our customers' products into their customers' homes. That trend continued in Q4 as service quality and safety will be a cornerstone to the long-term growth and success of our business. These investments, labor challenges, as well as supply chain disruptions for some key markets that we serve, have continued to weigh on margin performance in the most recent quarter in addition to some start-up costs for some newer accounts. As we set out to differentiate our service product, we've also set out to demonstrate the differentiated value we bring to our customers and the market. We believe some of that differentiation is being recognized as we are coming off our largest sales year for new business in 2021. That said, in the coming months, we do expect to put some business at risk as we focus and put even greater emphasis on generating the appropriate financial returns on these investments. Going forward, we continue to see a solid pipeline of organic growth opportunities with potential to supplement some of that growth with small tuck-in acquisitions as a way to build out our service capabilities and customer list. Shifting to dedicated. Our dedicated business continues to have a lot of momentum as our backlog and pipeline for new business and start-ups continue to build to record levels despite the onboarding of nearly 1,800 new trucks in 2021. In terms of truck sales, we sold over 2,500 trucks of new business in the year, a new record for us, or an incremental 663 units specifically in the fourth quarter. Historically, we have shared a target to sell 800 to 1,000 trucks per year. And at this point, we feel it's appropriate to update that long-term target to 1,000 to 1,200 based on our team's ability to execute. As planned or expected, these start-ups do put near-term pressure on margin performance, as does elevated driver pay and recruiting costs, and specific to the quarter, the special bonus we provided our frontline employees. But we remain confident in our ability to price and manage each of our accounts to their appropriate levels of profitability and returns, which should reveal itself in the coming quarters. In terms of priorities going forward, we will remain focused on the execution of our growth plan, as well as maintaining our culture for operational excellence, high service, and safety while maintaining through some challenges around a modestly less experienced team as our pace of growth has been robust. Closing out with some operational updates. As you could tell by my dedicated comments, there's a lot of momentum, which has us put additional pressure on our organization to source both drivers and equipment. I would say that both the truck and trailer market, as well as the driver market, remain extremely tight and does give me some concern for our ability to execute on our growth plan to meet the demands of the business. That said, we are working closely with our OEMs to get delivery of product and continue to recruit tirelessly to meet the driver demands across our organization. That concludes my remarks, so I'll turn it over to Darren.Darren Field -- President of Intermodal Thank you, Dick. Good afternoon, everyone. Today, my comments will recap the performance of our Intermodal business in '21 and specifically the fourth quarter. I will also provide an update on our significant investment to expand our capacity with our equipment orders and finish up with some thoughts about the outlook for the business in 2022 as we anticipate strong demand for our services as a result of our investments and the value of intermodal in the truck-to-rail conversion equation. I'd like to start by reviewing our recent performance. Demand for our intermodal service remained strong in the fourth quarter but, similar to recent trends, wasn't reflected in the volume performance for the business as network congestion and restrictions hindered a large amount of our potential capacity. That said, I am proud of our team and its ability to onboard the equipment available to us to ensure that we met the commitments to our customers during their peak period of demand. On a positive note, we did see improvements in the quarter in parts of the network, specifically the speed in which customers were able to turn our equipment. However, those improvements were effectively offset by further deterioration in other parts of the network, namely rail velocity. For the quarter, box turns achieved minimal improvement from the third quarter. Needless to say, lots of work remains to be done. As a result, volumes for the quarter were down 3% year over year. And by month, volumes were down 4% in October, down 3% in November, and down 1% in December. The onboarding of new equipment was slower than we anticipated, taking delivery of only 2,700 units in the quarter and approximately half of our 12,000 orders for the year. Naturally, this will push more units into our delivery plan for the first half of 2022. This investment in additional capacity and the corresponding investment in additional trucks and chassis and most importantly our people puts us in a good position to serve our customers and focus on growth in '22. In addition to these investments, we continue to work closely with our customers and rail service providers to improve velocity in the system to unlock the latent capacity in the network. Predicting the exact timing of improvement in the network fluidity is difficult, particularly in light of some of the more recent disruption caused by new COVID cases impacting our own and our customers' operations. As we look forward to the year ahead, and similar to what you've heard earlier, we are optimistic about our opportunities to grow the business. We have executed a plan that puts us on a solid growth trajectory based on items within our control. Consistent with our strategy historically, we will focus on striking the right balance between volume and price while maintaining our financial discipline on targeting appropriate returns on our business. Of course, returns and margins are impacted by items like velocity and asset utilization, which will also be a key component in terms of how we manage the business as we progress through the year. In anticipation of questions on both volume and margin expectations for the year, my answer is it depends. But know that the business will be managed to protect our investment and our returns on that investment. In closing, Intermodal's value proposition remains strong, supporting our view of long-term sustainable growth. We continue to see ample opportunities to convert highway freight, as well as transloading freight into our domestic containers. We believe our service, backed by our people and the ownership of our equipment, is differentiated in the market and even more so when combined with the power of the J.B. Hunt 360 platform that allows us to source capacity efficiently when needed. That concludes my remarks, so I'll turn it over to Brad Hicks.Brad Hicks -- President of Highway Services Thank you, Darren, and good afternoon, everyone. I'm going to cover the performance of Highway Services, which includes both Integrated Capacity Solutions and trucks. But before I do, I would just like to stop for a second and thank all the members in ICS and JBT for how they continue to rise to the occasion to deliver on behalf of our customers, particularly during what was another tight and capacity-constrained peak season. You've heard us talk now for quite some time about how we plan on leveraging our investments in our people and our technology to support rapid growth in this area of our business. And as I look back on the past year, I couldn't be more pleased with how this team has responded to deliver on that statement. I'd like to first cover ICS or our Integrated Capacity Solutions segment. We delivered $739 million of revenue in the quarter with year-over-year growth of 26%. This growth was driven primarily by an increase in revenue per load as total loads were down 1% year over year in the quarter. Truckload volume was up 3% versus the prior-year period. Going into peak, we felt like our volume comps would decelerate based on our rapid growth a year ago from third to fourth quarter in addition to some of the discipline we instilled in our bid strategy earlier in the year, which, combined with scaling and productivity benefits, is reflected in our profitability improvement. As we look forward, I know our teams are excited about the rollout of two technology enhancements this year that will enable greater productivity of our people and greater service for our customers and carriers, which will support our growth and scaling of the business even further. To close out my comments on ICS, I would like to establish some priorities for the year, which include continuing to invest in and leverage our people and technology, focus on operational excellence so customers and carriers have a world-class experience utilizing the J.B. Hunt 360 platform and create value for customers and carriers that would support further market share gains. Shifting gears now to truck or JBT. Revenue grew 85% year over year to $259 million, while operating income improved to $26 million in the quarter and delivering results this segment hasn't achieved since 2005. I think it's important to highlight that our go-to-market strategy has evolved as the makeup of our truck service offering has continued to gravitate to a more asset-light model. I remain encouraged by our ability to disrupt the traditional way of serving customers in this segment to discover new and innovative ways to scale into the large addressable drop trailer market that has normally been served by the large asset-based carriers. By leveraging the power and investments we've made in our J.B. Hunt 360 platform, our people, and building out our 360box networking capacity, we are positioned for growth as financial returns support our strategy and further investment. Similar to ICS, these investments will focus on building out further capabilities with our technology, investing more in our people, and investment in our physical assets, which, in this case, is additional trailing capacity. We will continue to maintain our discipline on our capital allocation in this area of investment, but I am encouraged by our progress and the opportunities for long-term sustainable growth in the segment. In closing, we continue to see a lot of opportunities in our Highway Services businesses to provide an efficient source of capacity for our customers by leveraging our investments in our people and J.B. Hunt 360, our multimodal digital freight platform. As I said last quarter, much work has been done, but much more remains. And we will stay focused on delivering on our mission to create the most efficient transportation network in North America. That concludes my comments, so I'll turn it back over to the operator to open the call for Q&A. 