
OperatorGood day, and welcome to the Aptiv Third Quarter 2021 earnings call. Today's conference is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Vicky Apostolakos, Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Vicky Apostolakos -- Director of Investor RelationsThank you [Indicepherable], Good morning, and thank you for joining Aptiv Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. The press release, and related tables along with the slide presentation can be found on our Investor Relations portion of our website at Aptiv.com. Today's review of our financials excludes restructuring and other special items and will address the continuing operations of Aptiv. The reconciliations between GAAP and non-GAAP measures for both our Q3 financials, as well as our full-year 2021 outlook, are included in the back of the presentation, and on the earnings press release. During today's call, we'll be providing certain forward-looking information which results-- which reflects Aptiv current view of future financial performance, and may be materially different from our actual performance for reasons that we cite in our Form 10-K and other SEC filings, including uncertainties posed by the COVID 19 pandemic, and the difficulty in predicting its future course and impact on the supply chain and global economy.

 



Joining us today, are Kevin Clark, Aptiv President and CEO, and Joe Massaro, CFO and Senior Vice President of Business Operations. Kevin will provide a strategic update on the business, and Joe will cover the financial results and full-year outlook in more detail, before opening the call to Q&A. With that, I would now like to turn the call over to Kevin Clark.Kevin Clark -- President and CEOSure. Thank you, Vicky, and thanks to everyone for joining us this morning. Beginning on Slide three. We experienced continued strong demand across the portfolio in the third quarter, despite continued supply chain constraints negatively impacting vehicle production. Revenues of $3.7 billion declined 5% versus the prior year with a record 18 point growth over market, new business awards of $5.8 billion, bringing the year-to-date total to a record $17 billion, reflecting the relevance of our product portfolio, as well as the trust our customers have in Aptiv, given our success executing for them in this challenging environment. Operating income and earnings per share totaled $219 million and $0.03 respectively, negatively impacted by the significant headwinds from the ongoing supply chain tightness, and the downstream impacts that Joe will cover in greater detail shortly. While we expect vehicle production to improve on a sequential basis in the fourth quarter, we anticipate the headwinds related to supply chain constraints to persist well into 2022.Setting the near-term challenges aside, the team is executing well and continues to proactively position Aptiv for the future. Optimizing our cost structure, while investing in high-growth, high-margin technologies that further enhance the resiliency of our business model, translating into greater value for both our customers, and our shareholders. Moving to slide four, the relentless execution of our strategy over the past decade has positioned Aptiv as a more sustainable business, creating over $40 billion of value since our IPO in 2011. This represents an average annual return to shareholders of over 25% and a total return of more than 950% today. As we transformed Aptiv, we've built an industry-leading portfolio of advanced solutions that make vehicles safe, green, and more connected. To drive this transformation, we took several actions, including making smart portfolio moves to put further operating leverage in our business model.

 



We exited low growth, low-margin product lines, and spun off our powertrain segment, positioning Aptiv to focus on our unique capabilities around the brain, and nervous system of the vehicle. At the same time, we completed a number of acquisitions, which enabled our software and data management capabilities, increased our scale and leverage in Engineered Components, and expanded our presence in adjacent markets. Last year we established "Motional," our autonomous driving joint venture with Hyundai, which will be operating fully driverless vehicles on the Lyft ridesharing network in 2023. These proactive actions, perfectly position Aptiv to benefit from the transition to the software-defined vehicle, while further increasing the robustness of our business model. All, which translates into continued outperformance, and long-term value creation.Turning to slide five. We continue to successfully navigate the current challenging environment, while proactively enhancing the strength of our competitive position. Our supply chain resiliency team is leveraging technology, data, and analytics, to stress test our integrated supply chain network under multiple scenarios, helping us to proactively identify and address potential bottlenecks. At the same time, we're working through daily constraints by leveraging our proven cross-functional crisis management process. Our planning process and manufacturing, have enabled us to support a record number of customer program launches. And we continue the intelligent automation of our manufacturing facilities to lower operating costs and increase product quality, all of which improve customer service levels. Our engineering teams are proactively redesigning products to mitigate semiconductors Papyrus [phonetics], reduce material costs, and increase functionality for our customers.And lastly, our culture of continuous improvement translates into the constant pursuit of opportunities to reduce costs and improve quality. Enabling us to continue to strengthen our operating foundation, and transform our business model, despite the dynamic environment. As shown on slide six, third-quarter new business bookings reached $5.8 billion, bringing the year-to-date total to $17 billion. As I already mentioned, it was a record. Our unique portfolio of safe, green, and connected technologies, combined with our flawless operating execution, continues to position Aptiv as a partner of choice for our customers. Our capabilities around the vehicle brain and nervous system, and collaborative approach to platform solutions, sets us apart in the industry. Enabling us to conceive specify and deliver advanced architecture and software solutions, that enhance systems performance, while lowering the vehicle's total cost. Positioning us to increase our share of wallet with both traditional and emerging OEM customers, and at the same time, strengthen our overall competitive position.Turning to highlights from our Advanced Safety and User Experience segment on slide seven. Third-quarter revenues declined 7%, which was 16 points better than the reduction in global vehicle production. New program launches content increases in market share gains, translated into continued market outgrowth despite the significant supply chain disruptions impacting segment. Consumers continue to demand more active safety and connectivity features in their vehicles, which are delivered through more advanced software features leveraging the latest sensing and compete solutions. This trend and strong consumer demand, and our industry-leading capabilities present us with additional market share opportunities, and the ability to increase our customer share of wallet. And as evidenced by our third-quarter conquest business award with Mercedes-Benz, to provide our multi-purpose sensing solutions on their NextGen electric vehicle platform.

 



This business award builds on our recent in-cabin monitoring successes and advances our customers' roadmap of interior sensing features, by further enhancing driver safety, and improving the in-cabin user experience. The evolution of in-cabin sensing is playing out as expected in our leadership position, makes Aptiv a strong collaboration partner for our customers. Turning to Slide eight. Revenues in our Signal and Power Solutions segment, declined 4% during the quarter, 19 points better than the reduction in global vehicle production, reflecting the continued benefit from the acceleration in the production of electrified vehicles, resulting in greater demand for our high voltage solutions, and the continued strong demand for connector and cable management products for both automotive and non-automotive market applications. We are the industry leader in electrical distribution systems, with the engineering capabilities in global manufacturing scale necessary to rapidly bring customers to market as they quickly adapt to the accelerating macro trend.A great example is our recent Business Award for Stellantis, an extension to our existing business, to support design changes and content increases on the Ram truck. It was another strong quarter for our Signal and Power Solutions segments in a very challenging environment. Slide nine provides an overview of some of the specific areas where we're focusing our software development capabilities. As we've mentioned previously, our OEM customers are beginning to decouple the software from the underlying hardware both tactically, as they implement smart vehicle architecture, and then how they source new programs. Our leading position in the design and development of high-performance, cost optimize automotive-grade hardware, as well as deep software development capabilities, allows us to provide industry-leading interior and exterior perception solutions, modular software and features that lower system costs and accelerate speed to market through higher reuse. Middleware solution which supports up-integration in the serverization of compute, vehicle lifecycle management through data collection, and data analytics, and full vehicle level integration, testing, and validation services. These capabilities, along with extensive collaboration with our customers, and their supplier partners, allow us to continue to be a partner of choice for our customers across literally all vehicle domains. Enables our customers to offer greater flexibility for end-user differentiation and personalization. And further strengthened our competitive position as a leading provider of smart vehicle architecture, that accelerates the transition to the fully electrified software-defined vehicle. With that, I'll hand the call over to Joe, to take us through the financials in more detail.Joe Massaro -- CFO and Senior Vice President of Business OperationsGreat. Thanks, Kevin, and good morning everyone. Starting with slide 10, the business continued to outperform the market, despite the challenging environment. Kevin referenced revenues of $3.7 million were down 5%, with record 18% growth over market, and market outgrowth in every region. Adjusted EBITDA and operating income were $412 million and $219 million respectively, reflecting year over year headwinds, primarily Covid and supply chain disruption costs of $55 million, and $40 million from FX commodities and input costs. Earnings per share in the quarter were $0.38, and operating cash flow was $4 million, reflecting higher inventory levels resulting from customer schedule reductions, and longer lead time requirements from certain suppliers, as well as the lower earnings. Looking at the third-quarter revenues in more detail on slide 11, we continue to experience demand for higher contented vehicles driving strong growth over market across all regions, despite lower vehicle production levels.Favorable FX and commodity movements were offset by lower production volumes in the quarter. From a regional perspective, North America revenues were down 7%, representing 16 points of growth over market, driven by the Ramp and active safety launch volumes, and a favorable truck and SUV platform mix. In Europe, strong double-digit ARR [phonetic] growth of 19% due to robust customer launch activity, and higher volumes in our high-voltage electrification product line. Lastly in China, revenues, reflecting 7 points of growth over market resulting from growth with leading local OEMs, and strong high-voltage growth. Moving to the segments on the next slide. Advanced Safety and User Experience revenues fell 7% in the quarter, translating the 16 points of growth over underlying vehicle production, including strong growth in active safety, and somewhat lower market outgrowth and User Experience, driven by the timing of new program launches.Segment EBITDA was down $46 million, driven by supply chain disruption and higher input costs, primarily related to semiconductors. Signal and Power Solutions revenues were down 4%, representing 19% growth over market. Market outperformance was driven by continued strength in our high-voltage product portfolio, as well as strong outgrowth in commercial, vehicle and industrial end markets. EBITDA in the segment was down $123 million in the quarter on lower sales volumes and additional costs from supply chain disruptions, and higher FX commodities and input costs. Turning to our outlook for the remainder of the year in the next slide. Our revenues and operating margin remained unchanged from the outlook we provided in mid-October. We continue to expect revenue in the range of $15.1 billion to $15.5 billion, up over 10% compared to the prior year.We expect global vehicle production to be roughly flat for the full year, translating into over 10 points of growth above the market, demonstrating the relevance and diversity of our portfolio and product lines. EBITDA and operating income are expected to be approximately $2 billion and $1.2 billion at the midpoint, with strong year-over-year sales volume conversion. Despite further COVID supply chain disruption costs, which are now estimated to be $310 million for the year, up $170 million over the prior year. And FX commodity, and other rising input costs of $195 million, mainly driven by semiconductor and resin price. Product level margins continue to be in line with our expectations, validating the strength of our portfolio and market-relevant technology. Lastly, we expect earnings per share of $2.55 at the midpoint, and operating cash flow of $1.2 billion.Turning to slide 14. As we have discussed the combined benefits of our strong product portfolio and robust business model, enables us to convert more income to cash, generating higher operating cash flow. We now expect operating cash flow of $1.2 billion in 2021, driven by increased earnings, offset by higher inventory investment, and continued investments in growth. As you can see in the middle of the slide, we ended the third quarter with $2.7 billion in total cash, enabling us to manage through the current environment, while supporting record year-to-date new business awards, and launch activities. Lastly, our investment in working capital helps ensure we are ready to keep our customers running in this challenging environment, making Aptiv a key partner of choice.Turning to slide 15, despite the variability and lack of forward visibility in customer production schedules, we wanted to provide some initial thoughts on the outlook for 2022. We continue to believe that the supply chain disruptions will impact overall vehicle production levels in the coming year, particularly in the first half of 2022. Despite these challenges, our strategy remains unchanged, and we believe we are very well positioned to lead the continued transition to higher contented software-enabled vehicles with increasing levels of active safety and powertrain electrification. Although, it is still early in the planning process for 2022, we are confident in our ability to outgrow the market, driven by continued acceleration of the safe, green, and connected megatrends. With that said, we do the 2022 vehicle production will be impacted by supply chain constraints, and that the industry will not return to pre-pandemic production levels until post-2022.As it relates to material input cost, we continue to make traction on our mitigation initiatives, including supplier and recovery strategies, engineering redesign, and alternative source valuations, as well as engaging in commercial discussions with our customers. Although we will see some benefit from these initiatives, it is unlikely that the full impact of the elevated input costs are offset in the coming year. Additional comments related to supply chain disruptions including elevated transportation and freight costs, as well as the cost associated with the intermittent production disruptions, will continue into next year. As we have discussed, these costs are not structural in nature, and will ease as supply chains and material availability improve over the course of 2022.Finally, the actions we have taken over the prior year to drive underlying product line profitability, and establish the company's strong financial position will allow us to continue to invest in new technologies, both organically and organically, while supporting our new business pursuit active. As we have consistently demonstrated these investments will ensure that we continue to deliver disciplined revenue growth well beyond 2022, and the current industry operating challenges. With that, I'll turn the call back to Kevin for his closing remarks.Kevin Clark -- President and CEOThanks, Joe. I'll wrap up on Slide 16 before we open it up for questions. While near-term headwinds are expected to persist into 2022 as Joe's mentioned, we remain confident in our product portfolio aligned to the safe, green, and connected megatrends. As we reflect on our recent operating performance, it's clear to us that our relentless focus on innovation and flawless execution is allowing us to better support our customers and is resulting in increased momentum related to new business bookings and strong market outgrowth. A further widening of our competitive moat and the continued strong track record of delivering sustainable value creation. As I met at the start of our presentation, Aptiv has been on an exciting journey these last 10 years, but the team is even more excited about what will deliver over the next decade. Beginning with providing our customers with new cost-effective innovative solutions that enable the future of mobility, that serve to accelerate the trend to a more safe, green, and connected world, and translate into continued outsized returns for our shareholders.In summary, we remain laser-focused on continuing to build a more resilient business that consistently delivers for our customers and our shareholders over the next 10 years. Effectively, advancing our vision of the company in 2025 and beyond. With that, let's open up the line for Q&A.