
OperatorGood day, and welcome to the ICE Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast. [Operator Instructions]. Please note, this event is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to Mary Caroline O'Neal, Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Mary Caroline O'Neal -- Head-Investor RelationsGood morning. ICE's second quarter 2021 earnings release and presentation can be found in the Investors section of the ice.com. These items will be archived, and our call will be available for replay. Today's call may contain forward-looking statements. These statements, which we undertake no obligation to update, represent our current judgment and are subject to risks, assumptions and uncertainties.

 



For a description of the risks that could cause our results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements, please refer to our 2020 Form 10-K, second quarter Form 10-Q and other filings with the SEC. In our earnings supplement, we refer to certain non-GAAP measures. We believe our non-GAAP measures are more reflective of our cash operations and core business performance. You'll find a reconciliation to the equivalent GAAP term in the earnings materials.When used on this call, net revenue refers to revenue net of transaction-based expenses and adjusted earnings refers to adjusted diluted earnings per share. Throughout this presentation, unless otherwise indicated, references to revenue growth are on a constant currency basis. Please see the explanatory notes on the second page of the earnings supplement for additional details regarding the definition of certain items. With us on the call today are Jeff Sprecher, Chairman and CEO; Warren Gardiner, Chief Financial Officer; Ben Jackson, President; and Lynn Martin, President of Fixed Income and Data Services.I'll now turn the call over to Warren.Warren Gardiner -- Chief Financial Officer

 



Thanks, M.C. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. I'll begin on Slide four with some of the key highlights from our second quarter results. Adjusted earnings per share totaled $1.16, up 12% year-over-year. Net revenues totaled $1.7 billion, and on a pro forma basis, we're up 4% versus last year. While total transaction revenues declined slightly, our recurring revenues, which now represent over half of our business, increased by 10%, with all three of our business segments contributing to the strong year-over-year growth. Adjusted operating expense totaled $744 million. Our investment in Bakkt contributed approximately $36 million to second quarter expenses and were offset by approximately $9 million of net revenues.We now anticipate that the Bakkt announced transaction with Victory Park will close in the third quarter. Looking to the second half, we expect third quarter adjusted operating expense to be in the range of $770 million to $780 million, including $55 million related to back which we expect will be offset by $12 million of net revenue. Incorporating third quarter Bakkt expense into our full year guide we now expect 2021 adjusted operating expenses to be in the range of $2.95 billion to $2.98 billion. First half free cash flow totaled over $1.4 billion, which was used to fund a 10% increase in our dividend while also reducing our leverage, ending the quarter at just under 3.4 times adjusted EBITDA. As noted last quarter, we elected to sell our stake in Coinbase in early April, generating over $1.2 billion in gross proceeds, which we then use to reduce commercial paper outstanding. With respect to our other minority investments, we are in the early stages of exploring a sale of our stake in Euroclear.While the timing of any potential sale remains unclear, -- our strategy is consistent with our goal to reduce leverage following the acquisition of Ellie Mae and our strategic approach of continuously evaluating and optimizing the allocation of capital across our business. Now let's move to Slide five, where I'll provide an overview of the performance of our Exchange segment. Second quarter net revenues totaled $909 million, including $582 million of transaction revenues.This strong performance was driven by a 6% increase in our interest rate business, an 11% increase in European natural gas revenues and a 59% increase in revenues related to global environmental products. Importantly, total open interest, which we believe is the best indicator of long-term growth is up 14% versus the end of last year, including 10% growth in energy open interest and 21% growth across our financial futures and options complex. Recurring revenues, which include our exchange data services and our NYSE listings business increased 7% year-over-year. The acceleration in growth was driven by 8% growth in our listings business. It is an increasing number of operating company IPOs, particularly in the technology and consumer sectors are joining the NYSE. Looking to the third quarter, we expect recurring revenues in our Exchange segment to be between $324 million and $329 million, representing approximately 5% growth year-over-year. As a sequential improvement in listings revenues is expected to be somewhat offset by lower data fees at the NYSE.

 



Turning now to Slide six. I'll discuss our Fixed Income and Data Services segment. Second quarter revenues totaled $458 million, 6% growth in our recurring revenues, which accounted for nearly 90% of total segment revenues offset a year-over-year decline in transaction fees. Fixed income data and analytics, which includes our leading pricing and reference data and ICE Data indices increased by 5%, including another quarter of double-digit growth in our index franchise. Other data and network services grew 7%, driven by continued customer demand for additional network capacity. Looking to the third quarter, we expect our recurring revenues to improve sequentially to a range of $409 million to $414 million. And in addition, we now expect full year recurring revenue growth to be toward the higher end of the 5% to 6% guidance range we provided on our fourth quarter call. Let's go next to slide 7, where I will discuss our Mortgage Technology segment. Please note that my comments on revenue growth are on a pro forma basis.Mortgage Technology revenues grew 17% year-over-year. Second quarter transaction revenues increased by 8%, while recurring revenues were up 36% and at a $136 million exceeded the high end of our guidance range. These better-than-expected results were driven by a combination of new customer growth and increased adoption of digital workflow tools across origination technology, closing solutions and data and analytics. Shifting to the third quarter, we expect the recurring revenues will once again grow sequentially and be in the range of $137 million to $142 million, representing around 30% growth versus last year.The first half of 2021 was the strongest in our company's history. We once again grew revenues, operating income and free cash flow. Adjusted earnings per share of $2.50 were up 9% versus the prior record set in the first half of 2020 and have increased 17% on average versus the first half of 2019. In addition, less than one year following our strategic acquisition of Ellie Mae, we have reduced debt by nearly $3 billion while also continuing to strategically invest in future growth.I'll now turn the call over to Ben to discuss some of the highlights of our Exchange and Mortgage businesses.Benjamin R. Jackson -- PresidentThank you, Warren, and good morning to everyone on the call. Please turn to slide eight. In the second quarter, interest rate volatility, global economic reopening and the continued evolution of energy markets once again drove customers to our deep liquid markets to manage their risk. This resulted in open interest records across the platform and through July, open interest continues to build, increasing 9% versus last year and reaching a new record for our total futures complex this week. Greenhouse gas emissions and the evolution of energy markets are becoming increasingly important to market participants around the world as evidenced by the 40% growth in the number of customers in our global environmental markets since 2016. Volumes in those markets also continued to grow, up 27% in the second quarter and up 22% and per year on average over the past five years. Price transparency across the energy spectrum is critical as companies look to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions in a cost-effective manner.And by combining the network and liquidity across our global oil, natural gas, power and environmental markets, we are well positioned to help our customers navigate this evolution. In our natural gas markets, the globalization of gas and the rise of LNG are secular trends that we began investing in over a decade ago. And today, as market participants see cleaner sources of energy, volumes and revenue in our European TTF and Asian JKM complexes have grown 46% and 37% per year on average over the past five years, respectively. And in our global oil markets, the breadth and depth of our offering, which includes Brent, WTI, gas oil and over 700 spread products makes us the natural home for innovative new energy products. In March, we launched Murban crude oil futures, which has been one of the most successful futures launches in our industry's history. And in the second quarter, we announced that we are working two of the industry's largest participants, Magellan and Enterprise, to launch the Midland WTI American Gulf Coast contract.This new contract will enable customers to price and hedge Midland WTI quality crude delivered into Houston without being burdened by the storage and logistics constraints of WTI at Cushing. Turning now to our Mortgage business on slide nine. Customers are increasingly seeking efficiencies across a very manual loan origination process. Our end-to-end digital solutions can not only reduce the time and cost required to originate, but can also provide a fully electronic closing and improve the quality of loans moving into the secondary market. And with a touch point to nearly every market participant, we have connectivity to a customer base in need of the efficiencies that our digital solutions provide. The continued growth in our recurring revenues is a testament to the demand we're seeing for these digital solutions.As these new customers come on to our network, we benefit from new subscription revenues, and have the opportunity to expand the customer relationship over time as they adopt additional solutions. Just as we've seen in our other markets, this flywheel effect is what we believe will drive compounding growth in our recurring revenues and gives us confidence that we can grow a business that at $1.2 billion in revenue today is only a fraction of the $10 billion addressable market that is in the early days of an analog to digital conversion. And with that,I will now turn the call over to Lynn to discuss our Fixed Income and Data Services business.Lynn C. Martin -- President of Fixed Income and Data ServicesThank you, Ben, and good morning to everyone on the call. Please turn to Slide 10. Data is a core competency at ICE, whether it's a byproduct of our Exchanges, evaluated prices or fixed income securities, indices and front office tools or data and analytics use across the mortgage workflow. Data connects the different businesses across the ICE platform and connects ICE to participants across asset classes and around the world. Our comprehensive fixed income data platform continues to deliver compounding revenue growth as these markets automate and its passive investing groups. Our quality of value-added prices provide mission-critical transparency for nearly three million securities per day. Combined with our comprehensive reference data offering, these form the building blocks to index construction and product development.The accelerating growth of passive investing and the efforts we've made to increase the breadth of our offering and flexibility of our approach to index construction has contributed to the double-digit annual growth in our index business since we acquired the Bank of America Merrill Lynch franchise in 2017. A key driver of that growth has been an increase in the passive ETF AUM benchmark to our indices, growing to over $300 billion from less than $100 billion in 2017. Part of that growth is being driven by established ETFs transitioning their benchmark to ICE, including $60 billion of AUM that has announced the transition during 2021 to date. ICE Data indices now represents just under 20% of the growing fixed income ETF universe, including over 50% of the muni ETF universe.Additionally, over the last year, ICE has launched over 250 new indices across fixed income, equities and commodities, including a growing number of ESG and thematic indices as well as custom indices. Our new index customization platform gives investors direct access to the tools they need to build and quickly back test their own index rules. And through the first half of 2021, customers have created nearly as many custom indices as were created in all of 2020. Our index business is an important part of our broader front office toolkit, which also includes solutions like continuous evaluated pricing, best execution, liquidity indicators and real-time curves. These front office tools have grown double digits for the past three years and continue to be an important part of our overall fixed income strategy. So as flows continue to move into fixed income ETF, ESG and thematic investing continues to grow and fixed income markets electronify, we will remain close to our customers and continue to deliver innovative solutions to meet their evolving needs.I'll now turn it over to Jeff.Jeffrey C. Sprecher -- Founder, Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Lynn, and thank you all for joining us this morning. Please turn to Slide 11. At the heart of our strategy at ICE is our data, technology and network expertise, which connect the different businesses across ICE, enabling us to deliver innovative solutions for our customers. In our Index business, as Lynn mentioned, we've seen a fair number of exchange-traded funds transition their benchmarks to ICE. In addition to the quality of our underlying pricing and reference data, another driver of these moves is the expansion of the reference data constituents that we offer.Assets under management, transitioning to our indices not only benefits our Fixed Income and Data Services business, but we've seen the cross-selling benefit to our Listings business with several biotech companies selecting the New York Stock Exchange as their listing venue. Additionally, by combining our expertise in index construction with our leading global environmental trading markets, we've created the ICE Global Carbon Index, a benchmark for the universal price of carbon, which is critical to employing market forces to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in a cost-effective manner. The ICE Global Carbon Index is part of a suite of environmental, social and governance-related services that ICE offers to our customers, which also include green bond indices, climate analytics and our ESG reference data.Earlier this week, we announced the integration of ICE Mortgage Technologies transaction-based mortgage rates into our mortgage prepayment model at ICE Data. As a leading provider of price evaluations for mortgage-backed securities, this is an important new offering, and it represents the first time that we've coupled the valuable underlying content from ICE Mortgage Technology with our expertise in identifying and creating new data offerings. This enhancement will enable the market to more accurately price mortgage prepayments, which are a critical component for fixed income investors. These are only a few of the many innovative solutions that we're able to bring to our customers as a result of the synergistic relationships that exist across our platform, which makes the whole of ICE greater than the sum of its parts.Looking at the first half of this year amid the backdrop of rising interest rates and rising commodity prices, yet lower equity market volatility and mortgage refinance volumes. We once again grew revenues, grew adjusted operating income and grew adjusted earnings per share. These results are a testament to the strategy that we've operated for the past 20 years, the business model that we've intentionally built and the value of our strategic capital allocation. We've deliberately positioned the company to have a mix of transaction and compounding subscription revenues to give investors upside exposure while hedging our downside risk.We target markets where there's an analog-to-digital conversion taking place. We diversify our global footprint because at all times, somewhere in the world, there are risks that our customers and our potential customers need to manage. We strategically deploy our capital both into and out of opportunities to maximize shareholder value. The combination of these factors is what makes ICE an all-weather name that generates growth on top of growth. Before I end my prepared remarks, I'd like to say thank you to our customers for their business and for their trust in this quarter.And I'd like to thank my colleagues at ICE for their contribution to both the best second quarter and the best first half in our company's history.With that, I'll now turn the call back to our moderator, Shaun, and we'll conduct a question-and-answer session until 9:30 Eastern Time.