  OperatorGood day and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Enphase Energy's third-quarter 2021 financial results conference call. [Operator instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Karen Sagot. Please go ahead.Karen Sagot -- Investor Relations Good afternoon and thank you for joining us on today's conference call to discuss Enphase Energy's third-quarter 2021 results. On today's call are Badri Kothandaraman, Enphase's president and chief executive officer; and Eric Branderiz, chief financial officer. After the market closed today, Enphase issued a press release announcing the results for its third quarter ended September 30, 2021. During this conference call, Enphase's management will make forward-looking statements, including to, but not limited to, statements related to Enphase Energy's expected future financial performance, the capability of our technology and products, including availability and features, our operations, including in manufacturing and customer service, the anticipated growth in our sales and in the markets in which we operate and target, the potential benefits to homeowners and installer partners.

 



 These forward-looking statements involve significant risks and uncertainties and Enphase Energy's actual results and the timing of events could differ material from these expectations. For a more complete discussion of the risks and uncertainties, please see the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020, which is on file with the SEC and quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2021, which will be filed during the fourth quarter of 2021. Enphase Energy cautions you not to place any undue reliance on forward-looking statements and undertakes no duty or obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or changes in its expectations. Also, please note that financial measures used on this call are expressed on a non-GAAP basis unless otherwise noted and have been adjusted to exclude certain charges.The company has provided a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures in its earnings press release posted today, which can also be found in the investor relations section of its website. Now, I'd like to introduce Badri Kothandaraman, president and chief executive officer of Enphase Energy. Badri? Badri Kothandaraman -- President and Chief Executive Officer Good afternoon and thanks for joining us today to discuss our third-quarter 2021 financial results. We had a good quarter. We reported record revenue of $351.5 million, shipped approximately 2.6 million microinverters and 65 megawatt hours of Enphase storage systems, achieved non-GAAP gross margin of 40.8% and generated strong free cash flow of $100.7 million. We exited the third quarter at approximately 41%, 16%, 24%.

 



 This means 41% gross margin, 16% operating expenses and 24% operating income, all as a percentage of revenue on a non-GAAP basis. As a reminder, our baseline financial model is 35%, 15%, 20%. Our CFO, Eric, will go into detail about our financials later in the call. Let's now discuss how we are servicing customers. Our Q3 Net Promoter Score worldwide was 67% and our North American Net Promoter Score was 71%, both unchanged from Q2. Our average call wait time went up a little bit and was at 5.5 minutes in Q3 compared to three minutes in Q2, primarily related to the growth in our business. We are working on reducing call wait times to under a minute through additional staffing and training. We have increased the number of field service teams in the U.S. and Europe to provide on-site help to our installers, particularly for storage. We remain laser focused on customer experience. Let's talk about manufacturing. As we have discussed in the past earnings calls, the global supply chain is under stress. Our situation is getting primarily better due to our hard work in qualifying alternate suppliers. For the AC FET drivers, we now have five suppliers qualified. Our supply of AC FET drivers is much better in Q4 than the prior quarters. For the ASICs used in our microinverters, we are a little bit tight on supply, but we expect to manage the situation.

 



 While we are happy with the overall supply for Q4, the situation is quite dynamic worldwide for both supply chain as well as logistics. We remain vigilant and cautious given the growing demand. So given our strong demand, we are adding a fully automated line in Mexico in Q4, bringing our quarterly capacity in Mexico to approximately 2.2 million microinverters. We have already added a second fully automated line in Q2 at our contract manufacturing partner in India, bringing that quarterly capacity to over 1.5 million microinverters in India. Along with our existing capacity in China, we expect to easily achieve our target global capacity of 5 million microinverters per quarter by the end of the year. We have now geographically diversified two-thirds of our contract manufacturing capacity outside of China. Let's now talk about batteries. Our two sources for battery cell packs have increased their capacity to a total of approximately 180 megawatt hours per quarter from 120. Our existing suppliers are capable of adding more capacity required. In the meantime, we are working on adding additional suppliers in 2022 to achieve global diversification. Our lead times for storage systems are long today at approximately 14 weeks due to the global logistics challenges. These lead times will come down once the shipping constraints and port congestion improve. Despite these headwinds, we expect to increase shipments of our Enphase storage systems by approximately 45% sequentially in Q4. Let's move on to the regions. Our U.S. and international revenue mix for Q3 was 76% and 24%, respectively. The U.S. market demand was quite strong in Q3 and we reported record revenue. We had record sell-through from our distribution partners to installers for both microinverters and storage. While our microinverter channel inventory was at a healthy level at the end of Q3, our storage channel inventory remained tight due to strong demand and logistics issues. We expect microinverter channel inventory to remain manageable in Q4 and expect storage channel inventory to get better. In Europe, we reported record revenue in Q3. We continue to have solid growth in Netherlands, France, Germany and Spain. Our storage business in Germany is just getting started and we are continuing to train a lot of installers. In September, we announced our entry into Italy, where we are providing IQ 7 family of microinverters to residential installers. Earlier this month, in October, we began selling Enphase storage systems to customers in Belgium, further expanding the products availability in Europe. Overall, I'm very pleased with our growth in Europe. In Asia Pacific region, revenue declined a little bit in Q3, primarily due to ongoing COVID lockdowns in Australia. Despite the disruptions, we are pleased with the growth of the Enphase installer network, the continued adoption of our high power IQ 7A product and growing strength of our AC module partnerships. In Latin America, we reported record revenue in Q3, largely due to the increased sales of Solar and storage systems in Puerto Rico. We are quite optimistic about our business in Puerto Rico and expect steady growth in the next few quarters, especially in storage. We also announced our entry into Brazil in September and started shipping IQ 7+ microinverters to installers in early October. Now that we have covered the regions, let's discuss the overall bookings for Q4. Our overall customer demand for Q4 once again exceeds the higher end of our guidance. The component availability is currently much better in Q4 compared to Q3, but not fully there yet. We are optimistic that our supply will catch up the demand by early next year. Let's now move to an update on our storage systems. We shipped 65 megawatt hours of Enphase storage systems in Q3, which was a 51% increase from Q2. Let's discuss the training for our Enphase storage systems. By the end of Q3, we had trained 3,771 installer personnel, representing approximately 1,700 unique installation companies. Our hands-on storage installation training through our mobile vans and training centers also started ramping in Q3 with electricians and lead installers attending training sessions and experiencing valuable hands-on time with real systems. We are working diligently on our Enphase storage systems to improve commissioning times for installers. With the rapid increase in the number of long-tail installers, our average commissioning time is approximately two and a half hours in Q3. We are working hard to bring this time down and made numerous updates in Q3. Our goal remains a sub-60-minute commissioning time, which will allow installers to visit the site, install and commission an Enphase storage systems in less than a few hours. We've recently introduced two new features for our Enphase storage systems. In late May, we introduced load control, which provides homeowners the ability to conserve their energy consumption by shedding nonessential loads during an outage and thereby extending the backup duration. We have four circuits for load control designed into our smart switch. These loads will be on when the grid is present and shed automatically in the event of a grid failure. This feature is configurable and controllable by the homeowner via our Enphase app. Last week, we announced that our home energy systems will soon integrate with most leading models of home standby AC generators, providing enhanced performance and a glitch-free transition for homeowners during power outages. Homeowners can monitor real-time the power flow, start and stop their generator remotely, set quite hours to prevent their generated from operating until their batteries fall below a certain state of charge and control it all with the Enphase app. This new feature functions without a dedicated generator automatic transfer switch and eliminates the power glitches that reset home appliances when switching to generator power. This new feature will be available to installers in the U.S. in November. With the addition of these new features, plus our laser focus on customer experience, we continue to see an acceleration in demand for our Enphase storage systems. As a result, we expect to ship between 90 and 100 megawatt hours of Enphase storage systems in Q4. Let's talk about new products. Yesterday, we announced the all-new all-in-one Enphase Energy System with IQ8 solar microinverters for customers in North America. IQ8 is Enphase's smartest microinverter yet. Unlike competing devices, IQ8 can form a microgrid during a power outage using sunlight, providing backup power even without a battery. Since the company's inception, we have invested in custom application specific integrated chips for our microinverters. And today, we see a big payoff with a software-defined microinverters, smart enough to form a microgrid. Many homeowners often assume that their solar systems will function if the sun is shining even during a power outage. This is unfortunately not been true until today. Now with IQ8, homeowners can realize the true promise of solar to make and use their own power. IQ8 solar microinverters can provide sunlight backup during an outage even without a battery. The Enphase Energy System with IQ8 comes in four different configurations. The first is solar only, which is a standard grid-tied system that everybody is used to today. The second is sunlight backup, which I just talked about, without a battery. The third is very interesting, it's home essentials backup with a small battery for cloud cover and nighttime backup. The fourth is full energy independent, a solar system with IQ8 and a large battery. So while the first configuration, as I mentioned, is a standard grid-tied system. The remaining three configurations are grid-agnostic system, which need an Enphase System controller or a smart switch to which islands the home during an outage. For homeowners who want a battery, there are no sizing restrictions on pairing an Enphase battery with an IQ8 solar system. All the configurations can be customized for homeowners with the help of our valued Enphase installer partners. We started piloting IQ8 to select installers in Q3 and we will be ramping shipments in Q4 beginning December. We expect the IQ8 ramp to take four to six quarters much like the IQ7 ramp. Let me also say a few words about IQ8D. So IQ8D is a high-power 640-watt AC microinverter capable of supporting two DC panels, primarily for the small commercial solar business. We expect to start piloting IQ8D with select installers in Q4 and begin production shipments in Q1. This product is very important to us, not only for the small commercial solar business, but also for our next-generation batteries as we increase the discharge power and improve our cost structure. Let's turn to digital transformation. Both of our recent acquisitions achieved record revenue in Q3. Enphase Montreal, which provides design and proposal software, added a significant number of new installers. We plan to release several new software features early next year to improve the installer experience. Enphase Noida, which provides proposal and permitting services for installers, also experienced a significant increase in customer demand and is focused on automating the creation of permit plan sets to further expand the installer base. Both teams will significantly leverage the Enphase installer network to grow and expand their business. Let me now give you an update on our Enphase installer network or EIN. We have now onboarded approximately 1,000 installers to our Enphase installer network worldwide through a highly selective process focused on quality and homeowner experience. Our EIN in the U.S. has grown 57% since its introduction last year. We are very pleased with this initiative's progress and are thankful to our installers who act as our product evangelists and provide an exceptional experience to homeowners. Let's talk about grid services. Last quarter, we discussed our participation in the ConnectedSolutions program, which is an incentive program implemented by three utilities in the Northeast U.S. to reduce electrical demand during high-use periods. Our storage customers in Connecticut, Massachusetts and Rhode Island can sign up, monitor, track money earned and control participation in the program using the Enphase app. We were pleased to announce in Q3 our participation in the Hawaiian Electric's Battery Bonus grid services program. This program offers a new incentive for homeowners on the island of Oahu who installed a new home battery. The first customers accepted by Hawaiian Electric into the program will be eligible to receive $850 per kilowatt that they commit to make available during a fixed two-hour period each day. The program helps Hawaiian Electric realize the goal of 100% renewable power by 2045 and more homeowners than ever before can now have a solar plus storage system. We expect to engage with more such utilities and aggregators in our grid services program during the months ahead. In summary, we are pleased with the overall progress we have made this year. We now have solar, storage, load control, grid services and generator compatibility as part of our home energy management system. We are making significant progress on the digital platform for installers in order to cut soft costs. We will remain laser-focused on both the products and the digital platform to deliver a superior customer experience for both our installers and homeowners. I'd like to make one more important announcement. We will be hosting an investor day on November 16 to provide a deeper update on our business. More details will follow over the next few weeks. With that, I will hand the call over to Eric for his review of our finances. Eric?Eric Branderiz -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Badri and good afternoon, everyone. I will provide more details related to our third quarter of 2021 financial results as well as our business outlook for the fourth quarter of 2021. We have provided a reconciliation of these non-GAAP to GAAP financial measures in our earnings release posted today, which can also be found in the investor relations section of our website. Total revenue for Q3 was $351.5 million, representing an increase of 11% sequentially an a quarterly record. We shipped approximately 913 megawatts DC of microinverters and 65 megawatt hours of Enphase storage systems in the quarter. Non-GAAP gross margin for Q3 was 40.8%, the same as compared to Q2. Non-GAAP gross margin was impacted by higher logistics and expedite costs partially offset by a price increase on microinverters and continued cost management. GAAP gross margin was 39.9% for Q3. Non-GAAP operating expenses were $57.3 million for Q3 compared to $51.7 million for Q2. The sequential increase was primarily due to increased investments in R&D, IT infrastructure and brand awareness marketing programs. GAAP operating expenses were $103 million for Q3 compared to $68.4 million for Q2. GAAP operating expenses for Q3 included $44 million of stock-based compensation expenses and $1.6 million of acquisition-related expenses and amortization for acquiring intangible assets. On a non-GAAP basis, income from operations for Q3 was $85.9 million compared to $77.2 million for Q2. On a GAAP basis, income from operations was $37.4 million for Q3 compared to $59.4 million for Q2. On a non-GAAP basis, net income for Q3 was $84.2 million compared to $74.7 million for Q2. This resulted in diluted earnings per share of $0.60 for Q3 compared to $0.53 per share for Q2. GAAP net income for Q3 was $21.8 million compared to GAAP net income of $39.4 million for Q2. GAAP diluted earnings per share was $0.15 for Q3 compared to diluted earnings per share of $0.28 for Q2. Now, turning to the balance sheet and the working capital front. Inventory was $65.4 million at the end of Q3 compared to $37.8 million at the end of Q2. The sequential increase was due to the expected higher demand for our Enphase Solar and storage systems in Q4 as well as longer lead times due to current global logistics and supply chain challenges. Days of inventory outstanding was 28 days at the end of Q3 compared to 18 days at the end of Q2 to support the growth in the demand. Our target is 30 days. Accounts receivable were $273 million at the end of Q3 compared to $281.2 million at the end of Q2. DSO of 54 days in Q3 decreased from 65 days in the prior quarter. We exited Q3 with a total cash and cash equivalent and market-related securities balance of approximately $1.4 billion compared to approximately $1.3 billion at the end of Q2. We did not make any share repurchases against our recently approved $500 million share repurchase authorization. In Q3, we generated $113.4 million in cash flow from operations and $100.7 million on free cash flow. Capital expenditures was $12.7 million for Q3 to expand both, microinverters and storage manufacturing capacity as well as costs related to app development, website and IT. Now, let's discuss our outlook for the fourth quarter of 2021. We expect our revenue for the quarter to be within a range of $390 million to $410 million, which includes shipments of 90 to 100 megawatt hours of Enphase storage systems. We expect GAAP gross margin to be within a range of 37% to 40% and non-GAAP gross margin to be within a range of 38% to 41%, which excludes stock-based compensation expenses. We expect our GAAP operating expenses to be within a range of $119 million to $122 million, including a total of approximately $52 million estimated for stock-based compensation expenses and acquisition-related expenses and amortization. We expect our non-GAAP operating expenses to be within a range of $67 million to $70 million. Let me provide some additional color on a few topics. The revenue guidance assumes an increase in microinverter shipments, including IQ8 as well as storage system shipments. We expect to ship 90 to 100 megawatt hours of Enphase storage systems in Q4, representing approximately 45% sequential growth at the midpoint of the guidance. We expect improved component availability for microinverter production in Q4 and continued momentum for the Enphase storage systems. On the cost side, we are continuing to expedite components and finished goods in Q4 to ensure customers have an adequate supply of our products. We expect the quarterly expedite expenses to remain at similar levels of Q3. Due to the steep increase in logistic costs and increase in component costs driven by inflation, we are implementing a modest price increase on all products starting in the second half of Q4. It is also prudent for us to maintain our baseline financial model as we continue to navigate the global component supply constraints and logistics challenges. Finally, I would like to touch upon our opex guidance. Our guidance for non-GAAP operating expenses, as a percentage of revenue, is expected to increase in Q4. As we mentioned on the last earnings call, our opex may be slightly above our 15% target at times, but we still expect to be comfortably above our baseline target of 20% operating income. We continue to invest significantly in R&D to further our competitive advantage. Significantly, we are more focused on semiconductor integration in -- of our ASIC and software advancement, including cloud software to increase our system performance, reduce cost and increase reliability. We also ramped up our marketing spend in the back half of the year with new product launches and brand awareness. For Q4, accruals for post combination expenses from prior acquisitions are expected to be approximately $3.6 million. With that, I will now open the line for questions. 