  OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to Prudential's quarterly earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, today's call is being recorded. I'll turn the call now over to Darin Arita. Please go ahead.Darin Arita -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you, John. Good morning, and thank you for joining our call. Representing Prudential on today's call are Charlie Lowrey, chairman and CEO; Rob Falzon, vice chairman; Andy Sullivan, head of U.S. businesses; Scott Sleyster, head of international businesses; Ken Tanji, chief financial officer; and Rob Axel, controller and principal accounting officer.

 



 We will start with prepared comments by Charlie, Bob, and Ken, and then we will take your questions. Today's presentation may include forward-looking statements. It is possible that actual results may differ materially from the predictions we make today. In addition, this presentation may include references to non-GAAP measures.For a reconciliation of such measures to the comparable GAAP measures and the discussion of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements, please see the slide titled Forward-Looking Statements and Non-GAAP Measures in the appendix to today's presentation and the quarterly financial supplement, both of which can be found on our website at investor.prudential.com. With that, I'll hand it over to Charlie. Charlie Lowrey -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Darin, and thanks to everyone for joining us today. As always, we hope you and your families remain safe and healthy. We reported strong financial results for the second quarter, reflecting robust investment performance and further progress in achieving our cost-savings target. We also made significant progress executing on our strategy to become a higher-growth, less market-sensitive and more nimble company.

 



 As an example, we announced an agreement to sell our full-service retirement business last month. Second, our cost-savings program is progressing well and is ahead of our original plan. And third, with the support of our rock-solid balance sheet, we are thoughtfully redeploying capital both by increasing capital return to shareholders and by selectively pursuing acquisition opportunities. I'll now provide an update on each of these strategic initiatives, beginning with our recent divestiture activity. Turning to Slide 3. Following the sale of our Korea business last year, we successfully closed on the sale of our Taiwan business during the second quarter. And in July, we announced an agreement to sell our full-service retirement business to Empower Retirement in a transaction which is expected to close in the first quarter of 2022. Including the announced full-service sale and the completed sales of our Korea and Taiwan businesses, we expect net proceeds of approximately $4.2 billion from these divestitures. Meanwhile, we continue to pursue opportunities to reduce the size of our legacy block of traditional variable annuities with guaranteed living benefits. Moving to Slide 4. As I mentioned earlier, we are progressing well and remain on track to generate $750 million of cost savings by the end of 2023. To date, we have achieved $515 million of run-rate cost savings, which exceeded our original target of $500 million, and did so 18 months ahead of plan. These savings include $130 million in the second quarter and a total of $240 million for the first half of 2021. We have also identified new cost savings to replace those we had not yet realized in our full-service retirement business, and as a result, continue to expect to generate $750 million of cost savings. Turning to Slide 5. These initiatives are complemented by our thoughtful approach to capital redeployment, including through increased shareholder distributions.

 



 Last month, when announcing our agreement to sell the full-service retirement business, we increased our share repurchase authorization by an additional $500 million, our second increase of this amount since the beginning of 2021. This brings our total shareholder distributions to a targeted $11 billion through the end of 2023, up from the $10 billion target we initially identified earlier this year. Year to date, we've returned $2.2 billion to shareholders, including $1.3 billion in the second quarter, comprised of $875 million in share buybacks and $460 million in dividend payments. In addition, consistent with our disciplined approach to capital management and guided by our philosophy of being prudent stewards of shareholder capital, we intend to reduce leverage and enhance our financial flexibility by redeeming $900 million of outstanding debt in the third quarter. Meanwhile, we are being disciplined in executing on our programmatic M&A opportunities as we have done in the past with a focus on higher-growth areas, including asset management and emerging markets. As evidence of this, earlier this year, our Africa joint venture partner closed on a minority stake in ICEA LION Holdings, a highly respected financial service market leader in Kenya with operations in Tanzania and Uganda. More recently, in July, PGIM announced a deal to acquire Montana Capital Partners, a European-based private equity secondaries asset manager, which will enhance PGIM's capabilities and further expand its $250 billion alternatives platform. These transactions are consistent with our strategy to add capabilities in PGIM and deepen our presence in emerging markets, enhancing our growth opportunity. Our capital deployment is supported by our rock-solid balance sheet, including highly liquid assets of $4.9 billion at the end of the second quarter and AA financial strength capital levels at our primary business subsidiaries. Before turning it over to Rob, I'd like to provide an update on our environmental, social, and governance commitments, which are integral to our business strategy and purpose of solving the financial challenges of our changing world. This quarter, I'll focus on our environmental commitments. Last month, we took an important next step to integrate our ESG and financial frameworks with the renewal of a standing $4 billion credit facility, which now directly links our financing costs to our progress in meeting previously established sustainability targets. These targets include reducing our greenhouse gas emissions as well as improving diverse representation among our senior ranks. We also continue to make strong progress against other goals outlined in our 2019 global environmental commitment, including investing in sustainable companies and projects, issuing our inaugural green bond last year, and by providing greater transparency around our general account investment allocations. We are also reducing our reliance on paper documentation both internally and in the volume of letters and other mailings shared with our customers. In partnership with American Forests, we aspire to significantly reduce our paper use by the end of 2022. We are committed to ensuring that sustainability runs through everything we do at Prudential. This also includes fulfilling the nine commitments to advance racial equity that we established one year ago this week, which are in addition to our ongoing diversity, equity, and inclusion efforts. I look forward to updating you next quarter on the progress of this work as well as on our other social commitments. With that, I'll turn it over to Rob for more specific details on our business performance.Rob Axel -- Controller and Principal Accounting Officer Thanks, Charlie. I'll provide an overview of our financial results and business performance for PGIM, U.S., and international businesses. I'll begin on Slide 6 of our financial results for the second quarter. Our pre-tax adjusted operating income was $1.9 billion or $3.79 per share on an after-tax basis and reflected the benefit of strong markets, business growth, and lower-than-typical expenses, which exceeded the net mortality impacts from COVID-19. PGIM, our global asset manager, had record asset management fees driven by record account values of $1.5 trillion that were offset by lower other related revenues driven by a decrease in seed and co-investment income and higher expenses supporting business growth. Our U.S. Business results were more than double the year-ago quarter and reflected higher net investment spread results driven by higher variable investment income, higher fee income, primarily driven by equity market appreciation, and a more favorable impact from our annual assumption update, partially offset by less favorable underwriting experience driven by COVID-19-related mortality. And earnings in our international business have increased 16%, reflecting continued business growth, higher net investment spread results, lower expenses, and a more favorable impact of the annual assumption update. This increase was partially offset by lower earnings from acquired co-investment in our Chilean pension joint venture and less favorable underwriting results, primarily driven by higher COVID-19 claims in Brazil. Turning to Slide 7. PGIM continues to demonstrate the strength of its diversified active management platform as a top 10 global investment manager. PGIM's diversified global investment capabilities in both public and private asset classes across fixed income, alternatives, real estate, and equities position us favorably to capture flows. In addition, PGIM's investment performance remains attractive, with more than 93% of assets under management outperforming their benchmarks over the last three-, five- and 10-year periods. Our diversified capabilities and strong investment performance helped contribute to more than $5 billion of third-party net flows during the quarter driven by continued strong public fixed income flows with $5.6 billion of institutional flows, partially offset by modest retail outflows. These retail outflows reflected continued positive inflows into PGIM's mutual funds, offset by outflows from sub-advisory mandates in U.S. equities. As the investment engine of Prudential, PGIM also benefits from a mutually beneficial relationship with our U.S. and international insurance businesses. PGIM's asset origination capabilities and investment management expertise provide a competitive advantage, helping our businesses to bring enhanced solutions and more value to our customers. And our businesses, in turn, provide a source of growth for PGIM through affiliated flows that complement a successful third-party track record of growth. PGIM's asset management fees increased 16% compared to the year-ago quarter to a record level as a result of market appreciation and continued positive third-party net flows. This contributed to PGIM's adjusted operating margin of 33%, which is above our expectation of 30% across the cycle. Now turning to Slide 8. Our U.S. Businesses produced diversified earnings from fees, net investment spread, and underwriting income and benefit from our complementary mix of longevity and mortality businesses. We continue to strengthen our businesses, transform our cost structure and expand our addressable markets while shifting away from low-growth, capital-intensive and interest rate-sensitive products and businesses. Our product pivots have worked well, demonstrated by continued strong sales of our buffered annuity, FlexGuard, which were $1.5 billion in the second quarter, representing 87% of total individual annuity sales. Over the past three quarters, FlexGuard sales have totaled $4.3 billion. These sales reflect customer demand for investment solutions that offer the potential for appreciation from equity markets combined with downside protection. We have exercised discipline through frequent pricing actions, and our sales continue to benefit from having a strong and trusted brand and highly effective distribution team. Our Individual Life sales continued to be strong with higher variable life sales compared to the year-ago quarter, offset by lower sales of other policies, in particular universal life sales, consistent with our product pivot strategy. In group insurance, financial wellness capabilities are core to our business success and continue to differentiate our value proposition, enhance benefit participation and accelerate growth in our targeted markets. With respect to assurance, total revenues, our primary financial metric as we concentrate on scaling the business, were up 92% over the prior-year quarter. I would also note that similar to last year, we plan to increase the number of agents in the third quarter to help meet the seasonally higher expected demand of the Medicare annual enrollment period that occurs in the fourth quarter. Turning to Slide 9. Our international businesses include our Japanese life insurance operation, where we have a differentiated multichannel distribution model, as well as other operations, focused on high-growth markets. Sales across both Life Planner and Gibraltar operations held up well amid the state of emergency in Japan. Life Planner sales were 49% higher than the year-ago quarter, while Gibraltar sales were 33% higher than the prior year. We remain encouraged by the resiliency of our unique distribution capabilities, which have helped to continue the growth of our in-force business. And with that, I'll hand it over to Ken.Ken Tanji -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Rob. I'll begin on Slide 10, which provides insight into earnings for the third quarter of 2021 relative to our second-quarter results. Pretax adjusted operating income in the second quarter was $1.9 billion and resulted in earnings per share of $3.79 on an after-tax basis. To get a sense of how our third-quarter results might develop, we suggest adjustments for the following items. First, our annual assumption update and other refinements resulted in a net charge of $34 million in the second quarter. Next, variable investment income outperformed expectations in the second quarter by $365 million. Third, underwriting experience is adjusted by a net $30 million. This adjustment includes a placeholder for COVID-19 claims experienced in the third quarter of $25 million for our U.S. Businesses based on 30,000 COVID-19-related fatalities in the U.S. and $20 million for our international businesses. While we have provided this placeholder for COVID-19-related underwriting experience for the third quarter, the actual impact will depend on a variety of factors, such as infection and fatality rates, geographic concentration, and the continued acceptance and effectiveness of the vaccine. Fourth, we expect earnings will be lower in the third quarter by $290 million, primarily due to the timing of expenses between the second and third quarters, and a make-whole fee of approximately $90 million associated with the previously announced redemption of $900 million of debt in the third quarter. This also includes the reduction in adjusted operating income from the sale of our full-service business, which will be reclassified to a divested business, as well as retained costs that will be reported in corporate and other. Last, we anticipate net investment income will be reduced by about $10 million, reflecting the difference between new money rates and disposition yields of our investment portfolio. These items combined get us to a baseline of $2.59 per share for the third quarter. I'll note that if we exclude items specific to the third quarter, earnings per share would be $3. The key takeaway is that our underlying earnings power has increased from last quarter as the benefits from business growth, our cost-savings program, and higher-equity markets more than offset the reduction in earnings from the sale of the full-service business. While we have provided these items to consider, please note that there may be other factors that affect earnings per share in the third quarter. I would also note that with the debt make-whole fee and retained cost of Full Service, we now expect the full-year 2021 corporate and other loss to be about $1.65 billion. Turning to Slide 11. We continue to maintain a robust capital position and adequate sources of funding. Our capital position continues to support a AA financial strength rating, and we have substantial sources of funding. Our cash and liquid assets were $4.9 billion, which is greater than three times annual fixed charges. And other sources of funds include free cash flow from our businesses and other contingent capital facilities. The redemption of debt, as previously mentioned, will complete our plan to reduce financial leverage in 2021 and generate annual interest savings of approximately $30 million while also enhancing our financial flexibility for the future as we execute on our strategic transformation. Turning to Slide 12 and in summary. We are executing on divestitures. We are ahead of schedule on cost-savings initiatives. And with the support of our rock-solid balance sheet, we are thoughtfully redeploying capital. Now I'll turn it to the operator for your questions. 