
OperatorMy name is Erica, and I will be your conference facilitator today for Amgen's First Quarter 2021 Financial Results Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to introduce Arvind Sood, Vice President of Investor Relations. Mr. Sood, you may now begin.Arvind Sood -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



Erica, thank you. Good afternoon, everybody. Welcome to our Q1 call. I think the two key themes for this quarter, our continued focus on volume-driven growth and pipeline advancement. Lots to cover, but we'll do our best to stick to an efficient format of limited prepared comments and addressing your one best question. The slides have been posted. Just a quick reminder that we'll use non-GAAP financial measures in our presentation and some of the statements will be forward-looking statements. Our SEC filings identify factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially.So with that, I would like to turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO, Bob Bradway. Bob?Robert A. Bradway -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerOkay. Thank you, Arvind, and hello, everyone, and thank you for joining our call. We've had a busy start to 2021 and a first quarter that's something of a mere image to what we experienced a year ago. Last year, if you recall, we came out of the gate with a very strong January and February and then started to really feel the impact of the pandemic in March. This year, especially in the U.S., it was almost the reverse. We felt the impact of the pandemic in January and February, and we began to see a recovery in March, a trend that seems to be holding in April as well. Setting aside the pandemic, we executed effectively in the first quarter.

 



And this is reflected in the strong competitive performance of our brands globally, our strong biosimilars showing, the rapid progress of our lead pipeline molecules and the addition of an attractive Phase III-ready molecule in oncology. Altogether, we remain confident in our full year outlook. We're fortunate to have a diverse portfolio of newer products that continue to show strong volume growth. Repatha, for example, delivered 36% volume growth in the first quarter. It remains the clear leader of the PCSK9 market globally and will soon reach the milestone of one million patients served. We're also the global leader in bone health with Prolia and EVENITY, generating double-digit volume in the quarter.Our industry-leading portfolio of biosimilars is annualizing above the $2 billion mark, and I would remind you that we have three additional biosimilars in Phase III development and look forward to a flow of new launch opportunities for these and AMGEVITA over the next few years. As we've shared with you many times in the past, we're active in business development, looking to complement our internally developed innovation with compelling external opportunities, and our recent acquisition of Five Prime Therapeutics is a good example of that. As you know, one of the molecules we acquired in that deal, bemarituzumab, was granted breakthrough therapy designation by the FDA as a first-line therapy for a subset of patients with gastric cancer.More than one million new gastric cancer cases are diagnosed annually, and the disease is particularly prevalent in the Asia Pacific region, which we've said previously will account for approximately 25% of our growth over the next decade. Bemarituzumab is now our third late-stage clinical medicine to be granted breakthrough therapy status joining sotorasib for which the trade name LUMAKRAS has now been provisionally approved for use in the U.S. And tezepelumab also has earned that breakthrough therapy distinction. With a strong balance sheet, healthy cash flows and our proven ability to integrate, we'll continue to look for external opportunities that strengthen us in our stated areas of focus.Before I turn things over to our CFO, Peter Griffith, I want to thank my Amgen colleagues for their continued commitment to serving patients around the world and delivering results for our stakeholders. I look forward to our Q&A session a little later in our call.

 



But for now, over to you, Peter.Peter Griffith -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Bob. I would like to take a few moments to reflect on the strong fundamentals of the business and further to reaffirm our full year revenue and non-GAAP EPS guidance. Let me first confirm our predictable consistent capital allocation hierarchy as seen in our Q1 activity. It always begins with investing in internal innovation. LUMAKRAS and tezepelumab, both internally discovered and each branded breakthrough therapy designation, are excellent examples of this.We also patiently pursue external business development opportunities that clear our hurdle rate and that are consistent with our areas of therapeutic focus in which we are confident of integrating into Amgen efficiently and effectively on a timely basis. We allocated $2 billion of our shareholders' capital to the Five Prime acquisition in the second quarter and have committed additional R&D funding to pursue other indications for the lead molecule bema. Our capital expenditures remain a high priority, including investments in our industry-leading protein manufacturing, our ESG initiatives, including enabling carbon neutrality by 2027 and digitization imperatives.We continue to return capital to our shareholders. First, we paid dividends of $1.76 per share in the quarter, representing a 10% increase from 2020. This year marks our 11th year of dividends with meaningful increases in each of those years. Second, we repurchased 3.7 million shares in the first quarter at a cost of roughly $865 million.Finally, our capital allocation hierarchy always builds on our efficient capital structure, which results in an optimal weighted average cost of capital. Now I will briefly walk through our first quarter financial results. Recall that in 2021, we are now comparing to our recast 2020 results that exclude the impact of fair value adjustments to equity investments that were historically included in non-GAAP OI&E. In Q1, revenues decreased 4%.Historically, first quarter sales have been the lowest quarter as a percentage of the full year. As we entered 2021, we knew that COVID would likely introduce some variability. And as the quarter progressed, and we saw a continuing cumulative effect of COVID cases on prescribing patterns, we anticipated that Q1 would be more negatively impacted, which led us to disclose in March that it would be moderately below 2020's percentage of the full year. First quarter sales benefited from 4% volume growth.Looking back to Q1 of 2020, we recorded approximately $150 million of favorable changes to estimated sales deduction, creating a negative impact on year-over-year growth comparisons in Q1 2021. As we get under way with the second quarter, we expect there to be some continuing cumulative COVID impacts. While we expect to see improvements in the rate of recovery, that recovery will be more heavily weighted to the second half of the year. Total non-GAAP operating expenses for the quarter increased 2% year-over-year. For the full year, we continue to expect cost of sales as a percent of product sales to be 16% to 17%. Effective Q2 2021, cost of sales will increase as a percent of product sales in connection with our first shipments of antibody to Lilly.Recall that revenue from shipments of these antibodies will be recorded in other revenues. For the full year, we expect R&D spend will increase as our innovative pipeline continues to progress, which now includes bema from the Five Prime acquisition as well as the Rodeo acquisition. And for the full year, we expect SG&A spend to decline. We continue our focus on digitization imperatives. Non-GAAP OI&E was a net $375 million expense in Q1. This is unfavorable by $79 million on a year-over-year basis due to the recording of our portion of BeiGene's loss this quarter. Recall the recognition of BeiGene's results did not start until Q2 2020.The effects year-over-year of the adjustments in sales deductions, combined with the recognition of the BeiGene results, totaled about $0.29 and decreased EPS on a comparison basis for Q1 '21 and explain a large portion of the 12% decline in EPS year-over-year. Now turning to the outlook for the business for 2021. Based on underlying market dynamics and our investment plan, we are reaffirming our 2021 guidance with a revenue range of $25.8 billion to $26.6 billion and a non-GAAP EPS range of $16 to $17.Important additional points to consider as you model the remainder of 2021. We are providing more specific quarter-over-quarter guidance given the unprecedented continuing cumulative COVID impacts on the operating environment, but we do not expect to provide such guidance on an ongoing basis. We see the recovery from COVID-19 more heavily weighted to the second half of the year. And for the second quarter, we expect total revenues to grow between 7% and 10% sequentially from the first quarter. We continue to expect full year non-GAAP operating expenses to increase by about 7% over last year, with an operating margin of roughly 50%, which includes operating expenses for Five Prime and Rodeo.Historically, the Q2 quarter-over-quarter operating expense increase is about 10%. But in the second quarter this year, we expect quarter-over-quarter operating expenses to increase in the mid-teens percentage range, reflecting the impact of our Lilly COVID-19 antibody manufacturing agreement, investments for growth, including the Five Prime acquisition as well as increasing activity levels, including launch preparations. For the full year, we continue to anticipate non-GAAP OI&E to be a net expense in the range of $1.3 billion to $1.5 billion. Our capital expenditures guidance remains unchanged at $900 million.And based on our confidence in the long-range outlook of the business, we are raising the upper end of our share repurchase range to $5 billion for 2021 versus prior guidance of $4 billion. So our range for share repurchases in 2021 is now $3 billion to $5 billion. Additionally, we're updating our non-GAAP tax rate guidance to 13.5% to 14.5% versus prior guidance of 13% to 14%. My confidence is strong in the long-term outlook for Amgen given the strength of the business and the strength of our outstanding and dedicated team of 23,000-plus colleagues that deliver every day to patients and also deliver long-term growth to our shareholders. This concludes the financial update.I'll turn it over to Murdo. Murdo?Murdo Gordon -- Executive Vice President, Global Commercial OperationsThanks, Peter. First quarter product sales declined 5% year-over-year. Volumes grew 4% driven by double-digit growth for a number of products, including Prolia, Repatha, MVASI and KANJINTI. Net selling price declined 7%, and the year-over-year comparison was negatively affected by 2% due to a benefit in Q1 2020 from approximately $150 million of changes to estimated sales deductions that did not reoccur to the same magnitude in Q1 of 2021. In the first quarter, the cumulative effect of the COVID pandemic on missed patient visits and diagnoses impacted our business.January and February were clearly affected by post-holiday COVID spikes, and March showed demand improvement across most brands, which has continued into April. Despite the impact of the pandemic, our teams have found solutions to address the continuity of care, stabilizing our continuing patient volume. We also saw improvement in customer-facing execution throughout the quarter across all communication channels, including face-to-face and virtual activities. We expect some COVID-19-related disruptions still in the second quarter with steady recovery thereafter.I'll now review some product details, beginning with our innovative portfolio. In bone health, Prolia grew 16% year-over-year, recording over $500 million of U.S. sales in the U.S. for the first time. As a majority of osteoporosis patients in the U.S. have been vaccinated and diagnosis rates are at approximately 90% to pre-COVID-19 levels, we're confident in Prolia's continued growth in 2021. EVENITY sales increased 7% year-over-year driven by strong volume growth. Given the severe impact of fractures on the lives of postmenopausal women, EVENITY provides an excellent therapy to build bone first, which should then be followed by treatment with Prolia.Repatha sales increased 25% year-over-year to a quarterly sales record of $286 million driven by 36% volume growth, and we maintain global leadership in the PCSK9 class. Sales outside the U.S. grew by 40% driven by strong patient demand. In the U.S., we continue to see strength in new patient starts with new-to-brand prescriptions growing 54% quarter-over-quarter helped by favorable pharmacy benefit manager formulary changes. U.S. volume growth demonstrates that we've made good progress against our strategy to provide Repatha at an affordable price to patients, particularly those with Medicare Part D coverage.This acceleration in Medicare Part D growth has increased our exposure to the so-called doughnut hole, which creates some negative impact on overall net price. We remain confident in our ability to grow Repatha globally to address the significant unmet medical need in treating high-risk cardiovascular patients. Next to Aimovig, which remains the market leader in the highly competitive CGRP class. Aimovig volumes grew 20% year-over-year in the first quarter with a 45% average total prescription share and 38% average new-to-brand prescription share. Year-over-year net selling price declined, primarily driven by increased rebates to maintain patient access.Unfortunately, millions of patients suffering from migraine are sub-optimally treated with older, less effective therapies. Given the head-to-head data we've generated showing Aimovig's superiority against topiramate, we're confident we can help many more patients suffering from chronic migraine. Turning to our inflammation portfolio where Otezla has demonstrated a robust safety and efficacy profile with over six years of real-world experience in market with more than 500,000 patients treated globally. Enbrel similarly has served millions of patients globally since 1998. Otezla sales were $476 million in the quarter.Volume growth was 9%, driven primarily by 11% total prescription growth in the U.S. Otezla remains the market-leading branded systemic medication for psoriasis with an approximately 30% share of first-line treatment. However, new-to-brand prescription volume remained flat as COVID-19 continued to suppress the diagnosis and treatment of psoriasis patients. Year-over-year growth was also negatively impacted given pandemic-related inventory stocking in Q1 of 2020. Otezla has more than 90% commercial payer coverage in the U.S. without requiring a biological step and is an affordable, safe and efficacious option for psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis patients.We see attractive growth opportunities for Otezla as the pandemic recovery progresses. In addition, geographic expansion and the anticipated approval later this year of the mild to moderate psoriasis indication will contribute to future Otezla growth. In 2021, year-over-year comparisons for Enbrel are adversely impacted by $255 million of favorable estimated sales deductions that were recorded in 2020, $115 million of which were in Q1 of 2020. In the quarter, Enbrel sales decreased 20% year-over-year with declines in both unit volume and net selling price.Moving forward, we expect volume and net price trends to continue. Parsabiv sales decreased 55% year-over-year driven by 65% volume declines. With Parsabiv inclusion in the end-stage renal disease bundle in the U.S., we have seen dialysis clinics quickly implement new treatment protocols, switching patients from Parsabiv to generic cinacalcet. Switching to biosimilars. Q1 sales were $570 million driven by strong volume growth, which was partially offset by declines in net selling price. We continue to hold leading biosimilar shares in Europe for AMGEVITA and in the U.S. for MVASI and KANJINTI, where we saw average shares of 50% and 43%, respectively, in Q1.For the remainder of the year, we expect biosimilar volume growth to be offset by declines in net selling price due to increased competition. Longer term, growth for biosimilars will come from expansion of existing products to new markets and launches of additional biosimilar molecules such as AMGEVITA in the U.S. and biosimilars for SOLIRIS, STELARA and EYLEA. In oncology, Neulasta Onpro remains the preferred long-acting G-CSF, with 54% share of volume in the quarter. In Q1, we surpassed one million patients who, with the help of Onpro, were able to receive their G-CSF treatment while reducing the need to return to their doctor's office or other side of care for administration.Consistent with recent trends, Neulasta's U.S. average selling price declined 30% on a year-over-year basis, and we expect this trend to continue throughout 2021 driven by intensifying competition. XGEVA sales decreased 3% year-over-year for the first quarter as volume growth in Asia was offset by lower net selling price in that region. U.S. unit volumes declined year-over-year driven by demand impacts in January and February, with recovery beginning in March and into April. KYPROLIS sales decreased 10% year-over-year for the first quarter as the pandemic has suppressed the number of new patients starting treatment for multiple myeloma.Moving forward, we expect promotion to drive growth in second line and beyond as a result of our launch of the combination indication of KYPROLIS and DARZALEX plus dexamethasone or DKD. The combination of KYPROLIS with SARCLISA and dexamethasone, or Isa-Kd,was also approved in the quarter. As Bob mentioned, our team is ready to launch sotorasib or LUMAKRAS upon approval, and we are excited to establish it as a foundational therapy for patients with advanced lung cancer. We've already launched our biomarker assist program, which removes access barriers to testing and helps appropriate patients without a pocket costs.And we're also preparing for the launch of tezepelumab with our partner, AstraZeneca, and are enthusiastic about the prospect of having a therapy that can help treat the more than 2.5 million people in the world living with severe uncontrolled asthma. Overall, I'm pleased with our Q1 execution given the pandemic-related disruption of new patient diagnoses and treatment, and we'll continue our focused execution during Q2 and are projecting recovery over the second half of the year.With that, I'll turn it to Dave.David M. Reese -- Executive Vice President, Research and DevelopmentThanks, Murdo, and good afternoon, everyone. I'll begin with two new programs that are strong strategic fits within our portfolio. First, we are excited to welcome our new colleagues from Five Prime therapeutics and begin work on bemarituzumab. The integration is going well, and we have hit the ground running with Phase III planning activities. As Bob mentioned, we received breakthrough therapy designation from FDA and look forward to discussions with regulators on the development program, including Phase III in the near future. We will also investigate bemarituzumab in other indications where FGFR2b may play a role, including squamous non-small cell lung cancer, and we'll have more to say on the entire development program as those plans are finalized.In inflammation, I would like to highlight our acquisition of Rodeo Therapeutics and their 15 prostaglandin dehydrogenase program, which was motivated by compelling preclinical data from Rodeo and valuable insights from deCODE. This is a nice illustration of our use of human genetic data to inform drug discovery and development. The LUMAKRAS program continues to advance with several regulatory milestones in the first quarter, including global submissions for advanced non-small cell lung cancer and a priority review from FDA with a regulatory action date of August 16.We are having productive interactions with the FDA and multiple other regulatory agencies that will include Japan with today's anticipated submission, and we look forward to making LUMAKRAS available to patients as soon as possible. We are also pleased to receive temporary authorization for use status in France. This designation is to promote fast access to innovative medicines before marketing authorization and conventional access, and we have received a large number of requests. In the clinical development program, we completed enrollment in the Phase III study versus docetaxel in advanced non-small cell lung cancer.Based on the overall efficacy and safety profile of LUMAKRAS and discussions with regulators we reduced the sample size in this study while maintaining appropriate statistical power to assess the progression-free survival primary end point. The time lines of the study have not changed as the primary endpoint remains event-driven. While we have demonstrated that the 960 milligram dose is safe and efficacious in advanced non-small cell lung cancer, we continue to explore different doses and regimens as is common in oncology drug development.As part of this effort, we are initiating a new cohort to determine whether a once-daily oral dose of 240 milligrams maintains the safety and efficacy profile of the 960-milligram dose in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer. Should a lower dose is safe and efficacious as 960 milligrams, it may further enhance the patient experience with once-daily LUMAKRAS. We expect the results from this study in late 2022 or early 2023 and do not expect any impact on the time lines of our ongoing priority review. We also continue to make good progress in evaluating combination regimens.Efficacy cohorts are under way for our MEK inhibitor, EGFR antibody and oral EGFR inhibitor combinations, and we expect to present updates on these regimens at medical meetings in the second half of the year. We continue to evaluate doses and regimens to find the optimal options for patients in our other combinations, including PD-1 and SHIP2. Finally, we are initiating triplet cohorts in colorectal cancer of LUMAKRAS with standard of care chemotherapy and either an anti-EGFR or anti-VEGF antibody. In our BiTE programs, we have initiated several new studies, including new indications for AMG 160, targeting PSMA in non-small cell lung cancer and AMG 757, targeting DLL3, now also being investigated in neuroendocrine prostate cancer.Details on these and other development programs, including small molecules, can be found in our press release. Turning to tezepelumab. Developed in collaboration with AstraZeneca, the Phase III NAVIGATOR data were well received by clinicians, and additional analyses will be presented at the American Thoracic Society Meeting in May. We remain on track to submit regulatory filings this quarter and believe the data support tezepelumab as a first-line biologic therapy for a broad population of patients with severe uncontrolled asthma.We are also investigating other indications with Phase II studies in COPD and chronic spontaneous urticaria and, most recently, a Phase III study for chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps. Finally, on Otezla, we submitted a supplemental new drug application to FDA based on the Phase III ADVANCE study in mild to moderate psoriasis. The positive results from ADVANCE were presented at the American Academy of Dermatology, or AAD, meeting a few days ago.In closing, I'd like to thank our staff for continuing to deliver for patients. Bob?Robert A. Bradway -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerOkay. Erica, thank you. Let's turn now to Q&A, and perhaps you could remind our callers of the procedure for asking questions. Thanks.