  OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to AT&T's first quarter 2022 earnings call. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. I would like to turn the conference over to our host, Amir Rozwadowski, senior vice president, finance, and investor relations. Please go ahead.Amir Rozwadowski -- Senior Vice President, Finance, and Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, and good morning, everyone. Welcome to our first quarter call. I'm Amir Rozwadowski, head of investor relations for AT&T. Joining me on the call today are John Stankey, our CEO; and Pascal Desroches, our CFO. Before we begin, I need to call your attention to our safe harbor statement. It says that some of our comments today may be forward-looking. As such, they're subject to risks and uncertainties described in AT&T's SEC filings. Results may differ materially.Additional information is available on the Investor Relations website. And as always, our earnings materials are on our website. With that, I'll turn the call over to John Stankey. John? John Stankey -- Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thanks, Amir, and good morning to all of you. I appreciate you joining us this morning. Two weeks ago, we reached a major milestone in the repositioning of our business with the completion of the WarnerMedia-Discovery transaction less than 11 months after announcing the deal. I'd like to thank everyone who played a role in getting this across the finish line in good time and with a little drama, just as we promised you. I'd also like to share how proud we are of the entire WarnerMedia team. David inherits an organization with one of the best global portfolios of beloved intellectual property, a team with unparalleled talent, and one of the few truly global direct-to-consumer players, as evidenced by the continued growth in HBO Max and HBO subscribers which closed this quarter at nearly 77 million globally, up 3 million from last quarter and nearly 13 million year over year. We're excited about the potential for continued HBO Max growth as the service launches in more new territories. Warner Bros. Discovery is well-positioned to lead the transformation we're seeing unfold across the media and entertainment landscape. And like many of my fellow AT&T shareholders who own a stake in this new and promising enterprise, we're excited to continue to watch their success and the value they create as one of the leading global media companies. So let me turn to AT&T and the new era and opportunities ahead of us. Our transaction marks a critical step in the repositioning of our business. We're now able to focus intensely on what we believe will be multi-year secular tailwinds in connectivity. We now have the right asset base and financial structure to devote our energy to becoming America's best broadband provider. Over a five-year period, we expect a fivefold data increase on our networks and we plan to capitalize on the growing desire from consumers and businesses for ubiquitous access to best-in-class connectivity solutions. The results we've achieved the past seven quarters, all while undergoing a significant repositioning of our business, give me confidence that we can accomplish this goal.

 



 Our first quarter financial results are consistent with our expectations and once again demonstrate that our teams are executing well against our consistent business priorities. We're seeing record levels of net additions in mobility and consistently strong AT&T Fiber growth, thanks to our disciplined and consistent go-to-market strategy. In mobility, our strong network performance simplified offers and improving customer experience brought in the most first quarter postpaid phone net adds in more than a decade, surpassing last year's then decade best first quarter total. And we're confident we can continue this momentum in a disciplined manner, given our subscriber success has come from diversified channels that span consumers and businesses. In fiber, we continue our great build velocity and now have the ability to serve 17 million customer locations. This expansion continues to allow our business to grow. And this quarter, we achieved overall broadband subscriber and revenue growth as our fiber net adds more than offset legacy non-fiber broadband losses. I'm pleased with the improved fiber momentum we're seeing with our multi-gig plans launched early in the first quarter. It's also noteworthy that we're experiencing improved subscriber growth following the introduction of our straightforward pricing across the fiber portfolio, which does away with discounted introductory pricing. This improvement in share gains suggest that consumers are finding value and higher quality services when they're made available to them. So taking a step back, let's review our progress over the last seven quarters. During that time, we've added industry-best subscriber totals of more than 5.3 million in postpaid phones and nearly 2 million in AT&T Fiber, as our fast-growing fiber revenues now make up nearly half of our consumer wireline broadband revenues. This is real and sustainable momentum. We also continue to emphasize effectiveness and efficiency across our operations. As we shared at our Analyst Day last month, we expect to achieve more than $4 billion of our $6 billion cost savings run-rate target by the end of this year. Our focus on driving efficiencies continues to show tangible results from our network build-out to customer experience. As we told you, we're initially reinvesting these savings to fuel growth in our core connectivity businesses. However, as we move to the back half of this year, we expect these savings to start to fall to the bottom line. Our success over the past seven quarters can also be attributed to our focus on better recognizing and delivering on what customers want. Our mobility and fiber net promoter scores are up year-over-year and near historically low churn levels across all businesses demonstrate how our improvements to the customer experience are real and delivering a positive impact. Our business wireline unit continues its transformation. As we move through this year, we had planned to accelerate the pace at which we reposition the business as we focus our energy on growing repeatable core connectivity and transport solutions where we have owners economics. At the same time, we'll continue to rationalize reselling low-margin, third-party products and services. The expansion of our fiber footprint is enabling our business portfolio to target significant opportunities in the small and medium business market, allowing us to capture a greater portion of the opportunities in core transport and connectivity. In addition, as we open up relationships with more customers, we'll have incremental opportunities to continue our growth in business wireless. We expect to take advantage of these near-term opportunities to help stabilize our business wireline unit as we simplify the portfolio and grow connectivity with small- to medium-sized businesses complementing our leading enterprise position. As we thoughtfully fuel growth for services powered by our owned and operated connectivity assets, we're also being deliberate in how we allocate our capital. We've taken significant steps to improve our financial flexibility, and we're now in a much better place to grow our business as we significantly invest in the future of connectivity through 5G and fiber. With the completion of the WarnerMedia-Discovery transaction, we've monetized more than $50 billion of assets since the beginning of 2021. And with this transaction, we reduced our net debt by approximately $40 billion in April. As we share, we feel as though we're really well suited to navigate this unique moment in time. This leaves us in a much better position to pay down debt. In fact, we've already addressed some of our near-term maturities and paid off over $10 billion in bank loans. This improved financial posture gives us the flexibility to carefully and prudently use the balance of the WarnerMedia proceeds to reduce our outstanding debt by opportunistically using the evolving higher rate environment to redeem debt securities at lower prices while also working to reduce cash interest. In addition, our expectations for continued strong cash generation provide us with incremental capabilities to reduce leverage while still paying an attractive dividend yield near the top of the Fortune 500. This improved financial flexibility also allows us to pursue durable and sustainable growth opportunities that offer future upside for customers and shareholders. If you couldn't tell, I'm proud of all the work the team has accomplished to reposition the business over the last seven quarters and could not be more excited about this next chapter for AT&T. I know our teams are thrilled about the momentum we're generating with our deliberate and focused approach in attracting and retaining customers. I'll now turn it over to Pascal to discuss the details of the quarter. Pascal?Pascal Desroches -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, John, and good morning, everyone. Let's start by taking a look at our first quarter consolidated financial summary on Slide 5. It's important to note that our first quarter consolidated results include the contributions of WarnerMedia and that last year's first quarter included results of our U.S. video business and Vrio. Accordingly, our reported results do not provide a clear reflection of our business on a forward-looking basis. So let me quickly cover a few key points before reviewing the financial results of our new stand-alone AT&T operations on the next slide. On a consolidated basis, including a full quarter of WarnerMedia, our adjusted EPS for the quarter was $0.77, compared to $0.85 in the first quarter of 2021. In addition to merger amortization, adjustments for the quarter were made to exclude our proportionate share of DirecTV intangible amortization and a gain in our benefit plans. Year-over-year earnings declines were primarily driven by WarnerMedia and, to a lesser extent, certain one-time costs in the communications segment. The declines in earnings at WarnerMedia reflect increased investments incurred in launching CNN+ and expanding new territories at HBO Max. HBO Max and HBO now reached an impressive global subscriber base of nearly 77 million. WarnerMedia's results were also impacted by the advertising sharing agreement entered into with DirecTV upon its separation in last year's third quarter and the termination of HBO Max's wholesale agreement with Amazon late last year. When excluding revenues from our U.S. Video business and Vrio from the prior-year quarter, AT&T consolidated revenues were $38.1 billion, up 1.6% or $600 million year over year. Cash from operations came in at $5.7 billion for the quarter. Overall spending was up with capital investments totaling $6.3 billion. Free cash flow was $700 million for the quarter. WarnerMedia had declines of $2.6 billion in free cash flow year over year. This decline was driven by $1.2 billion in lower year-over-year securitization of receivables in advance of the transaction, $600 million in higher cash content spend, increased investments in HBO Max's global footprint, and ramp-up for the CNN+ launch as well as NHL right payments and other working capital changes. Now let's look at our financials for the new stand-alone AT&T on Slide 6. On a comparative like-for-like basis, our financial results for the quarter are in line with our expectations for how we expect the year to trend. However, our subscriber metrics came in better than we expected as market conditions remain strong. This gives us confidence in the annual guidance provided at our recent Analyst Day. Revenues were $29.7 billion, up 2.5% or $700 million year over year, driven by wireless and broadband revenue growth, partially offset by declines in business wireline. Adjusted EBITDA was flattish year-over-year as lower retained video costs were offset by peak impact from our 3G network shutdown, continued success-based investments in wireless and fiber, and the launch of multi-gig fiber plans. We remain confident that Q1 will be the trough in our year-over-year adjusted EBITDA trajectory. We continue to expect the year-over-year trend line to progressively improve through the year. On a comparative basis, adjusted EPS for the quarter was $0.63 versus $0.58 in the first quarter of 2021 due to higher equity income from DirecTV and lower interest expense. Cash from operations came in at $7.7 billion for the quarter. Overall spending was up year over year with stand-alone AT&T capital investments of $6.1 billion. Free cash flow was $2.9 billion. As expected, cash flow this quarter was affected by several factors. First, higher capital investments as we ramp fiber deployment and prepare to deploy our 5G mid-band spectrum bands in the back half of the year. Second, the absorption of 3G shutdown impact. Third, increased employee incentive compensation benefits paid in Q1. Fourth, lower proceeds from securitizations. DirecTV cash distributions were $1.8 billion in the quarter, which is modestly better than the $1.5 billion contribution in last year's first quarter. We continue to expect about $4 billion distribution from DirecTV for the year, so we do expect some moderation. Given that Q1 is a seasonally low quarter for free cash flow and many of the factors impacting free cash are not expected to repeat, we remain confident in the guidance we provided to you during our Analyst Day to achieve free cash flow in the $16 billion range for the year and on a stand-alone basis. Looking forward, we expect to incur restructuring charges over the next few quarters as we continue to execute our transformation initiatives. The cash impact of these charges has already been contemplated in our full year free cash flow guidance. Now let's turn to our subscriber results for our market focus areas on Slide 7. Diving a bit deeper into our business unit level performance, the story continues to be simple and straightforward. The consistent, disciplined go-to-market strategy we implemented almost two years ago continues to work very well, and we're delivering strong momentum and growing customer relationships with 5G and fiber. In the quarter, we had 691,000 postpaid phone net adds. As John said, this marks our best first quarter in more than a decade. This total also excludes impacts of 3G network shutdown of more than 400,000 postpaid phones. Consistent with industry practice, we have treated this reduction as an adjustment of our base at the beginning of the period. Churn also remained near historically low levels, thanks in part to our improving NPS, which is being driven by an enhanced customer experience, the strength of our network, and our consistent and simple offers. We're growing our customer base with this disciplined approach. Our teams have maintained a strong focus on growing the right way with high-quality intake and by investing in existing customers. As mentioned in March, we're focused on incentivizing customers to shift to our current unlimited rate plans, which are designed for the 5G era and to better meet each customer's unique needs and provide greater value to both existing and new customers. Looking at AT&T Fiber, our customer base continues to grow as we expand availability of the best access technology across our footprint. We had 289,000 AT&T Fiber net adds in the first quarter and we expect to accelerate growth from here. To say we're excited about the underlying momentum of the business would be an understatement. Where we have fiber, we win and gain share and our deployment plans remain on track. We now have 6.3 million AT&T Fiber customers, up 1.1 million compared to a year ago and we expect customer momentum to accelerate from these already stepped-up levels. We continue to see strong demand for AT&T Fiber as customers seek out faster broadband speeds at an attractive price. And our fiber churn remains low as AT&T Fiber continues to offer a great experience and a consistently high net promoter score. Now let's take a deeper look at our Communications segment operating results, starting with mobility on Slide 8. Our mobility business continues its record-level momentum. Revenues were up 5.5%, with service revenues growing 4.8% due to subscriber growth. Impressively, this growth in service revenue comes despite impact on service revenue of our 3G shutdown and without a material return of international roaming revenues Consistent with our comments on Analyst Day, mobility EBITDA declined 1.8% year over year, largely due to a number of onetime-related factors. EBITDA was negatively impacted by over $300 million due to 3G shutdown costs and the absence of FirstNet and CAF II reimbursements. We remain confident in our stated expectations for mobility adjusted EBITDA trajectory to improve through the course of the year as these impacts moderate through the balance of the year. Overall, we continue to see healthy mobility demand. While our guidance does not factor in industry demand levels replicating the strength that we experienced in 2021, our Q1 results came in better than anticipated. Both our postpaid phone and prepaid phone churn remained near record low levels despite a modest uptick among lower-income cohorts as certain pandemic levels benefits wear off. Now let's turn to our operating results for consumer and business wireline on Slide 9. Our fiber growth was solid as we continue to win share where we have fiber. Even with expected declines from copper-based broadband services, our total consumer wireline revenues are up again this quarter, growing 2% due to higher broadband ARPU and fiber revenue growth. Our fiber ARPU was approximately $60 with gross addition intake ARPU in the $65 to $70 range. We expect overall fiber ARPU to continue to improve as more customers roll off promotional pricing and on to simplified pricing constructs we introduced earlier this year. In addition, with the launch of our new multi-gig speeds in January, we have even more opportunity to move customers to higher speed tiers. Over time, we expect these factors to serve as a tailwind to the trajectory of our fiber ARPU. We also continue to accelerate our fiber footprint build and now have the ability to serve 17 million customer locations. As you heard us share on Analyst Day, our plans center on pivoting from copper-based products to fiber. As we make this pivot, we expect positive EBITDA growth in 2022, driven by growth in broadband revenues. Also to help provide you with greater insight into the performance of our consumer wireline fiber operations, we've provided additional metrics in our trending materials that can be found on our IR website. Looking at business wireline, we continue to execute on our rationalization of low-margin products in our portfolio. In the first quarter, we experienced some impacts by the timing of government sector demand due to the delays in passing the federal budget, which caused deeper-than-expected revenue declines. However, we expect demand to rebound later this year. While the rationalization of our business wireline portfolio creates incremental pressure on our near-term revenues, it also allows us to focus on our own and operated connectivity services as well as growing 5G and fiber integrated solutions. Both areas, business 5G and fiber, continue to perform well, benefiting our mobility segment with business solutions wireless service revenue growth of 8.4% and a sequential increase in our FirstNet wireless base by about 300,000. We remain comfortable with our guidance of business wireline EBITDA down mid-single digits in 2022. Shifting to Slide 10, I'd like to reiterate our overall capital allocation framework moving forward. With the completion of the WarnerMedia transaction, AT&T received $40.4 billion in cash and WarnerMedia's retention of certain existing debt. Additionally, AT&T shareholders received 1.7 billion shares of Warner Bros. Discovery, representing 71% of the new company. This transaction greatly strengthens our balance sheet and provides us with financial flexibility going forward. We now have a simplified capital allocation framework. First, we plan to invest in our strategic focus areas: 5G and fiber. As previously said, we expect stand-alone AT&T capital investments of $24 billion in 2022 and 2023. Starting in 2024, we expect our capital investment to begin tapering to around the $20 billion range as we surpass peak levels of investments in 5G and transformation. The completion of the WarnerMedia transaction also marks a significant step toward achieving our established goal for net debt to adjusted EBITDA in the 2.5 times range by the end of 2023. We've shared, as we get closer to this target, we expect our financial flexibility to improve. This increases our ability to pursue other ways to deliver incremental value for our shareholders. As previously said, we expect to deliver annual total dividends of around $8 billion, which represents $1.11 per common share. This remains an attractive dividend and places AT&T among the very best dividend-yielding stocks in the U.S. Now let's take a step back and look at the free cash flow generation expected from our business. As outlined at our Analyst Day, we expect to generate in the range of $20 billion of free cash flow in 2023. After paying dividends and noncontrolling interest commitments, we expect to have at least $10 billion of cash remaining. And beyond 2023, this pace of cash generation will be helped by the tapering down of our capital investment. This is why we continue to feel very comfortable with our capital allocation plans. As I've stated, we're in a much stronger financial position to pay down debt. And at the end of the first quarter, more than 90% of our debt portfolio was fixed and we do not have near-term needs to issue debt. In April, we improved our net debt by about $40 billion and paid down over $10 billion in bank loans, providing us with a lot more financial flexibility. We also provided notice that we plan to redeem an additional $12.5 billion of bonds by mid-May, reducing our near-term maturities. For the balance of the WarnerMedia proceeds, we plan to reduce our outstanding debt by focusing on pay down of commercial paper to improve our liquidity and opportunistically using the higher-rate environment to redeem debt at lower prices. So we feel really confident in our ability to pay down our current debt maturities in an effective manner and reach our goal for net debt to adjusted EBITDA. Amir, that's our presentation. We're now ready for the Q&A.Amir Rozwadowski -- Senior Vice President, Finance, and Investor Relations Thank you, Pascal. Operator, we're ready to take the first question. 