  OperatorGood afternoon and welcome to the Occidental's second-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Jeff Alvarez, vice president of investor relations. Please go ahead.Jeff Alvarez -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you, Chad. Good afternoon, everyone and thank you for participating in Occidental's second-quarter 2021 conference call. On the call with us today are Vicki Hollub, president and chief executive officer; and Robert Peterson, senior vice president and chief financial officer. This afternoon, we will refer to slides available on the Investors section of our website.

 



 The presentation includes a cautionary statement on Slide 2 regarding forward-looking statements that will be made on the call this afternoon. I'll now turn the call over to Vicki. Vicki, please go ahead.Vicki Hollub -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Jeff and good afternoon, everyone. Our strong operational performance in the second quarter continued to drive robust financial performance as we marked our second consecutive quarter of generating the highest level of free cash flow in over a decade. As was the case last quarter, our cost structure and capital intensity leadership were catalysts for our strong results and continue to provide a solid foundation for free cash flow generation in the future. We were especially pleased to have been in a position at the end of the second quarter to launch a tender process to retire over $3 billion of debt using excess cash generated from operations as well as proceeds from divestitures. While we made incremental progress in reducing debt throughout 2020 in the first half of 2021, the completion of this tender represents a sizable step forward in our deleveraging efforts. This morning, I'll cover our second-quarter operational performance and divestiture progress and Rob will cover our financial results and balance sheet improvement as well as our updated guidance, which includes an improvement to our DD&A rate, an increase in guidance for our full-year production and for midstream and OxyChem's 2021 earnings. In the second quarter, our business, all of our businesses outperformed. Our capital discipline and efficiency, combined with the supportive and improving commodity price environment, positions us to generate the highest level of free cash flow before and after working capital since the third quarter of 2008 when WTI hit $145 a barrel.

 



 We are proud of our teams for this accomplishment and we appreciate that they are continuing to improve our capital execution and operating efficiencies to further expand our margins. We exited the quarter with approximately $4.6 billion of unrestricted cash, which does not include cash received in July from the recently closed divestiture or the cash used for the debt tender which closed in July. Rob will touch on the under in a little more detail, but I would like to reiterate how pleased we are to be once again making notable progress in reducing debt and strengthening our balance sheet. Turning to our operational results. Our oil and gas business delivered second-quarter production from continuing operations of over 1.2 million BOE per day, with total companywide capital spending of almost $698 million. Our domestic oil and gas operating cost of $6 per BOE came in substantially below our full-year guidance as our teams continued to demonstrate their innovative operations expertise by finding new ways to safely reduce costs in our field operations. In the second quarter, OxyChem continued to benefit from robust PVC demand and pricing as well as gradual strengthening in the caustic soda market. We believe the fundamentals for these markets will remain supportive through the second half of 2021 and we are confident in increasing our full-year guidance to a midpoint of $1.25 billion, representing an almost 60% increase over our original guidance for the year. The ability of our oil and gas business to overcome challenges while increasing efficiencies has been transformational. Looking back over the first six months of this year, we overcame the impacts of a major weather event and divested a producing asset. We were able to make up the loss and divested production and have increased our full-year production guidance for continuing operations to 1.15 million BOE per day. We continue to be highly encouraged by well performance across our portfolio. For example, in the Texas Delaware, we recently brought online a new Silvertip development that is producing approximately 20% more oil compared to a prior development in this area. Additionally, in an area of roughly 10 miles southeast of Silvertip, we brought online a five well development with average 30-day peak rates of almost 5,000 BOE per day. As I mentioned, operationally, our teams continue to set new efficiency records while constantly pursuing opportunities to improve. We set new quarterly records across our portfolio on feet drilled and hours pumped in a single day.

 



 In the Midland Basin, we set a new drilling record with over 9,500 feet drilled in 24 hours, contributing to a new Oxy Permian spud-to-rig-release record, drilling a 10,000-foot horizontal well in only eight days. In the DJ Basin, we set a new companywide track record of pumping over 23 hours in a single day. Utilizing Oxy Drilling Dynamics in the Gulf of Mexico, we have significantly lowered drilling cost and duration as the well drilled in 2021 have cost 15% less than the average for 2019. As I mentioned on last quarter's call, we've had excellent results leveraging remote operations. Our innovative mindset and ability to leverage technological breakthroughs have allowed us to continue pushing the performance envelope, giving me confidence that our best-in-class capital efficiency will continue. Our divestiture plan advanced in the second quarter with the recent closing of a noncore Permian acreage sale for approximately $510 million. Given our industry-leading inventory depth, we welcome the opportunity to monetize these assets at an attractive price as it is unlikely that we would have developed this acreage in the near future. We expect to close at least $2 billion of divestitures post Colombia. And as we've said previously, we'll always prioritize obtaining value for our shareholders over meeting a deadline. I want to take a few minutes to talk about our chemical business and how we plan to leverage its leadership and expertise into our Low Carbon Ventures business. OxyChem's success is demonstrated by its financial performance and track record of consistent free cash flow generation. OxyChem has been a consistent generator of free cash flow during the past downturns. And with the macro environment improving, OxyChem is on track to deliver record earnings this year, even surpassing 2018's results. The business may also continue to strengthen in future years as caustic soda, one of the key profit drivers for the business, has experienced only a moderate price recovery to date. Last quarter, I spoke about how OxyChem's integration across multiple chlorine derivatives provides us with the ability to optimize our caustic soda production while opportunistically adjusting our production mix to maximize margins. There are many opportunities for us to apply the same approach to integration as we develop opportunities between OxyChem and our Low Carbon Ventures business. As a major producer of PVC and caustic potash, OxyChem has the engineering, R&D and process technology expertise as well as the production capability necessary to build our Low Carbon business. OxyChem is a world leader in the customization, handling and usage of PVC, which will be a major component in the construction and ongoing operation of the direct air capture facility. We're also one of the world's largest leading producers of caustic potash, the key chemical utilized in the direct air capture process to separate carbon dioxide for sequestration of carbon-neutral enhanced oil recovery. Our vast knowledge of equipment design and our experience with operating and handling the caustic potash will be key to helping us quickly optimize our direct air capture facility. In addition to being a market leader and consistent free cash flow generator, OxyChem is integral to our business of today and of tomorrow. It's also worth noting that OxyChem is a market leader in health, safety and environmental performance. OxyChem recently earned a remarkable 31 Responsible Care awards. These are from the American Chemistry Council and are the U.S. chemical manufacturing industry's leading performance awards. The awards recognize OxyChem's achievements in safety, waste reduction and improving energy efficiency. Several of the award-winning initiatives focused on waste minimization, reuse, recycling and energy efficiency, which will all contribute to our 2025 sustainability goals. I will now hand the call over to Rob, who will walk you through our financial results for the second quarter and guidance for the remainder of the year.Robert Peterson -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Vicki. Our businesses continued to perform well in the second quarter as our free cash flow generation affirmed our confidence in Oxy's ability to generate cash in a healthy price environment. The strong performance contributed to a quarter end unrestricted cash balance of $4.6 billion. On our last call, I mentioned the potential for a partial reversal of the working capital change incurred in the first quarter. As expected, we benefited from a positive working capital change this quarter of approximately $600 million, further contributing to our cash build during the quarter. As Vicki mentioned, we launched a tender late in the quarter and enabled us to repay over $3 billion of debt in July. Subsequent to successful execution of a debt tender in July, we received proceeds from the nonstrategic Permian acreage, partially refreshing our post-tender cash position early in the quarter. In the second quarter, we announced an adjusted profit of $0.32 and a reported loss of $0.10 per diluted share. While we placed a greater importance on cash flow generation, especially as we are focused on deleveraging, we are pleased to be generating income on an adjusted basis. Indeed, this is a positive indication that our financial position continues to improve. Our reported results were less than our adjusted results primarily due to the mark-to-market impact of derivatives. We delivered outstanding production results year-to-date while having deployed less than half of our full-year capital budget of $2.9 billion. We expect capital expenditure to remain within budget, demonstrating our commitment to capital discipline and our capital intensity leadership, even as capital spending has been higher in the second half than the first half of the year. The positive working capital change realized in the quarter was driven by lower cash payments for items that are accrued throughout the year and lower crude inventory from fewer barrels in the water, partially offset by higher accounts receivable balance due to the increase in commodity prices. As the interest payments on our bonds are made semiannually, our cash interest payments are going to be lower in the second and fourth quarters than they are in the first and third quarters. During the downturn last year, we received approximately $1 billion of additional cash flow from our oil hedges. To obtain a costless structure, we sold a 2021 call position of 350,000 barrels a day with an average strike price of $74.16 Brent. As the commodity prices rose at the end of the second quarter, we made payments of $5.7 million under the sold call position and $1 million under our gas hedges in July. Cash settlements paid to date on the hedges have been minimal and are certainly worth the benefit we received last year. We continue to maintain an opportunistic approach toward hedging and the forward curve is supportive but have not added any hedges past the end of this year. We believe creating a manageable debt maturity profile and reducing debt is a more effective long-term solution to derisking the balance sheet while providing shareholders with exposure to commodity price gains. We raised our full-year production guidance following our strong second-quarter results and have increased our earnings guidance for OxyChem and midstream for the second time this year, reflecting strong first half performance and improved market conditions. We expect that 2021 will be a record year for OxyChem, even surpassing our earnings in 2018. We benefit from exceptionally strong caustic soda prices in the middle part of that year. Midstream is expected to benefit in the second half of the year from continued higher sulfur prices at Al Hosn as well as an uplift in the third quarter related to the timing of export sales. We also lowered our DD&A guidance for 2021, reflecting the midyear reserves update. This update takes into account more supportive trailing 12-month commodity prices at midyear compared to year-end 2020 as well as our activity plans and recent success in lowering operating costs. The combination of these factors have increased our proved reserves, which we expect to result in a lower DD&A rate going forward. Our production in the second half of 2021 is expected to average 1.14 million BOE per day. Production in the second quarter benefited from time-to-market acceleration in the Rockies and Permian. Favorable weather conditions and optimization of planned maintenance schedules to better sequence shutdown activities resulted in lower-than-expected downtime in the Gulf of Mexico, contributing to higher-than-expected production. Our expected third-quarter production of 1.145 million BOE per day includes an allowance for seasonal weather and maintenance in the Gulf of Mexico, the divestiture of approximately 10,000 BOE per day in the Permian, the timing impact of our Rockies capital program, which was front-loaded in 2021 as well as PSC impact due to price. Even as production in the second half of the year is pretty lower than the impressive second-quarter production results, we remain confident in our production trajectory leveling out as we enter 2022, where we anticipate a production pattern similar to 2021. We have updated our activity slide to include two additional New Mexico rigs. The New Mexico activity change will be fully funded through the cost savings and optimization of our capital projects' gain through efficiency improvements and will not increase our capital budget. Adding activity in one of our highest return to assets will place us in a strong position as we transition into 2022. With the successful completion of our debt tender, we paid over $3 billion of 2022 through 2026 maturities and have a clear runway over the next few years. As we generate cash from organic free cash flow, we continue to value the options available for additional debt reduction and we'll seek to further our debt maturity profile so that we're not exposed to any significant amount of maturities in any single year. The options available to us for debt reduction include potentially calling the 2022 floating rate notes prior to maturity, executing additional tenders, exercising attractive make-whole provisions, pursuing all the market debt repurchases, or we may choose, in some cases, to build a cash position which may be applied toward retiring maturities as they come due. We also plan to retire $750 million of notional interest rate swaps in the third quarter for the fair value amount, which will improve cash flow by almost $50 million per annum at the current curve. We entered the second half of 2021 in a strong position at the beginning of the year and as we look forward, we remain focused on maintaining a strong liquidity position, deleveraging to regain investment-grade metrics and preserving financial policies and cash flow priorities and embed capital discipline.I will now turn the call back over to Vicki.Vicki Hollub -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Rob. We are proud of the substantial progress in delivering our near-term cash flow priorities. We have significantly derisked our balance sheet with the successful completion of our recent debt tender. And this marks the next stage of our deleveraging effort as we work to further reduce debt and to lower our breakeven. While we still have work to do before transitioning to the next stage of our cash flow priorities, including returning additional capital to shareholders, we're confident that the steps we have completed to date and the strong operational performance that we continue to deliver will accelerate our progress. We'll now open the call to your questions. 