  OperatorHello, and thank you for standing by for JD.com's third quarter 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] Today's conference is being recorded. [Operator instructions] I would now like to turn the meeting over to your host for today's conference, Mr. Sean Zhang, director of investor relations. Please go ahead, sir.Sean Zhang -- Director of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you. Good evening, and good morning, everyone. Welcome to our third quarter 2021 earnings conference call. Joining us on the call today are Mr. Lei Xu, president of JD.com, and Ms. Sandy Xu, CFO. For today's call, Lei will kick off with opening remarks, then Sandy will discuss the financial highlights. After that, we'll open the call to questions from analysts.Before we continue, let me refer you to our latest safe harbor statement in the earnings press release on our IR website, which applies to this call as we'll make forward-looking statements. Also during this call, we'll discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures. Please also refer to our earnings release, which contains a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to the comparable GAAP measures. Finally, please note that unless otherwise stated, all figures mentioned during this call are in RMB. And now I would like to turn the call over to our president, Mr. Lei Xu. 

 



Lei Xu -- Chief Executive Officer of JD Retail Hello, everyone. This is Lei Xu. Thank you for joining JD's third quarter earnings call. Starting from this earnings call, it's a great pleasure for me to take the position as president of JD.com and communicate with you in my new capacity. As we all have observed, in the second half of this year, multiple headwinds have brought notable uncertainties and challenges to the world to China and retail industry, such as the COVID cases, the macroeconomic fluctuations, lacking of goods in a wide range of worldwide due to supply chain disruptions. The planet we live in is undergoing profound changes. JD continued to deliver high-quality growth this quarter. While the external environment shifts, JD is able to continue to outperform the industry with more certainty and stronger resilience. This is due to our stronger control across our supply chains and entire business processes, which allow us to react more agilely to changes and ensure stable business operation and reliable fulfillment even in the face of extreme weathers, COVID, and other special circumstances. Therefore, we are in a unique position to create greater value for our customers, business partners, and the real economy. The core competencies in supply chain and logistic infrastructure which we have been committed to building for 18 years have accumulated powerful advantages for us. These advantages have greatly differentiated us, particularly in terms of value creation and business resilience from the platform-based, traffic-driven companies.

 



 First of all, our resilience is reflected by another solid set of results in Q3 despite macro and industry challenges. Our total revenues sustained healthy growth at 26% year on year even on a high comp from last year. Regarding active users, in addition to the healthy growth rates in Q3, we are more pleased to see that our continuous improvement in user experience has resulted in stronger consumer mind share and engagement. In the latest Singles Day Grand Promotion, JD maintained strong growth momentum even on the basis of last year's accelerated growth. This demonstrates the rising recognition JD gained among customers, suppliers, and brands. It is also a testament to JD's contribution in the recovery of the retail industry and real economy. In particular, JD has helped millions of online and off-line micro and SME to gain fair growth opportunities and reasonable profits. Moreover, the healthy growth momentum of our core regional business combined with further enhanced supply chain capacities and operating efficiency has put us in a stronger footing to firmly execute our long-term strategy. And now let's take a closer look at how JD's resilience is reflected in our core retail business as well as the execution of JD Logistics and the new business long-term strategies. JD's marketplace ecosystem has made solid progress in this quarter. Starting from the second half of last year, we have introduced a series of smart operating tools, lowered the entry barriers for new merchants, and provided integrated supply chain solutions to further optimize merchants' operating efficiency and growth path. Our efforts has generated initial success. I'd like to share a few progress our marketplace business made this quarter. First, growth of both total number and the types of merchants accelerated on both a year on year and sequential basis. In Q3, the number of third-party merchants joined JD tripled that of Q1 and Q2 combined, with apparel and home categories leading the growth. Second, merchants' operating efficiency, growth path, and satisfaction level further improved. Third, the Net Promoter Scores, NPS, of our marketplace business continued to improve, particularly the NPS of apparel and home categories were at their all-time high. Going forward, we will leverage the healthier competition and development environment of the industry to continuously enrich our marketplace ecosystem, explore new models, and formulate our differentiated strategic approaches. Our goal has always been to provide customers with better shopping experience and services open to empower merchants and build up JD's marketplace ecosystem. We made further progress in the implementation of our omnichannel strategy. In our view, the decentralization of the retail industry will continue, and our omnichannel strategy will serve as our second curve for growth to break the ceiling of JD's long-term growth. The strategy is also designed to facilitate further integration and the digital transformation of China's off-line retailers. In the industry, JD possesses the most comprehensive supply chain capabilities that underpin the omnichannel model. In particular, the three comprehensive supply chain models, namely: the B2C centralized warehouse model, the F2C origin warehouse model, and the local retail model. At this stage, we focus on building our omnichannel capabilities, including decoupling our supply chain capabilities, digital operation, and integrated marketing solutions. We will then apply these solutions to a wide range of shopping scenarios, both online and off-line, and enable millions of brick-and-mortar merchants in a variety of industries, including FMCG, consumer electronics and home appliances, healthcare, apparel, home goods, live services, automobiles, and many more. In Q3, GMV of our omnichannel business grew by nearly triple digits year on year, within which the O2O on-demand retail business that JD jointly did with Dada Group recorded an accelerated growth. I highly recommend and invite you to visit our innovative off-line stores such as JD MALL that was launched at the end of the quarter in Xi'an; JD Super Experience Store, 7Fresh; and Jingxi community stores. In addition to the steady growth trajectory of our core retail business, our logistics and new business has also made many robust growth this quarter. On JD Logistics, I would like to highlight two positive trends. First, the long-term investments JDL has made in establishing integrated supply chain logistics service capacity started to bear fruit, as it serves more external customers and expands its addressable market. For example, JDL has been developing industry-specific solutions and gaining traction with clients in FMCG, fresh produce, 3Cs and home appliances, furniture, apparel, and automobiles. Going forward, we expect external revenues of its integrated supply chain solution will be the main growth driver for JDL. Second, JDL received a social security relief for its employees and other measures from government for its distinguished contribution in containing the COVID outbreak last year. Starting from Q3 last year, JDL invested these financial gains in network capacity expansion at large scale in lower-tier cities as well as in frontline worker recruitment, which created additional employment opportunities. The quick expansion of JDL's business and operation optimization this year have gradually mitigated the financial impact from these upfront investments in capacity. As a result, JDL's overall margin performance meaningfully improved in Q3 compared to the first half of the year. Our Jingxi business is committed to serving mass consumers and merchants in the lower-tier markets in China, providing cost-effective products and services in support of their pursuits for a better life. The industry today is still characterized by high merchandise circulation costs, low efficiency of supply chain fulfillment, especially for fresh produce. While local small shopkeepers and the store owners are left underserved and user experience is far from ideal, JD is better positioned to make breakthroughs on these fronts, where we have been working on our core business logic for many years. In our view, Jingxi business is in the sector that requires five to 10 years commitment to building up the infrastructure capabilities for short chain logistics and users' mind share. It is not the time to prioritize scale expansion at the current stage. Instead, Jingxi business will focus on building the core capabilities at the city level, exploring business models that create real value to local stakeholders, while ensuring that we have a sound compliance base. Since July, Jingxi has proactively shifted focus on 10 selected provinces where we are pleased to see improving supply chain efficiency and cost structure in Q3. In particular, fulfillment cost per order has lowered by nearly 50% compared to that in the early stage of the business, and user experience have largely improved as well. More importantly, thanks to our focused effort and investment in infrastructure, revenues generated by local group leaders and mom-and-pop stores on Jingxi have been clearly climbing up. I hope that my sharing today has showed that JD is a new type of real economy-based enterprise that has the traits of both real economy and digital technology capabilities. Such type of enterprises will play an even greater role in China's economic development in a new era. From a long-term perspective, JD is strategically positioned to generate compelling growth opportunities despite the current complex and evolving macro environment. We remain fully confident in the future as we have been relentlessly working on the most difficult, the hardest, yet the most valuable things for all our shareholders, thanks to our core capabilities and a unique business model that we have built over years. That said, we still have a lot to do, and thank you all for your continuous trust and support for us along the way. This concludes my remarks today. Now I'd like to give the floor to our CFO, Sandy, for more details. Sandy Xu -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Xu Lei. Hello, everyone. We delivered a set of solid operating and financial results while making steady progress on many of our strategic priorities in Q3. This demonstrates our commitment to pursuing sustainable quality growth. We are encouraged by the overall strength and resilience of our unique business model, which continues to put us on a strong footing to navigate the unprecedented complexities in the macro environment. Our total net revenues reached RMB 219 billion in Q3, representing 26% year-on-year growth and 27% two-year CAGR, maintaining a strong growth momentum even on a high comp from last year. Our growth continued to outperform the industry, and we further gained market share in the quarter. Our top line growth was backed by sustained improvement in our user base and user engagement. We are very pleased to see a 25% year-on-year growth of our LTM active user base, reaching a total of RMB 552 million -- 552 million in Q3, with the addition of 111 million users from a year ago. We attached greater importance on improving our user experience and user engagement in Q3. Our mobile DAU grew even faster than active users, accelerating to over 30% year on year in September, which demonstrates our expanded consumer mind share. In addition to gaining mind share, we are also winning users' wallet share. Average order frequency for all our users increased 23% year on year, driven by both our new and existing users, while total order volume sustained a year-on-year growth of about 40% in Q3. Within JD Retail, the number of categories users purchased expanded to a historical high even in the low season. In particular, users who have stayed with JD for more than a year tend to double the number of categories they purchase. These core JD users love the new products and categories that we introduced and are increasingly spending more on fresh produce, cosmetics, fashion, and luxury goods. The improved user engagement is again driven by our continued focus on customers' experience. Our NPS score has been on a steady growth trajectory, hitting all-time high this quarter as we continued to enrich our product offering and improve shopping experience, after sales and fulfillment services through technology. Category-wise, we would like to highlight that the growth of our net service revenues was over 43% year on year compared to 23% growth of net product revenue. Net service revenues contributed a historical high of 15% to our net total revenue. Marketplace and advertising revenues continued a high growth of 35% year on year, a notable acceleration from 24% that we achieved in the same period last year. This is a strong testament of our continuous efforts to improve our marketplace ecosystem, which drove an influx and higher engagement with third-party merchants across almost all categories. We expect our marketplace business to continue to gain momentum in the coming quarters. Logistics and other services revenues grew by 53% year on year, mainly driven by the hyper growth of JD Logistics external revenue, which I will discuss more shortly. Now let's look at our segment performance. First, our core business JD Retail's revenues reached RMB 198 billion in Q3, with a 23% year-on-year growth and a two-year CAGR of 25%. The power of JD's supply chain capability was on full display against the global supply chain constraints. Our electronics and home appliance revenues maintained resilient growth of 19% year on year, significantly outpacing the industry's low-single-digit growth in the same quarter. We are also delighted to see GMV growth of our third-party sales in these categories accelerated to 45% year on year, significantly outpacing that of our 1P business. General merchandise revenues grew 29% year on year and 32% two-year CAGR in Q3. This was mainly driven by the 35% two-year CAGR of our supermarket 1P order volume growth in the quarter. I want to share a few observations of our supermarket categories. First, supermarket categories were again the largest contributor of our new users in this quarter. Second, the average number of orders per user for supermarket categories continued to increase and reached its all-time highest level. Third, users are purchasing more high-frequency supermarket products on JD, including food and beverage, fresh produce and baby and maternity products. All these have helped drive our daily user engagement meaningfully. Moving on to JD Retail's margin. Its fulfilled gross margin was similar to that of Q3 last year. And operating margin was 4%, which retained largely stable compared to its all-time high in Q3 last year. Again, we are successfully shifting our category mix toward high-frequency items that can better engage customers and experimenting new business strategies, such as omnichannel and Shop Now, without compromising our margin trajectory. We remain confident in healthy category expansion and long-term margin improvement of our core retail business. Our strategic investments also made steady progress in Q3. JD Logistics, JDL, maintained its growth trajectory in the quarter, with revenues growing 43% year on year to RMB 25.7 billion, mainly driven by the growth in the number of external integrated supply chain logistics customers and their average revenue per customer. External revenues continued to account for over 50% of JDL's total revenue while reaching a historic high in this quarter. JD Logistics' operating loss ratio was 2.8%, on track to achieve a better margin profile compared to that in the first half of 2021, as JDL continues to ramp up utilization and improve operating efficiency. The number of warehouses operated and managed by JDL has steadily expanded to approximately 1,300, with an aggregated gross floor area of over 23 million square meters. Our New businesses segment revenues grew 33% year on year to RMB 5.7 billion in Q3. JD Property recorded a gain from sales of logistics facilities of RMB 579 million in the quarter. Growth of our international business continued to accelerate in Q3. For our Jingxi business, we want to highlight that during the quarter, it achieved a notable improvement in both user experience and operating efficiency, which are our strategic priorities over scale. As we started to proactively focus our Jingxi Pinpin business in selected markets, we are able to better allocate resources to improve our supply chain for fresh produce and short chain logistics infrastructure capacity, empower the local merchants and achieve better UE. On the back of our 1P supply chain capacity, we also helped local merchants and farmers to grow quickly on our Jingxi platform. As a result of this strategic shift, the operating loss of New businesses was RMB 2.1 billion as compared to RMB 1.2 billion in the same period last year. We remain fully committed to empowering local SMEs, including mom-and-pop stores, by providing supply chain support and creating diverse revenue streams for them. While we expect the operating loss ratio to GMV to gradually narrow down as we continue to optimize the operating efficiency. Moving to the consolidated bottom line. Our non-GAAP net income attributable to ordinary shareholders was RMB 5.0 billion, with non-GAAP net margin of 2.3% compared to 3.2% in the same period last year. The decrease is mainly attributable to normalized marketing expenses and increased investments in logistics and new business segments for our long-term strategic positioning. Notably, since 2012, we have maintained inventory turnover days consistently below 40 days despite the significant increase in the number of SKUs under our management. By Q3 this year, we further shortened our inventory turnover days by four days to 30 days in the last 12 months, thanks to our continuously improving supply chain managing capacity. We then passed on this efficiency gain to further increase our support for our business partners, as we also shortened our LTM accounts payable days by four days to 46 days. This is another example how JD's unique business model and the relentless focus on building processing capacity can really create value for all our business partners in the real economy. Our LTM free cash flow this quarter came in at RMB 28.5 billion, which remained largely stable year on year. As of September 30, 2021, cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and short-term investments added up to a total of RMB 196 billion, up from RMB 178 billion at the end of Q2 or RMB 127 billion a year ago. In summary, JD showed remarkable resilience again in face of macro and supply chain headwinds, with a solid top line growth and steady profitability in our core business. This showcases our resolute commitment and effective implementation of our strategies, which we are very proud of. And we want to say our greatest appreciation to our hundreds of thousands of employees. Finally, I want to reiterate that JD's sustainable growth will continue in the new era, where our 18 years of trailblazing efforts in building our core competence and our right way to success business philosophy will continue to be rewarded. With that, let's now move to the Q&A. Thank you.Sean Zhang -- Director of Investor Relations Operator, we can open the floor for Q&A now. Thank you. 