
OperatorGood day, and welcome to the Alexandria Real Estate Equities' First Quarter 2021 Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]I would like now to turn the conference over to Paula Schwartz with Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Paula Schwartz -- Managing DirectorThank you, and good afternoon everyone. This conference call contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. The Company's actual results might differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements is contained in the Company's periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.And now, I'd like to turn the call over to Joel Marcus, Executive Chairman and Founder. Please go ahead, Joel.Joel S. Marcus -- Executive Chairman and FounderThank you, Paula, and welcome everybody to our first quarter call, and with me today are Dean Shigenaga; Steve Richardson and Peter Moglia, and we want to wish everybody a safe and healthy go-forward year. We want to welcome all to this first quarter call, as well and recognize and thank the entire Alexandria family team for the operationally excellent and truly stellar first quarter earnings report by all metrics and measures.We collectively continue to operate at an outstandingly high level into the second year of the COVID-19 pandemic. And as I'm often fond of quoting Jim Collins' Good to Great fame commented on Alexandria's feature in our annual report. Alexandria has achieved the three outputs that define a great company superior results, and we believe the first quarter is emblematic about distinctive impact, and we believe that our social responsibility programs have truly made a difference and lasting endurance. And with respect to lasting endurance, we sit here at literally several decades after we were founded in 1994, and I'll talk more about that in a moment.We're particularly proud of the six pillars of our highly impactful and long-standing social responsibility efforts, accelerating groundbreaking medical research to advance life saving treatments and cures, harnessing the entire agro food ecosystem to combat hunger, improved nutrition and support human health at its most fundamental level.Thirdly, bolstering the resilience of our military, our veterans and their families. Fourth, conquering the opioid epidemic and revolutionizing addiction treatment. The fifth pillar that we've spent a tremendous amount of time in over the last year and for a good part of the last decade, educationally empowering underserved students to achieve long-term success and reach their potential, as important principled leaders in the community. And then finally, building a model for comprehensive sustainable solution to address homelessness.Alexandria is also proud to be the focus cover story of the January, February 2021, Nareit magazine showcasing that we have pioneered a novel data-driven comprehensive care model to overcome the opioid epidemic launched in Dayton, Ohio. We're now focused on adopting a similar model but in different respects to the homeless problem, which has really become pretty out of control in many urban cities. And it is fraught with a lot of complex stratified issues, and actually is more of an issue of healthcare than it is simply of -- one of housing.We've been recognized as a leader and continuing -- and we continue to enhance our leadership in the area of sustainability. And we're on pace to achieve our first, sorry, Net Zero Energy building in South San Francisco, one of our important submarkets and only one of 70 of such buildings in the entire world. So we're very proud of that achievement when we finally get that designation.I always try to think about a theme on each quarter, and they are so different given macro and micro circumstances. And I would say, the theme for the first quarter has to be exceptional core and internal growth and really stellar value creation and external growth, both of which have driven our continued outstanding earnings results. And as the absolute go-to landlord in life science real estate leasing demand for Alex -- Alexandria's owned and operated first-in-class assets is at a historical high.And as I alluded to a moment ago, first quarter of 1994, 27 years ago this quarter, we completed our Series A financing led by Jacobs Engineering for $19 million, and here we sit 27 years later to the quarter with a total market cap of $32.5 billion and among the top 10 of all REITs. I remember attending the first REIT conference I think was in New Orleans in 1994, and I didn't know a single soul so we've come a long way. And we still are in our fourth consecutive quarter of COVID-19, something we -- none of us will ever forget. The stellar results by any measure of metric is we're very proud, and we are -- thank each and every one of our great team members.Dean will speak to the outstanding core and internal growth results, driven in part by strong rental rate growth and particularly featured this quarter in the San Francisco Bay region among others, one of our highest leasing quarters ever. And Steve and Peter will also speak to our stellar value creation growth in part driven by our collaborative Fenway blockbuster transaction, and we greatly appreciate and recognize the team that put that together. Avery highly leased valuation creation pipeline, which will provide continuing growth for Alexandria and so we're very proud of that.Also, important to note, and I think Steve, Peter, and Dean will also allude to this, our partial interest sale this quarter I think set a true benchmark valuation for Alexandria owned and operated first-in-class lab space in the South San Francisco submarket led by both Steve and Peter. And Peter in particular who we brought here in 1998, who have special and unique joint venture talents and a stellar network, and we've been at it under his guidance there for 20 years. So we think those two very much for that execution in the teams that supported them.We completed our first quarter with a very strong balance sheet. Dean will talk about that, with no debt maturities until 2024. And as some of you are aware, we've filed an S-1 with the SEC to raise $250 million for an Alexandria-sponsored SPAC importantly because we believe there was a real need for this in our core AgriFoodTech industry. And as we are in a quiet period, we won't be discussing this at all.Moving on to life science industry for a moment. The velocity and continuing demand for Alexandria lab space across our cluster markets is as strong as we've ever experienced. The pace of FDA approvals during the first quarter remained very strong with FDA approving 14 new drugs, 36% of those were Alexandria, our client tenants. We also note strong bipartisan support and a proposed whopping 20% increase for the budgets of NIH, CDC, and HHS. We don't know about FDA at this moment and hopefully, the administration will select, in the not too distant future, a true great leader there, and we're hoping for that.Public markets continued their strong pace with $4.5 billion raised in 29 IPOs this past quarter, and hundred an -- I'm sorry $12.6 billion raised in follow-on offerings, truly kind of a stellar capital markets quarter. Biopharma continues to invest heavily in its own R&D likely north of $225 billion for all of 2021.Let me comment a moment about some proposed corporate tax changes that were announced by the current administration, which if enacted in the law would foolishly and directly hurt U.S. manufacturing, U.S. R&D, and the repatriation of crucial supply chains that became evident in the pandemic that we were really woefully unprepared and relied on 70% of our supply chain efforts outside of the United States.I would say mission-critical sectors including biopharma certainly will not be helped. In essence, the threat to the American competitiveness is way bigger and way more important than the everyday life of Americans, and higher rates than higher rates and the Fed commentary and poor public policy.It's interesting to note the paradox of this pandemic moment. Large corporations have oftentimes been politically villainized, derided by the left and the right yet the main and perhaps only reason COVID-19 scourge is easing is the vaccines that were developed by biopharma and some in connection with the government and a groundbreaking effort with the Warp Speed effort, and we're very thankful for that.I think to quote Alex Gorsky, CEO of J&J, he made a pretty important quote recently and said we fundamentally believe that having a market-based innovation-based biopharmaceutical industry as well as a medical technology environment is critical to long term, it's critical long-term to produce the best overall outcomes for healthcare, and I think that absolutely rains true.So as I do each quarter, let me finish with a -- or I did last quarter and will each quarter, a quote, kind of a timely quote. I quoted Confucius last quarter, let me quote this quarter Steve Prefontaine, one of the world-class runners of his time. To give anything less than your best is to sacrifice the gift.And with that let me turn it over to Steve, Richardson.Stephen A. Richardson -- Co-Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Joel, and welcome everybody as well. As we presented during the last quarterly call, 2020 represented an exceptional year of high quality growth for Alexandria, as we increased the asset base by 27% to nearly 50 million square feet. Now the first quarter of 2021, a truly blow out quarter by all metrics, has clearly signaled the continuation of this exceptional growth trajectory and definitively affirms Alexandria's leadership role in the now core life science asset class and it's highly valued status within the broad life science ecosystem. The company's 27-year commitment to operational excellence at every level fuels the following outperformance highlights for Q1.Accounts receivable, we've collected 99.4% of our April AR billings as of today. And again, Alexandria's labs are essential infrastructure, and have been operational from day one in the pandemic. Some detail on leasing outperformance. During Q1, we leased approximately 1,677,000 square feet, which notably represents the second highest quarterly leasing active -- activity during the past five years, an amazing statistic considering the broader turmoil in the office market.Peter will touch on this in more detail, but the current and near-term development pipeline continues to look -- deliver value in a de-risked manner, as we are at 76% leased and negotiating even while adding a 1 million square feet of new starts during this quarter.The core, in particular, is exceptionally strong, continue to highlight and bring everyone's attention to the embedded growth in value within the core operating platform comprise now with nearly 34 million square feet with cash increases this quarter of 17.4% and GAAP increases of 36.2% and occupancy also very, very solid with 94.5% which has grown in excess of 2 million square feet this quarter compared to Q4 through our strategic acquisition activity, and we want to continue to bring to everyone's attention the near-term opportunity for increasing cash flows through the lease up of 1.2 million square feet of existing inventory provided by these recent acquisitions. Overall end-market health demand continues to be robust in our core clusters and our mega campus offerings provide a significant competitive advantage to the company.Importantly, subleases are in tight check, as since the start of 2021 just two subleases have been brought to market in one of our clusters, and both of those subleases have already been put under LOI. Supply more broadly is constrained for 2021 across all of our markets and in the two largest markets for 2022, we see nearly 50% of the supply is pre-leased in Greater Boston and in the San Francisco Bay Area we're monitoring just two projects for potential vertical activity in 2022.And as we've stated before, Alexandria's mega campus high-quality Class A product offerings continue to outperform any inferior one-off Class B office conversions in isolated locations. The year 2020 was truly an amazing year for Alexandria at the Vanguard and Heart of the Life Science Ecosystem, and now the first quarter of 2021 has exceeded those accomplishments with stellar performance. And in conclusion, I'd like to add to Joel's shout out to the entire Alexandria team for this quarter's achievements. With that, I'll hand it off to Peter.Peter M. Moglia -- Cp-Chief Executing Officer and Co-Chief Investment OfficerThanks, Steve. I'm going to update you all on our development pipeline comment on construction cost escalation and discuss a couple of life science sales. We continue to work at a very productive pace delivering 376,645 square feet during the quarter, including a full delivery of 9804 Medical Center Drive in Rockville, Maryland, to a high quality cell therapy company at an 8% cash yield, which was 80 basis points above our initial disclosure. The project's outperformance was the direct result of our best-in-class team who were able to drive down overall cost savings through a combination of the debt schedule management, alternative construction techniques and highly effective coordination with the tenant.In addition, we fully delivered the 100,086 square foot 1165 Eastlake Avenue East building in Seattle to Adaptive Biotechnologies, a cutting-edge public immune medicine company on the front lines of fighting COVID-19. This building is highly unique, as it sits on the edge of Lake Union, offering expansive years of the Lake Queen Anne in Downtown Seattle.Leasing activity in our pipeline continues to be robust with approximately 789,000 square feet leased during the quarter and another approximately 450,000 square feet and executed LOIs. Highlights include completing the lease-up of 3115 Merryfield Row well in advance of its 2022 delivery date. Incremental progress at Alexandria Center Life -- Long Island City, which is approaching being half-leased and committed and a surge of activity in both SD Tech and our newly acquired 201 Brookline asset in the Fenway area of Boston.At SD Tech, we executed LOIs increasing its lease negotiating status by 37%, as tenants affirm the attractiveness of our transformation of this historical mid-sized tech campus into a highly amenitized science and technology mega campus. As impressive as that is, the response by the market to our Fenway transaction 201 Brookline has been even more remarkable.When we closed on that transaction in late January the asset was 17% leased. As we sit today, we have letters of intent that when converted to leases will bring that percentage up to 84%. This is a testament to the trust life science companies have in our best-in-class brand, as these opportunities came to 201 Brookline in large part because of Alexandria.Overall, with the addition of five new projects and the full delivery of 9804 Medical Center Drive, we now have approximately 4 million square feet under construction that is 66% pre-leased and 76% committed when including signed LOI's. That is only 2% below the committed leasing percentage from last year's or from last quarter. And as Steve alluded to despite the fact that we also added a 1 million square feet of new projects.Given the recent news on anticipated inflation, we wanted to give you guys an update on construction cost escalations, as it relates to our pipeline. Before we get into what is happening in the construction market, we want to note that the projects listed on Page 42 that make up the 4 million square feet under construction are largely subject to guaranteed maximum price contracts, which protect us from any escalations not already negotiated into the pricing.Under construction projects that are still in negotiations, those that -- well, the ones that are still in negotiations have been conservatively underwritten with a conservative escalation range applied in our underwriting. The 80 basis point yield be at 9804 Medical Center Drive that I spoke about earlier, is a testament to our conservative underwriting and outstanding budget management.As we all know, coming into 2020, we all expected growth in the real estate sector to continue, and we were all taken by surprise when a global pandemic created disruption in our personal and professional lives. As reported in our 1Q call last year, Alexandria was required to temporarily suspend seven projects during the quarter due to COVID-19, but with life science being deemed in essential business we're able to restart relatively quickly. That wasn't so for many other developers and a large number of projects were put on hold or canceled altogether. That cause general and sub-contractor backlogs to shrink in for a moment in the middle of the year most major contractors assume the worst and laid-off workers.Demand for materials also diminished and for a brief period of time overall construction cost trended lower than pre-COVID levels. We know in California that cost dropped as much as 2% during that time. However, as news of the effectiveness of vaccines candlelight toward the end of the year, the construction industry experienced a V-shaped recovery led by residential and advanced technology with life science and healthcare contributing to the sudden increase as well.One of our major contractors had to pivot quickly, and today is still spending 10 hours a week on hiring as backlogs grow. In addition to the shortage of labor costs are being materially influenced by a shortage of subcontractor shop capacity. The makers of blazing doc work, and other pre-fabricated materials have more work than they can handle, so many have increasing pricing to control their backlog.On top of that, the demand for raw materials is putting pressure on steel, copper, lumber and plywood. Steel is up 20% from April 2020 to February of this year. Copper is up 37% and lumber and plywood are up 62% over the same period. Although, these percentages are high, materials are only 30% to 35% of the total cost stack. So we've been advised to plan for 5% to 6% annual escalations in the aggregate over the next 12 months.Rest assured, Alexandria constantly stays in front of this data. Factors that into our underwriting and employee strategies to mitigate its impact. As a major developer with a number of significant major contractor and subcontractor relationships, we are able to leverage preferred pricing and priority in the queue. We have a great reputation among our vendors as we treat them like partners, and that enables us to continue to deliver on-time and on budget in any market conditions.I'll conclude my commentary by talking about some private cap rates that you should factor into your NAV models. Our own partial interest sale of 300,930 square foot 213 East Grand building in South San Francisco was executed at a record 4% cap rate and translates to a value of $1,429 per square foot. This should be very impactful to our overall valuation of South San Francisco is one of our largest sub-markets, as we hold 3.3 million square feet in operation or under development.Despite the fact that the rent is approximately 20% to 25% below market on that asset the lease goes for another 12 years, so we believe the yield is very reflective of what investors are willing to pay today for first-in-class Alexandria owned and stabilized assets. We'd also like to report that Blackstone sold a 454,000 square foot 96% lease science Technology Park at Johns Hopkins to Ventas for $272 million or $600 per square foot, which is a 4.8% cap rate, although, the asset has strong tenancy, the neighborhood is tough, so this was a positive outcome for Blackstone and another testament to the high demand for life science assets today. With that, I'll pass it over to Dean.Dean A. Shigenaga -- President and Chief Financial OfficerPeter, thanks. Dean Shigenaga here, and good afternoon everyone. I just want to kick off with a huge congratulations to our entire team for just a spectacular quarter of the exceptional execution. The first quarter of 2021 when you compare it to the fourth quarter reflects one of the strongest operating and financial results in the company's history with our unique and differentiated life science real estate platform really at the core of this very strong growth. Our highly experienced team, trusted partnership to the life science industry and high quality campuses in key centers of innovation continues to generate significant growth and value, and I want to kick off with allocation and sources of capital.We continue to remain very disciplined with the allocation of capital in the projects that have and will generate significant long-term cash flows and tremendous value for our company and shareholders. Now, let me take a moment to highlight again the exceptional execution by our team. During the first quarter, we strategically increased our current and future pipeline of development and redevelopment opportunities with $1.9 billion in acquisitions. These value creation-related acquisitions also included in-place cash flows that contributed to a very strong NOI growth in the quarter.Importantly though, through these acquisitions, we added a number of very high quality current and future development and redevelopment projects to our pipeline. I know the key driver of strong NOI growth in the first quarter was the delivery and completion of development and redevelopment projects aggregating 376,000 rentable square feet that were 100% leased and on average these were delivered mid quarter. As of March 31st, we had 4 million rentable square feet of some of the best laboratory space under construction, that was highly leased negotiating at 76% and this included 1 million rentable square feet of projects that were added in the first quarter.Now importantly over the last four quarters, our team executed leases aggregating almost 1.8 million rentable square feet related to the development and redevelopment projects and this included 789,000 rentable square feet of leases that we executed in the current quarter. Now these are truly spectacular stats highlighting that we are the trusted partner to the life science industry. Now, we are very pleased with our allocation of capital to these value creation projects, as these projects are on track that generate significant value as highlighted by the partial interest sale we completed in the first quarter at a spectacular cap rate of 4%.We have a great pipeline of near-term and intermediate-term projects aggregating 9.2 million rentable square feet, and we're in a strong position to meet the demand from our broad and diverse network of life science and agtech relationships. We have also been very strategic and disciplined with sources of capital and have for many years been taking advantage of the continued exceptional growth in private market valuation for our properties.As Peter highlighted, we completed a 70% partial interest sale at $301 million in a Class A property located in South San Francisco that is leased long term to Merck. Now, this transaction as Peter highlighted is sold at a record cap rate of 4% at 1,429 per square foot and really generated a spectacular profit margin of 53%. Now, this transaction highlights continued tightening of cap rates and growth in price per square foot for our high-quality life science properties. Proceeds from real estate dispositions remain an important low cost component of our sources of capital each year, and we have completed real estate dispositions aggregating $324 million to date and have several transactions moving along that will allow us to hit our real estate disposition forecast range from $1.25 billion to $1.5 billion, and we expect to provide more details on real estate dispositions next quarter.Now additionally, we expect to generate capital for reinvestment from our venture investment program and more on this topic in a moment. The next, I wanted to really turn to real estate, which is at the core of our strong growth. We reported total revenues in the first quarter of $480 million or $1.9 billion annualized, up 9.1% over the first quarter of '20 and over double total revenues reported five years ago in the first quarter of 2016. Now, we continue to report exceptional real estate financial and operating results -- resulting in solid growth in our outlook for 2021, we delivered the following outstanding results in the quarter, very strong cash net operating income growth of 10.3% and again congratulations to our leasing team for truly awesome execution of leasing.We hit the second highest quarter of leases executed in the history of the company at 1.7 million rentable square feet, continued strong rental rate growth on lease renewals and releasing the space at 36.2% and 17.4% on a cash basis and we're in a great position today and updated our outlook for rental rate growth for 2021 by 100 basis points to a range from 30% to 33% and from 17% to 20% on a cash basis. And again, record leasing on the development and redevelopment projects over the last four quarters at 1.8 million rentable square feet, that includes the 789,000 square feet that we executed on in the first quarter.Now, we're off to a great start and we're on track for strong same-property NOI growth for 2021. First quarter same-property NOI growth was strong and up 4.4% and 6.1 on a cash basis and the strength of our real estate vertical drove improvement in our outlook for same-property NOI growth for 2021. We increased our outlook by 50 basis points to a range from 1.5% to 3.5% and 30 basis points on a cash basis to a range from 4.3% to 6.3%.Our EBITDA margin was very strong at at 69% one of the best in the REIT industry and our occupancy remains very strong at 94.5% and represents a key area that will drive growth in cash flows in 2021 and 2022. And please refer to page 25 of our supplemental package for details on the recently acquired vacancy aggregating 1.2 million rentable square feet, 26% of this 1.2 million rentable square feet of vacancy is leased with most of this 26% taking occupancy over the next two quarters, and we're forecasting solid occupancy growth in 2021 of 100 basis points, with half of this increase forecasted in the third quarter and the remaining growth in the fourth quarter. We're also forecasting stronger occupancy growth into 2022.Now, briefly on venture investments, our venture investment portfolio continues to perform exceptionally well. And as of March 31st had unrealized gains of $729 million on an adjusted cost basis of $912 million. Now, our adjusted cost basis represented only 3.2% of gross assets as of March 31st. Realized gains on our venture investments included an FFO per share were $24.3 million, up only $2.7 million over the fourth quarter of '20. Now looking forward to the rest of 2021, realized gains from our venture investments should be in the $25 million to $27 million range per quarter.Now importantly, we also realized an additional gain of $22.9 million that related to an investment in a privately held clinical stage biopharmaceutical company focused in the oncology area that was acquired by a large equity cap biopharma company. Now, this significant gain related to one transaction and was excluded from the FFO per share as adjusted. We have significant unrealized gains of $725 million in our venture investment holdings and we hope to have additional opportunities to generate capital and reduce a portion of our future equity capital needs by approximately $100 million in 2021.Now turning to our very strong and flexible balance sheet, which really supports our strategic growth initiatives. We're very proud of what our team has accomplished over recent years. Our overall corporate credit ratings from Moody's and S&P ranks within the top 10% of all equity REITs. Over the past nine quarters, our team has issued $6.2 billion of unsecured senior notes payable, representing 72% of our total outstanding debt at a weighted average effective rate of 3.26% and a term of almost 16 years.Now, the debt capital consisted of both growth capital and refinancing capital that significantly extended our weighted average remaining term of outstanding debt to 13 years and locked in very attractive long-term fixed rate debt. The February 2021 bond offering was a key example. We took a -- took advantage of very attractive interest rate environment and we opportunistically issued $1.75 billion in unsecured notes with a portion of the proceeds used to refinance $650 million of notes that were due in 2024. Now, these new notes were issued at an amazingly low rate of 2% for 11-year notes, 3% for 30-year notes. Also, we just wanted to highlight the balance sheet statistics for the quarter, and the year we remain on track for continued improvement in net debt to adjusted EBITDA to 5.2 times by year-end.Our fixed charge coverage ratio is very strong and has increased to 4.7 times for the first quarter annualized. And we continue to maintain significant liquidity of $4.3 billion. And as Joel had touched on earlier, no debt maturities until 2024, and only $184 million coming due in 2024.Touching on guidance here as we wrap up as a reminder, just want to refer you to Pages 11 and 12 of our supplemental package for a detailed and updated guidance assumption 2021. Our improved outlook for 2021 over the prior guidance captures a strength of our real estate performance, including an improvement in rental rate growth and growth in both same property and overall net operating income. Now EPS diluted was updated to a range from $1.58 to $1.68 and FFO per share as adjusted was updated to a range from $7.68 to $7.78 and the midpoint of that range for FFO per share of $7.73 is up $0.03 over the prior guidance and represents projected growth of about 5.9% over our strong FFO per share results for 2020 of $7.30.With that let me turn it back over to Joel. Thank you.Joel S. Marcus -- Executive Chairman and FounderSo, operator, if we could go to question and answer, please?