
OperatorGood morning, and welcome to the Principal Financial Group Third Quarter Financial Results Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to turn the conference over to John Egan, Vice President of Investor Relations.John Egan -- Vice President Investor Relations

 



Thank you, and good morning. Welcome to Principal Financial Group's Third Quarter 2021 Conference Call. As always, materials related to today's call are available on our website at principal.com/investor. Following the reading of the safe harbor provision, CEO, Dan Houston; and CFO, Deanna Strable, will deliver some prepared remarks. Then we will open up the call for questions. Others available for the Q&A session include: Renee Schaaf, Retirement Income Solutions; Pat Halter, Global Asset Management; and Amy Friedrich, U.S. Insurance Solutions. Some of the comments made during this conference call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Ligation Reform Act. The company does not revise or update them to reflect new information, subsequent events or changes in strategy. Risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied are discussed in the company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K filed by the company with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Additionally, some of the comments made during this conference call may refer to non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measures may be found on our earnings release, financial supplement and slide presentation.Dan?Daniel J. Houston -- Chairman, President And Chief Executive OfficerThanks, John, and welcome to everyone on the call. This morning, I will discuss the progress we are making toward our strategic and financial targets and the key performance highlights for the third quarter. Deanna will follow with additional details of our third quarter results as well as our current capital and financial position. Last week, Principal celebrated 20 years as a public company. Our evolution from a mutual insurance company to a global financial services provider has been remarkable. Since our IPO in 2001, we've increased our AUM by more than eight times from $120 billion to nearly $1 trillion, and the number of customers we serve is increased nearly four times from 13 million to 49 million today. Over the last two decades, we have weathered through a global financial crisis, volatile financial markets and geopolitical conditions and the complexity of a global pandemic. We've deliberately evolved our portfolio, product offering and go-to-market approach to grow the business and meet the changing needs of our customers.

 



At the same time, we've stepped up and worked to act in a way that benefit society and the planet, guided by a robust ESG strategy that's focused on reducing our carbon footprint, strengthening our communities and advancing access to financial security for more people and businesses. At our Investor Day in June, we shared how our long-term strategy puts the customer at the center of what we do and leans into our competitive advantages, which are differentiated and integrated solutions, our leadership position in higher growth markets and our deep and established customer reach. We emphasized how our focus on a higher growth, more capital-efficient enterprise through our growth drivers, retirement in the U.S. and select emerging markets, global asset management and U.S. benefits and protection positions us to win, grow and create shareholder value today and long into the future. As shown on Slide four, we are committed to achieving near-term financial targets.Excluding significant variances, we've delivered a 12% increase in earnings per share on a trailing 12-month basis, the high end of our 9% to 12% target range. And at nearly 14%, we're making great progress toward reaching our targeted 15% return on equity. We're executing on our strengthened capital management strategy and on our way to return $3 billion of excess capital to shareholders by the end of 2022. With our prior announcement to exit the U.S. Retail Fixed Annuity business and the retail segment of our U.S. Life Insurance business, we've seen sales as of the end of the third quarter. We're actively engaged in conversations with the counterparties of transactions for the U.S. Retail Fixed Annuity and Universal Life with secondary guarantee blocks and are confident we'll have more to share in the coming months. At our U.S. Individual Life Insurance business, our focus is now solely on business market through business owner executive solutions and nonqualified deferred compensation offerings. In fact, IBIS and Associates recently ranked Principal the top life insurance provider in small case business market in terms of both premium and case count, underscoring the strength of our go-forward strategy.With this intense focus on executing on our strategy and serving our customers, we're already beginning to see benefits in the third quarter. Turning to Slide five. We reported $458 million of non-GAAP operating earnings in the third quarter. Excluding significant variances, earnings increased 7% over the third quarter of 2020, driven by growth in the business and improvement in the macroeconomic conditions, including a robust U.S. labor market across many of our businesses. We closed the third quarter with a total AUM of $981 billion, including $688 billion of AUM managed by Principal. Total AUM increased 34% compared to the third quarter of 2020, reflecting $17 billion of net cash flow over the trailing 12 months, strong investment performance and the migration of institutional retirement and trust retirement assets. Total company net cash flow was a positive $4.6 billion in the third quarter, more than double the prior year quarter with positive net cash flow across all of our business units. Third quarter results are a testament to our focus on delivering outcomes for our customers through our integrated solution and differentiated capabilities. In global asset management, third quarter PGI-managed net cash flow was a positive $2.2 billion with positive net cash flow across institutional mutual fund platforms and general account. PGI generated record-managed AUM of $535 billion and record-sourced AUM of $265 billion in the quarter.As shown on Slide six, we continue to deliver strong long-term investment performance as 69% of the principal mutual funds, ETFs, separate accounts and collective investment trust were above median for the three-year period, 72% for the 5-year and 86% for the 10-year. For our Morningstar-rated funds, 73% of fund-level AUM had a four- or five-star rating. Longer-term performance continues to position us well to attract and retain assets. Our flagship real estate products and yield-oriented products, including preferred securities, high yield and private assets continues to be in demand. We are expanding our direct lending capabilities and looking for opportunities to deliver ESG capabilities across a variety of product categories and investment vehicles to meet evolving client demands. And U.S. retirement and Principal Super Saver study shows that despite market volatility during the pandemic, over half of these retirement participants said they have saved more in their retirement plans over the last 18 months and only 3% said they save less. These trends are contributing to the 67% growth in reoccurring deposits and RIS-Fee compared to third quarter of 2020. This reflects a 20% increase in reoccurring deposits on our legacy block, deposits from the migrated IRT retirement participants as well as the strong increase in employer matches. Combined with strong transfer deposits and record contract retention, RIS-Fee reported positive net cash flow of approximately $1 billion in the third quarter.

 



Additionally, we had $2.2 billion of RIS spread sales in the third quarter, including $1.4 billion of MTN and GIC issuances and nearly $500 million of pension risk transfer sales. These strong sales generated more than $800 million of positive net cash flow. Outside of the U.S., Principal International reported $400 million of net cash flow and $156 billion of AUM in the third quarter, a 5% increase in AUM on a constant currency basis compared to a year ago. Despite negative cash flow in Brazil during the quarter, we continue to see growth and our multimercado funds, now which account for almost 30% of AUM in Brazil pref. With BRL53 billion of net cash flow year-to-date, we've captured 69% of the market through these value-added solutions for our customers that are higher revenue diversified funds. China AUM, which is not included in the reported AUM, was $158 billion in the third quarter. benefiting from positive net cash flow across all asset classes, we continue to see growth in equity net cash flow and AUM as retail investors look for higher value add products. In U.S. benefits and protection, we're seeing increased demand for benefits, robust hiring and favorable wage trends. Notably, Group benefits trailing 12-month in-group growth was a record 2.7% for the total block and nearly 5% in businesses with under 200 employees. Turning to Slide seven.We continue to make progress on our ESG efforts. We issued our first sustainability bond during the quarter. The bond's $600 million proceeds will be used to support green and social initiatives that reinforce our ESG commitments. We also launched a municipal bond impact strategy during the quarter, our first in the U.S., which is primarily offered to high net worth clients as a separately managed account. We're focused on developing new ESG products and strategies while enhancing existing products to meet the growing client demand for these products around the world. We're very optimistic about the opportunities that lie ahead as momentum continues to build in many of our businesses. We are evolving our portfolio to bring greater focus to our growth drivers and create greater value for our shareholders.I'll now turn it over to Deanna, who will go further into how this translates and to our results. Deanna?Deanna D. Strable -- Executive Vice President And Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Dan. Good morning to everyone on the call. This morning, I'll share the key contributors to our financial performance for the quarter as well as an update on our current financial and capital position. Net income attributable to Principal was $360 million in the third quarter, including $99 million of net realized capital losses with $6 million of credit losses. We reported $458 million of non-GAAP operating earnings in the third quarter or $1.69 per diluted share. Excluding significant variances, non-GAAP operating earnings of $444 million or $1.64 per diluted share increased 7% and 9%, respectively, compared to the third quarter of 2020. Since the end of 2020, we've increased ROE 300 basis points to nearly 14% and through growth in earnings and higher levels of capital deployment. We're on track to reach our targeted 15% ROE by year-end 2023 as we deploy capital in a more purposeful manner to higher-return businesses return excess capital to shareholders and grow earnings. The reported non-GAAP operating earnings effective tax rate was 19.4% for the third quarter, slightly above our guided range of 16% to 19%, primarily due to higher taxes resulting from our international businesses. We expect the full year tax rate to be within the guided range.As shown on Slide eight, we had a number of significant variances during the third quarter, a benefit from very favorable variable investment income was partially offset by a net unfavorable impact from the actuarial assumption review, COVID-related claims, IRT integration costs and lower-than-expected encaje performance in Latin America. These had a net positive impact to reported non-GAAP operating earnings of $18 million pre-tax, $14 million after tax and $0.05 per diluted share. Variable investment income was $91 million pre-tax higher than expected in the third quarter, primarily driven by very favorable alternative investment returns and prepayment fees. The net negative $33 million pre-tax impact from the annual assumption review was primarily driven by updates to experience and economic assumptions. Unfavorable impacts as a result of updating variable annuity lapse rate assumptions were partially offset by a favorable impact in individual life, primarily due to interest rates. While we didn't change our long-term interest rate assumptions, the starting point is approximately 40 basis points higher than where we expected rates to be a year ago. In the third quarter, COVID impact the RIS spread in U.S. Insurance Solutions. With approximately 90,000 U.S. COVID-related deaths in the quarter, the net $20 million after-tax impact was higher than our rule of thumb, primarily due to elevated Group Life claims and Specialty Benefits.While our COVID impacts have been volatile quarter-to-quarter, the cumulative impact since the start of the pandemic is tracking right in line with our overall rule of thumb. Looking at macroeconomic factors in the third quarter, the S&P 500 index was flat and the daily average increased 6% compared to the second quarter. The daily average also increased 34% from the year ago quarter, benefiting revenue, AUM and account values in RIS-Fee and PGI. Foreign exchange rates were a slight headwind compared to the second quarter, but a tailwind on a trailing 12-month basis. Impacts to reported pre-tax operating earnings included: a negative $2 million compared to second quarter 2021, a positive $4 million compared to third quarter 2020 and a positive $6 million on a trailing 12-month basis. Turning to the business units. My following comments exclude the impacts of significant variances. As a reminder, we took action in 2020 to reduce expenses due to uncertainties from the pandemic. Some of the expenses were naturally lower like travel, sales-related expenses and bonus accruals, and and we intentionally reduced other expenses, including hiring, salary cost, third-party spend as well as marketing and advertising. As revenues have increased over the past year, some of these expenses have increased as well, impacting comparability of results year-over-year. RIS-Fee pre-tax operating earnings were flat with the year ago quarter.Growth in net revenue was offset by higher expenses, including variable compensation and DAC amortization. While we've been reporting the IRT revenue in our results since the transaction closed, the associated account value didn't fully migrate until last quarter and thus is now fully reflected in average account value. As a result, our average annualized fee rate declined approximately 25 basis points from a year ago, and we expect annual fee compression to be between two to three basis points in 2022. Our revenue mix also is now less equity market sensitive as the IRT block included more transaction-based and participant-based fees. As a reminder, the IRT Trust and Custody business will migrate in the first quarter of 2022, and later than what was assumed in our 2021 outlook. As a result, we will continue to have some TSA and integration costs as well as delayed synergies pressuring full year 2021 earnings and margin. We now expect that the full year margin to be at the lower end of our 23% to 27% guided range. Expense synergies have already started emerging, and we are confident that we'll achieve our targeted $90 million in 2023. PGI benefited from strong management fees, performance fees and continued disciplined expense management in the third quarter, boosting growth in revenue and earnings and producing a 45% margin. Pretax operating earnings and margin benefited from a net $9 million from performance fees in the quarter.Looking ahead to the fourth quarter, we anticipate another quarter of favorable impacts from variable investment income and PGI performance fees. I also want to remind you that our enterprise fourth quarter compensation and other expenses are typically higher than other quarters due to seasonality of certain expenses like marketing and IT. We expect the impact of seasonality will be lower this fourth quarter than our typical 7% to 10%. Turning to capital and liquidity on Slide nine. We are focused on returning excess capital to shareholders and plan to grade down to our targeted capital levels by year-end 2022. At the end of the third quarter, we had $2.5 billion of excess and available capital, including $1.8 billion at the holding company, $1 billion higher than our target of $800 million to cover the next 12 months of obligations, $190 million in excess of our targeted 400% risk-based capital ratio estimated to be 412% and nearly $500 million of available cash in our subsidiaries. We will continue to maintain a 20% to 25% leverage ratio and expect to pay down $300 million of long-term debt when it matures in late 2022. As shown on Slide 10, we deployed $371 million of capital during the third quarter, including $203 million of share repurchases and $168 million to common stock dividends.Since the beginning of the year, we've returned over $1 billion of capital to shareholders. We remain committed to returning $3 billion by the end of 2022, including $1.4 billion to $1.8 billion of share repurchases and $1.3 billion to $1.4 billion in common stock dividends. This excludes any impacts of potential transactions. Last night, we announced a $0.64 common stock dividend payable in the fourth quarter, a $0.01 or 2% increase from the dividend paid in the third quarter. Our dividend yield is approximately 4%, and we're on track to achieve our targeted 40% dividend payout ratio for the full year. Through our refined focus and strengthened capital deployment strategy, we will invest in areas where Principal has established competitive advantages and the ability to meet targeted returns. We have a clear path to becoming a high-growth, more capital-efficient company creating long-term value for shareholders. We are excited about the path forward, focusing on our growth areas with established differentiators, allowing for improved focus, returns and risk profile. This concludes our prepared remarks.Operator, please open the call for questions.