
OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the SBA Second Quarter Results Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.And I would now like to turn the conference over to our host, Mark DeRussy, Vice President of Finance. Please go ahead.Mark DeRussy -- Vice President, Finance

 



Thanks, Caroline. Good evening everyone and thank you for joining us for SBA's second quarter 2021 earnings conference call. Here with me today are Jeff Stoops, our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Brendan Cavanagh, our Chief Financial Officer.So, the information we will discuss on this call is forward-looking, including, but not limited to, any guidance for 2021 and beyond. In today's press release and in our SEC filings, we detail material risks that may cause our future results to differ from our expectations.Our statements are as of today, August 2, and we have no obligation to update any forward-looking statements we may make. In addition, our comments will include non-GAAP financial measures and other key operating metrics. The reconciliation of and other information regarding these items can be found in our supplemental financial data package, which is located on the landing page of our Investor Relations website.And with that, I will now turn the call over to Brendan.

 



Brendan T. Cavanagh -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Mark. Good evening. SBA had a tremendous quarter with results for the second quarter ahead of our expectations in most key areas. Total GAAP site leasing revenues for the second quarter were $524.1 million and cash site leasing revenues were $514.6 million. Foreign exchange rates were ahead of our previously forecasted FX rate estimates for the quarter, contributing $3.1 million of incremental site leasing revenue in the second quarter. They were also a tailwind on comparisons to the second quarter of 2020, positively impacting revenues by $3.5 million on a year-over-year basis.Same tower recurring cash leasing revenue growth for the second quarter, which is calculated on a constant currency basis, was 3.4% over the second quarter of 2020, including the impact of 2.5% of churn. On a gross basis, same tower growth was 5.9%.Domestic same tower recurring cash leasing revenue growth over the second quarter of last year was 5.5% on a gross basis and 3% on a net basis, including 2.5% of churn. Domestic operational leasing activity or bookings, representing new revenue placed under contract during the second quarter, was up significantly from the prior quarter and represented the highest quarterly level since 2014. Even with this high level of executions, our domestic new lease and new amendment application backlog finished the quarter at a multi-year high. These backlog support our expectations for continued strong domestic operational leasing activity throughout the balance of this year.

 



During the second quarter, amendment activity represented 34% of our domestic bookings with 66% coming from new leases, the first time in many years the bookings from new leases outpaced that from amendment. The Big 4 carriers of AT&T, T-Mobile, Verizon and DISH represented 97% of total incremental domestic leasing revenue signed up during the quarter. Internationally, on a constant currency basis, same tower cash leasing revenue growth was 5.3% net, including 2.2% of churn or 7.5% on a gross basis.International leasing activity increased modestly from the first quarter. In Brazil, our largest international market, we had an improved quarter of leasing activity. Gross same tower organic growth in Brazil was 8.9% on a constant currency basis. During the second quarter, 84.8% of consolidated cash site leasing revenue was denominated in US dollars.The majority of non-US dollar denominated revenue was from Brazil with Brazil representing 11.5% of consolidated cash site leasing revenues during the quarter and 8.4% of cash site leasing revenue excluding revenues from pass through expenses. So, our cash flow for the second quarter was $421.2 million.Our tower cash flow margins continue to be very strong with the second quarter Domestic tower cash flow margin of 84.7% and an international tower cash flow margin of 70.8% or 91%, excluding the impact of pass-through reimbursable expenses.Adjusted EBITDA in the second quarter was $400.2 million. The adjusted EBITDA margin was 70.7% in the quarter. Excluding the impact of revenues from pass-through expenses, adjusted EBITDA margin was 75%. Approximately 98% of our total adjusted EBITDA was attributable to our tower leasing business in the second quarter. During the second quarter, our services business produced record results for the company with $51.4 million in revenue and over $11 million of segment operating profit.The very high activity levels we saw in the first quarter strengthened further in the second quarter, resulting in a quarter end services backlog that was 30% above first quarter levels and was also the highest in our company's history. We expect to see continued high levels of services activity throughout the rest of the year and as a result have increased our full-year outlook for site development revenue by $25 million from last quarter and by $40 million from our initial outlook.AFFO in the second quarter was $293.5 million. AFFO per share was $2.64, an increase of 15.3% over the second quarter of 2020. During the second quarter, we continued to expand our portfolio acquiring 57 communication sites for a total cash consideration of $67 million. We also built 98 new sites in the quarter. Subsequent to quarter end, we have purchased or agreed to purchase approximately 400 additional sites in our existing markets for an aggregate price of $95 million. And we anticipate closing on the majority of the sites under contract by the end of the year.In addition, during the second quarter, we announced that through a new joint venture arrangement, we have entered into a contract with Airtel Tanzania, a subsidiary of Airtel Africa, to purchase their approximately 1,400 towers in Tanzania. Under this agreement, Airtel will leaseback space on each of the towers and we'll also provide a fixed minimum number of build-to-suit towers during the first five years following the closing of the acquisition. The total purchase price for the acquisition is expected to be approximately $175 million and the acquisition is anticipated to close in stages starting in the fourth quarter.For our updated 2021 outlook, we have assumed that the acquisition closes at the end of the year. And thus, we have included the entire purchase price in our outlook for discretionary capital expenditures. But we have included no revenue or tower cash flow associated with these events. We expect the assets to produce approximately $80 million of adjusted EBITDA during the first full year of operations under the joint venture. SBA will be the majority partner for joint venture and we are partnering with Paradigm Infrastructure Limited, a UK company founded by former senior executives of American Tower, which is focused on developing, owning and operating shared passive wireless infrastructure in selected growth markets.We believe the combined international tower industry operating experience of SBA and Paradigm will allow us to maximize the opportunity in this new rapidly growing market. In addition to do tower assets, we also continue to invest in the land under our sites. During the quarter, we spent an aggregate of $11.8 million to buy land and easements and to extend ground lease terms.At the end of the quarter, we owned or controlled for more than 20 years the land underneath approximately 71% of our towers. And the average remaining life under our ground leases, including renewal options under our control, is approximately 37 years.In this afternoon's earnings press release, we included our updated outlook for full year '21. Our update increased expectations for site leasing revenue, site development revenue, adjusted EBITDA, AFFO and AFFO per share. These increases are driven by outperformance across our business, increased network investment activities by our customers, improved foreign exchange rates, reduced non-discretionary cash capital expenditures and reduced cash interest expense as a result of timely refinancings.Notwithstanding our strong domestic leasing bookings during the second quarter, which were ahead of our expectations, we have not increased our 2021 outlook for incremental organic domestic leasing revenue. New bookings typically begin to accrue revenue at the earlier of a date-certain or commencement of construction. For outlook purposes, unless we have received notice of construction commencement, we only consider the date certain, which for the second quarter bookings to outperformance generally ranges from late in the fourth quarter sometime in the first half of 2022.As we mentioned last quarter, we anticipate our reported gross domestic same tower revenue growth will begin to increase in the second half of the year and that we will exit 2021 at the highest rate of the year. As is always the case, our full year 2021 outlook does not assume any further acquisitions beyond those under contract today. And the outlook also does not assume any share repurchases other than those completed as of today. However, when opportunities present, we are likely to invest in additional assets or share repurchases or both during the rest of the year.Our outlook for net cash interest expense did not contemplate any further financing activity in 2021. Finally, our outlook for AFFO per share is based on an assumed weighted average number of diluted common shares of 111.5 million, which assumption is influenced in part by estimated future share prices.With that, I will now turn things over to Mark, who will provide an update on our liquidity position and balance sheet.Mark DeRussy -- Vice President, FinanceThanks, Brendan. We ended the quarter with $12 billion of total debt and $11.7 billion of net debt. Our net debt to annualized adjusted EBITDA leverage ratio was 7.3 times, a return to our target range of 77.5 times, faster than originally anticipated after the PG&E acquisition during the first quarter.Our second quarter net cash interest coverage ratio of adjusted EBITDA to net cash interest expense was 4.4 times. On May 14, the company through an existing trust issued $1.165 billion of Secured Tower Revenue Securities, Series 21-1C, which have an anticipated repayment date of November 9, 2026 and a final maturity date of May 9, 2051.These securities have a fixed annual interest rate of 1.631% payable monthly. The net proceeds from this offering were used to repay the entire aggregate principal amount of the 2017-1C Tower Securities and for general corporate purposes. Then on July 7, the company amended its existing revolving credit facility. Among other things, this amendment increased the total commitments under the facility from $1.25 billion to $1.5 billion.In addition, extended the maturity date of the facility to July 7, 2026, lowered the applicable interest rate margins and commitment fees out of the facility and incorporated sustainability linked targets into the facility, allowing for interest rate and commitment fee adjustments based on how we perform against those targets. We are pleased to be one of the first companies to include such sustainability focused provisions in our credit facility.As of today, we have no amounts outstanding under our revolver and the weighted average interest rate of our outstanding debt is 2.9% with a weighted average maturity of approximately 4.5 years. During the second quarter, we did not purchase any shares of our common stock. As of today, we have $475.1 million of repurchase authorization remaining under our $1 billion stock repurchase plan. The company's shares outstanding at June 30, 2021 were 109.5 million compared to 111.9 million at June 30, 2020, a reduction of 2.1%.In addition, during the second quarter, we declared and paid a cash dividend of $63.5 million or $0.58 per share. And today, we announced that our Board of Directors declared a third quarter dividend of $0.58 per share, which is payable on September 23, 2021 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on August 26, 2021. Today's dividend announcement represents a payout ratio of 22% of second quarter AFFO per share, which leaves us ample room for material future dividend growth.And with that, I will now turn the call over to Jeff.Jeffrey A. Stoops -- Director, President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Mark. And good evening, everyone. As you have heard, we had a very strong performance in the second quarter, one of our best in quite some time. Domestically, our customers were extremely active. This quarter, we signed up more leasing revenue than we have in any quarter in seven years. We believe the second quarter was the start of a multi-year increase in US wireless carrier capex.Our backlogs of lease and amendment applications ended up near record highs at the end of the quarter, notwithstanding the high levels of bookings, which obviously bodes well for activity levels throughout the rest of the year and into next. Our customers are focused on building out their 5G networks with a particular focus on upgrading their macro networks. Leasing activity levels were driven by initial C-band initiatives, 2.5-gigahertz deployments, FirstNet amendments, general coverage expansion and the beginning of DISH's network build out. These initiatives also drove our services volumes to record highs.Last quarter, I was pleased to discuss how our first quarter services results were the best in seven years, but that didn't last long as we reported 18% more services revenue in the second quarter than we did in the first quarter, producing over $51 million of quarterly revenue, the highest in our company's history. We also finished the quarter with the highest services backlog in our history. These results allowed us to increase our full year services outlook by $25 million.As you could tell, our domestic customers are very busy right now and that sets us up for a very good 2021 and 2022.Internationally, the second quarter was also very solid for us with quarter-over-quarter sequential increases in new lease and amendment executions and increasing CPI-based escalators in a number of our markets. During the quarter, we signed up 45% of new international revenue through new leases and 55% through amendments to existing leases. Our increased leasing results were driven by our two largest markets, Brazil and South Africa. These markets are still being affected at a greater level than here in the US by the COVID-19 pandemic.Our local teams though continue to perform very well and we believe we remain well positioned to benefit from increased network investment from our carrier customers as conditions improve and new spectrum auctions take place over the next year, including, for example, the just completed 3.5 gigahertz option in Canada, which raised proceeds well above expectations. Similar auctions of 5G suitable spectrum are planned in the near-term in a number of our markets, including Brazil.Even with this positive momentum, perhaps the most exciting international news from the quarter was regarding our pending acquisition from Airtel Tanzania. We have partnered with Paradigm Infrastructure for this opportunity. Paradigm was founded by and is run by several former American Tower executives well known to us, including those that were responsible for their initial African expansion and operations. Paradigm will be both the financial investor and an operational partner in this venture.As a market, Tanzania provides many opportunities. The country has a large growing population and has consistently produced good GDP growth and the new President has indicated a greater commitment to policies that encourage foreign business investment. Despite Tanzania's growth, the mobile penetration rate is still only 41% today, creating significant opportunity for incremental wireless investment and expansion. Wireless market is predominately made up of three major carriers who are relatively well balanced in terms of market share, Vodacom, Airtel and Axian, who recently bought Tigo's operations in Tanzania.Each of these M&Os are focused on expanding their infrastructure in Tanzania. Airtel will be using a substantial amount of the proceeds from the sale of its sites to increase capex spending. Likewise, Axian is an African-focused and experienced operator whose plans include a strong investment in the country to improve the existing Tigo network. We are purchasing Airtel's approximately 1,400 wireless towers, which have a current tenancy ratio of just under 1.5 tenants per tower, including Airtel and the majority of the existing revenues are denominated in US dollars.Approximately three quarters of the sites are located on the power grid. And for those that are not required a provision of energy, the costs will be passed through to the tenants. We believe there will be opportunities to not only organically grow our revenues on existing towers but also to expand our tower portfolio in Tanzania, including through a build-to-suit commitment from Airtel over the next five years, which was part of the transaction.The combination of our partnership with Paradigm, the attractive price paid for the assets and the growth characteristics of the Tanzania market support our belief that this will be a value-creating new market for SBA. In the same way, we have created material value in South Africa and Latin America on a country-specific basis without any requirement for further regional or geographic expansion. We're very excited about this new SBA market.In addition to our strong second quarter operating results, our balance sheet is in a very strong position. We ended the quarter at 7.3 times net debt to annualized adjusted EBITDA in the middle of our target range of 7 to 7.5 turns, one quarter after absorbing the large first quarter PG&E transaction, demonstrating the ability of our business to rapidly organically delever.During the quarter we completed a new asset backed financing at the lowest fixed cost interest rate for any non-equity linked security in our history. Shortly after quarter end, we increased the size of all revolving credit facility by $250 million and extended the term. These activities continue to drive our liquidity position higher and our weighted average borrowing costs lower for the first time below 3% to 2.9%.We have no debt maturities until 2023 and we continue to have access to low cost debt with additional opportunities to continue to improve our overall cost of debt financing. Our liquidity position and balance sheet and our approach with regard to leverage have allowed us to drive incremental AFFO per share and incremental value for our shareholders. We feel really good about our capital structure.Things are going very well right now here at SBA. Our customers are busy, our financial position is strong and our team members are the best in the industry. We are excited about the opportunities that lay ahead. I want to thank our team members and our customers for their commitment and their contributions to our success. And we look forward to sharing our results with you as we move through the year.And with that, Caroline, we are ready for questions.