  OperatorGood day, and welcome to the Centene Corporation first quarter 2022 earnings results conference call. [Operator instructions] Please note, today's event is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to Jennifer Gilligan. Please go ahead, ma'am. Ms. Gilligan, your line is live.Jennifer Gilligan -- Senior Vice President, Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Rocco, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us on our first quarter 2022 earnings results conference call. Sarah London, chief executive officer; Brent Layton, president and chief operating officer; and Drew Asher, executive vice president and chief financial officer of Centene, will host this morning's call, which also can be accessed through our website at centene.com. Any remarks that Centene may make about future expectations, plans and prospects constitute forward-looking statements for the purpose of the safe harbor provision under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors, including those discussed in Centene's most recent Form 10-K filed on February 22, and other public SEC filings. Centene anticipates that subsequent events and developments may cause its estimates to change. While the company may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so. The call will also refer to certain non-GAAP measures.A reconciliation of these measures with the most directly comparable GAAP measures, can be found in our first quarter 2022 press release, which is available on the company's website under the investors' section. Additionally, please mark your calendars for our upcoming investor day scheduled for June 17. This meeting will be hosted in a virtual format available via webcast. With that, I would like to turn the call over to our CEO, Sarah London. Sarah? 

 



Sarah London -- Vice Chairman Thank you, Jen. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us as we review our first quarter 2022 results. I want to begin by acknowledging the passing of a great man, Michael Neidorff, whose leadership and passion built Centene into the purpose-driven market leader that it is today. Michael infused our entire organization with the belief that high-quality affordable healthcare should be within reach of every American, especially our nation's most vulnerable. On behalf of the entire Centene team, I want to send our thoughts and prayers to Michael's family. We will miss him dearly, but I can assure you that Michael's legacy lives on in the men and women of this company, and our commitment to his vision has never been stronger. On our call today, I'll begin with an update regarding the company's leadership structure, touch on first quarter highlights and then provide you an update on strategy and our value creation initiatives. Brent will speak to our performance in our core business lines. And finally, Drew will review our financial results and full year 2022 outlook in more detail. First, the company's core leadership structure. We are updating this morning the construct of the office of the CEO. This group of individuals represents the most experienced, strategic and senior leaders of the organization, who will assist me in setting policy and driving forward Centene's enterprise agenda.

 



 The office of the CEO includes myself, Brent Layton, our president and chief operating officer; Drew Asher, our chief financial officer; Jim Murray, our chief transformation officer, who will take on expanded responsibilities in addition to our value creation office; and Ken Fasola, who, in addition to leading Magellan, will assume oversight of our portfolio of strategic non-health plan assets. This construct with key support from our chief administrative officer and general counsel, formalizes the manner in which we've been operating for the last several months and represents the agenda setting nucleus of the organization as we enter the next stage of transformation and growth. Now, let's discuss our first quarter results. Centene delivered a strong first quarter performance, including adjusted diluted EPS of $1.83 up 12% compared to the year ago quarter. We closed the quarter with 26.2 million members, up 8% compared to the year ago quarter, demonstrating the strength and value of our products in the market and the success of our enrollment periods. As a result, we are raising our full year 2022 outlook from our previously provided range. We now expect our full year 2022 adjusted EPS to be within a range of $5.40 to $5.55. Drew will provide more details on the quarter and outlook in a few moments. Now, to strategy. Over the last few months, the opportunities to optimize and strengthen our business have become even clearer. We remain hyper focused on executing our value creation plan with many work streams well underway and clear milestones ahead. At the same time, we are refreshing our long-term strategy in order to pave the way for growth beyond our 2024 horizon. As we have said before, focusing on our core business and prioritizing value creation are not just short-term ideas. They are pillars of, and critical inputs to, a long-term strategic vision for the company. Let me give you an example. Over the last nine months, you have heard us repeatedly 'talk about operating excellence as a focus of our value creation work. It includes streamlining platforms, standardizing processes, modernizing systems and using data everywhere to be as smart as possible about how we do our work. It means fewer calls, fewer clicks and faster answers. Will it create SG&A savings? Absolutely. Is that our measure of success? No. The real goal of operating excellence is to fundamentally improve the experience that members, providers, community and state partners have with Centene. Success, put simply, is making it easier to do business with us. For our members, we believe we can deliver more seamless and efficient ways to give the information, access and care they need when and where they need it most. Our goal is to increasingly empower our members and their caregivers as agents and advocates in the care journey. For our provider partners, we believe there is a significant opportunity to align more closely in value-based partnerships, and we are committed to delivering the data and tools that will help them drive better health outcomes. For our state partners, we believe in being excellent at the basics, but we also intend to leverage our uniquely local approach to deliver innovative solutions that are infused with an understanding of the communities we serve and designed to help them succeed. The goal across all stakeholders is the same. To build lasting trusted relationships. This has been a differentiator for Centene from the beginning, and we intend to build on this strength as we grow and innovate. More to come on this during our June investor day. In the meantime, you should feel confident the work we do over the next three years will not only align with but naturally fuel our next phase of innovation and growth, and we are designing and executing with that end in mind. Now, turning to specific updates on the value creation work. We remain on track to achieve our previously stated goals. Jim Murray and his team are moving at a rapid but thoughtful pace to execute on these initiatives with tremendous support and partnership from both our corporate business leaders and our local team leaders. While we are excited about our progress, we also ask you to recognize that some of these initiatives are complex and will take years to fully complete. We are being deliberate using a step-by-step approach to ensure that standardization and operational enhancements are taking place in the right way across the organization. This means that as we enhance certain enterprisewide best practices, we will also preserve the local feel and approach that has served as this company's hallmark for two decades. I'll give you a few examples of the progress the team has achieved in the quarter. First, we successfully hit our pharmacy platform migration milestones and are already engaged in strategic discussions with our potential PBM partners about how to drive additional quality and value in delivering pharmacy benefits to our members. Last week, slightly ahead of schedule, we released the RFP that will cover our more than $40 billion of pharmacy spend in 2022. We have made meaningful progress this quarter in evaluating our existing portfolio of real estate assets, given our commitment to increased work from home and flexible work models. We are in the process of determining the necessary square footage to support our employees moving forward and anticipate a significant downsizing of our current leased space. We have also advanced our efforts to centralize key functions such as utilization management and call centers to enterprise shared services organizations. To that end, we performed a lift and shift of reporting responsibilities for both these functions earlier this month. For the remainder of the year, we will be focusing on standardizing best practices and optimizing these operating models. In addition to the savings opportunity, we believe these organizational shifts will create a better experience for our members and providers, as well as our employees. Lastly and importantly, we've kicked off our efforts around large-scale IT platform consolidation. As you know, Centene has grown tremendously through acquisition over the last several years. And as we have mentioned before, the resulting technology footprint includes multiple core platforms and over 500 support applications. The conversion process will require a multiyear staged approach to derisk the effort, but the opportunity for increased efficiencies is significant. And while this will be hard work, consolidation is necessary to enable the stakeholder experience we intend to deliver. These are just a few examples of the nearly 15 work streams in the process of being activated. As I stated earlier, we are very pleased by our progress but recognize that we still have miles to go before we sleep. Before I wrap up, I would like to highlight a recent example of the work we are doing to improve health equity through data-driven innovation. In March, Centene was one of three organizations who received the Innovation Award by the National Committee for Quality Assurance, or NCQA, for our focus on health equity. The award recognizes Centene's data-driven health equity improvement model for being a leading-edge strategy for improving health equity and healthcare quality. The effectiveness of our health equity improvement model represents success on many levels. By using a data-driven process, we are identifying opportunities to reduce healthcare disparities, designing initiatives across community member and provider levels and tracking our impact. These efforts can produce higher quality outcomes for our members and, in turn, improvement to important metrics such as HEDIS scores. To highlight some examples, Centene's health equity model was able to improve rates of immunizations for Latino children with our SilverSummit Healthplan in Nevada, colorectal cancer screening rates for American Indian and Alaska native members in our Arizona complete health plan and maternal health outcomes among African-American and Black members with our Health Net plan in California. Health Net has also been chosen to participate in NCQA's Health Equity Accreditation Plus pilot program. Addressing health equity in new and innovative ways is very much aligned with our purpose and will be an important part of our work going forward. Further, applying big data to drive local outcomes will be a critical and sustaining differentiating strategy for the enterprise. In closing, I'm humbled by the opportunity to lead this exceptional team and company. We have significant runway ahead to deliver for our members, enhance our operations, achieve our financial commitments and create value for our shareholders. With that, I will turn it over to Brent, who will provide an update on our core business lines. Brent?Brent Layton -- President and Chief Operating Officer Thank you, Sarah. Good morning, everyone. Before I jump in, I'd like to build on Sarah's remarks. I had the pleasure of working with Michael Neidorff for 21 years. His impact on this company is undeniable, and I will continue to be thankful for the opportunity he gave me. I'd also like to take a moment to recognize this is Sarah's first earnings call as our CEO. And Sarah, I couldn't be more pleased to continue to work with you in your new role. And I think I speak for the entire team here at Centene when I say we're excited about what the future holds for us as an organization under your leadership. Now, back to the business of the day. I'm happy to talk about the performance of our core business lines during the first quarter. In the first quarter, we have seen HBR in line with expectations across each of our core products. Our Medicaid business remains strong, with membership increasing to nearly 15.3 million members at the end of the first quarter and contract reprocurement wins in Louisiana and Indiana. As I'm sure you've all gotten -- got used to me saying, our Medicaid growth continues to be aided by the ongoing suspension of redeterminations. As Drew will explain further, we anticipate the return of redeterminations in August. We continue to work with our state partners to better understand how we can support this transition and are confident in our ability to retain and attract membership to our exchange products in the 25 states where we have both Medicaid and marketplace. As states begin to transition back to redeterminations, I believe we will begin to see new opportunities for Medicaid managed care programs as we move past the pandemic, and states look to improve health outcomes and make Medicaid programs more efficient. In our exchange product, following a strong open enrollment, we ended the quarter at over 2 million members. We are pleased with both our member retention and our new member enrollments. As I discussed at the fourth quarter call, we introduced three new product offerings for the exchange in 2022. These products designed to meet the evolving needs of our members, have performed in line with our expectations, serving as both the tool for our member retention and attraction as a means to provide member engagement and manage utilization. While we're pleased with the performance of these products, our core and better product offerings remain the foundation of our exchange offerings. We continue to monitor the administration's adjustment to the exchange market, including efforts to close the family glitch, which could allow an additional 5 million people to use tax credits to purchase marketplace plans. In Medicare, we ended the quarter following annual enrollment with more than 1.4 million members across 36 states. Overall, we are very pleased with our strong growth of Medicare, yielding 200,000 net new members and 16% membership growth year over year 2021. We've managed well through another COVID variant at the top of the year as well. As we continue into 2022 and beyond, we see significant opportunity in Medicare. Our focus continue to be margin enhancement through clinical initiatives, network expansion and value-based contracting. Overall, 2022 is off to a solid start across all three core products. With that, let me turn the call over to Drew.Drew Asher -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Brent. This morning, we kicked off 2022 with first quarter results of $37.2 billion in revenue and adjusted diluted earnings per share of $1.83 in the quarter up 12% from $1.63 in Q1 2021. Let's start with revenue for the quarter. Total revenue grew by $7.2 billion compared to the first quarter of 2021 primarily due to strong organic growth throughout the last year in Medicaid and strong Medicare membership growth during the annual enrollment period. Total membership increased to 26.2 million, up 8% compared to a year ago. It's important to note a couple of revenue drivers that were unplanned in the quarter. First of all, you will see that our premium tax revenue was $3 billion in the quarter. That's about $1.5 billion more than we had estimated. This was largely due to four states providing lump sums for us to pass-through to providers. And remember, this revenue item is interesting but not relevant since it's 100% pass-through. That's why we are constantly orienting you to the premium and service revenue, which drives important metrics like net income margin and SG&A percentage. Premium and service revenue of $34.2 billion in the quarter was about $1 billion higher than our expectation with approximately half of it due to a Texas retroactive hospital pass-through that CMS recently restored. Because there's a small administrative provision on this retro item, it's included in premium revenue, not premium tax revenue. The remainder of premium and service revenue outperformance was strong continued Medicare and Medicaid growth. Our Q1 consolidated HBR was 87.3% consistent with our expectation, leaning slightly positive. Since you now have visibility and comparability into quarterly HBR components, let's talk about each. Medicaid at 88.9% was right on track in the quarter. Our Medicare HBR was slightly better than our expectation driven by a good quarter for our Medicare PDP business. The PDP business may only be $2 billion in annual revenue, but it's a great asset. That's the largest contributor to our over $40 billion of 2022 pharmacy spend, and it's a good captive audience for our Medicare Advantage business. All right, back to the Q1 HBR. Our commercial business improved 420 basis points year over year, reflecting pricing discipline and making progress toward the annual goal we laid out at investor day. Moving to other P&L and balance sheet items. Our adjusted SG&A expense ratio was 7.7% in the quarter, consistent with our expectations compared to 7.6% last year. The inclusion of Magellan and Circle each increased the year-over-year ratio by approximately 20 and 15 basis points, respectively. We expect our value creation plan to drive SG&A lower over the next few years. Cash flow provided by operations was $1.2 billion in the first quarter primarily driven by net earnings. Our domestic unregulated and unrestricted cash on hand at quarter end was $68 million as expected after closing the Magellan transaction in early Q1. Our goal continues to be to build cash at parent beginning in the back half of 2022 for share buybacks and debt paydown. This corresponds with the timing of the majority of our health plan dividends. Debt at quarter end was relatively flat at $18.9 billion. Our debt-to-cap ratio was down slightly at 40.7%, excluding our nonrecourse debt. Our medical claims liability totaled $16.3 billion at quarter end up $2 billion and represents 53 days in claims payable compared to 52 in Q4 2021. As we begin 2022, we're building momentum both in our businesses and our value creation plan. And as you've heard me say many times, one quarter doesn't make the year. However, we do have a quarter of actuals under our belt, and we all know that the PHE has been pushed out to July and therefore, redeterminations would start after that. So let's go through some changes we made in full year 2022 guidance metrics. Premium and service revenue was up $2.5 billion, including the first quarter results, the Texas item we discussed earlier and an assumption that redeterminations commence August 1, three months later than our prior assumption. Since we continue to grow due to the pushback of the PHE end date, we also expect the ultimate run rate revenue reduction to be higher at around $6 billion, up from our previous estimate of $5 billion. That will largely impact 2023. Continuing on with 2022 guidance, premium tax revenue, once again, with no impact on bottom line, is up $1.5 billion for 2022. And our HBR and SG&A ranges are reconfirmed and unchanged. Overall, given the results in the quarter and pushing back the commencement of redeterminations, we are raising our adjusted EPS guidance range to $5.40 to $5.55 with a little over 60% in the first half of the year. As we look ahead, I'm pleased with the value creation work so far. And as Sarah said, this goes well beyond cost-cutting. Jim Murray and the team are making operational decisions and changes that are focused on long-term durability of operating excellence. You've heard this company talk for years about quality and STARS, and now better late than never, STARS is a tier one initiative of the value creation office with new investments being made in member engagement, value-based contracting, operational functions and clinical initiatives. Given the Star calendar, it will take a couple of years for our investments to show up in Star scores that come out in late 2023, which will drive 2025 revenue. In the meantime, as we said in multiple venues, the Star scores that come out in late 2022 that drive 2024 revenue will show a meaningful drop due to the sunsetting of the COVID era disaster relief provisions and our immature operations during these past measurement periods. On other value creation initiatives, we look forward to giving you more details at the June investor day but let me give you a teaser on one that Sarah mentioned. While we are still finalizing the details, we expect to reduce over half of our domestic leased real estate footprint. Though there will be a onetime cost to this, which we will frame for you in Q2, the run rate benefit will be a nice contributor to our value creation goals. More to come in June. In summary, the business is performing well while we are focused on, enthusiastic about and investing in the future. Thanks for your support. Operator, you may now open the line for questions. 