  OperatorHello, and welcome to Citi's second-quarter 2021 earnings review with Chief Executive Officer Jane Fraser and Chief Financial Officer Mark Mason. Today's call will be hosted by Elizabeth Lynn, head of Citi investor relations. [Operator instructions] Also, as a reminder, this conference is being recorded today. [Operator instructions] Ms. Lynn, you may begin.Elizabeth Lynn -- Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, operator. Good morning, and thank you, all, for joining us. I'd like to remind you that today's presentation, which is available for download on our website, citigroup.com, may contain forward-looking statements, which are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results, capital and other financial conditions may differ materially from these statements due to a variety of factors, including the precautionary statements referenced in our discussion today and those included in our SEC filings, including, without limitation, the Risk Factors section of our 2020 Form 10-K. Before we get started, I'd also like to welcome our incoming head of IR, Jennifer Landis, who will be joining Citi next month and hosting this call beginning in October. As I leave the seat to assume a new role within Citi, I'd like to thank you all for your partnership and support over the past few years. With that said, let me turn it over to Jane.Jane Fraser -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Liz, and good morning to everyone. I'm delighted to join you again today. And first, I'm going to discuss the results of my first full quarter as CEO and then update you on the progress against our strategic priorities. For the quarter, we reported $6.2 billion in net income or $2.85 per share.

 



 We continue to benefit from an improving macro environment, as evidenced by another significant release of our allowances for credit losses. Indeed, the pace of the macro recovery is exceeding earlier expectations across the globe and with it comes growing consumer and corporate confidence. And this also came through loud and clear in my conversations with clients over the course of the week I just spent in London. Now clearly, we have to remain mindful of the unevenness in the global recovery due to continued contagion and challenges in vaccine distribution in several parts of the world, but we are optimistic about the momentum ahead. And as a result, we deliberately accelerated some of our investments. In our institutional businesses, we saw the expected normalization of fixed income trading compared to the striking volatility of Q2 last year, and our equities franchise had a particularly strong quarter. Looking forward, we do expect the volatile market to be higher than pre-COVID levels. Performance in our investment banking franchise remained healthy with good momentum in M&A and a very solid pipeline ahead for the rest of the year. We saw very good progress in our strategies to increase fee revenues with double-digit growth in our ICG fee revenues and, specifically, over 20% year-over-year fee growth in treasury and trade solutions, in securities services and in the private bank. Now TTS is the backbone of the unique global network we deliver for our clients. And while the business continues to be impacted by lower rates, we particularly like how we are positioned here from a market share perspective as the post-pandemic recovery takes shape. In consumer banking, while our loan book and revenues were impacted by the elevated payment rates in cards, spending is well above pre-COVID levels, now with a 38% increase in global purchase sales year over year. We expect this to translate into loan growth in the second half of the year, and we continue to have good momentum in both deposit growth and AUMs across our consumer franchises. In the U.S., as we've discussed, we're investing in our home market, as demonstrated by the well-received launch of our innovative Custom Cash Card in June. Internationally, the picture for our consumer businesses diverges. So while there is still the softness in the Mexican economy, in Asia, loan growth returned, and that's despite new COVID outbreaks.

 



 Turning to capital. For the first two quarters of 2021, we returned close to $7 billion to our shareholders, which was the maximum amount permitted under the Federal Reserve's rules. Going forward, we are committed to returning any excess capital over and above the amount necessary to invest in our franchise. So while our stress capital buffer increased to 3% as a result of the fed's recent stress test, that won't impact the common equity Tier 1 target we'd be managing to of approximately 11.5%. We ended the quarter at 11.9% on a standardized basis and have excess capital to return to our shareholders through a healthy dividend and ongoing stock repurchase program. Lastly, our tangible book value per share increased to $77.87, up over 9% from a year ago. Now let's turn to three of our strategic priorities: strategy, transformation and talent. I'm very pleased with the progress we've made on our strategy refresh. We have moved swiftly to begin the sales process for the 13 consumer markets we plan to exit in Asia and EMEA. The first round of bids was very encouraging and competitive, which isn't a surprise, because these are terrific businesses for the right owners. In those regions, we're off to a running start in our wealth strategy. We're making significant strategic investments in product capabilities, technology and talent and have already seen this in increased client acquisition. We continue to do thorough and rigorous work to refresh our strategy across our consumer and institutional businesses guided by the four principles I outlined to you earlier in the year: being clinical, being focused, and ensuring both connectivity and simplification. Our overarching goal is to increase the returns we generate and close the gap with our peers by investing in the franchises that will drive the most growth, the three most notable of which are TTS, wealth and commercial banking. And I'm very confident in the growth and return prospects these connected franchises will afford us. As we have done so far, we will share our decisions with you as we make them on the strategy, and we're also looking forward to presenting our plans to you more comprehensively during an investor day, which we intend to hold in the first quarter of next year. We're going to put our entire vision for the firm in front of you, so you can then hold us accountable for executing against it. As we discussed in the call last quarter, we're also working very hard and diligently on our transformation. This is significant. It's also an exciting body of work, and we're working closely with our regulators to meet their expectations, and we intend to submit our plans to them this quarter. Now while addressing the consent orders is an intense focus of the transformation, our work here goes well beyond the orders themselves. We've set out to modernize our bank. We want to achieve nothing less than excellence, and this means investing in our risk and control environment but also in the infrastructure we need to serve our clients in an increasingly digital world. So let me give you an example in TTS. These investments will improve the scalability of our platform. Automation will drive efficiency and client experience, and investments in data will enhance revenues. And the investments we're making will help position us to retain our leading position as the preeminent global corporate bank. And that leads me, finally, to talent where we have made material progress over the last few months. I'm delighted with the caliber of talent we have been attracting to the firm to grow our businesses and support our transformation. We've enhanced our existing ranks with best-in-market hires in data, risk, strategy and controls, as well as in the front lines of wealth, the commercial bank and BCMA, in particular. We continue to invest in a culture of excellence and our own people, providing them with new leadership and growth opportunities. And it's this combination of new perspectives and our existing high-caliber talent pool that will enable us to take the firm forward with excellence, urgency and accountability. Now before I turn it over to Mark, I would like to thank Liz Lynn for her great work leading our investor relation efforts over the past several years. And as you know, and as she mentioned, she is going to be our finance lead for BCMA where we all know that she is going to do a wonderful job. With that, Mark will go through our presentation, and then we'll both be happy to take your questions.Mark Mason -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Jane, and good morning, everyone. Starting on Slide 3. Citigroup reported second-quarter net income of $6.2 billion, EPS of $2.85 and a 15.2% ROTCE. Revenue's declined 12% from the prior year, reflecting a normalization in fixed-income markets, along with lower card loans in consumer, as well as the impact of lower interest rates. Expenses were up 7% year over year. In constant dollars, expenses were up 4%, reflecting a normalization relative to the low print last year, along with continued investments in our transformation, as well as other strategic investments, partially offset by productivity savings. Credit performance remained strong with net credit losses of $1.3 billion, more than offset by an ACL release of $2.4 billion, reflecting portfolio improvements, as well as the continued improvement in our macroeconomic outlook. In constant dollars, end-of-period loans declined 3% year over year, reflecting higher repayment rates across institutional and consumer, although I would note that we are starting to see some pockets of loan growth emerge. And for the first time in over a year, loans were up sequentially. Deposits grew modestly, up 4% year over year, reflecting continued engagement with our consumer and corporate clients. Looking at the first half of 2021, total revenues declined 9% year over year and 10% in constant dollars, mainly driven by the normalization in fixed-income markets and lower card balances in consumer, although we did see strong fee revenue growth across consumer and in ICG, excluding fixed-income markets. Total expenses were up 6% on a reported basis and 3% in constant dollars midway through the year. I'll talk more about our outlook for the remainder of the year in a moment. Cost of credit was a benefit of roughly $3 billion as we released over $6 billion in reserves, and we delivered roughly $14 billion in net income and an ROTCE of 17.6%. Finally, as Jane noted earlier, we returned roughly $7 billion in capital so far this year, and we remain committed to continuing to invest in our franchise, as well as returning any excess capital to shareholders, given the flexibility provided by the SCB framework. Turning now to each business. Slide 4 shows the results for the institutional clients group. For the quarter, ICG delivered EBIT of $4.9 billion, up significantly from last year. Revenues decreased 14%, driven mainly by the decline in fixed-income markets. Expenses increased 4% and were up 2% in constant dollars as investments in transformation, along with other strategic investments, were mostly offset by lower incentive compensation and efficiency savings. Credit costs were down considerably, given a roughly $900 million ACL release, as well as lower net credit losses. And ICG delivered a 16.4% return on allocated capital. Slide 5 shows revenues for the institutional clients group in more detail. Product revenues were down 17% in the second quarter, primarily reflecting a comparison to a strong prior-year period, particularly in fixed-income markets. However, we are continuing to see robust client engagement and strong underlying growth in our fee businesses across the franchise, including TTS, investment banking, securities services, commercial banking and the private bank. And excluding the markets-related component, noninterest revenues were up 24% this quarter, and we are confident in our outlook for continued strong fee growth in the back half of the year. Looking at the results in greater detail. On the banking side, revenues decreased 1%. In treasury and trade Solutions, Significant growth in fee revenues of roughly 25%, reflecting solid client engagement, as well as growth in trade, were more than offset by the impact of lower interest rates with revenues down 1%. We're continuing to see momentum across our payments business with 13% growth in cross-border flows and 10% growth in clearing volumes over the past year, as well as the early days of a recovery in commercial cards. And as of the end of the quarter, TTS loans grew roughly 5%, reflecting increasing client demand and improving macroeconomic conditions. Investment banking revenues were up 1% as higher M&A and equity underwriting revenues were largely offset by a decline in debt underwriting. While the overall DCM, while it was up in the second quarter, all the growth was in non-investment grade, which did not benefit our results, given our skew to investment grade. But looking at results versus a more normal year, revenues were up 38% versus the second quarter of 2019 with strong growth across all products. Private bank revenues grew 4%, driven by higher fees and lending volumes, reflecting momentum with both new and existing clients, partially offset by the impact of lower interest rates. Corporate lending revenues were down 15%, primarily driven by lower volumes. Total markets and securities services revenues decreased 30% from last year. Fixed-income revenues decreased 43%, reflecting a comparison to a strong prior-year period in both rates and spread products. However, we remained engaged with our clients with steady growth in both corporate and investor client revenues relative to the historical average. Equities revenues were up 37% versus last year, primarily driven by good performance in both derivatives and prime finance, reflecting robust client activity and favorable market conditions. In securities services, revenues were up 9% on a reported basis and 5% in constant dollars. Here, we saw a strong growth in fee revenues with both new and existing clients, driven by growth in assets under custody and settlement volumes, partially offset by lower spreads. Finally, looking at first-half results in ICG, we've seen a strong contribution from investment banking, as well as good results in the private bank and securities services, which helped to offset the expected normalization in fixed-income markets. I would also note that equity markets revenues are up over 30%. Turning now to the results for global consumer banking in constant dollars on Slide 6. For the quarter, GCB delivered EBIT of $2.4 billion, up significantly from last year. Revenues declined 10% as continued strong deposit growth, albeit with lower spreads, and momentum in investment management were more than offset by lower card balances across all three regions. In cards, while we are encouraged by the continued improvement in consumer spending, with purchase sales up close to 40% versus last year and almost 20% on versus last quarter, we are still seeing the impact of high payment rates on revenues. Expenses increased 7%, reflecting continued investments in our transformation, as well as other strategic investments, along with an acceleration in marketing and higher volume-related costs from the low point a year ago, partially offset by efficiency savings. Credit remains healthy. And credit costs decreased significantly, driven by the $1.4 billion ACL reserve release and lower net credit losses. And GCB delivered a 20.8% return on allocated capital. Finally, looking at results for the first half of the year. We've seen steady improvement in our drivers, which gives us confidence in our outlook as we move into the back half of the year. Slide 7 shows the results for North America consumer in more detail. Second-quarter revenues were down 11% from last year, primarily driven by lower cards revenues, but better than the 15% decline last quarter on a year-over-year basis. Revenues declined in both branded cards and retail services by 12% and 14%, respectively, reflecting continued headwinds from higher payment rates as consumers have continued to use liquidity from stimulus and other relief programs to pay down debt, driving lower loans and a shift in mix toward transactor balances. This is creating pressure on our net interest revenues, but it's also benefiting our delinquency and loss trends. However, we are continuing to see a recovery in sales activity with purchased sales now above prepandemic levels, led by discretionary spend, including travel and dining. In branded cards, total purchase sales were up 40% versus last year, and importantly, up 11% versus the second quarter of 2019. And in retail services, purchase sales also grew versus both second-quarter 2019 and 2020. So the good news is that we're continuing to see the recovery in spend, and we're also returning to pre-COVID acquisition levels. Looking ahead, we expect the growth in purchase sales to translate into loan growth by the end of the year as stimulus moderates and consumers return to more normal payment patterns. Turning to retail banking. Revenues were down 7% year over year, reflecting pressure from lower deposit spreads and lower mortgage revenues. That said, we are continuing to see good momentum as we grow and deepen our retail bank relationships, as well as improve the quality and stickiness of these relationships. Average deposits were up 18%, including 24% growth in checking. And the number of Citigold households increased by 16%, contributing to a 23% increase in AUMs. On Slide 8, we show results for international consumer banking in constant dollars. Revenues declined 6% year over year in the second quarter with an 11% decline in Latin America and a 3% decline in Asia. Looking at international consumer overall, we are seeing good momentum in investment management with 15% growth in assets under management, primarily driven by Asia. And the numbers are meaningfully higher, if you look specifically at the four international wealth hubs. Average deposit growth remained strong at 8%, albeit at lower deposit spreads. And similar to the U.S., we saw a 26% increase in purchase sales year over year. But cards loan growth remained a challenge this quarter with average card loans down 8% due to elevated payment rates. Slide 9 provides additional detail on global consumer credit trends. In the U.S., both NCL and delinquency rates remain favorable, driven by the significant amount of customer liquidity due to stimulus and other relief programs. Given the delinquency trends we're seeing today, we do not expect credit deterioration in the U.S. portfolio in 2021. And the ultimate timing and level of losses as we look into next year will depend on whether or not the stimulus results in a permanent benefit. And as expected, credit losses and delinquency rates trended downward in both Mexico and Asia, following a peak in the first quarter of 2021. So overall, we're seeing a rebound in activity, along with a consumer who is in a very healthy financial position, suggesting good momentum as we move into the back half of the year. Slide 10 shows the results for corporate/other. Revenues were down slightly in dollar terms as episodic gains this quarter were more than offset by previously disclosed one-time items in the prior year. Expenses were up slightly in dollar terms, mainly reflecting the impact of FX. And similar to last quarter, we have further allocated cost to the businesses related to investments in infrastructure, risk and controls. As we mentioned previously, this change had no impact to EBIT at the Citi level. However, we have recast prior periods to enable better comparability of results. Credit costs declined year over year, driven by our release this quarter, compared to a build in the prior year. Finally, EBIT was breakeven this quarter. Looking ahead, we would expect a quarterly pre-tax loss in the range of $200 million to $300 million for the remainder of 2021. Slide 11 shows our net interest revenue and margin trends, as well as noninterest revenues, on a reported basis. We've also provided net interest revenues in constant dollars on Slide 19 in the appendix for comparison to prior periods. In the second quarter, net interest revenue of $10.2 billion declined $880 million year over year, reflecting lower loan balances and the impact of lower rates. Sequentially, net interest revenue continued to stabilize as the extra day in the quarter was offset by lower cards revenues. And net interest margin declined 3 basis points, driven by lower cards NIR and modest growth in the balance sheet due to deposits, partially offset by the increase in markets NIR in the quarter. Turning to noninterest revenues on the bottom of the slide. In the second quarter, non-NIR declined $1.4 billion, driven by normalization in fixed-income markets. However, outside of markets, we did see strong broad-based fee growth of over $600 million across GCB and ICG. And for the past two quarters, we've seen these fee revenues return to pre-pandemic levels of roughly $4.4 billion per quarter, pointing to a somewhat faster-than-expected recovery. Looking at these results midway through the year, we are comfortable with our prior outlook and continue to expect total Citi revenues to be down in the mid-single-digit range on a full-year basis, although the composition is likely to be somewhat different, which I will talk more about in a moment. On Slide 12, we show our key capital metrics, which remain strong and stable again this quarter, allowing us to support clients and return capital to shareholders. Our CET1 capital ratio increased to 11.9% as net income was mostly offset by buybacks and dividends. During the quarter, Citi returned a total of $4.1 billion to common shareholders in the form of $1.1 billion in dividends and share repurchases of $3 billion. Our supplementary leverage ratio was 5.9%, a decline from the prior quarter, largely driven by the expiration of a temporary SLR relief. And our tangible book value per share grew by 9% to $77.87, driven by net income. Before we move on to Q&A, let me spend a few minutes on our outlook for 2021. On the top line, for total Citigroup, we still expect revenues to be down mid-single digits on a reported basis. But as I mentioned, the composition is likely to be somewhat different than we originally anticipated. Year to date, we've seen stronger-than-expected growth in noninterest revenues, and we do expect the strength in fee growth to continue in the back half of the year, driven primarily by ICG. Meanwhile, for net interest revenues, we expect continued stabilization in the back half, and we should start to see some loan growth by the end of the year. So while net interest revenues are down roughly $2.2 billion year to date, just outside our original outlook for the full year, assuming this base case holds, we do not expect a significant further decline in net interest revenues from here on a full-year basis. So again, in aggregate, for total Citigroup, we still expect revenues to be down mid-single digits. On the expense side, based on our latest work on the strategic refresh, we've made the decision to further accelerate certain strategic investments, in part, in reaction to what is shaping up to be a faster-than-expected recovery. As a result, we now expect total Citigroup expenses to be up mid-single digits. These are strategic investments that we are making to strengthen our franchise and drive long-term growth. For example, we've accelerated investments where we believe there are significant opportunities for growth, including holistically across wealth and the commercial bank. We've also doubled down on our existing strengths in businesses like TTS, securities services and the investment banking business. Finally, given the faster recovery we are seeing today, we are accelerating investments in areas, like cards marketing, to capture this upside. All of these investments will have significant benefits over time. Meanwhile, expenses related directly to the transformation, which we had expected to drive the 2% to 3% increase in total Citi expenses this year, are coming in largely as expected. These investments include the work around the consent order, as well as the broader work to modernize the bank, which will improve our risk and control environment, as well as allow us to better meet the needs of our customers and clients through an improved operating environment, leading to faster decision-making, better efficiency and improved client experience. And I'd point out that the mix of this spend is 30% technology and 70% non-tech-related investments. Finally, this outlook includes the realization of productivity savings as a by-product of the investments we've been making over the past few years. And to be clear, we will continue, as we have done in the past, to look for ways to operate as efficiently as possible during this investment period. And one additional note, we could also see some episodic impacts this year related to the market exits we are pursuing. And as I've mentioned previously, we will be very transparent about the impact of these actions on our financials. So in summary, we feel good about the investments that we are making and firmly believe these investments will position us well to close our return gap to peers over time. Before we get started with questions, I also want to take a moment to thank Liz Lynn for her time as the head of Citi investor relations. Liz has been with the Citi IR team since 2013 and has led the group since 2019. I know that she has built strong relationships with all of you and has been a key part of my team since I was named CFO a little over two years ago. She will be moving on to be the chief financial officer for our investment banking business. And as Liz mentioned, Jen Landis will be joining us in August as our new head of investor relations. I hope you will all join me in congratulating Liz on her new role and welcoming Jen to Citi at our next earnings call. With that, Jane and I would be happy to take your questions. 