  OperatorGood morning, and welcome to the Alliant Energy's conference call for the first quarter 2022 results. This call is being recorded for rebroadcast. [Operator instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to your host, Zac Fields, investor relations at Alliant Energy.Zac Fields -- Lead Investor Relations Analyst Good morning. I would like to thank all of you on the call and on the webcast for joining us today. We appreciate your participation. Joining me on this call are John Larsen, chair, president and CEO; and Robert Durian, executive vice president and CFO.

 



 Following prepared remarks by John and Robert, we will have time to take questions from the investment community. We issued a news release last night announcing Alliant Energy's first quarter 2022 financial results. This release as well as an earnings presentation will be referenced during today's call and are available on the investors page of our website at www.alliantenergy.com. Before we begin, I need to remind you that the remarks we make on this call and our answers to your questions include forward-looking statements.These forward-looking statements are subject to risks that could cause actual results to be materially different. Those risks include, among others, matters discussed in Alliant Energy's press release issued last night and in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements. At this point, I'll turn the call over to John. John Larsen -- Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Zac. Hello, everyone. Thank you for joining us. 2022 was off to a solid start with over 25% of our annual earnings achieved year to date, and we are reaffirming our consolidated 2022 earnings guidance of $2.67 to $2.81.

 



 I'll share some of the key highlights and then turn the call over to Robert for more details relating to our financial performance, renewable investments and regulatory matters. First, our temperature-normalized sales were ahead of forecast, continuing a trend we saw throughout most of last year and a key indicator of the strong and diverse customer base we proudly serve. We also had increased interest and activity on the economic development front, including the recent announcement that one of the largest Amazon facilities in the country will be built near Cottage Grove, Wisconsin. The warehouse and distribution facility would total 3.4 million square feet and create approximately 1,500 jobs. And in Iowa, we're excited to partner with VERBIO as they break ground on their biorefinery expansion near Ames, Iowa next month. Another item to highlight was the strong performance from our wind portfolio. We saw outstanding wind power production for the first quarter, with total production more than 15% higher than our forecast. And some of our newest wind sites achieving net capacity factors in excess of 60% in the month of March, marking one of the strongest wind periods we have seen since we began owning and operating wind nearly 15 years ago. The strong wind energy performance helped us manage the impacts of rising fuel costs and demonstrates the customer benefits of having a diverse mix of energy resources in our portfolio. Another example of our Clean Energy Blueprint in action. These solid results help us continue our long track record of delivering value for our customers, communities and investors. And we're also continuing to monitor and adjust to the impacts of global sourcing and supply chain issues as well as the impacts of inflation. Robert will share more about this when I turn the call over to him in a few minutes. But let me note how important it has been to have a flexible plan, talented and creative team and our ongoing efforts to manage costs for the benefit of our customers. On the solar front, earlier this week, we held a Golden Panel event for our local officials and community members as the first panels were installed at our North Rock Creek solar farm near Edgerton, Wisconsin. And we recently celebrated the installation of the final solar panel at our Bear Creek facility, also in Wisconsin.

 



 And yesterday, we received verbal approval from the Public Service Commission of Wisconsin for our second certificate of authority filing for an additional 414 megawatts of solar generation in the state. This result builds on our long history of achieving constructive regulatory outcomes. Throughout the process of the filing, our team demonstrated transparency regarding the current environment of supply chain and tariff risks, and we're committed to continuing that transparency as we continue our journey toward a clean energy future. That journey is part of our broader corporate responsibility. We've been sharing stories of our commitment to the environment throughout the month of April in honor of Earth Day, including progress we've been making on our commitment to plant one million trees by 2030. We recently approved two agreements with the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources in Sauk and Juneau Counties to begin tree plantings as a part of their reforestation efforts. More than 80,000 tree seedlings will be planted this year in these Wisconsin counties through this partnership. And in Iowa, Burlington, Marshalltown and Grinnell are just a few of the 33 Iowa communities that will soon be greener, thanks to grants from our community tree program in partnership with Trees Forever. Trees Forever will provide communities with tree planting support from selecting the best species for their area to creating a care and maintenance plan to make sure the new trees have a long and healthy life. Equally important to our environmental efforts are the social commitments to our employees, customers and the communities we serve. We know that when we embrace the diversity of our employees and continue to build upon our strong culture, we create a sense of belonging and inclusion that leads to wonderful things for our customers. And we are being noticed for our efforts. We recently were recognized by Forbes as a top midsized employer for the fourth year in a row. And just last week, we were named to Newsweek's first-ever Most Trusted Companies list. We will be sharing more of our progress and highlighting new initiatives with the release of our updated corporate responsibility report later this year. In summary, 2022 is off to a solid start, and we look forward to building on that momentum throughout the year as we focus on continuing our role as a leader in advancing renewable energy, delivering solid returns for our investors and delivering on our purpose of serving customers and building stronger communities. I want to thank you for your continued interest in Alliant Energy. I'll now turn the call over to Robert.Robert Durian -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thanks, John. Good morning, everyone. Yesterday, we announced first quarter 2022 GAAP earnings of $0.77 per share compared to $0.68 per share in 2021. First quarter earnings were 13% higher on a year-over-year basis led by increasing rate base at our Wisconsin utility, higher AFUDC earnings largely attributable to our 2022 solar portfolio construction and higher electric and gas sales. For the full year, we are reaffirming our earnings guidance of $2.67 to $2.81 per share. The midpoint of that range is a 6% increase over 2021 adjusted earnings per share of $2.58. Details on our quarter earnings drivers and 2022 full year guidance can be found on Slide 3. Our temperature-normalized sales for the first quarter of 2022 were better than expected, growing more than 1% compared to the first quarter of 2021 driven by stronger residential and commercial sales. Residential sales were higher primarily due to new customer growth in both Wisconsin and Iowa. And the commercial sales growth was supported by continued pandemic recovery in the education, office and entertainment sectors of our customer base. O&M at our utilities was flat versus the first quarter of 2021 after excluding changes in energy efficiency expenditures. In the current environment of widespread inflationary pressures across the various areas of our business, I'm proud of our team's efforts to control costs on behalf of our customers and maintain utility O&M expenses consistent with 2021 levels. Moving to our new solar developments. We have made good progress on the construction of the initial 325 megawatts of utility-scale solar in Wisconsin that is planned to go in service this year. Slide 4 showcases some of these 2022 solar development activity. The Department of Commerce investigation that was initiated in the first quarter has the potential impact of timing and cost of our 2023 planned solar projects. However, we feel confident that our 2022 planned solar projects will progress as anticipated and be placed in service later this year. We are advocating both directly and indirectly through multiple trade organizations for an expedited and fair outcome of this investigation. While I acknowledge this investigation could impact our 2023 planned projects, we are focused on mitigating such impacts and continuing our long track record of delivering on our 5% to 7% growth target throughout the planning period. We have included our key regulatory initiatives on Slide 5. We were pleased to reach another key milestone with our Clean Energy Blueprint yesterday with the receipt of the Public Service Commission of Wisconsin's verbal approval of our second certificate of authority filing for 414 megawatts of additional solar projects in Wisconsin. Looking forward in Wisconsin, we are preparing a third certificate authority filing to request approval to construct an estimated 300 megawatts of additional firm capacity to meet our customers' growing demand. We are planning to make that filing in the upcoming months. And in our Iowa jurisdiction, we recently requested to revise the procedural schedule for our advanced rate making filing for 400 megawatts of solar and 75 megawatts of battery storage in the state. This request was made to allow time for our team to ensure we are providing the most current cost estimates for the projects we are pursuing. The updated procedural schedule can be seen on Slide 6. We have requested a decision from Iowa regulators by the end of the third quarter. We do not anticipate this modified procedural schedule to have a material impact on the timing of the in-service dates of our projects or the timing of our overall capex plan. Turning to our financing plans. We have made great progress so far in 2022. In the first quarter, at our Alliant Energy Finance subsidiary, we refinanced our $300 million term loan and issued $350 million of new long-term debt. Our remaining 2022 financing plan includes issuing up to $600 million of long-term debt at our Wisconsin utility and retiring $325 million of remaining long-term debt maturities in the second half of 2022. Lastly, Iowa corporate tax reform was signed into law last month. The new tax rules are expected to phase down the corporate income tax rate from its current rate of 9.8% to as low as 5.5% over time. The amount the tax rate will decline each year is dependent on the annual state income tax collections from corporations and will be announced by the fourth quarter of each year. We view this tax law change as positive for customers as it is expected to provide long-term benefits to lower customer costs and serves as another driver for economic development activities in Iowa. As a result of this tax change, we also expect to recognize a modest earnings charge later this year related to revaluing deferred tax assets at our nonregulated businesses, which we plan to recognize as an adjustment to our earnings from normal operations. Refer to Slide 7 in our presentation for more information on this tax change to assist you with your modeling. We appreciate your continued support of our company and look forward to meeting with many of you virtually and in person in the coming months. As always, we will make our investor relations materials available on our website. At this time, I'll turn the call back over to the operator to facilitate the question-and-answer session. 