
OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the CDW Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions].I would now like to hand the conference over to Brittany Smith, Vice President of Investor Relations and Financial Planning and Analysis. Thank you. Please go ahead.Brittany A. Smith -- Vice President, Investor Relations and Financial Planning and AnalysisThank you. Good morning, everyone. Joining me remotely today to review our second quarter results are Chris Leahy, our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Collin Kebo, our Chief Financial Officer. Our second quarter earnings release was distributed this morning and is available on our website, investor.cdw.com, along with supplemental slides that you can use to follow along during the call. I'd like to remind you that certain comments made in this presentation are considered forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Those statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Additional information concerning these risks and uncertainties is contained in the earnings release and Form 8-K we furnished to the SEC today and in the company's other filings with the SEC.CDW assumes no obligation to update the information presented during this webcast. Our presentation also includes certain non-GAAP financial measures, including non-GAAP operating income and non-GAAP earnings per share. All non-GAAP measures have been reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in accordance with SEC rules. You'll find reconciliation charts on the slides for today's webcast and in our earnings release and Form 8-K we furnished the SEC today. Please note that all references to growth rates or dollar amount increases in our remarks today are versus the comparable period in 2020, unless otherwise indicated. In addition, all references to growth rates for hardware, software and services today represent U.S. net sales only and do not include the results from CDW U.K. or Canada. Replay of this webcast will be posted to our website later today. I also want to remind you that this conference call is the property of CDW and may not be recorded or rebroadcast without specific written permission from the company.With that, let me turn the call over to Chris.Christine A. Leahy -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Brittany. I'll begin this morning with an overview of second quarter results and drivers of performance and share our updated thoughts on 2021. Collin will then take you through a more detailed look at the financials and capital allocation strategy and outlook. We'll move quickly through our prepared remarks, as always, to ensure we have plenty of time for questions. We had a record second quarter. Our results demonstrate the balance and strength of CDW's business model and strategy. For the second quarter, net sales were $5.1 billion, a quarterly record and our first quarter over $5 billion of net sales. Net sales grew 17.9% above last year on a reported and average daily sales basis and up 16.3% in constant currency. Gross profit increased 18.2% to $883 million. Non-GAAP operating income was $418 million, an increase of 23.6% and non-GAAP net income per share was $2.02, up 29.3% on a reported basis and up 27.9% in constant currency. Our outstanding results reflect our team's extraordinary execution and the importance of our scale, industry experience and knowledge and strong customer relationships. The diversity of our customer end markets and breadth of our solutions portfolio continues to serve us well. Our record second quarter performance reflected a rebound in commercial customer spending, driving excellent results in our Corporate, Small Business and Canada segments and continued strength in our Education channel.Our results reflect strong momentum across our business as technology spending recovers from lower spending last year and also increased demand as customers seek to modernize, optimize and innovate. In 2020, customers prioritize remote enablement and continuity. So far in 2021, customers have prioritized digital transformation, security and hybrid and cloud solutions as well as continued investments in end point solutions, driving strong growth for solutions and transactions. Customers are investing to enable the future and adding resilience into their operations, strengthening and securing infrastructure, platforms and end points, leveraging the cloud, preparing for return to in-person operations and industrializing remote enablement for permanently changed work models. We've combined our services and broad solutions portfolio with our extensive technical knowledge and unique logistical and distribution capabilities to advise, design and orchestrate the best outcomes for our customers. Last quarter, we leveraged our distribution centers, extensive logistics capabilities, deep vendor partner relationships and strong balance sheet and liquidity position to navigate the supply environment. Our scale and strong financial position enabled us to continue helping customers navigate the choppy supply environment.As we previewed on our last earnings call, supply challenges increased during the second quarter for many transactional products and some infrastructure products. While writings strengthened as economies rebounded and more customers turned to CDW for expertise across the full technology solution stack and life cycle, our backlog increased compared to the first quarter. Another impact in the tight supply environment was increasing prices, which our teams were generally able to pass on. We expect supply constraints to continue through the second half of the year and into next year. Now let's take a deeper look at the second quarter customer end market performance. Corporate increased 27% as customer spend sharply recovered with strong transactional and solutions performance. Customers remain focused on digital transformation, hybrid and cloud and security. Customers also began to prepare for employees to return to the office in the coming months, driving end point solutions, including notebooks, video and accessory growth. Our Corporate backlog increased during the quarter as customers await availability due to standards requirements and generally larger orders. Small Business delivered exceptional growth, growing 60%, yes, 6-0 percent, as optimism improved and hiring increased.Our team helps customers with remote enablement, security and video, leading to strong growth in both transactional and solution spend. As we've shared previously, Small Business customers tend to be nimbler in their technology requirements so performance was less impacted by supply constraints. Net sales for our Government channel decreased 29%. Federal declined double digits due to overlapping our Device as a Service solution for the U.S. Census Bureau and other client device programs that were strong last year. State & Local decreased mid-single digits. Customers evaluated their needs at the beginning of the quarter and started to make investments utilizing stimulus funding toward the end of the quarter, making timing versus demand more of a driver of performance. Our Education channel grew 27%. The team delivered another $1 billion-plus quarter with strong double-digit growth from both K-12 and higher ed. K-12 and higher ed customers are focused on investments to support equity and access and to enhance the in-classroom experience as schools prepare for students to return this fall, which drove both strong transactional and solutions performance.Customers continue to turn to us for our holistic capabilities across technology solutions and our deep education experience. Healthcare increased 7%, returning to year-over-year growth. Customers resumed projects that have been sidelined during the pandemic as budgets reopened driven by patients returning for elective procedures and providers made investments for the future. Growth was balanced between transactional and solutions categories. Other, which represents our U.K. and Canadian operations, increased over 20% on a reported basis. In local currency, U.K. net sales decreased low single digits, overlapping strong public sector performance and reflecting a slower commercial recovery. The Canada team drove strong double-digit growth in local currency, powered by commercial customer strength and strong transactional and solutions performance. Our second quarter performance benefited from the diversity of our customer base and from our deep and broad product portfolio.Transactions increased strong double digits driven by client device growth of 17% as well as strong growth in video and accessories. Solutions also increased strong double digits driven by software, collaboration tools and data center solutions. This led to balanced double-digit growth across hardware, software and services. Our services growth reflects strong organic performance and inorganic contributions. As I've shared before, services are fundamental to our go-to-market approach and a key enabler of our value proposition. We also delivered excellent growth in our cloud practice. Cloud customer spend increased strong double digits across all customer segments driven by robust growth in security, Infrastructure as a Service and productivity. We expect strong customer demand for cloud solutions to continue, and we're well positioned to deliver. I want to take a moment to highlight our security practice given its importance to our customers as cyber threats are constantly emerging and evolving and increasing. Security customer spend grew strong double digits as customers improve their security frameworks to respond to increasing threats.Our teams help customers through a cohesive strategy of security assessment, data protection and threat mitigation. Our second quarter operating and financial performance reflected the combined impact of our balanced portfolio of customer end markets, our full suite of solutions and services across the IT landscape and our ongoing success executing our 3-part strategy for growth. They are all important drivers of our past and future performance. The diversity of our customer end markets serves us well when macro or other external challenges impact various industries and customers differently. Our extent of products, services and solutions portfolio positions us to meet our customers' total needs across the sector of IT. The balance of our customer end markets and our offerings are especially relevant in the current environment. Technology has become more essential to our customers, and we are best positioned to help them navigate the complexity. And the final driver of our performance, our 3-part strategy for growth, which is to: first, acquire new customers and capture share; second, enhance our solutions capabilities; and third, expand our services capabilities.Each pillar is crucial to our ability to profitably advise, design, orchestrate and manage integrated technology solutions our customers want and need today and in the future. Let me share a few examples of our strategy in action. Earlier this week, we announced that we acquired Focal Point. Focal Point is a leading provider of cybersecurity services with deep capabilities in identity and access management as well as the ability to serve customers across the full cybersecurity landscape. Focal Point is a leader in the cybersecurity space with an expert team and complementary customer relationships. As I shared earlier, security is a top focus area for our customers. The addition of Focal Point expands and accelerates our security practice, adding over 200 coworkers, who we welcome to CDW. We see many significant opportunities ahead, and this is a great example of adding capability to help customers across the full technology solution stack and full technology life cycle. We view M&A as an important part of our capital allocation strategy to expand CDW's strategic capabilities.Our success is a testament to our coworkers, including those who joined CDW through acquisition, who have delivered consistent with the strategic rationale of each deal, delivering tremendous value to our customers. Let me share another example. Over the last year, Education customers have embraced technology more than ever and fundamentally changed how they purchased, with districts and school systems banding together to access stimulus programs and procure technology to enable remote, hybrid and in-person model. A longtime higher ed customer who was transitioning from a decentralized technology program to centralized turned to us to provide a better end-user experience for its students and staff across its 20-plus campuses. Our team leveraged our digital capabilities to integrate directly into their systems. This greatly improved the ease of purchasing, providing configured branded bundles, hitting prenegotiated pricing, direct-to-home logistics and product availability in a constrained environment.Our customer-first focus and logistical capabilities continue to be differentiators that drive value with our customers and vendor partners. This is a great example of how we leverage our competitive advantages to win. Last, I want to share a story about a corporate customer that our team helped execute a global compute refresh, changing from a BYOD organization to corporate standards. The Director of Global IT Service Delivery leading the project turned exclusively to us to partner on this important initiative for over 8,000 employees in 20 countries. Having a global partner was very important. Our teams in the U.S., U.K. and Canada worked closely together to deliver for the customer. We worked with our vendor partners to ensure we had product when the customer needed it, which is crucial in the current environment, and the capability we have, given our deep partner relationships, strong financial position and distribution centers. What started as a device refresh has led to partnering on the customer's return-to-office initiative and technology enhancements as well as software and security projects, growing the account from less than $1 million in net sales last year to over $7 million this year.Our team understood the customer's challenges and leveraged CDW's capabilities on a worldwide basis to provide outstanding service, leading to more opportunities. These examples highlight CDW's 3-part strategy for growth and demonstrates the value of M&A to add solutions and services capabilities to best serve our customers and how we leverage our competitive advantages to win in the marketplace. I am so proud of the way our teams continue to deliver for our customers. Our distribution and configuration centers remain fully operational. During the quarter, our teams continued to safely reengage with customers and partners in person. Although the environment is dynamic, groups of coworkers have started to return to our offices for team meetings and small events and others are starting to work more regularly in our offices. Our ReunITe team is working hard to thoughtfully reimagine and orchestrate the future of work so we can continue to serve our customers and partners better than anyone else can, while we continue to fortify our strong culture. Let me now share our updated thoughts on 2021. We are again increasing our outlook for both U.S. IT market growth and CDW's net sales premium to market.We now expect the U.S. IT market to grow about 5% and our top line to grow 425 to 500 basis points faster than the market in constant currency. For the third quarter, we expect customer demand trends to continue and have confidence in how our teams are executing and in our solutions and services portfolio. That said, we remain cautious about the supply environment, which we expect to continue to be challenged. While there are other wildcards such as COVID variants, vaccine rollout, return to office and potential policy changes, including infrastructure and taxes, our confidence in the prospects for the business has never been higher. Technology is more essential to all sectors of the economy and will continue to play an increasingly important role in years ahead. We have great confidence that we have the right strategy to best serve our customers and partners, enhance our competitive position and deliver sustainable, profitable growth.Our role as a trusted strategic partner to our customers is more important now than ever. We will continue to do what we do best, leverage our competitive advantages to help our customers address their IT priorities and achieve their strategic objectives and out-execute our competition. Finally, let me take a moment to update you on our CFO transition. The process is progressing very well. I'm really pleased with the caliber of candidates interested and excited about CDW. We will provide further updates once the process is complete. Until then, Collin is fully engaged and after a successor is named, he will remain onboard to ensure a smooth transition.With that, I'll turn it over to Collin.Collin B. Kebo -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Chris, and good morning, everyone. I'll start my prepared remarks with more detail on the second quarter, move to capital allocation priorities and then finish up with our 2021 outlook. Turning to our second quarter P&L on slide eight. Consolidated net sales were $5.1 billion, up 17.9% on a reported and an average daily sales basis. On a constant currency average daily sales basis, consolidated net sales grew 16.3%. Compared to the second quarter of 2019, net sales increased more than $0.5 billion or 11.2%. On an average daily sales basis, sequential sales increased 4.7% versus the first quarter. Second quarter sales were stronger than expected, reflecting several factors. On the demand side, the rebound was sharper than expected in several channels most impacted by COVID-19 last year. Corporate, Small Business and CDW Canada all delivered very healthy double-digit growth versus 2020 and are up versus 2019, so the strong growth reflects more than easy comparisons. As Chris mentioned, Education momentum continued, delivering the fourth consecutive quarter of over $1 billion of net sales.On the supply side, while the backlog increased several hundred million dollars in the second quarter, the team did a great job leveraging CDW's competitive advantages and supporting stronger-than-expected demand so the backlog did not increase even more. Gross profit for the quarter was $883 million, an increase of 18.2%. Gross margin was 17.2%, up approximately 10 basis points versus last year primarily driven by an increase in the mix of net service contract revenue, primarily Software as a Service and strong professional services performance partially offset by overlapping higher-margin configuration services for the Census project last year. Turning to SG&A on slide nine. Non-GAAP SG&A increased 13.6%. The increase was primarily driven by payroll costs, including sales compensation, which moves with gross profit growth; performance-based compensation consistent with higher attainment against goals; and investments in the business, including coworker count to drive our strategy. Coworker count at the end of the second quarter was 10,666. Coworker count increased 480 from the first quarter and 618 from the prior year.The increase in coworker count reflects organic and inorganic investments to support high-growth solution areas and our digital transformation. GAAP operating income was $370 million, up 30.5%. Non-GAAP operating income, which better reflects operating performance, was $418 million, up 23.6%. Non-GAAP operating income margin was 8.1%. Moving to slide 10. Interest expense was $36 million, down 10.6%. The decrease was primarily due to savings from last year's refinancing, a lower LIBOR rate and lower revolving credit facility borrowings. Other income reflects $36 million from the sale of our ownership interest in an equity method investment. Proceeds from the sale were excluded from non-GAAP metrics. Our GAAP effective tax rate, shown on slide 11, was 26.2%. This resulted in second quarter tax expense of $97 million compared to $56 million last year. To get to our non-GAAP effective tax rate, we adjust taxes consistent with non-GAAP net income add-backs, as shown on slide 12. For the quarter, our non-GAAP effective tax rate was 25.4%, up 50 basis points versus last year's rate primarily due to higher foreign taxes.As you can see on slide 13, with second quarter weighted average diluted shares outstanding of 142 million, GAAP net income per share was $1.93, up 47.4%. Our non-GAAP net income was $286 million in the quarter, up 27%. Non-GAAP net income per share was $2.02, up 29.3% from last year. Turning to first half results on slides 14 through 19. Net sales were $10 billion, an increase of 14% on a reported basis and 14.9% on an average daily sales basis as we had one fewer selling day in the first half of 2021. The one fewer selling day will be made up in Q4 when we have one extra selling day compared to the prior year. On a constant currency average daily sales basis, first half consolidated net sales were 13.6% higher than the prior year. Gross profit was $1.7 billion, up 11.6%, and gross profit margin was 16.8%, down approximately 40 basis points. Operating income was $693 million and non-GAAP operating income was $786 million, up 22.4%. Net income was $507 million and non-GAAP net income was $536 million, up 25.9%. Non-GAAP net income per share was $3.76, up 27.9%. Turning to the balance sheet on slide 20. At June 30, cash and cash equivalents were $0.5 billion and net debt was $3.4 billion.Liquidity remains strong with cash plus revolver availability of approximately $1.7 billion. Year-to-date, free cash flow was $110 million, as shown on slide 21. This was lighter than a typical first half but expected given last year's record $1.2 billion of free cash flow, which benefited from timing and onetime items. Year-to-date, we saw some of the timing reverse as we mixed out of vendors with extended payment terms, additionally, working capital increases during periods of rapid growth and we made strategic investments in inventory to support customers during this choppy supply environment. For the quarter, we deployed cash consistent with our capital allocation priorities, returning $433 million to shareholders, including $56 million of dividends and $377 million of share repurchases at an average price of approximately $170 per share. Moving to slide 22. The three month average cash conversion cycle was 21 days, down four days from last year's second quarter.The decrease was primarily driven by improved accounts receivable collection performance. Turning to capital allocation on slide 23. Our priorities remain the same: first, increase the dividend in line with non-GAAP net income. To guide these increases, we will target the dividend at approximately 25% of non-GAAP net income and to grow in line with earnings going forward. Second, ensure we have the right capital structure in place with a targeted net leverage ratio of 2.5 to three times. We ended the second quarter at 2.1 times, up 0.4 of a turn from year-end. Third, supplement organic growth with strategic acquisitions. Focal Point and Amplified IT are great examples. And fourth, return excess cash after dividends and M&A to shareholders through share repurchases. Going forward, we expect to continue to move closer to our target net leverage range of 2.5 to three times through a combination of organic investments, M&A and cash returned to shareholders. We now expect to return over $1.7 billion to shareholders in 2021, including at least $1.5 billion for share repurchases with the balance from dividends. This $0.5 billion increase from last quarter's comments reflects our confidence in the cash flow generation and earnings power of the business.We remain active in evaluating M&A targets, and we'll continue to deploy capital for M&A that passes our screens. Of course, as we always do, we'll closely monitor the macroeconomic environment, liquidity, M&A activity, leverage and adjust as needed. Moving to the outlook for 2021 on slide 24. The current environment continues to be challenging to forecast with a high degree of confidence. On the demand side, we continue to see strong activity and momentum, particularly with U.S. commercial customers and in CDW Canada. On the supply side, visibility remains a challenge. Notebooks, displays, docking stations, certain infrastructure hardware, including networking and servers, are constrained, resulting in longer lead times and a higher backlog. With the exception of Chromebooks, the supply environment has not improved since our last earnings call, and most vendor partners do not expect the situation to improve in the second half. With that context, our updated outlook is for the U.S. IT market to grow approximately 5%.We expect CDW net sales to grow 425 to 500 basis points faster than the market in constant currency, including the contribution from Focal Point. Currency is expected to be a tailwind of approximately 80 basis points for the full year, assuming exchange rates of $1.36 to the British pound and $0.79 to the Canadian dollar. Moving down the P&L. We continue to expect non-GAAP operating income margin to be in the mid-7% range for 2021. We now expect non-GAAP constant currency earnings-per-share growth in the strong mid-teens, call it, 16% to 16.5%. Currency is expected to contribute an additional approximately 70 basis points to earnings-per-share growth. The updated full year outlook for non-GAAP earnings per share is an increase of approximately $0.35 over last quarter. Additional modeling thoughts for annual depreciation and amortization, interest expense and the non-GAAP tax rate can be found on slide 25. Moving to modeling thoughts for the third quarter.The 2015 to 2019 five year average sequential increase from Q2 to Q3 on an average daily sales basis was approximately 4%, and we expect this year's third quarter to be in line with normal seasonality, which equates to low double-digit year-over-year growth. We expect third quarter non-GAAP earnings per share to grow low double digits. Our updated outlook for the balance of the year assumes modest growth in the backlog. If supply turns out to be more resilient, enabling us to work down the backlog or keep pace with even stronger demand, that would be upside to the outlook. We feel good about the health of the business and believe supply uncertainty is a question of timing across the second half and into 2022. Our long-term free cash flow rule of thumb remains unchanged at 3.75% to 4.25% of net sales, assuming current tax rates. Given the timing impacts that contributed to 2020's significant overdelivery, we continue to expect 2021 free cash flow to be at or slightly below the low end of the range. Additional modeling thoughts on the components of free cash flow, including capital expenditures and the cash conversion cycle, can also be found on slide 25. As we always do, we will provide updated views on the macro environment and our business on future earnings calls. That concludes the financial summary.With that, I'll ask Tamia to open it up for questions. [Operator Instructions]