
OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Amcor First Quarter 2020 Results. [Operator Instructions]Without further ado, I would like to welcome your host for today. Ms. Tracey Whitehead, Head of Investor Relations. The floor is yours.Tracey Whitehead -- Global Head of Investor Relations

 



Thank you, operator, and welcome, everyone, to Amcor's First Joining today is Ron Delia, [Indecipherable]; and Michael Casamento, Chief Financial Officer. At this time, I'll direct you to our website, amcor.com, under the Investor -- where you will find [Indecipherable] also discuss non-GAAP measures -- Also a reminder that the call today including forward-looking statements, which remain subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Please confer to our SEC filings, including our statements on Form10-K and 10-Q to review the factors that could as actual results to differ from what we're discussing today. [Operator Instructions]Ron Delia -- Managing Director and Chief Executive OfficerOkay. Thanks, everyone, for joining us to discuss Amcor's fiscal 2022 first quarter results. Joining me today is Michael Casamento, Amcor's Chief Financial Officer, and we'll begin with some brief prepared remarks and then open the line for Q&A. We start with safety because it's the first and most important of our values and the highest priority for every one of our 46,000 people around the world. And Amcor has been on a long-term journey toward our goal of no injuries, and our safety performance remains a real highlight. Across the group, we reduced the number of injuries by 16% compared to the prior year, and 62% of our sites have remained injury-free for at least 12 months. As we continue to make strong progress, it reinforces our conviction that an objective of no injuries is absolutely possible, and we continue striving toward that goal.We have four key messages today that sit here on slide four. First, Amcor is navigating well through challenging external conditions that we highlighted in August. And like the rest of our industry, including our customers and suppliers, we're experiencing unprecedented complexity across the supply chain, but we're performing well, and we remain on track to deliver on our expectations for the year. We're able to say that confidently because we're leveraging our scale and global reach, we are relying on the capabilities and experience of our management teams, and we're maintaining an unwavering focus on the right priorities, in particular, security of supply for our customers, recovery of higher input costs, and managing the sales mix. The second message today is that Amcor delivered a solid first quarter. While sales were tempered by supply chain challenges in some parts of the business, we delivered another solid quarter of double-digit earnings growth, which was in line with our expectations.

 



Third, we're reaffirming fiscal '22 guidance, and we remain on track to meet the fiscal '22 earnings growth and cash flow objectives that we provided in August. And finally, we've built a strong foundation over the last several years, and today, Amcor is better positioned strategically than ever. In addition to delivering against short-term priorities, we remain focused on our long-term strategy and track record of growth and value creation. Turning to the financial highlights on slide five. The business delivered a solid start to the fiscal year. Our 10% reported net sales growth includes approximately $285 million of price increases related to the pass-through of higher raw material costs. We're incredibly proud of the way our teams have continued to successfully steer us through this environment of ongoing inflation, achieving significant recovery over the last several quarters, and we'll continue to manage this dynamic going forward. Excluding this pass-through impact, organic sales grew 1%. In this environment, we're maintaining focus on our long-term strategy of optimizing mix, and it's clear that volume performance in both segments would have been higher in an unconstrained environment.Overall, EBIT increased 7% in comparable constant currency terms, which was right in line with expectations. The Flexibles segment had a strong quarter, generating earnings growth of 8%, driven by favorable mix and outstanding management of costs. In Rigid Packaging, the business in North America experienced a particularly challenging environment, including elevated demand, combined with full capacity utilization and constraints of critical inputs which resulted in operating inefficiencies and higher costs. Net income and EPS were both up at double-digit rates, increasing by 10% and 12%, respectively. And our financial profile remains strong. We increased cash returns to shareholders during the quarter, including repurchases of $64 million of shares, and the Board declared an increased quarterly dividend of $0.12 per share. So the key message here is that the business remains focused and continues to execute well.And with that, I'll hand over to Michael.Michael Casamento -- Executive Vice President of Finance and Chief Finance Officer

 



Thanks, Ron. Hello, everyone. Turning to slide six. The Flexibles business performed very well during the period, delivering growth in high-value end markets, executing well to recover inflation and demonstrating strong cost performance. Reported sales growth of 10% includes recovery of higher raw material costs, which increased through the quarter. Actions we have taken to pass through those high costs drove sales up by approximately $210 million, which, on an annual basis, is well over $800 million and represented growth of 9% in the quarter compared with last year. The overall price/cost impact was unfavorable, but has remained manageable given the diversity of materials we'll buy, the multiple regions in which we consume those materials and the implementation of inflation-driven pricing actions. This is once again evident in our margins, which remained at a level equal to the prior year despite the impact of higher raw material costs and related pricing recovery.Excluding this raw material impact, organic revenue growth of 1% was driven by favorable price/mix of approximately 2%. Consistent with our long-term strategy, the business has remained focused on mix with continued growth in higher-value end markets, including pet food, premium coffee and medical. This growth more than offset the sales impact of lower volumes in segments such as Home and Personal Care and across Southeast Asia. In addition, shortages of certain raw materials, including aluminum and specialty resins, had a dampening effect on volume performance in some categories, including healthcare and protein-related products. Adjusted EBIT was up 8% in constant currency terms for the quarter and reflects a favorable mix, strong productivity and cost improvements. Turning to the Rigid Packaging business on slide seven. We delivered reported sales growth of 13%, reflecting the pass-through of higher raw material costs. Comparable constant currency sales growth of 1% was driven by higher overall volumes. In North America, beverage volumes were marginally ahead of the same period last year.Hot fill beverage container volumes were 1% lower against a strong comparative period of double-digit growth, and higher demand in juice categories was offset by lower sports drinks volumes. Specialty container volumes were lower against the prior year, which benefited from strong volumes in the Home & Personal Care category. In Latin America, double-digit volume growth reflects strong performance in Argentina, Brazil and Colombia, and earnings were higher in the region. In constant currency terms, segment earnings were adversely impacted by inefficiencies and higher costs in North America, resulting from unprecedented industrywide supply chain complexity and disruptions. Overall demand remained elevated and increasingly volatile in the beverage segment. At the same time, the business continued to operate at full capacity and we put historically low levels of inventory.This, coupled with further inflation and shortages for key inputs, including PET and certain specialty resins, resulted in operating efficiencies and higher costs in order to service customer demand. While we expect these dynamics to persist in the second quarter, we anticipate current challenges will improve through the second half of fiscal 2022. Moving to cash on the balance sheet on slide eight. As a reminder, our cash flow is seasonally weaker in the first half of the fiscal year. And for the current quarter, adjusted free cash outflow of $242 million compares with an outflow of $190 million last year. The increased outflow mainly reflects higher uses of cash related to working capital with the adverse impact related to timing of higher raw material costs cycling through the business. We continue to maintain a strong focus on working capital performance.And our rolling 12-month average working capital to sales ratio at the end of September remains below 8%. As planned, capital expenditure is tracking higher than last year as we have stepped up organic investments in key high-growth segments and geographies. Amcor's financial profile remains solid with leverage at 2.9 times on a trailing 12-month EBITDA basis, which is in line with our expectations for this time of year. And cash returns to shareholders in the first quarter were higher than the prior year, which reflects $64 million of share repurchases mentioned earlier and an increase in dividend per share. Taking us to the outlook on slide nine. A solid first quarter of double-digit EPS growth, in line with our expectations, enables us to reaffirm the 2022 guidance we outlined in August. We continue to expect adjusted EPS growth of 7% to 11% on a comparable constant currency basis, which represents an EPS guidance range of approximately $0.79 to $0.81 per share on a reported basis assuming current exchange rates prevail for the balance of the year. Free cash flow is expected to be $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion, and the growing cash flow enables us to continue to pay a compelling growing dividend and allocate cash to share repurchases, which we expect will be around $400 million in fiscal '22, while retaining the flexibility to fund acquisitive growth when needed.So with that, I'll hand back to Ron.Ron Delia -- Managing Director and Chief Executive OfficerOkay. Thanks, Michael. Before closing and turning it over to Q&A, I'd like to spend a few minutes on the longer term, starting on slide 10, which summarizes the investment case for Amcor. Over the last several years, we've continued to execute against our strategy, strengthen our capabilities and establish a stronger foundation for growth and value creation. And as a result, we believe Amcor is better positioned strategically and our investment case is as strong as ever. In simple terms, that investment case starts with our market positions. We're the global leader in most of our chosen segments with relative and absolute scale advantages in every region and significant exposure to attractive high-value end markets across food, beverage and healthcare. We have a proven track record of consistent earnings growth and margin expansion, and we generate significant free cash flow every year, including between the $1.1 billion and $1.2 billion in this 2022 fiscal year.With a strong balance sheet, that cash flow provides substantial capacity to invest in the long-term potential of our business and also to deliver a significant and growing amount of cash to shareholders. We use our shareholder value creation framework, which is shown here on slide 11, to describe how we allocate cash flow every year and how that translates into value for shareholders. Through the combination of reinvestment in the base business, M&A and share repurchases, we expect to generate 5% to 10% constant currency EPS growth each year. Our dividend has historically yielded around 4% and continues to be especially compelling in such a low interest rate environment.But through economic and commodity cycle, the outcome of allocating capital in this way has resulted in average value creation through a combined EPS growth and dividend yield of about 13.5% each year, in line with the 10% to 15% you see here on this slide, and we're very well positioned to continue that trend. The strategic choices we've made guide how we prioritize investments back into the business, and we're investing now in several areas that will continue to drive long-term organic growth, and those are highlighted on slide 12. First, our business mix is increasingly oriented toward the most attractive segments, which offer greater potential for differentiation and growth like healthcare, pet food, premium coffee and hot fill beverages. Our results this quarter provide strong evidence of how the considered choices we make every day lead to these attractive segments, representing an increasing percentage of our sales mix, which contributes to consistent margin expansion over time even while navigating complex environments like the one we're in now.Second, we continue to invest to expand our leading emerging market positions. We had another quarter of double-digit growth in both China and India, for example, and we're actively investing in these markets where we expect to see demand remain a tailwind for the foreseeable future. And third, we remain uniquely positioned to launch a steady stream of innovative new packaging solutions. We're investing in our innovation capabilities and network of global innovation centers so we can capitalize on what we believe is our greatest opportunity for growth and differentiation, and that is the demand for more sustainable packaging. slide 13 highlights what we see as the three requirements for responsible packaging, and we're seeing clear progress on each of the three: Package design; waste management infrastructure; and consumer participation. In the past, we've highlighted examples of groundbreaking new product platforms like AmLite, AmPrima and AmSky, but we're also actively collaborating with others to develop solutions that address infrastructure and consumer participation. Most of these initiatives start small, but all have the benefit of demonstrating working models that can be scaled and leveraged across markets and customers.In Colombia, as an example, we partnered with one of our key customers and others across the value chain to achieve a fully circular bottle-to-bottle solution for amber-colored beverage containers where the color is critical for this particular brand. In Australia, we've enabled an iconic brand to transition confectionery packaging to a structure which incorporates 30% chemically recycled material. And finally, an example which is already functioning at scale globally, we've worked with the global market leader for single-serve premium coffee to increase the use of recycled aluminum, which is now at 80% for our core product line. In the next few weeks, we'll be releasing our 2021 sustainability report, which will describe our sustainability strategy and agenda more fully, and we'll provide more data in case studies to illustrate the strong progress we've made over the last 12 months. And finally, on slide 14, a summary for today. Amcor delivered a solid first quarter results in line with expectations as we navigated well through a challenging external environment. This leaves us on track to meet our 2022 fiscal year guidance. And looking further ahead, we're better positioned strategically than ever before with a strong foundation for continued growth and value creation.So with that, operator, we'll close our opening remarks and open the line for questions. Thanks.