
OperatorGood day, and welcome to the Aptiv First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. My name is Anna, and I will be your conference operator today. [Operator Instructions]Thank you. Elena Rosman, Aptiv Vice President of Investor Relations, you may begin your conference.Elena Rosman -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



Thank you, Anna. Good morning, and thank you for joining Aptiv's First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. The press release and related tables, along with the slide presentation, can be found on the Investor Relations portion of our website at ir.aptiv.com. Today's review of our financials exclude restructuring and other special items and will address the continuing operations of Aptiv.The reconciliations between GAAP and non-GAAP measures for both our Q1 financials as well as our full year 2021 outlook are included at the back of the slide presentation and the earnings press release. During today's call, we will be providing certain forward-looking information which reflects Aptiv's current view of future financial performance and may be materially different from our actual performance for reasons that we cite in our Form 10-K and other SEC filings, including uncertainties posed by the COVID-19 pandemic and the difficulty in predicting its future course and impact on the global economy.Joining us today will be Kevin Clark, Aptiv's President and CEO; and Joe Massaro, CFO and Senior Vice President of Business Operations. Kevin will provide a strategic update on the business, and Joe will cover the financial results in more detail before we open the call to Q&A.With that, I would like to turn the call over to Kevin Clark.

 



Kevin P. Clark -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Elena, and thank you, everyone, for joining us this morning. Beginning with slide three. We had a strong start to the year, reflecting our ability to outperform in a challenging environment. Our focus on execution translated into stronger revenues and earnings in the quarter. Revenues totaled $4 billion. That's up 20% from the prior year, driven by our industry-leading portfolio of safe, green and connected technologies. Operating income reached $437 million, reflecting margins of 10.9%, an increase of 370 basis points from the prior year.And earnings per share totaled $1.06, an increase of 56%, the result of strong revenue growth partially offset by labor inefficiencies and increased premium freight costs associated with a growing number of supply chain disruptions. The 5% growth in global vehicle production was principally driven by a 72% increase in China, lapping the impact of last year's pandemic-related shutdowns, partially offset by a decline in vehicle production of 4% in North America and 1% in Europe as OEM customers idle plants in response to the tightening of the global supply chain.For the balance of the year, we expect the supply chain to remain stressed and the near-term volatility in production schedules to actually increase. However, the Aptiv team is doing an excellent job executing in this very fluid environment, minimizing the effects of the supply chain disruptions and keeping our employees safe while delivering for our OEM customers. Turning to slide four. This year's supply chain disruptions have been further exacerbated by severe weather in the southwestern United States and a facility fire at one of the industry's major chip suppliers in Japan.

 



As a result, we continue to experience volatility in production schedules, elevated freight and logistics expenses and higher raw material input prices as the industry struggles to meet strong customer demand levels. As I mentioned, based on our daily discussions with customers and suppliers, we expect supply chain disruptions to actually increase over the next few months before the environment begins to improve in the second half of the year.However, given the puts and takes, we continue to expect global vehicle production to increase 10% for the full year, reflecting continued strong consumer demand. The absence of last year's pandemic-related production shutdowns and customer intentions to make up first half production shortfalls in the second half of the year. Moving to slide five. Despite the near-term economic uncertainty, we continue to remain confident in our initial financial outlook for the year.Our industry-leading cost structure provides the incremental flexibility to rapidly adjust to changes in customer production schedules, and our portfolio of advanced technologies position us to benefit from the acceleration in safe, green and connected secular trends, which has led to increased share of wallet with both leading and emerging electric vehicle manufacturers ramping up production globally, including the leading U.S. EV companies, Volkswagen, Volvo, Rivian and NIO.Our scalable satellite architecture ADAS platform is now being deployed across multiple OEMs and vehicle segments across the globe, and our connected services solutions are providing fleet owners with the information necessary to optimize vehicle uptime and lower operating costs as well as OEM customers with the vehicle-level data to reduce product development and warranty expenses.We're very proud of the positive impact these technologies are having today, and I want to recognize the tremendous dedication of the global Aptiv team, which has launched these complex and highly integrated solutions during these very challenging times. In summary, our flexible and sustainable business model is reinforced by a consistent and deliberate management approach to disciplined revenue growth, an industry-leading cost structure and sustained through-cycle resiliency, allowing us to compound earnings and cash flow and reinvest that cash to create long-term shareholder value.Moving to slide six. First quarter bookings totaled $5.2 billion, reflecting a strong funnel of new business opportunities and robust customer win rates. Our Advanced Safety and User Experience segment booked approximately $1 billion, reflecting the lumpiness of new business awards, further exacerbated by the semiconductor supply shortage which has extended customer decision time lines as resources have been reallocated. As a result, a number of larger business pursuits are now slated for award in the second half of the year.New business bookings for our Signal and Power Solutions segment totaled $4.7 billion, including nearly $1 billion of high-voltage electrification awards driven by the increased demand for electrified vehicle platforms. Our strong track record of new business bookings is proof that our portfolio of advanced technologies is well aligned to the areas of growth within our industry, and our position as the only provider of both the brain and the nervous system of the vehicle enables us to provide unique value to our customers. Moving to slide seven.We believe that our long-term success and ability to create value for our stakeholders are directly linked to building a more sustainable business that continuously delivers on our mission and strategy. Our mission to develop safer, greener and more connected solutions which enable the future of mobility is integral to both the products we create and the way we conduct business. Aptiv is committed to protecting human health, natural resources and the environment in which we live and operate.Our commitment to environmental stewardship is companywide, and we aggressively pursue initiatives to minimize our environmental impact. In 2012, we set a long-term target to reduce our carbon output by 30% between 2011 and 2019, which we actually exceeded, reducing emissions by over 40% during that period. In our 2020 sustainability report, we published new, more aggressive sustainability targets that include a further 25% reduction of CO2 emissions by 2025.In addition, we committed to the Science Based Targets Initiative, joining the effort to create a 0-carbon economy to help prevent the effects of climate change and as a result, we're excited to announce Aptiv's path to carbon neutrality, which includes being carbon neutral across our global operations by 2030 and providing carbon-neutral products to our customers and achieving net neutrality by 2040. We remain committed to addressing some of mobility's toughest challenges while, at the same time, reducing CO2 emissions globally.We plan to showcase our industry-leading electrification portfolio and capabilities at our upcoming high-voltage technology teach-in, which is scheduled for early June. Turning to slide eight. Despite the challenges we currently face, we remain focused on further strengthening our track record of outperformance and long-term value creation. While our industry continues to be tested, our operating performance has validated our business model and through-cycle resiliency.As we look ahead, we positioned Aptiv to continue to outperform with focused investments that have increased the resiliency of our business and expanded the markets we serve, leveraging our unique brain and nervous system capabilities to deliver even more content on the electrified software-defined vehicles of the future, which together yield accretive growth opportunities and present incremental value-creation opportunities through smart capital deployment, resulting in meaningful shareholder returns as the economic recovery continues to unfold.So with that, I'll hand the call over to Joe to take us through the first quarter results in more detail.Joseph R. Massaro -- Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President, Business OperationsThanks, Kevin, and good morning, everyone. Starting with slide nine. The recovery momentum in the first quarter generated strong sales, income and cash performance despite the supply chain constraints Kevin referenced earlier. Revenues of $4 billion were up 20%, 15% ahead of vehicle production, which was up 5% on our weighted market base. Adjusted EBITDA and operating income were $630 million and $437 million, respectively, reflecting stronger volumes and disciplined cost management, partially offset by approximately $70 million of COVID- and supply chain-related costs.Earnings per share in the quarter were $1.06, reflecting higher operating income, offset by the Motional JV results and higher share count and tax expense. Operating cash flow was strong at $252 million, driven by higher EBITDA while capex was $134 million. Looking at first quarter revenues in more detail on slide 10. Broad demand recovery and some inventory restocking in our engineered components businesses contributed a strong growth over market in every region.We also had favorable FX in commodities, partially offset by price downs of approximately 1% in the quarter. From a regional perspective, North America revenues were up 5%, representing nine points of growth over market, driven by new launch volume and favorable truck and SUV platform mix. In Europe, the trend of strong double-digit market outgrowth continued with further adoption of our high-voltage electrification and active safety solutions.Lastly in China, revenues grew by 94%, reflecting 22 points of growth over market as the volume recovery led to production upside and inventory replenishment with our major customers. As a reminder, China operations were shut down between late January and March of last year. Moving to the segments on the next slide. Advanced Safety and User Experience revenues increased 11% in the quarter, reflecting six points of growth over underlying vehicle production, including double-digit active safety outgrowth despite semiconductor supply shortages.Segment EBITDA increased 31% excluding the impact of the Motional JV deconsolidation, driven by higher sales and disciplined cost management, partially offset by supply chain disruption costs. Signal and Power Solutions revenues were up 23%, reflecting 18 points of market outgrowth. Record outgrowth was driven by continued strong demand for high-voltage electrification solutions in Europe and China, favorable truck and SUV platform mix in North America and the benefits of inventory replenishment within the engineered components businesses.EBITDA in the segment increased 43% on strong sales conversion, driving meaningful margin expansion despite headwinds from supply chain costs and FX and commodities in the quarter. Both segments saw lower price downs in the quarter due to customer timing, which is expected to return to normalized levels over the course of the year. Turning now to slide 12 and our 2021 macro outlook. As Kevin mentioned earlier, the worldwide shortage of semiconductors impacting the auto industry continues to limit near-term production visibility.Based on discussions with our customers and suppliers, we expect supply chain disruptions to remain volatile in the second quarter given the additional impact of the Naka fire and the Texas weather events. And while we don't expect the supply/demand imbalance to fully recover to normalized levels until 2022, the situation is expected to improve in the second half of the year to allow for partial recovery of lost vehicle production from the first half. Accordingly, we will not be providing guidance for the second quarter as there remains a high likelihood of vehicle production shifting between the quarters.However, we continue to believe we have adequately reflected the current situation on our original guidance for full year 2021, which estimates global vehicle production of 84 million units, up 10% with minor adjustments within the regions. Our assumption for North America has increased slightly, offset by a reduction in Europe as markets continue to face extended lockdown measures. While the supply chain remains extremely tight, we have taken swift action to mitigate these impacts to help customers prioritize certain platforms to meet increased levels of demand, which was reflected in the strong outgrowth we saw in the first quarter.Although we are not updating our full year guidance, we remain confident our industry-leading portfolio of safe, green and connected technologies will continue to yield market outgrowth in the range of 6% to 8%, consistent with the framework we previously provided. Turning to slide 13. Despite the uncertainty that remains near term, we are confident in the original guidance range we provided for 2021. For the year, we continue to expect revenues to be in the range of $15.1 billion to $15.7 billion, up 16% with six points of growth over market at the midpoint and a modest tailwind from FX and commodities, which, combined, more than offsets our normal price downs.EBITDA and operating income are expected to be $2.4 billion and $1.6 billion at the midpoint, respectively, with strong year-over-year sales conversion despite operating with $100 million of COVID-related costs and incurring approximately $80 million to $100 million of manufacturing and logistics costs related to supply chain shortages this year. Lastly, benefits of our ongoing initiatives are more than offsetting the $150 million of austerity measures taken primarily during the pandemic-related shutdowns in the second quarter of 2020.We expect earnings per share in the range of $3.35 and $3.85 a share or $4.20 to $4.70 per share when excluding the impact of the equity income losses of our Motional joint venture; and lastly, operating cash flow of approximately $1.9 billion. As a reminder, we will resume providing quarterly guidance when we have improved visibility on customer production schedules and global supply chain disruptions.With that, I'd like to hand the call back to Kevin for his closing remarks.Kevin P. Clark -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Joe. Let's wrap up on slide 14 before opening it up for questions. As we navigate the road ahead, we're closely monitoring the current environment, including the pace of economic recovery and the ongoing disruptions in the supply chain. That said, our portfolio of advanced technologies continues to outgrow the market while our world-class talent, leading cost structure and strong track record of execution positions us to lead the industry forward in this recovery.Our performance is a direct result of our strong cultural foundation built on the values of thinking and acting like owners, and we remain laser-focused on delivering on our commitments to our customers, to our shareholders and to our employees while advancing our mission to create a more sustainable business and environment.Aptiv's industry-leading portfolio is enabling a more efficient and accelerated path to the electrified software-defined vehicle now demanded by consumers and required by our customers, and we're helping to create a safer, greener, more connected world as we advance our path to carbon-neutral operations and products by 2040. At Aptiv, we're moving forward with purpose as a company with a strong financial position and the flexibility to reinvest in our people and our technology portfolio to create significant value for all of our stakeholders.Thank you again for your time. Let's open up the line for questions.