  OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. And welcome to the Q1 2021 Mastercard, Inc. earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Warren Kneeshaw, head of investor relations. Thank you. Please go ahead.Warren Kneeshaw -- Head of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Denise and good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us for our first-quarter 2021 earnings call. We hope you're all safe and sound. With me today are Michael Miebach, our chief executive officer; and Sachin Mehra, our chief financial officer. Following comments from Michael and Sachin, the operator will announce your opportunity to get into the queue for the Q&A session. You can access our earnings release, supplemental performance data and the slide deck that accompany this call in the investor relations section of our website, mastercard.com. Additionally, the release was furnished with the SEC earlier this morning. Our comments today regarding our financial results will be on a non-GAAP currency-neutral basis unless otherwise noted. With the release and the slide deck both include reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to GAAP reported amounts.Finally, as set forth in more detail in our earnings release, I would like to remind everyone that today's call will include forward-looking statements regarding Mastercard's future performance. Actual performance could differ materially from these forward-looking statements. Information about the factors that could affect future performance are summarized at the end of our earnings release and in our recent SEC filings. A replay of this call will be posted on our website for 30 days. With that, I will now turn the call over to our chief executive officer, Mike Miebach. 

 



Michael Miebach -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Warren and good morning, everyone. So here are the headlines. We started the year with good momentum, delivering positive net revenue growth this quarter. We're encouraged by the return of domestic spending levels to pre-pandemic trends. We continue to execute against our strategic objectives as we signed notable new deals, advanced our multi-rail strategy by closing our transaction with Nets and extended our digital identity capabilities with the planned acquisition of Ekata. So let's dive in, looking at the broader economy first. Domestic spending levels showed continued improvement with very strong e-commerce sales. According to our quarter 1 spending pulse report, which is based on all tender types, U.S. retail sales were up 11.8% versus a year-ago ex auto, ex gas. This reflects the impact of fiscal stimulus and the lapping of the start of the pandemic. Spending costs also indicated that overall European retail sales got close to flat in quarter 1 versus a year ago. The vaccine rollout has become scaled in the U.S., U.K.

 



 and several other countries. And broadening this critical effort is under way, but will take time. Let's start with our business, specifically, and the four phases framework we established for managing through the COVID environment. At this time last year, markets were going through the containment and stabilization phases. We now believe many markets are transitioning from the normalization phase to the growth phase domestically. crossborder travel spending continues to be in the stabilization phase, where spending is restricted due to closed borders Looking at Mastercard spending trends, volumes continued to improve quarter over quarter with strength across products. We saw particular strength in debit, primarily driven by fiscal stimulus and share gains. In terms of how people are spending, e-commerce continues to be strong and we're seeing improvements in card-present spending. On the travel front, we've seen some recent improvements in domestic travel, primarily personal travel. crossborder travel remains limited as border restrictions remain in place for most markets. crossborder card-not-present spending, excluding online travel spend, continues to hold up well. As we have observed in many markets, progress is not always linear. And we believe there's significant pent-up demand for travel, as we've just seen in domestic travel. We expect domestic travel to improve progressively throughout the year in countries with strong vaccination programs. International travel should start to open on a select basis in the second half of the year between countries, the strong vaccination programs and/or low case rates. In the meantime, we remain focused on building on our already strong position in travel, engaging travelers early through our loyalty programs and expanding relationships with our partners in travel. As a result, we are well positioned to capitalize on this opportunity when it occurs. As we look forward and see positive momentum in the drivers that impact our top-line growth, we will increase the investment we put toward our strategic priorities: one, for payments; two, deploying a broader set of services; three, enabling digital solutions; and four, providing choice with multi-rail capabilities. As always, we will do this with an eye toward driving top and bottom-line growth over the long term, along with expense discipline. Let me illustrate how we're executing against each of these strategic priorities. I will begin by sharing how we're driving growth in the core, always supported by differentiated services capabilities. Here are a few key examples. Building on our strength in U.S. retail cobrands, we're excited that Mastercard was chosen as the exclusive network for Gap Inc.'s cobranded credit cards across the Old Navy, Gap, Banana Republic and Athleta brands. This partnership will include a reimagined rewards program to drive increased customer engagements, with the migration of existing card members planned for 2022. We've had a long-term services relationship with Gap, which led to additional opportunities to support both their cobrand programs and their broader business. We're also leveraging our differentiated service to expand relationships with key global partners like Santander. This quarter, we signed a new deal with Santander Brazil and executed a long-term exclusive partnership with Superdigital, Santanders fintech arm, to provide digital prepaid accounts across seven Latin American markets. Also, we're happy to announce that the financial arm of one of the largest retailers in Europe, El Corte Ingles, is migrating its entire closed-loop consumer credit portfolio to Mastercard exclusively for 10 years. This strategic partnership includes our processing capabilities and will contribute to growing Mastercard's overall credit share in the region. Talking about share. I'd also like to point out that the migration of Santander U.K. debit portfolio is progressing well, and we're preparing for the other conversions to be previously announced. Finally, we secured several strategic renewals and expansions. As many of you know, Huntington Bank announced its anticipated acquisition of TCF at the end of last year, which will make them a top 10 U.S. regional bank. I'm happy that they have decided to both renew their existing business with us and convert the TCF business to Mastercard. This brings significant new debit volume to our brands. We've also expanded our relationship with Synchrony Bank, as the exclusive partner for their general purpose consumer credit portfolio. Turning to the next strategic priority. We continue to enable digital solutions to drive the secular shift to electronic payments. A great example of this can be seen through the partnerships we have established with several leading mobile telecom providers across Africa and other regions. In Africa, there are more mobile money accounts than bank accounts and consumers increasingly expect digital financial services to be provided through their mobile phones. Now we signed a multiyear partnership with the MTN group to enable millions of their MTN mobile money wallet customers with a Mastercard virtual payment solution. We've also expanded our partnership with the Airtel group to equip their Airtel money customers with virtual cards and QR solutions. And we've extended our partnership with the Airtel Payments Bank in India along with the recent investment in Airtel Mobile Commerce. While our digital capabilities are enabling us to penetrate new geographies, our multi-rail strategy is allowing us to provide greater choice and capture new payment flows. We're happy that we have now completed the acquisition of the majority of the Corporate Services division of Nets, which reinforces our leadership position in providing realtime payments, infrastructure and applications. This transaction significantly enhances our application capabilities, inclusive of a robust set of bill payment solutions, which are operating at scale across several markets. Furthermore, this is an integral component of our regional strategy in Europe, enabling us to operate as a local partner. We see significant opportunity to expand these capabilities into additional markets around the world. Speaking of Bill Pay, in the U.S., we continue to scale our Bill Pay Exchange solution through new billers and bank partners. We're excited to announce that Verizon will connect as the most recent national biller on the platform. Turning to crossborder applications. We have now fully integrated our acquisition of Transfast and can now provide unsurpassed reach via a single point of access that allows banks and digital partners to send and receive money through bank accounts, mobile wallets, cards and cash payouts to over 90% of the world's population in more than 100 countries. We're expanding our relationships with the United Nations Federal Credit Union, Saudi British Bank to expand their reach into additional markets. And both Bancorp and IDT payment services will now leverage our capabilities for crossborder advantages. And in addition, we have extended our partnership with Western Union, who will be using our capabilities to allow customers in 18 European countries to transfer funds directly to debit cards in near real time. Our multi-rail capabilities are critically important to our efforts in open banking as well. They enable us to provide our customers across banks and fintechs with greater flexibility in how they manage both payment and data flows. We're off to a strong start at Finicity as we've integrated our sales teams and already signed several new connectivity partners and application users. For example, we're live with our state-of-the-art API-based data access in several large banks, including U.S. Bank, as well as with the leading payroll processor, representing millions of employees. Finicity was also selected by companies like Upgrade, SWBC, MoCaFi, MoneyLion and TomoCredit to provide permission-based access to financial data to support a variety of use cases, including mortgage, lending and, of course, payments. We're expanding our open banking capabilities in Europe as well as we're now live with our open banking connect solution with Lloyds Bank in the U.K. for consumers to make payments to their credit cards. We continue to see a great deal of interest and activity in digital currencies, and we're innovating in this space through new crypto and CBDC partnerships, enabling digital currencies on our network, and continuing our investments and underlying blockchain technology as part of our multi-rail strategy. We have several new crypto partnerships approved for launch this quarter, including a partnership with Gemini, a leading crypto platform here in the U.S., to launch a first of its kind cryptocurrency rewards credit card that allows consumers to receive crypto rewards on everyday purchases. And over in Spain, Crypton, a crypto exchange launching a Mastercard Crypto Card. On central bank digital currencies, we continue to engage with central banks around the world, and our virtual testing platform is helping them design features, similar issuance and evaluate interoperability with existing payment systems. In partnership with the Central Bank of Bahamas and Island Pay, we launched the world's first CBDC-linked payment card, enabling people to pay for goods and services using fiat currency anywhere Mastercard is accepted. Digital identity. Digital identity is critically important as the shift to a digital economy continues. It is a foundational component of our multilayered approach to security and have allowed us to help consumers and businesses safely and easily prove their identity while enabling them to main control over their information. Last week, we announced the planned acquisition of Ekata, which advances the digital identity efforts we have under way. Ekata has access to validated identity information on a global basis and leverages artificial intelligence to produce highly accurate identity scores. Ekata's insights support multiple payment and nonpayment use cases, including new account openings, instant issuance and transaction risk checks to be used by a broad range of customers, including leading digital merchants, financial institutions, travel companies and digital currency platforms. This is an example of how we are entering into adjacent areas and innovating beyond the core payment transaction. And now back to the bigger picture. We're leveraging our business to have a broader impact on society by executing our commitment to bring 1 billion people into the digital economy by 2025. Specifically on the environmental front, we have pledged to achieve net 0 emissions by 2050 and issued a sustainability bond in the last quarter to support these efforts. Furthermore, our Mastercard carbon calculator developed in collaboration with Doconomy, is enabled on our network to provide consumers with a snapshot of carbon emissions generated by their purchases. We've worked with customers to issue over 10 million cards using sustainable materials. If we tie all of this together, we are now linking executive comp to Mastercard's sustainability priorities. With all of that in mind, I continue to be excited about the opportunity ahead, and I'm happy with the progress we're making against our objectives. And with that, Sachin, over to you.Sachin Mehra -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Michael and good morning, everybody. So turning to Page 3, which shows our financial performance for the quarter on a currency-neutral basis and excluding special items and the impact of gains and losses on the company's equity investments. Net revenue was up 2%, returning to positive growth for the first time since the peak of the pandemic in Q2 2020 and includes a 1 ppt benefit from acquisitions. Operating expenses increased 7%, which includes a full ppt increase from acquisitions. Operating income was down 1%, and net income was down 6%, both of which include a 1 ppt decrease related to acquisitions. EPS was down 5% year over year to $1.74, which includes $0.02 of dilution related to our recent acquisitions, offset by a $0.02 contribution from share repurchases. During the quarter, we repurchased about $1.4 billion worth of stock and an additional $418 million through April 26, 2021. So let's turn to Page 4, where you can see the operational metrics for the first quarter. Worldwide gross dollar volume, or GDV, increased by 8% year over year on a local currency basis. We are seeing sequential improvement in both debit and credit as vaccination progress takes hold and mobility increases. In addition, debit growth is being further strengthened by fiscal stimulus and share gains. U.S. GDV increased by 14% with debit growth of 26% and a decline in credit of 1%. Outside of the U.S., volume increased 5%, with debit growth of 12% and a decline in credit of 2%. crossborder volume was down 17% globally for the quarter with intra-Europe volumes down 11% and other crossborder volumes down 23%. Turning to Page 5. Switched transactions grew 9% in the first quarter globally. Card-not-present growth rates have accelerated during the past year and continue at those elevated levels, while card-present transactions are now growing above 2019 levels for the first time since the peak of the pandemic. In addition, card growth was 6%. Globally, there are $2.8 billion Mastercard and Maestro-branded cards issued. Now let's turn to Page 6 for highlights on a few of the revenue line items, again described on a currency-neutral basis, unless otherwise noted. The increase in net revenue of 2% was primarily driven by domestic transaction and volume growth as well as strong growth in services, partially offset by lower crossborder volume fees and higher rebates and incentives. As previously mentioned, acquisitions contributed approximately 1 ppt to net revenue growth. Looking at the individual revenue line items. Domestic assessments were up 8%, in line with worldwide GDV growth of 8%. crossborder volume fees decreased 26%, while crossborder volumes decreased 17%. The 9 ppt difference is primarily due to an adverse crossborder mix, mainly driven by lower-yielding intra-Europe crossborder volumes being less impacted than higher-yielding other cross border volumes. Transaction processing fees were up 4%, while switch transactions were up 9%. The 5 ppt difference is primarily driven by adverse mix. Other revenues were up 27%, including a 3 ppt contribution from acquisitions. The remaining growth was mostly driven by our Cyber & Intelligence and Data & Services solutions. Finally, rebates and incentives were up 4%. Moving on to Page 7. You can see that on a currency-neutral basis, total operating expenses increased 7%. This includes a 4 ppt increase from acquisitions and a 3 ppt increase related to the lapping of a favorable hedging gain from a year ago. Excluding these items, expenses were flat as we continue to invest in our strategic priorities while keeping an eye on top-line growth. Turning now to Page 8. Let's discuss the specific metrics for the first 3 weeks of April. We are seeing significant improvements in the growth rates across our operating metrics versus 2020, primarily due to the lapping effects related to the pandemic that began mostly in March of last year. Hence, to provide you better visibility into current spending levels, we thought it would be useful to present the 2021 volumes and transactions as a percentage of the 2019 amounts when we were not experiencing the impact of the pandemic. So if you look at the spending levels as a percentage of 2019. For switched volumes, they have shown steady sequential improvement, continuing along the same trend line we saw in Q1. This is driven primarily by the U.S., which has benefited from the recent fiscal stimulus. We have seen improvements in discretionary categories like clothing, furniture and sporting goods. And we have also seen some recent strength in personal domestic travel in the U.S. and the U.K., which we are making strong progress in vaccinations. For instance, we have seen U.S. airline spend essentially doubled over the last four weeks relative to where it was earlier in Q1. Trends in switched transactions remain steady and are generally tracking the trends we are seeing in switched volumes. In terms of cross border, spending levels as a percentage of 2019 remained mostly unchanged through the start of April. We continue to see very strong growth in card-not-present crossborder volumes, excluding online travel-related spend. However, border restrictions remain widespread and to crossborder travel, which is card-present and travel-related card-not-present volumes continues to be impacted. As you can see from the numbers, there's a significant opportunity for improvement in crossborder travel. In fact, where borders are open, such as Mexico, certain Latin American countries and the UAE, we have seen travel improve. Turning to Page 9. I wanted to share our current thoughts looking forward. First off, we continue to make strong progress against our strategic objectives and feel we are very well positioned to grow with the new and renewed deals we have signed over the last several quarters. We have positioned ourselves for the return of travel, with travel-oriented portfolios and have built a strong set of services capabilities, which continue to grow at a healthy rate and has helped diversify our revenue base. In terms of the macro environment, domestic spending levels have continued to improve, entering the growth phase this quarter, supported in part by fiscal stimulus and the rollout of effective vaccines. The pace of vaccinations has been uneven, however. And as a result, we expect the pace of recovery to vary from country to country. As Michael said, we do believe there is significant pent-up demand for travel and are already seeing domestic travel improve. In terms of crossborder, we believe that in the second half of the year, we will see additional borders open, particularly between those countries with low infection rates and/or advanced vaccination programs. Turning to the second quarter. If spending levels continue on their current trajectory, we would expect Q2 net revenues to grow around a low- to mid-20s growth rate year over year on a currency-neutral basis, excluding acquisitions. It is important to point out that this is just one potential scenario, which could be impacted by factors such as more restrictive measures being put in place because of rising infections, or the opening or closing of borders. In terms of operating expenses, we continue our disciplined expense management approach while furthering our strategic imperatives and keeping an eye on top-line growth. As we progress through the growth phase of the pandemic domestically, we will look to increase our investments in key areas such as digital, cybersecurity, data analytics, B2B and our multi-rail solutions, as well as begin to increase our advertising and marketing-related spend. For Q2, we expect operating expenses to grow at a rate in the low 20s versus a year ago on a currency-neutral basis, excluding acquisitions. As a reminder, we are now beginning to lap the spending actions we took last year as the pandemic hit. With respect to acquisitions, we are pleased to have announced the planned acquisition of Ekata and have now closed on the transaction with Nets, and expect acquisitions will contribute about 2 to 3 ppt to revenue in Q2 and for the year. Similarly, acquisitions will contribute approximately 9 to 10 ppt to operating expense growth in the second quarter, and 8 to 9 ppt for the year. As a reminder, we discretely disclosed the impact of acquisitions for the year in which they close and the subsequent year, after which time, we do not split them up. Other items to keep in mind. Foreign exchange is expected to be a 2 to 3 ppt tailwind to net revenues and a 3 to 4 ppt headwind to operating expenses in Q2. On the other income and expense line, we are at an expense run rate of approximately $115 million per quarter given the prevailing interest rate environment. This excludes gains and losses on our equity investments, which are excluded from our non-GAAP metrics. And finally, we expect a tax rate of approximately 18% to 19% for the year based on the current geographic mix of our business. And with that, I will turn the call back over to Warren.Warren Kneeshaw -- Head of Investor Relations Thank you, Sachin. Denise, we're now ready for questions. 