  OperatorGood day, and welcome to the Southwest Airlines second-quarter 2021 conference call. My name is Chad, and I will be moderating today's call. This call is being recorded, and a replay will be available on southwest.com in the Investor Relations section. [Operator instructions] At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Ryan Martinez, managing director of investor relations. Please go ahead, sir.Ryan Martinez -- Managing Director of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Chad, and thank you all for joining us today. In just a moment, we will share some brief remarks and then open it up for Q&A. And you will hear from our chairman of the board and CEO, Gary Kelly; executive vice president and incoming CEO, Bob Jordan; Executive Vice President and CFO Tammy Romo; President Tom Nealon; and Chief Operating Officer Mike Van de Ven. We also have a few other senior executives with us for Q&A, including Andrew Watterson, executive vice president and chief commercial officer. We will make forward-looking statements today, which are based on our current expectations of future performance, and our actual results could differ substantially from these expectations. And we also had several special items in our first-quarter results, which we excluded from our trends for non-GAAP purposes, and we will reference those non-GAAP results in our remarks. So please see our press release from this morning and our website for more information on both topics, our cautionary statement, and a lot of helpful information about our results and trends. And before we get started, I want to let you all know that we are planning an investor event in December, and I will send out more information soon so stay tuned for that.So Gary, over to you. Gary Kelly -- Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thank you, Ryan, and good morning, everybody, and thank you all for joining us for our second-quarter earnings call. We're obviously very delighted at the turnaround in our business from the previous four quarters of billion-dollar losses, and our revenues nearly doubled in the second quarter from first-quarter levels, and that was on a capacity bump of 44%. Our revenues were much stronger than we had been forecasting just 90 days ago, and all of that, of course, flowed through to better margins and better cash. Yesterday's cash was over $17 billion, and that's plus $1 billion line of credit, well in excess of our $11.4 billion of debt. So while our bookings and revenue trends are even better than the month of June and certainly better than the second quarter as a whole, we're very well prepared to manage and muddle our way through if the Delta variant affects our business. And so far, we're not detecting any impact at all. Again, very strong bookings and revenue trends in the third quarter. So right now, I'm very pleased with all of that. Very pleased with our revenue, our July business, and the outlook for the rest of the quarter. This has been a long struggle to get to this point, of profitability in the month of June. The pandemic, of course, turned everybody's world upside down and it's still not completely right side up. But I must thank our employees once again for their heroic and very hard work. Normal summer demand is always a challenge to manage, and it's, of course, even more so here in 2021, especially in June when we had technology issues and bad weather combined. It made it very difficult. Things are much better in July. It's not -- still not where I want us to be but we'll continue to improve, and I'm very confident that we'll adjust as necessary and if necessary.

 



 So our immediate focus is on running a very high-quality, on-time airline and then gradually restoring our traditional efficiencies that are attendant with our low-fare, point-to-point, high-utilization business model. And given the revenue recovery, obviously, our next focus is to sustain our profitability that we have achieved here in June and maintain stability going forward. Next year, we plan to resume new aircraft deliveries, with the desire to restore our route network as needed to pre-pandemic levels. And clearly, the network restoration will depend upon travel demand, which may, in turn, depend upon the state of the pandemic. So worst case, we'll reduce our growth and early retire our oldest aircraft, which will be accretive to earnings with the trade-out with the MAX. So we're very well-positioned and very well prepared to manage pretty much any scenario here in the next couple of years. So things aren't back to normal yet, but clearly, they have stabilized and are much improved, and we're at a point now where we can actually plan and work on managing and spend less time on surviving the intensive care unit. And then finally, I did want to congratulate and welcome Bob Jordan, He'll be our next CEO come February 1 of next year, and the reception so far has been terrific. The transition work is well underway. Bob is very busy and he may comment on that, but it's going very, very well. Very proud of Bob. He's going to do a terrific job. And I'm going to hang around to support our team in any way that I can. So with that, Bob, let me just turn it over to you.Bob Jordan -- Executive Vice President and Incoming Chief Executive Officer All right, Gary. Hey, thank you, and good morning, everybody. It's really good to be with you today, and I'm looking forward to reconnecting with many of you over the next few months as I begin to attend more Investor Relations activities. I'm going to make just a few brief remarks. But I'm just -- as Gary said, I'm just super excited for the opportunities to serve Southwest as the next CEO beginning in February. And I am very glad that Gary will continue to serve as Executive Chair. Many of you know, Gary has been my mentor and friend for over three decades. And the two of us, along with Tom and Mike, are already working very hard to ensure that the transition will be a smooth and orderly one. Since the announcement on June 23, I've had the chance to visit and talk with hundreds of our employees around the company. As an example, I was at -- got to spend the day in Atlanta yesterday with our wonderful team there. And I'm just amazed by their spirit, their enthusiasm, their heart for each other and for our customers, and I'm just energized by being with them. I'm also focused on continuing to work with our leadership as we continue to lead through the pandemic recovery. And as we start to work on our 2022 planning efforts as we evaluate the post-pandemic environment and the many, many opportunities that are ahead of us here at Southwest. I've been part of the strategy here as we develop our strategy each year, and I'm very confident about our purpose and vision and where we are headed. And I will be very purposeful in how we plan for the next several years. Our strategy is sound. We are a low-fare, low-cost growth airline that prides ourselves in terrific customer service and being a great place to work for our employees. That business model and our people have been the enduring strength for 50 years now, and we've enjoyed unparalleled success in the airline industry. We now have the nation's most robust point-to-point network, and we have at least a decade's worth of attractive growth opportunities in front of us with the Boeing 737. Our customer and brand rankings remain really high year after year, and our commitment to transparency continues with no bag fees and no change fees. We are committed to that. We have opportunities in the pipeline to continue enhancing the customer experience as just one example and that will be a focus, along with our commitments to both diversity and leadership and -- in the workplace and to environmental sustainability. We will remain focused on maintaining our strong financial position and our investment-grade balance sheet. As always, we'll balance our commercial opportunities, our operational flexibility and reliability, and/or financial performance. You know we want new itineraries for our customers. We want growth opportunities and job security for our employees, and we want to create significant value and returns for our shareholders. That formula has worked so well for Southwest for decades, and I expect that it will be and continue to be what works for us for decades to come. We have a very deep bench of terrific leaders here at Southwest that are ready to lead for the future, and as a team, we are all very aligned on the future of Southwest Airlines. But I want to say, above all, it's our people that bring our vision and our purpose to life every single day, and I'm just honored to serve them and to support them on a daily basis. And with that, I will turn it over to you, Tammy.Tammy Romo -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Bob, and hello, everyone. I will provide a quick overview of our overall financial results and some color on our outlook. On a GAAP basis, we generated a $348 million profit in second quarter or $0.57 per diluted share. In addition to improving revenue trends, the primary driver of our GAAP profit for the quarter was the $724 million of PSP proceeds that offset a sizable portion of salaries, wages, and benefits expenses. Excluding this temporary PSP benefit and our usual hedge-related special items, our non-GAAP net loss was $206 million or a $0.35 loss per diluted share. Second-quarter operating revenues, nonfuel operating costs, fuel costs, and available seat miles were all within our most recent guidance ranges. And I am pleased with our overall financial performance in second quarter. With the strong pent-up summer demand and a solid cost performance, June marked a key milestone as we generated both average daily core cash flow and profits as we had hoped. This is our first monthly profit since February 2020 when soon after the negative financial impact of the pandemic began to impact our results. And this is excluding the benefits of PSP proceeds, which is more reflective of our base business. These second-quarter results, though not where we need to be, represent a significant recovery for our business and are a testament to our amazing employees who are simply the best in the industry and make us proud each and every day. And by all indications, it appears that we outperformed the industry again in second quarter. We provided a lot of color in our press release regarding revenue and cost trends. I will just add that our trips flown are estimated to be down 11% in third quarter compared to third-quarter 2019. And as such, we have several cost categories that are expected to continue to trend lower than 2019 levels, such as maintenance expense, advertising expense, technology expenses, and passenger and personnel-related expenses. These cost categories are expected to ramp up as trips and passengers increase and as we resume a more normal investment agenda moving forward. We are mindful of the tight job market, as well as general inflationary pressures. We expect to have wage rate inflation beyond our normal annual wage rate increases as we want to be competitive to retain and attract talent, including the decision to increase the minimum hourly wage to $15 per hour across all work groups, we now estimate $5 million to $10 million of additional salary, wages and benefits cost pressure in third quarter and approximately $15 million in fourth quarter. We are also mindful of bottlenecks, shortages, and ramp-up inconsistencies across the travel industry as we restart after more than a year of little activity, and we are not immune. That said, we will continue our focus on ramping up costs, along with wide activity, as efficiently as possible while being nimble to adjust and add where needed. We are hopeful to generate net income again in third and fourth quarter on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis. And our ability to do so will largely be dependent on the revenue environment, which Tom will cover in a minute. But based on our current revenue outlook and even with the additional cost pressures we noted, our third-quarter bottom-line outlook is over $200 million better than it was back in April. We have flight schedules currently out through early January, and we will continue evaluating growth opportunities and fleet and capacity decisions to construct the most efficient route network for 2022, being mindful that our network has evolved from what it was pre-pandemic. With leisure travel levels where they are today, it is easy to forget that less than six months ago, the environment was drastically different. Over the past year, we were most focused on raising capital and building liquidity, minimizing significant cash burn, and drastically cutting capacity and costs. And the changes that we made to our network are producing the revenue we had hoped or even better than hoped, and we are now evolving our focus areas. First, we are focused on managing through the current environment with adequate resources to deliver a reliable operation. We then need to optimize our cost profile with our route network in 2022. And beyond that, we'll be focused on producing sustainable levels of profitabilities, margins, and returns. We plan to continue managing the business closer in, at least for the remainder of this year, but we have begun the 2022 planning process at a very high level. Although I don't have any specifics to share with you today, I can reaffirm that we have tremendous flexibility, perhaps the most flexibility we have ever had going into any year in my nearly 30 years at Southwest. We have flexibility with our cost-efficient Boeing order book with a significant number of MAX options remaining in 2022. We have flexibility in terms of where to deploy our aircraft in the network and how much capacity to fly in 2022. And we have a strong cash balance, modest debt requirement, and discretion over how quickly we want to resume non-aircraft investments in 2022. So we have flexibility with our capital. And aside from our people, our biggest core strength is our balance sheet and financial preparedness, even coming out of this pandemic. So with that, I will turn it over to Tom.Tom Nealon -- President OK. Well, thank you, Tammy. Good morning, everybody. Well, our second-quarter operating revenue performance was very much in line with our expectations. We saw improving monthly trends throughout the quarter in both leisure demand and yields, and we also saw a steady improvement in business demand, which I'll talk about in just a minute. And we're also pleased to see broad-based improvement across the entire network. So this was not concentrated improvement in certain regions or cities but it really was across the entire system, which was terrific to see. June's leisure passenger traffic was actually higher than June 2019 levels, and June's passenger fares were in line with June 2019 levels, very much as we expected. And we also saw significant improvement in business travel revenues as well, improving from down 77% in May to down 69% in June versus 2019. And just keep in mind that on our Q1 call, we reported that our business revenues were down 88%, so throughout the second quarter, we saw a very steady sequential improvement in business travel from the first quarter. And just so you know, when I talk about business revenue, I'm really referring to managed business travel. In terms of third-quarter trends, we're continuing to see strong leisure travel throughout the summer. And as I said, June's leisure traffic performance exceeded 2019 numbers, and we're seeing that strength continue into July. In fact, we're estimating that both leisure traffic and fares will trend higher in July relative to 2019 based on the trends that we've seen so far. And we're also seeing continued improvements in close-in demand and yields for business travel as well. So in total, that results in an improving July revenue outlook of down 10% to 15% versus 2019. In our earnings release, we also introduced our August revenue outlook of down 12% to 17% versus 2019, and we are estimating that August has a 1- to 2-point headwind compared to August of last year. And this is simply due to the calendar shift that pushes all of Labor Day into September. I think that when you adjust for the calendar shift, we're pleased with the way the booking curve is shaping up for the month, and demand and fares are also shaping up really nicely for August. And this is very consistent with our expectations as we move from our highest leisure demand month, which is July, by the way, into August. Now with respect to business travel, the recovery path is less clear, but it's also clearly improving. So if you look back to Q1 and then to every month in Q2, we've seen consistent sequential improvements over the past six months. So we're encouraged by what we're seeing, and we're expecting a continuation of steady weekly improvements in business bookings. It's also very clear that more and more companies are returning to the office. You're seeing that we're seeing that. And without a doubt, we're also seeing that corporate travel restrictions are beginning to be relaxed or removed altogether, which is great to see. And as you'd expect, we're doing plenty of our own surveys with our travel management company partners and our business customers, so we're talking with them frequently, we're talking with them directly and we're very encouraged by what we're hearing from them, but we're also probably more encouraged actually by what we're seeing in terms of travel activity. So business volumes and fares were both down in the second quarter but both showed improvement in April, May and June, and we're expecting sequential improvements in Q3 as well, though we do expect overall yields will continue to be pressured in the third quarter versus 2019. The booking for -- or booking curve, rather, for business, as you know, is naturally closer in, so now it's mostly about improving volumes as the booking window tightens up. And I will say that, and I'll just reiterate what Gary said, the guidance that we're giving today doesn't include any impact from the Delta variant. What I will say is though we have not seen any impact from the Delta variant at this point. So our outlook is based on trends that we're currently seeing, all of which, by the way, are very encouraging. Just a quick comment or two on our Rapid Rewards and ancillary business. We had a great quarter. We saw another strong performance in Q2 in both our Rapid Rewards loyalty program, as well as in our Chase co-brand credit card program. And we have more Rapid Reward members today than we did in Q2 of 2019. And June was actually the highest new member acquisition month in the history of the program, which was terrific to see. And our co-brand credit card program is larger now than it was pre-pandemic, and retail sales for second quarter were up nearly double digits versus 2019, and the spend per card also beat Q2 of 2019 levels. So as you can imagine, we continue to be very, very pleased with the strength and performance of our loyalty and card programs. Our ancillary revenue trends, such as upgraded boarding and EarlyBird, also performed extraordinarily well in the second quarter, which is what we expect to see as load factors improved to historic levels. Just a quick comment on our GDS initiatives, which continue to roll out. And as you know, we've already gone live with Travelport and Amadeus and will be going live on Sabre on July 26, which is this coming Monday. This is a big accomplishment. It's been a tremendous amount of work, it's a big deal and creates a big opportunity for us, and this does complete the implementation phase of our industry standard GDS works. So we now have a full array of distribution channels, which gives our business customers their channel of choice, whether it's a GDS platform or a Direct Connect API channel, or our SWABIZ self-service platform. So without a doubt, our Southwest business team is pretty energized. They're pretty jazzed up. They have a great product to sell. We're in the right channels and they are really focused on driving new business. And now that the barrier's removed, there's a big opportunity for us to win more business, both from existing customers, which, by the way, we have a lot of. We just under-index as well as new customers. And this is a tough sell for us before moving to industry-standard GDS platforms. So I think we're in a great position. We have a great business product. We have great value. As of Monday, we'll be in all the managed travel and distribution channels. We have a great sales team. So I'm looking forward to all the progress we're going to make here. Just a quick comment on the network. Tammy alluded to it, but before I wrap up, I just want to talk about that for a second to give just a bit of perspective, I'm sure we'll get into it in Q&A. And as you've seen, we've made some pretty meaningful changes in additions to our network since the pandemic began 14, 15 months ago. And over the past year, we've announced service to 18 new airports. And at this point, 15 of the 18 are now up and running. And all the new markets are either performing within our expectations or ahead of our expectations. And each one is a very strong, very natural addition to our network that we've wanted to do for quite some period of time. And as you know, new stations have a development curve and we understand that and we get that. And we are very pleased with where these stations are at this point. They'll have the time to develop. And as I said, all of them are meeting or exceeding our expectations. And we also have the objective, and again, Tammy alluded to this, of restoring many of our pre-pandemic routes and O&D frequencies, while also maturing in new markets. So in terms of aircraft investments, our 18 new airports represent nearly 100 nonstock markets and over 280 new trips per day. And by the end of the year, they'll utilize roughly 55 aircraft. And with our recent additions to Hawaii, which really is the culmination of the original plan, which is suspended because of the pandemic, we're at 37 trips per day from the Mainland U.S. to Hawaii, with nearly 40 inter-island trips per day and that utilizes roughly 37 aircraft. So we've committed substantial amounts of aircraft to new city opportunities and to Hawaii. And both investments are paying off and meeting our expectations. It was the right decisions. Our Boeing order book gives us a tremendous amount of optionality, and that allows us to fund our current network investments, while also allowing us to pursue the planned restoration of our network, all of which we'll be working through in our 2022 planning process that Tammy just alluded to. So I'll tell you, I think that we are very, very well-positioned for the future. And with that, I'm going to turn it over to my friend, Mike, to talk about the operation.Mike Van de Ven -- Chief Operating Officer Well, thanks, Tom, and welcome, everyone. From an operational perspective, I would say this is a pivotal quarter for us. We moved from, I would describe, managing and moderating our operation in the first quarter to really an acceleration focused in the second quarter. If you would compare just March to June, those two months, we added about 650 additional daily trips, so that's a 25% increase. And then our customer and bag volumes far surpass that. They were up nearly double that with a 45% increase between those two months. And that is just a monumental increase and it's -- was done in a short period of time. And inside an airport environment that I would say is really still adapting and everything in that environment seems to take a bit more time today. Our travel mix, as you know, has been reported as primarily leisure, so our precheck customers from a TSA perspective were down over 10% from -- as compared to June 2019. If you go out to the airport restaurants, a lot of them have reduced hours or staffing levels so there are longer lines. The third-party providers for wheelchair services have been able to scale with customer demand. The hotel shuttle services are less frequent. And of course, the airport is one of the last experiences across the country where masks are required throughout the travel day. And considering all that that's just a tough environment to live in every day. And I am tremendously proud of our employees. They continue to answer the call and they really are Southwest warriors. And in fact, they produced a very solid second-quarter operation. So in the midst of that increasing customer volume, we also launched service to seven new cities. We rolled out our new maintenance IT system. We launched Hawaii service from Las Vegas and Los Angeles and Phoenix. We expanded our existing Hawaii service. And we accomplished of all that while delivering an on-time performance of 76.3%, and that was right in line with our 2017 through 2019 results pre-COVID. The bag handling remained exceptional. It was our best quarterly performance outside of last year's second quarter when travel demand was really low. And we continue to lead the industry with the lowest customer complaint ratio to the DOT for all the marketing carriers. So just -- again, I'm just very, very proud of our employees. Now June was our most difficult month of the quarter. Our April and May outperformed previous years in all of our key operational metrics. And even with the customer volume increase, June was off to a solid start. Mid-month, we did run into a combination of technology issues, followed by weaker weather challenges across our entire network. And those introduced some extreme delays into the network, and it caused significant crew availability concerns, as well as delays and cancellations that impacted our customers, and that dropped our OTP to 62.4% for June. And we need to and we will do better than that moving forward. As we move through July, weather is still a bit of a concern as is the overall tempo of the airport environment. But the entire industry is feeling the impact of those things, and that's reflected in the overall industry OTP thus far in July. We expect our operational reliability to continually improve from our June performance. We use planning models that require an adequate level of airplanes and people and facilities to run our schedules. As we entered into the second quarter, we had all those resources aligned and we were on track until roughly mid-June. And so there are a couple of focus areas for the operation as we move forward. First, the passenger demand is very strong and our load factors going in and out of our large cities are 90-plus percent most days. And we're still ramping up the operation, and we have 16 fewer flights than we did in June of 2019, which for us means there are fewer ways to reaccommodate customers when we have delays or cancellations, while higher volumes and fewer reaccommodation options translate for us into a longer operating day. So we're adding staffing in several of our large cities that have additional resources to cover those longer operating days and reduce the need for a premium pay. We've increased our minimum starting pay to $15 an hour to better source applicants for those positions. And we're offering premium pay for our employees to pick up open shifts on their scheduled time-off just in the meantime. The second thing that we're focused on is sourcing flight instructors, so we can ensure that we can support the training needs for our pilots returning from extended time-off, as well as our recurrent training needs, as we continue to add flying to the network throughout this year and then set ourselves up for 2022. It feels really good to finally be in a position where we can add flights and pick up our operating momentum. It was a bit messy as we throttled down our activity, and it doesn't surprise me that it's a bit messy as we're accelerating it. But our employees just navigate those -- through those things heroically. They have great hearts for our customers and for each other, and I'm just so proud and thankful for their efforts every day. And with that, Ryan, I think I'll turn it back over to you.Ryan Martinez -- Managing Director of Investor Relations Thank you, Mike. Chad, we'll turn it over to you to give instructions on how to queue up for analyst questions. 