  OperatorGood morning, everyone, and welcome to the Delta Air Lines September-quarter 2021 financial results conference call. My name is Jen, and I will be your coordinator. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, today's call is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms. Julie Stewart, vice president of investor relations. Please go ahead.Julie Stewart -- Vice President of Investor Relations Thank you, Jen. Good morning, everyone, and thanks for joining us for our September-quarter 2021 earnings call. Joining us from Atlanta today are CEO, Ed Bastian; our president, Glen Hauenstein; our CFO, Dan Janki. And Ed will open the call with an overview of Delta's performance and strategy. Glen will provide an update on the revenue environment and our brand momentum, and Dan will discuss cost fleet and our balance sheet. Similar to last quarter's call, we've scheduled today's call for 90 minutes to make sure we have plenty of time for questions. [Operator instructions] After the analyst Q&A, we will move to our media questions, after which, Ed will provide a brief closing statement. Today's discussion contains forward-looking statements that represent our beliefs or expectations about future events.All forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. Some of the factors that may cause such differences are described in Delta's SEC filings. We also discuss non-GAAP financial measures, and all results exclude special items unless otherwise noted. You can find a reconciliation of our non-GAAP measures on the Investor Relations page at ir.delta.com. And with that, I'll turn the call over to Ed. Ed Bastian -- Chief Executive Officer Well, thank you, Julie, and good morning, everyone. Appreciate you joining us this morning. The September quarter marked another important milestone in our recovery. We achieved our first quarterly profit since the start of the pandemic with a pre-tax result of $216 million and a pre-tax margin of nearly 3% despite still missing one-third of our revenue base compared to the same period in 2019. We saw a full return of domestic consumer travel to 2019 levels as our customers safely returned to the skies, and our people delivered industry-leading operational performance through a very busy summer, once again showing why they are the best in the business. I want to thank every member of the Delta team for your hard work and dedication during the truly historic summer, where we faced the challenges of standing up our operation after such unprecedented disruption. I'd also like to recognize the Delta teams who played a central role in transporting 10,000 Afghan refugees that were evacuated from harm's way in Afghanistan over the last couple of months and delivering needed supplies. It was an amazing effort that involved everyone from Delta's flight crews, to operations control, to government affairs, to our charter and fleet team. Our revenue recovery in the September quarter reached 66% of 2019 levels, progressing from 51% in the June quarter and just 25% at the start of this year. This was led by strong consumer demand, growing improvement in business and international travel and reflected the resilience of some of our diverse revenue streams which are already back to or higher than pre-pandemic levels. While the recovery in business travel paused in August and early September as case counts increased, demand has picked up since Labor Day. Last week was our top corporate revenue booking week since the start of the pandemic. And with the announcement that US borders will open in November, bookings from Europe and Brazil to the US are rapidly improving. The third-quarter results reflect Delta's differentiated position in the industry and a continued focus on executing our customer-centric strategy. This strategy is rooted in providing best-in-class service to our customers, strengthening preference for our brand, and, while at the same time, creating a simpler, more efficient operation. At the heart of our brand promise is operational reliability. Restoring our operations safely and reliably with a strong commitment to cleanliness remains our top priority, and we're proud to be leading the industry in all key operational metrics through the summer as well as year to date. One important indicator is what we call brand-perfect days, those days when we don't experience a single cancellation across our mainline and regional operations. I'm happy to report that we have delivered 116 brand-perfect days in 2021, which are on par with pre-pandemic levels as our people are delivering outstanding reliability. And we're delivering on our commitment, not just to return our service levels to pre-pandemic performance, but to exceed those levels by the end of this year. A key component is staffing, and we have added 8,000 people to the Delta team this year. This new talent is helping us build the airline of the future, which includes a focus on improving diversity and representation across all levels of our workforce. Our culture of putting our people and our customers first is building stronger preference for the Delta brand. At its core, the Delta brand stands for connection, creating unique relationships with our customers, driving strong engagement, higher loyalty, and a sustained revenue premium to the industry. More customers are engaging with Delta than ever before, driving record downloads of our Fly Delta app and record sign-ups for our SkyMiles loyalty program. Our Delta American Express co-brand program continues to show strong resilience with card acquisitions nearly 95% restored and card spend 115% recovered to 2019 levels. As a result, remuneration from American Express in the September quarter exceeded 2019 levels, totaling just over $1 billion in the quarter, demonstrating the durability of our brand preference as we continue to deepen our customer relationships. Our revenue premium and our customer satisfaction has not just endured but it strengthened through the pandemic with both above 2019 levels. These outcomes are a true validation of our customer-centric strategy and people-first approach. At the same time, we're also building a simpler, more efficient airline. As we rescale the operations and refresh our fleet, we will unlock efficiency gains while also improving our product and customer experience. Dan will speak more about our fleet strategy and cost outlook shortly. As we look ahead, it's clear that the recovery will continue to be choppy, but we see a number of encouraging trends. Restoring the remaining one-third of our revenue base is dependent on further business and international demand improvement. In the September quarter, domestic corporate volume was 40% recovered, up 10 points from the June quarter. With the spiking case counts delaying office reopenings, we did not see the progression we had expected at the start of the quarter, particularly after Labor Day. But as the variant recedes, business travel has picked up over the last month with volumes now reaching the highest level we've seen in the recovery. In the last week, our domestic business volume was close to 50% restored. We expect continued improvement as offices reopen at the start of the new year, and we anticipate meaningful acceleration in business travel starting at that point. We hear regularly from our corporate customers that they're ready to get back to travel, see their clients face to face to renew business relationships, and develop new ones. That sentiment is coming through loud and clear in our most recent corporate surveys. More than 90% of our respondents mentioned that they expect travel volumes in the December quarter to either be the same or outpace September quarter. Nearly 60% of our accounts are telling us that they've already reopened their offices with an additional 10% expected to open their offices before year end. We are also seeing improving trends internationally, spurred by the decision to lift 212(f). This decision marks a critical moment in our road to international recovery, and we thank the Biden administration and our supporters in Washington for their work to reopen travel to the US. Thanks to this important policy change, many families are going to be reunited this holiday season for the first time in almost two years. Against this backdrop, we anticipate our revenue momentum to show good progress through the December quarter, finishing the month of November and December, combined, at a 75% recovery. This 10-point improvement from current levels is driven by offices reopening, international restrictions easing, and our expectation that consumer strength continues into the holidays. So putting the year in context, we started at only 25% of our business restored, total business for the company, and we'll end the year at 75% restored. While choppy, there is a clear underlying momentum in our company that gives us optimism as we go into '22. As those fundamentals improve, we also see fuel prices continue to rise, which will pressure our ability to remain profitable in the December quarter. At present time, we're expecting a modest loss in the fourth quarter with crude prices driving that up nearly 60% year to date and more than 15% just over the last month. While we operate in a volatile and uncertain environment, I have the utmost confidence in our return to sustained profitability as the recovery progresses into the new year. As we continue to restore our airline, our actions are guided by three near-term priorities. First, to deliver for our customers, providing the great service excellence they expect from Delta. We've worked hard to get our staffing levels in place, reducing wait times at our reservation centers, improve self-service options, the return of food and beverage options onboard, upgraded Wi-Fi and in-flight entertainment, and the full reopening of our Delta Sky Club network in July of 2021. We continue to deliver on the need for flexibility with policy changes and extension of Medallion status and SkyMiles benefits into 2023 to give our most loyal customers more flexibility as travel resumes. Our next priority is to rescale our airline efficiently and reliably. We're remaining disciplined about how we're rebuilding our network, prioritizing operations, and matching our supply with demand. A measured approach to restoring capacity is critical to delivering for our customers and to managing through an environment of rising fuel prices. Finally, we're preparing for the future to position Delta for success in the next leg of the recovery and beyond. While restoring capacity in a measured way, we are growing share in key markets with high-value customers. We're making smart investments in our business to elevate the customer experience. That includes technology to enable efficiency and improve our digital capabilities while accelerating construction projects in key airports like LAX, LaGuardia, and JFK. On the balance sheet, we're focused on returning to our investment-grade metrics, having experienced firsthand just how important it was to have a strong balance sheet as we entered the pandemic. We're advancing our fleet renewal and opportunistically acquiring aircraft while maintaining flexibility, driving gauge and efficiency that we expect will improve our long-term cost structure and our carbon footprint. Our commitment to being a carbon-neutral airline globally differentiates us as we know that customers are choosing brands that they believe in, and employees are looking to work for a company that's dedicated to a sustainable future. Carbon neutrality is a fundamental part of our mission and a meaningful step that we can take right now to protect our world for generations to come. We've recently announced our commitment to work with the Science Based Targets initiative to set a net-zero 2050 target and an interim emissions intensity target for our airline operations, in line with the Paris Agreement. This quarter, Delta also announced a 250 million gallon offtake agreement for sustainable aviation fuel on our road to a 10% SAF consumption level by 2030. We also announced plans to join several coalitions, including the LEAF Coalition, the World Economic Forum's Clean Skies Tomorrow, and the UN-led Race To Zero. You'll be hearing more about all of these efforts at our Capital Markets Day on December 16 in New York. The power of our purpose-driven brand, our people and our strategy position Delta incredibly well for the future. We're building on a strong foundation to extend Delta's leadership position in the years to come and drive long-term value for all of our stakeholders, our people, our customers, our owners, and our communities where we live, work, and serve. And with that, I'll turn the call over to Glen.Glen Hauenstein -- President Well, thank you, Ed, and good morning, everyone. Generating a profit for the quarter, even with a third of our revenue still to come, is a great achievement and is another important milestone as we continue down the path of recovery. Through the last 18 months, we have stayed true to our core strengths and our commitment to the customer. From improving our position in key markets, to growing affinity with our high-value customers, to driving outperformance in premium products and diverse revenue streams, we are extending our competitive advantages. The September quarter started out strong, and consumer demand environment remained robust throughout the quarter. We had a profitable summer in Europe as vaccinated US tourists were welcomed back to the continent. With the variant taking hold in early August, we saw a temporary pause in demand, especially business travel, as many companies delayed office reopening plans. Despite the variant's impact, we remained within our initial guidance range with revenues coming in at down 33.8% versus 2019 or two-thirds restored. This represented a $1.9 billion sequential improvement in total revenue to $8.3 billion. Total unit revenue improved 17% versus the June quarter on an 11-point improvement in load factor and a 4% improvement in yield. Since Labor Day, we've seen improvement in demand with daily cash sales growing each week. Domestic consumer revenue remains fully recovered to 2019 levels, and we are seeing continued improvement in domestic corporate sold revenue, which, as Ed mentioned, is at the highest level we've seen during the recovery. We expect continued improvement throughout this quarter. On the international front, we continue to see positive trends led by LATAM with passenger revenues 84% recovered versus 2019, a 20-point sequential improvement driven by leisure traffic to beach markets. Transatlantic recovery improved by 20 points versus the June quarter to 35% recovered versus the September quarter of 2019 with corporate sales in this entity now nearly 30% restored. We are also encouraged by the administration's recent decision to lift 212(f) restrictions. Following the announcement, Europe point-of-sale bookings for November and December are more than six times what they had been pre this announcement. As we progress through the last few months of the year, we expect strong results for Thanksgiving and Christmas. The month of October is impacted by the lingering impact of the variant, resulting in an expectation that revenue will be approximately 65% recovered. But as we move into November and December, the sunset of 212(f) and a higher mix of consumer traffic, we are expected to support revenue recovery of the 75% range to 2019 levels. With these monthly trends, we expect a percentage of revenue recovery in the low 70s for the December quarter. Consistent with our disciplined approach of matching capacity to the emerging demand environment, we expect our December quarter capacity to be approximately 80% of 2019 levels. Balancing the restoration of our capacity with demand remains a strategic priority for Delta and is more important than ever given the uneven recovery and the increase in fuel prices. While fuel is a near-term headwind for our results, we expect to recapture higher fuel in the medium to long run as we return to our more historical correlation between fuel prices and revenue. As we look to '22, we plan to progress our network restoration in line with demand. We have the ability to achieve 2019 capacity levels by the second half of next year. In addition to this quarter's financial results, there are several other accomplishments that we are very proud of. Our premium products continue to outperform. During the quarter, premium revenue in domestic and short-haul Latin outperformed the main cabin by approximately 10 points as paid load factors in Comfort+ and first-class cabins exceeded 2019 levels. This is a great validation of our premium strategy, especially given the higher mix of consumer demand. Our diverse revenue streams remained resilient. Other revenue in the quarter was 91% recovered to 2019 levels. Within that category, loyalty revenues are more than 80% restored, supported by strong card spending and acquisition trends. Cargo revenue, which we expect will continue to grow and enhance our future international profitability, was nearly 40% higher despite flying less than half of our widebody international flights compared to the same period of 2019. And MRO revenue was more than 90% recovered on increased engine volume. Our conservative approach to restoring capacity, combined with the strength of our premium products and the resilience of our diversified revenue streams, resulted in a unit revenue premium relative to the industry throughout the pandemic. As we close the books on September quarter, we expect that trend to continue with a unit revenue premium relative to the industry, exceeding our highest third quarter on record, even with business and international less than 50% recovered. This result validates a basic but powerful premise, putting the customer at the center of everything that we do, and pursuing diverse revenue streams translates into a sustained revenue premium. As consumers return to the skies, we've been focused on increasing stability and trust. We are also reducing friction points by eliminating change fees, enhancing self-service options, and developing our Flex product that provides full refundability for those that value flexibility the most. We're progressing toward a fleet that is more cost efficient and fuel efficient and one that offers even better onboard experience with a higher mix of premium seats and enhanced Wi-Fi and IFE products. Enhancing the customer experience doesn't stop on board our aircraft. It also extends to the experience on the ground. We're accelerating investments in our airports and continuing to innovate. In Atlanta, we're launching digital ID, allowing customers to rely on facial recognition to create a seamless airport experience from check-in to boarding. And we're investing in our Sky Clubs, including two of our largest clubs in Los Angeles and LaGuardia, scheduled to open in March and April of '22. As Ed mentioned, we are seeing strong consumer engagement and growing brand preference. More customers are choosing our digital channels which are highly effective selling and self-service platforms. For example, our Fly Delta app downloads reached a record in the September quarter, up 25% versus 2019 with monthly downloads now surpassing 1 million for the first time ever. Higher digital engagement is fueling growth in our SkyMiles program, which secured the #1 spot against all global airlines in the US News ranking of all airline loyalty programs. Congratulations to our customer engagement and loyalty team on this great accomplishment. Customers are joining SkyMiles at a faster rate than the passenger recovery. For the quarter, our SkyMiles acquisitions were more than 100% recovered relative to 2019. And finally, our co-brand program continues to show resilience and drive tremendous value for both our Delta and our partner, American Express, and importantly, to our highest value customers. We're seeing more demand for our premium co-brand credit cards with both new and existing cardholders as more customers are increasing, seeing the value proposition. Our well-defined and proven strategy of focusing on the customer positions Delta well for many years ahead. Key to our success is the fact that we have the best people in the industry delivering on our brand promise to our customers every single day. And with that, I'll turn the call over to Dan.Dan Janki -- Chief Financial Officer Great. Thank you, Glen. The team's world-class capability and continued commitment to delivering best-in-class service and reliabilities certainly sets the foundation for our financial success, and this quarter was no exception. The Delta people continued to execute well through a dynamic environment. Across our teams, we are focused on preparing the operations for the next leg of the recovery, taking the steps required to position Delta for the future, where we build upon our industry leadership position in years ahead. Let me start with a few highlights for the September quarter. Even with the pause and the pace of recovery, we achieved our goal of profitability for the quarter with earnings per share of $0.30, pre-tax profit of $216 million and margin nearly 3% on revenue of $8.3 billion. Total third-quarter operating expense was $7.8 billion. That was a 12% increase from second quarter driven primarily by nonfuel costs from the continued restoration of the airline. Fuel expense, $1.5 billion, increased 5% sequentially as lower fuel prices partly offset by 11% increase in capacity versus second quarter. Adjusted fuel price per gallon was $1.94, was 8% lower than second quarter driven by a refinery contribution versus a loss in the second quarter. We realized 4% fuel efficiency versus same period in 2019 as we continued to capture benefits of our fleet renewal. Nonfuel costs of $6.3 billion increased 14% sequentially. That was on revenue growth of 30% driven by higher capacity, double-digit improvement in load factors. We saw a step-up in costs in the quarter to support the operational performance, higher revenue and pass-through volumes while we position for further demand recovery. The impact of these costs, combined with a network that was 30% smaller, resulted in September-quarter nonfuel CASM 15% higher than 2019. Now moving to cash flow and the balance sheet. The September quarter operating cash flow was $151 million. We ended September with $19.3 billion of adjusted net debt. The pause in the pace of the recovery, along with seasonality as we transitioned out of the peak summer, resulted in a sequential decline in our air traffic liability balance of $562 million to $6.4 billion. We expect the air traffic liability will begin to build as we enter 2022 as travel restrictions ease and more customers begin to make plans for the spring and summer season. Balance sheet management remains a priority as we chart our return to investment-grade metrics in the coming years. During the September quarter, we used excess cash to reduce gross debt and interest expense while rebuilding unencumbered assets and managing our debt maturity profile. This includes the execution of a $1 billion tender offer, paying cash for the majority of our aircraft and commencing $500 million of incremental debt-reduction initiatives. Over the last 12 months, we've reduced our financial obligations by $12 billion. These actions drive interest savings, fund our pension, and smooth our debt maturity profile. Now turning to capital and fleet. We invested nearly $620 million of capex in the September quarter. That was below our guidance of $800 million due to timing of used aircraft delivery. Our full-year 2021 gross capex is unchanged at $3.2 billion. On the fleet, we continue to build on our progress to transform and upgauge our fleet to be simpler and more efficient. Being opportunistic while maintaining flexibility to adjust to the shape of the recovery is a priority. In 2020, we accelerated our fleet renewal with the retirement of over 200 aircraft and elimination of two fleet families. We also deferred deliveries worth more than $5 billion, resulting in lower planned capex in 2020 and 2021. To capitalize on the recovery and replace retired aircraft in a capital-disciplined manner, we converted a total of 55 A321neo options to firm orders, with deliveries scheduled between 2022 and 2027 and opportunistically entered into agreements to acquire 38 gently used aircraft at compelling economics, two of which we announced today. Our decisions are guided by a fleet strategy focused on simplification, scale within our fleet types, higher gauge, and sustainability. The simplification and revitalization of fleet drive a permanent change in our cost structure with benefits estimated to be around $400 million in 2021 and around $650 million in 2022. This is compared to 2019. These savings will continue to scale in future years as we take the delivery of next-generation aircraft, restore flying volumes and further simplify the fleet. With these actions, we are unlocking efficiency gains while also improving the product and customer experience. By next summer, nearly half our narrowbody seats will be produced by large-gauge aircraft, our most profitable fleet category. This is an improvement of 10 points versus 2019. Our wide-body fleet next-generation aircraft will make up 25% of our fleet by next summer, a 15-point improvement versus 2019 that will drive efficiency gains, premium product enhancements, and expanded cargo capability. Now turning to the fourth quarter. We expect a modest loss as the recent rise in fuel prices will pressure our ability to remain profitable in the current quarter. Adjusted fuel price per gallon is expected to be between $2.25 to $2.40. This represents an increase of nearly $0.40 per gallon from the September quarter as market prices have moved up sharply. Just to remind you, a $0.05 movement in fuel equates to roughly $40 million of expense. Fuel efficiency is expected to be approximately 4% better than the December quarter in 2019. Nonfuel costs are expected to increase 2% to 4% sequentially as we incur people-related costs to prepare our operations for the acceleration in demand recovery in 2022. Nonfuel CASM is expected to be 6% to 8% higher than 2019 in the fourth quarter. When comparing to 2019, our nonfuel cost profile is impacted by the costs required to restore our operations and how we're flying our network. As we rebuild, additional maintenance and training costs are required to prepare our fleet and our crew to supply a larger schedule next summer. These costs will continue into next year. The size of the network and the deployment of the fleet are also contributing factors. From a scale perspective, our network is 20% smaller in the fourth quarter compared to 2019. Our mix that we're flying is also different. We have less long-haul international capacity, which is structurally low CASM, given the long-stage length nature of that flying. Until we are more fully restored, we expect nonfuel CASM to be above 2019 levels. As our operations normalize, I'm confident in our ability to drive operating leverage and recognize the benefit from our fleet renewal. As we look to 2022, we are optimistic about the continued demand recovery and are prioritizing driving margins, profitability, and restoring our balance sheet. I look forward to building on the team's strong track record of financial discipline and balanced capital allocation and sharing more with you on our long-term expectations and goals at our Capital Markets Day in December in New York. In closing, as I continue to spend time with the Delta people, my conviction in our future only grows stronger. During my first 90 days, I've been most impressed with the team's resounding commitment to our employees and our customers which comes through in every action I have across our operations. It's clear to me that there's something truly special about the Delta family. I want to echo Ed's and Glen's sentiment, thank all my Delta colleagues for everything that they do to carry out our mission to bring people together and connect the world. With absolutely the best employees in the business, a clear focus on the customer, and continued financial discipline, I'm confident we are positioned to create long-term value for all our stakeholders. Now with that, I'll turn the call back over to Julie to begin Q&A.Julie Stewart -- Vice President of Investor Relations Thanks, Dan. [Operator instructions] Jen, can you please remind the analysts how to queue up for questions? 