
OperatorGood day and thank you for standing by. Welcome to Charter's First Quarter 2021 Investor Call. [Operator Instructions]I'd now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Stefan Anninger. Please go ahead.Stefan Anninger -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations

 



Good morning and welcome to Charter's first quarter 2021 investor call. The presentation that accompanies this call can be found on our website, ir.charter.com under the Financial Information section.Before we proceed, I would like to remind you that there are a number of risk factors and other cautionary statements contained in our SEC filings, including our most recent 10-K and also our 10-Q filed this morning. We will not review those risk factors and other cautionary statements on this call. However, we encourage you to read them carefully. Various remarks that we make on this call concerning expectations, predictions, plans and prospects constitute forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ from historical or anticipated results. Any forward-looking statements reflect management's current view only and Charter undertakes no obligation to revise or update such statements or to make additional forward-looking statements in the future.During the course of today's call, we will be referring to non-GAAP measures, as defined and reconciled in our earnings materials. These non-GAAP measures, as defined by Charter, may not be comparable to measures with similar titles used by other companies. Please also note that all growth rates noted on this call and in the presentation are calculated on a year-over-year basis, unless otherwise specified.On today's call, we have Tom Rutledge, Chairman and CEO; and Chris Winfrey, our CFO.

 



With that, let's turn the call over to Tom.Thomas M. Rutledge -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Stefan. We continue to execute well in the first quarter even in an environment with lower consumer move activity. We added over 300,000 customer relationships during the quarter, with growth of 5.8% year-over-year. We also added 355,000 Internet customers in the quarter and 2 million over the last year for a year-over-year growth of 7.3%. We added 300,000 mobile lines and we grew our adjusted EBITDA by 12.5% and our free cash flow by nearly $500 million for 35%.COVID has continued to have an impact on our operations but as the economy reopens and normal activities resume, we expect more sales opportunities to develop during the second half of the year and we remain confident in our ability to grow our customers' EBITDA and free cash flow at healthy rates, given the investments we've made in our network, which enable us to offer superior products and services.

 



While the last year has focused on our successful operations and execution through the pandemic, May 18 will mark the fifth anniversary of the closing of our transaction to acquire Time Warner Cable and Bright House Networks. Since then, we've added more than 7 million Internet customers and our annual EBITDA has expanded from $15.6 billion to over $19 billion and our enterprise value has increased by $100 billion.Since the start of 2016, we've invested over $40 billion in infrastructure and technology and over the last five years, we've extended serviceability to approximately 5 million homes and businesses. We've also committed to extending our network to reach more rural areas. Over the next six years, we expect to spend at least $5 billion offset by $1.2 billion in RDOF subsidies to reach over 1 million unserved consumer locations with gigabit Internet speeds. And we're actively exploring additional opportunities to further expand our rural build potential.Since our transactions closed, we've also enhanced the quality and efficiency of our operations. We've hired thousands of new employees into good jobs by bringing all of our work back to the U.S. and we committed to a minimum wage of $20 per hour to provide the best service possible, which fuels our growth. Since close, we prepared the launch of mobile broadband products at scale and our customers now have the fastest and least expensive mobile and wireline broadband products available in the market. Importantly, we continue to improve our connectivity products as demand for data in the home continues to grow at a very rapid pace.During the first quarter, we continued to see significant growth in data usage per Internet customer. On average, non-video customers used about 700 gigabytes per month in the first part of the quarter. And for the full quarter, average usage by non-video customers was up nearly 20% year-over-year. Close to 20% of our non-traditional video Internet customers now use a terabyte or more of data per month.The growth in demand for data is and will be driven by a number of factors, including the growth in IP video services, including video conferencing and gaming, also the growing number of IP devices connected to our network, which now totals nearly 450 million devices, and new and emerging products and services that are being developed as we speak, such as e-learning for telemedicine in 4K, virtual reality or holographic formats, for example. We are continuously increasing the capacity in our core and hubs and augmenting our network to improve speed and performance at a pace dictated by customers and the marketplace.We have a cost-effective approach to using DOCSIS 3.1, which we've already deployed to expand our network capacity to 1.2 gigahertz, which gives us the ability to offer multi-gigabit speeds in the downstream and at least 1 gigabit per second in the upstream. In addition, we have DOCSIS 4.0 and other emerging technologies to cost efficiently offer multi-gigabit speeds in both the downstream and in the upstream, serving the heavy data usage needs of our customers with quality connectivity services.While we have a great network asset, which is fully deployed and has a capitally efficient path to deliver even higher capabilities, our strategy is founded on saving customers' money, while providing state-of-the-art products. Mobile and wireline broadband are converging into a single connectivity service package, which is delivered over a combination of mobile and fixed networks. Our share of household connectivity spend, including mobile and fixed broadband, is low. And we remain very much under-penetrated relative to our long-term opportunity.An average household served by the big three mobile broadband competitors with two-plus lines of mobile broadband and wireline broadband spends approximately $200 a month on its telecom services. Today, Charter only generates $33 a passing and $65 a customer of that $200 of combined monthly spend on mobile and wireline broadband service. By choosing Charter as their full service connectivity provider, customers can save hundreds, even thousands of dollars per year with better product capabilities and service.And so our goal is to do the same with mobile in our service area, as we did with wireline voice, where we made Charter the predominant wireline phone carrier by reducing consumer telephone bills by over 70%; meaning Charter can grow for a long time because we remain under-penetrated and our growth will reduce customer costs.Now I'll turn the call over to Chris.Christopher L. Winfrey -- Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Tom. Before getting into the details of the quarter, a few comments regarding our outlook and reporting. On last quarter's conference call, I spent some time walking through the outlook for 2021. That commentary related to our customer and financial growth expectations, given the difficult comparability to prior year results due to the effects of COVID in 2020. Those comments were intended to help investors update their models for 2021 and understand the backdrop for what should be a very good 2022.So while I won't repeat everything I said on the last earnings call, our outlook in general has not changed. 2019 remains the better customer growth comparisons for 2021, where we expect the Internet and customer relationships to be at or above 2019 net additions and we will continue to reference the COVID schedules we provided last year, included again on Slide 17 and 18 of today's presentation to help with the year-over-year financial comparisons.Secondly, the bundle allocation rules, as required by GAAP, continue to have a significant impact on our residential Internet, video and voice product revenues. Because of the decline in utility of individual product revenues to investors, it's likely that at some point, we'll collapse all residential product revenues into one residential revenue line.Turning to our results on Slide 5. Customer activity levels in the marketplace, specifically move churn and non-pay churn has still not returned to normal levels, which means on the one hand we benefit from the lower operating expense from reduced service transactions and significantly lower bad debt, but it also means there are fewer selling opportunities in the market generally. Those trends are on a slow path to normalization. Despite a lower sales environment, we continue to gain share across our footprint and we remain the share leader in Internet in all of our markets, regardless of competing infrastructure.We grew total residential and SMB customer relationships by over 1.7 million in the last 12 months and by 302,000 in the first quarter. Including residential and SMB, we grew our Internet customers by 355,000 in the quarter and by 2 million or 7.3% over the last 12 months. Video declined by 138,000, wireline voice declined by 88,000 and we added 300,000 higher ARPU mobile lines. In residential Internet, we added a total of 334,000 customers in the quarter, lower than the 398,000 that we gained during a strong first quarter in 2019 for the reasons I mentioned. Our residential video customers declined by 156,000, consistent with the loss of 152,000 we saw in the first quarter of 2019. In wireline voice, we lost 102,000 residential customers in the quarter, also similar to the loss of 120,000 in the first quarter of 2019.Turning to mobile. We added 300,000 mobile lines in the quarter and as of the end of the quarter, we had 2.7 million mobile lines with a good mix of both Unlimited and By the Gig lines. We continue to be pleased with the results and trajectory of Spectrum Mobile with less EBITDA loss per line as the business scales to expected stand-alone profitability.Over the last year, we grew total residential customers by 1.6 million or 5.8%. Residential revenue per customer relationship declined by 0.5% year-over-year, given a higher mix of non-video customers, higher mix of Choice, Essentials and Stream customers within our video base, lower pay-per-view and video-on-demand revenue and lower installation revenue, given higher self-install rates. Keep in mind that our residential ARPU does not reflect any mobile revenue.The Slide 6 shows residential revenue grew by 5.8% year-over-year, reflecting customer relationship growth. Turning to commercial. SMB revenue grew by 1.6%, a bit faster than last quarter's growth. Enterprise revenue was up by 2.5% year-over-year, also a bit better than last quarter and grew by 7.2%, excluding wholesale revenue. Enterprise PSUs grew by 2.8% year-over-year.First quarter advertising revenue declined by 5.8% year-over-year due to less political revenue. Our non-political revenue grew by 5.3% year-over-year, primarily due to some COVID impacts late last March in our growing advanced advertising capabilities. Other revenue declined by 2% year-over-year, driven by lower late fees, partly offset by higher RSN revenue. Mobile revenue totaled $492 million with $228 million of that revenue being device revenue. In total, consolidated first quarter revenue was up 6.7% year-over-year.Moving to operating expenses on Slide 7. In the first quarter, total operating expenses grew by $235 million or 3.2% year-over-year. Programming increased 3.3% year-over-year due to higher rates, offset by a higher mix of lighter video packages such as Choice, Essentials and Stream, and lower pay-per-view expenses year-over-year tied to the lower pay-per-view revenue I mentioned. Regulatory, connectivity and produced content grew by 8.9%, driven by more Lakers games than normal this quarter resulting from the delayed start to the NBA season, combined with fewer games in the prior-year period when sports leagues played fewer games due to COVID. Excluding those sports rights costs related to our RSNs, this expense line item grew by 2.1% year-over-year.Costs to service customers declined by 2.4% year-over-year compared to 5.8% customer relationship growth. The decline was driven by $100 million in lower bad debt, which continues to benefit from record payment trends similar to 2020, though our expectation remains that bad debt trends should normalize over the course of this year. On the other direction, we saw pressure from outsized hourly wage increases that we put through in March of last year and again in March of this year, which we have discussed previously and relate to our commitment to reach a $20 minimum starting wage in 2022. Excluding bad debt, costs to service customers grew by 3.2% year-over-year, including the minimum starting wage increase and reflecting the 5.8% relationship growth.Marketing and sales expenses declined by 2% year-over-year. Mobile expenses totaled $572 million and were comprised of mobile device costs tied to device revenue, customer acquisition and service and operating costs. And other expenses declined by 5.5%, primarily driven by a non-recurring adjustment to bonuses related to COVID. Adjusted EBITDA grew by 12.5% in the quarter. Excluding mobile and bad debt in both years, our EBITDA growth rate would have been 3.6 percentage points lower.Turning to net income on Slide 8. We generated $807 million of net income attributable to Charter shareholders in the first quarter versus $396 million last year. The year-over-year increase was primarily driven by higher adjusted EBITDA.Turning to Slide 9. Capital expenditures totaled $1.8 billion in the first quarter, an increase of $360 million year-over-year, driven by higher scalable infrastructure spend, primarily related to augmentation for our network capacity at a normal pace for customer growth and usage with incremental spending to reclaim the network headroom we maintained prior to COVID. We also spent more on line extensions due to continued network expansion, including to rural areas. This does not include any RDOF spend, which we will incur and start to disclose later this year.The cost of build-outs tends to be front-loaded with design, make-ready construction before passings are activated. So it'll take well into next year before our construction cadence lets any cost per passing metric to be meaningful. We spent $112 million on mobile-related capex this quarter, which is mostly accounted for in support capital and was driven by investments in back office systems and mobile store build-outs. For the full year 2021, we expect cable capital expenditures, excluding any RDOF investments, should be relatively consistent as a percentage of cable revenue versus 2020.As Slide 10 shows, we generated $1.9 billion of consolidated free cash flow this quarter, an increase of 35% year-over-year. We finished the quarter with $84.3 billion in debt principal and our current run rate annualized cash interest, pro forma for financing activity completed in April is $4 billion. As of the end of the first quarter, our net debt to last 12-month adjusted EBITDA was 4.38 times, and we intend to stay at or just below the high end of our 4 to 4.5 times leverage range.During the quarter, we repurchased 6.3 million shares -- Charter shares in Charter Holdings common units, totaling about $4 billion at an average price of $627 per share. Since September of 2016, we've repurchased $43 billion or 34% of Charter's equity at an average price of $408 per share.Turning to taxes on Slide 13. We don't anticipate becoming a meaningful federal cash tax payer until 2022, and we expect the bulk of our existing NOL to be utilized by the end of this year. Subject to any corporate tax rate changes for the years 2022 to 2024, we expect our federal and state cash taxes to approximate our consolidated EBITDA, less our capital expenditures and less our cash interest expense, multiplied by 23% to 25% with a tax rate in 2022 to be a bit lower than that range, given some carryover tax attributes. That estimate includes partnership tax distributions to Advance/Newhouse, which are captured separately in cash flows from financing in the financial statements. There are multiple factors that impact what I just described, and we're always looking for ways to improve our cash tax profile.Our operating model of growing by saving customers' money, our network capabilities now and in the future and our balance sheet strategy all work together over long periods of time. And we expect our results to reflect a growing infrastructure asset with a lot of ancillary products to use for until on top of our core connectivity services with good value and service to our customers to grow cash flow with tax-advantaged levered equity returns.Operator, we're now ready for Q&A.