  OperatorGood day, and welcome to the first quarter 2022 ONEOK earnings call. Today's conference is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Andrew Ziola. Please go ahead, sir.Andrew Ziola -- Vice President, Investor Relations and Corporate Affairs Thank you, Paula, and welcome to ONEOK's first quarter 2022 earnings call. We issued our earnings release and presentation after the markets closed yesterday, and those materials are on our website. After our prepared remarks, management will be available to take your questions. Statements made during this call that might include ONEOK's expectations or predictions should be considered forward-looking statements and are covered by the safe harbor provision of the Securities Acts of 1933 and 1934.

 



 Actual results could differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. For a discussion of factors that could cause actual results to differ, please refer to our SEC filings. [Operator instructions] With that, I'll turn the call over to president and chief executive officer. Pierce?Pierce Norton -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Andrew. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. We appreciate your interest and investment in our company. On today's call is Walt Hulse, chief financial officer and executive vice president, investor relations and corporate development; and Kevin Burdick, executive vice president and chief commercial officer. Also available to answer your questions are Sheridan Swords, senior vice president of natural gas liquids and natural gas gathering and processing; and Chuck Kelley, senior vice president of natural gas pipelines. Yesterday, we announced first quarter 2022 results, which highlighted year-over-year natural gas and NGL volume growth. Earnings significantly increased year over year when adjusting for the favorable winter storm Uri impact in the first quarter of 2021. We Customer and producer conversations continue to point to additional activity through the remainder of the year, supported by strong demand for U.S.

 



 energy and commodity prices far exceeding basin breakeven economics. Our built-in operating leverage and a proven track record of disciplined and intentional growth have positioned us well to support increasing producer activity levels. Our systems have significant capacity to grow alongside the needs of our customers. And because of our large infrastructure projects are complete, we now have opportunities for bolt-on expansion projects with quicker in-service dates, attractive returns, and minimal capital requirements. Not only are we expecting strong activity going forward, but our position in the key U.S. shale basins provides us a long runway to continue our efforts to help address increasing domestic and international energy demand. Current events continue to demonstrate the importance of natural gas and natural gas liquids and a long-term energy transformation and highlights the critical role that ONEOK plays in providing essential energy products and services. Before I hand the call over, I'd like to discuss the recent weather events that have impacted our Rocky Mountain region operations in April and into early May. First of all, I want to thank our employees in the area, and those who supported from other locations to ensure that we were as prepared as possible for these two unprecedented winter events within a two-week period. The severe April storms caused blizzard conditions, record-setting snowfall, high winds, and extensive power outages across North Dakota, Montana, and South Dakota. A number of our employees, staff facilities during these conditions to maintain the safe and reliable operations of our assets. Many of these employees were also dealing with lost power and damage at their own homes. Widespread outages left many of our facilities without power for several days and a significant number of wells across the Williston Basin were shut in. Our primary focus has been on the safety of our employees, assets, and the communities where we operate as we continue to work through the full impact of the storms. Due to the basinwide power outages, our April Rocky Mountain region volumes were reduced in both our natural gas gathering and processing and natural gas liquids segments by approximately 20%. May volumes will continue to be impacted as down power lines are replaced.

 



 Currently, our process volumes are more than 1.1 billion cubic feet per day, and our NGL volumes are more than 320,000 barrels per day and trending up as shut-in wells are brought back online. The coordination during and since these weather events with our customers, local agencies, communities, and other operators in the area has been impressive, once again highlighting the resiliency of our employees, assets, and our customers. Even with this late winter storm, we are affirming our financial guidance ranges and midpoints for both adjusted EBITDA and earnings per share. With that, I'll turn the call over to Walt for a discussion of our financial performance.Walt Hulse -- Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, Strategy and Corporate Affairs Thank you, Pierce. ONEOK's first quarter 2022 net income totaled $391 million, or $0.87 per share, a 24% increase compared with the first quarter 2021 when excluding the benefit of Winter Storm Uri. First quarter EBITDA -- adjusted EBITDA increased 11% year over year when excluding Winter Storm Uri. We ended the first quarter with a higher inventory of unfractionated NGLs primarily due to timing and expect to recognize those earnings in the second quarter as our current inventory is fractionated and sold. Our net debt-to-EBITDA on an annualized run-rate basis remains below four times, and we continue to view three and a half times or lower as our long-term aspirational leverage goal. In April, Moody's updated ONEOK's rating outlook to positive, and affirmed our investment-grade rating. ONEOK maintains investment-grade ratings with Moody's, S&P and Fitch. As Pierce mentioned, the recent extreme April storms have impacted our operations in the Rocky Mountain region. But even with these weather impacts our 2022 financial guidance. Strong volumes prior to the weather impacts, strengthened drilling activity, DUC completions through the remainder of the year and a positive outlook for NGL and natural gas demand this year points to a strong volume exit rate in 2022. I now turn the call over to Kevin for a commercial update.Kevin Burdick -- Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Thank you, Walt. During the first quarter, we saw a double-digit NGL volume growth across all our operating regions compared with the first quarter 2021, and Rocky Mountain region natural gas processing volumes increased 11% year over year. After reporting record Rocky Mountain region natural gas and NGL volumes in the fourth quarter 2021, we saw volumes decrease sequentially in the first quarter 2022, primarily due to normal seasonality across our operating areas. Through the first four months of the year, we've continued to see encouraging activity from producers, and we expect these activity levels to trend higher through the remainder of the year. Let's take a closer look at our natural gas liquids segment. Total NGL raw feed throughput volumes increased 17% year over year supported by increasing producer activity and increased ethane recovery. Rocky Mountain region NGL volumes increased 24% compared with the first quarter of 2021. In April, we reached peak volumes of more than 385,000 barrels per day from the region prior to the severe late-season storms Pierce discussed earlier. Mid-Continent NGL volumes increased 10% year over year. As producers continue to increase activity in the Mid-Continent, a large majority of those related NGLs are transported on our system. So far this year, NGL volumes from the region are trending slightly higher than we had originally planned. In the Permian Basin, NGL volumes increased 23% year over year due to strong producer activity levels, which feed our West Texas NGL pipeline. In the Gulf Coast, construction continues on our 125,000 barrel per day MB-5 fractionator in Mont Belvieu, which we now expect to be complete in the second quarter of 2023. MB-5 will increase our total systemwide fractionation capacity to more than 1 million barrels per day. International LPG demand remains strong, and we continue to expect both domestic and international ethane demand to continue to increase throughout 2022. As natural gas prices have increased this year, ethane prices have kept pace, providing attractive ethane recovery economics in certain areas of our system. While first-quarter ethane recovery is typically lighter due to natural gas heating demand and typical winter weather impacts, we see strong ethane recovery opportunities for the remainder of the year. Moving on to the natural gas gathering and processing segment. In the Rocky Mountain region, first quarter processed volumes averaged 1.3 billion cubic feet per day, an 11% increase year over year. In April, volumes reached a peak of more than 1.4 billion cubic feet per day prior to the storms. We connected more than 90 wells in the region in the first quarter compared with 38 connections in the first quarter 2021, and are on pace to meet our guidance midpoint of 400 well connections in the region. There are currently 38 rigs and 12 completion crews operating in the basin, with 17 rigs and approximately half of the completion crews on our dedicated acreage. This continues to be more than enough activity to grow gas production in the basin and on our acreage. Additionally, the basinwide DUC inventory remains at approximately 500, with half of those on our dedicated acreage. Recent reports from the North Dakota Pipeline Authority highlight the long runway of core drilling inventory remaining in the Williston Basin. Enhanced drilling and completion technologies are significantly increasing the basin's core acreage and further extending the decades of profitable drilling locations remaining in the region. The core acreage in the basin has expanded by an additional 3,000 square miles, with more than 7,000 drilling locations added to inventory that are profitable at crude oil prices of $60 per barrel. In the Mid-Continent region, we continue to see increased activity with three rigs now operating on our acreage and 45 rigs basinwide. We continue to expect increased natural gas processing volumes from the region compared with 2021 and expect the majority of rigs basin wide to drive additional NGLs to our system. In the natural gas pipeline segment, strong first-quarter results benefited from increased natural gas sales and higher seasonal volumes compared with the fourth quarter 2021. We continue to see strong demand for natural gas storage services and are working to expand our facilities to meet this increasing demand. We recently completed a 1.1 billion cubic feet expansion of our Texas storage facilities and announced an open season to increase our storage capabilities in Oklahoma, enabling an additional 4 billion cubic feet of storage capacity to be contracted. This project is expected to be complete in early 2023. We also recently announced two open seasons for additional pipeline capacity to address increased demand, one, on our WesTex pipeline system in the Permian Basin, and one on our Viking pipeline in the Upper Midwest. We continue to work with customers across our natural gas pipeline network to address their evolving transportation and storage needs as these key assets continue to provide value year round. Pierce, that concludes my remarks.Pierce Norton -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Kevin, and Walt. The overall dynamics in the midstream space and for ONEOK specifically remain positive. We increased activity, strengthened demand, and available system operating leverage. The U.S. energy industry is well-positioned to be a significant source for domestic and global natural gas and NGL supply for the long term, with midstream playing a vital role in the safe and responsible transportation of these vital energy resources. As we continue to help supply our country and the world with low-cost energy, we are also looking to play an important role in the transformation to a lower-carbon future through best management practices and collaboration with customers and service providers. We are addressing the growing need for energy products and services today, while also preparing for a long-term energy future. It's this innovation, resiliency, and dedication of our employees that makes ONEOK a leader in our industry with the positive momentum we're seeing in our business, and the increasingly positive outlook for the remainder of the year, we're well-positioned for yet another year of volume and earnings growth. With that, operator, we're now ready for questions. 