
OperatorGood day, and welcome to the Sempra second quarter earnings call. Today's conference is being recorded. And at this time, I'd like to turn the conference over to Nelly Molina. Please go ahead.Nelly Molina -- Vice President, Investor RelationsGood morning, everyone, and welcome to our second quarter 2021 earnings call for Sempra. A live webcast of this teleconference and a slide presentation is available on our website under the Investors section. On the line with us today, we have several members of our management team, including: Jeff Martin, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Trevor Mihalik, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Justin Bird, Chief Executive Officer of Sempra LNG; Allen Nye, Chief Executive Officer of Oncor; Kevin Sagara, Group President; and Peter Wall, Senior Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer.Before starting, I'd like to remind everyone that we'll be discussing forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results may differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements we make today. The factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially are discussed in the company's most recent 10-K and 10-Q filed with the SEC. All of the earnings per share amounts in our presentation are shown on a diluted basis, and we'll be discussing certain non-GAAP financial measures.Please refer to the presentation slides that accompany this call for a reconciliation to GAAP measures. I'd also like to mention that forward-looking statements contained in this presentation speak only as of today, August 5, 2021, and the company does not assume any obligation to update or revise any of these forward-looking statements in the future.With that, please turn to slide four, and let me hand the call over to Jeff.Jeffrey W. Martin -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Nelly. I want to start today by thanking those that attended our virtual Investor Day this past June, and I'll also mention that the team and I really enjoyed getting back on the road this past month and seeing many of you in person. As we discussed at our Investor Day, we've simplified our business model, narrowed our investment strategy to attractive markets and improved capital discipline, all with the goal of offering a competitive value proposition, including: consistent and attractive returns, strong earnings visibility and EPS growth and a sustainable and growing dividend.Additionally, at the Investor Day, Allen and I highlighted the robust growth that Oncor continues to see all across its service territory. And as a result, Oncor is increasing its capital plan, which Trevor describes in further detail later in today's presentation. Shifting now to the quarter. I'm pleased with our financial results, and I think it's a testament to the affirmative steps we've taken to simplify our business model and focus our capital investments on top-tier infrastructure growth platforms.We're reporting strong earnings and affirming both our increased 2021 adjusted EPS guidance range and our 2022 EPS guidance range. I'm excited about the progress we've made so far this year, and I'm proud of the broad support we're seeing all across our operating businesses. Now please turn to the next slide, where I'll turn the call over to Trevor to provide both business and financial updates.Trevor I. Mihalik -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Jeff. To begin, we have had several positive developments at our operating companies this past quarter. At SDG&E, in July, we received CPUC approval for our 2021 wildfire mitigation plan update, building on the utility's long-standing commitment to advance fire hardening and public safety. SoCalGas began flowing renewable natural gas at two additional biomethane projects in support of their goal to provide 20% RNG to core customers by 2030 to help the state reach its decarbonization goals.In Texas, Oncor has provided visibility to their 2022 to 2026 projected capital plan, which has increased to approximately $14 billion over the five-year period. Additionally, Oncor did receive PUCT approval to extend its rate case filing deadline to June 1, 2022. At Sempra Infrastructure, we completed the exchange offer for IEnova's shares, resulting in a 96.4% ownership interest, and we plan to launch a cash tender offer for the remaining 3.6% interest.We're also advancing the sale of the noncontrolling interest in Sempra Infrastructure Partners to KKR. And while I may have been a bit optimistic at Investor Day, we now expect to close the transaction around the end of the third quarter, subject to the Mexican Competition Commission completing its economic and market analysis and issuing the regulatory approval.With that, please turn to the next slide for more details around Oncor's capital plan update. Oncor continues to operate in one of the fastest-growing states with strong macro fundamentals. As a result, Oncor is announcing its 2022 to 2026 projected capital plan of approximately $14 billion, nearly a $2 billion increase over the 2021 to 2025 capital plan. Furthermore, Oncor is increasing its 2021 to 2022 capital plan by approximately $425 million, consistent with what Allen outlined at the Investor Day and is largely incorporated in the new $14 billion five-year capital plan.Oncor's robust capital plan supports the economic development seen throughout its service territory, increases in generation interconnection requests, strong premise growth and investments in grid resiliency. A good example of this robust growth can be seen in new relocations, expansions and electric service to Oncor's system, which are on pace to exceed 2020 values by 70% and to exceed 2019 values by 170%.Please turn to the next slide where I will review the financial results. Earlier this morning, we reported second quarter 2021 GAAP earnings of $424 million or $1.37 per share. This compares to second quarter 2020 GAAP earnings of $2,239,000,000 or $7.61 per share. On an adjusted basis, second quarter 2021 earnings were $504 million or $1.63 per share. This compares to our second quarter 2020 adjusted earnings of $501 million or $1.71 per share. On a year-to-date basis, 2021 GAAP earnings were $1,298,000,000 or $4.24 per share. This compares to year-to-date 2020 GAAP earnings of $2,999,000,000 or $9.91 per share.Adjusted year-to-date 2021 earnings were $1,404,000,000 or $4.58 per share. This compares to our year-to-date 2020 adjusted earnings of $1,242,000,000 or $4.20 per share. Please turn to the next slide. The variance in the second quarter 2021 adjusted earnings compared to the same period last year was affected by the following key items: $126 million from a CPUC decision that resulted in the release of a regulatory liability at the California utilities in 2020 related to prior year's forecasting differences that are not subject to tracking in the income tax expense memorandum account; and $22 million of lower earnings due to the sale of our Peruvian and Chilean businesses in April and June of 2020, respectively.This was more than offset by: $38 million higher equity earnings from the Cameron LNG JV, primarily due to Phase one achieving full commercial operations in August of 2020; $35 million of lower losses at Parent and Other, primarily due to lower preferred dividends and lower net interest expense; $34 million of higher income tax benefits from forecasted flow-through items at SDG&E and SoCalGas; and $22 million income tax benefit in 2021 from the remeasurement of certain deferred income taxes at Sempra LNG.Please turn to the next slide. We're pleased with our strong operational and financial performance this quarter and are focused on continuing to execute throughout the remainder of the year.And with that, this concludes our prepared remarks, so I now will stop, and we can take your questions.