
OperatorWelcome to Workday's First Quarter Fiscal Year 2022 Earnings Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] We will conduct a question-and-answer session toward the end of the call.I would now hand it over to Justin Furby, Vice President of Investor Relations. Thank you. You may begin.Justin Furby -- Vice President of Investor Relations

 



Thank you, operator. Welcome to Workday's first quarter fiscal 2022 earnings conference call. On the call we have Aneel Bhusri and Chano Fernandez, our Co-CEOs; Robynne Sisco, our President and CFO; and Pete Schlampp, our Executive Vice President of Product Development. Following prepared remarks, we will take questions. Our press release was issued after close of market and is posted on our website, where this call is being simultaneously webcast.Before we get started, we want to emphasize that some of our statements on this call, particularly our guidance, are based on the information we have as of today and include forward-looking statements regarding our financial results, application, customer demand, operations and other matters. These statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including those related to the impacts of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic on our business and global economic condition. Please refer to the press release and the risk factors and documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our 2021 annual report on Form 10-K and most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q for additional information on risks, uncertainties and assumptions that may cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in such statements.In addition, during today's call, we will discuss non-GAAP financial measures, which we believe are useful as supplemental measures of Workday's performance. These non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to and not as a substitute for or in isolation from GAAP results. You can find additional disclosures regarding these non-GAAP measures, including reconciliations with comparable GAAP results in our earnings press release and on the Investor Relations page of our website.The webcast replay of this call will be available for the next 90 days on our Company website under the Investor Relations link. Also, the Customers page of our website includes a list of selected customers and is updated monthly. Our second quarter quiet period begins on July 16th, 2021. Unless otherwise stated, all financial comparisons in this call will be to our results for the comparable period of our fiscal 2021.

 



With that, I will hand the call over to Aneel.Aneel Bhusri -- Co-Founder, Co-Chief Executive Officer and ChairmanThank you, Justin, and good afternoon everyone. Thank you for joining us today for our first quarter fiscal year '22 earnings call. Before we jump into our quarterly results, first a huge congratulations to Workday investor and my good friend, Phil Mickelson on winning the PGA Championship over the weekend, an amazing accomplishment and proving once again that in addition to being a great person, Phil is one of the most talented golfers of all time.I'm pleased to report that Workday had a strong quarter, starting the year with significant momentum and positioning us well for a great fiscal year '22. In Q1, we saw an increase in demand across all product areas while delivering strong non-GAAP operating margins of 25%, showing the strength inherent in our underlying business model. Our results support the acceleration in digital transformations across HR and finance and Robynne will share more shortly on how we plan to invest behind this opportunity.

 



Let me share some highlights starting with Workday HCM. We continue to be the market leader with our differentiated suite of products and continued innovation. We're seeing an increase in demand as more and more organizations prioritize transition of HCM systems to cloud to deliver a world-class employee experience. In Q1 we welcomed ASM Global, Las Vegas Sands Corp. Mattel, Five Below Inc. and Cost Plus World Market to the Workday family along with many other new HCM customers. Even with all the sales momentum, we continue to have over 70% of our HCM customers in production with notable go-lives in Q1 including Fielmann AG, University of Sydney and Macquarie University, to name a few.Turning to Workday Financial Management. We saw momentum build in Q1 as companies increasingly prioritized digitalization within the office of the CFO. In addition to an acceleration in core financials bookings, we also saw strength across the portfolio with offerings such as Workday Adaptive Planning, spend management, including Workday Strategic Sourcing, formerly known as Scout and our Enterprise Finance solutions. New customers in Q1 included Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, SACS [Phonetic] and Saint Francis Health System Incorporated with add-on wins at FHI and Werner Enterprises.Our focus on industry solutions was also a key contributor to our success during the quarter where our PSA solution was a key driver to a broader HR and FINS platform win in Q1 and accounting firm RSM US. And our Accounting Center solution was part of a FINS first win at National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance. Our strong position continues to get recognized by the market. For the fifth year in a row, Workday was named a Leader in the Gartner Magic Quadrant for Cloud Core Financial Management Suites for Midsize, Large, and Global Enterprises list published on May 1 of this year.Taking a step back, we continue to focus on delivering a global solution that enables business leaders to plan, execute and analyze all in one system. And in this rapidly changing world, our value proposition only continues to grow as we make advances on the innovation front.In Q1 we delivered our latest feature release, Workday 2021 R1 with advancements across all product areas including broadening the capabilities of Workday Extend and greater functionality in spend and supplier management. We also continued our investment in world-class user experience, smarter and more personalized search in Workday People Experience as well as extended capabilities in natural workspaces outside of Workday such as Slack and Microsoft Teams. And to further enable customers in optimizing the future of their employee experience in this ever-changing world I am proud to announce that we closed on the acquisition of Peakon, now a Workday company. Chano will add more color on Peakon in a few minutes, but we couldn't be more excited about the opportunity we see with the Peakon offerings and are excited to welcome the Peakon team to Workday.In our history innovation and empathy have always led to greater customer satisfaction, which is at the heart of everything we do at Workday. I continue to be so grateful to our teams who have all supported customers in entirely new ways to ensure their success during these challenging times. Underscoring this dedication, I'm pleased to announce our latest customer satisfaction score of 97%. This survey is particularly meaningful as it provides us feedback from our named support contacts, those who are closest to engaging with the Workday experience on a daily basis.Switching to the people front. As you all know, we believe a key part of our success continues to be our vibrant Company culture, which allows us to maintain high levels of employee satisfaction and greatly helps us attract and retain talent across all levels of the Company. As we look ahead, we see a tremendous opportunity in front of us to partner with more organizations across all industries and serve as a backbone of their digital transformation efforts in this changing world. The foundational to delivering on that opportunity will be a motivated and growing group of employees. So as we move forward on this growth path, we plan to increase our global workforce by more than 20% or 2,500 new hires in fiscal year 2022. In doing so we will have an even stronger foundation to scale and innovate on our path to $10 billion.This quarter was a strong start to our fiscal year and set the stage for acceleration in our business. As I look ahead, my optimism for Workday's future couldn't be higher. We have a great team in place and a significant global opportunity in front of us as companies continue to embark on their HR and finance transformation journeys.With that, I'll turn it over to my good friend and Co-CEO, Chano Fernandez. Over to you, Chano.Chano Fernandez -- Co-Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Aneel. As Aneel mentioned, we're off to a strong start in FY '22 with meaningful new bookings acceleration in the first quarter as organizations increasingly position Workday as the backbone of their digital transformation. Our Q1 bookings outperformance combined with continuous strength in pipeline generation provide us with increased confidence in driving accelerated new bookings growth in FY '22. This quarter's results were once again driven by a strong execution and high conversion rate. We saw a pickup in net new business as bookings from new HCM and financial customers improved along with the overall environment.And our installed base team had another outstanding quarter sustaining the momentum we saw throughout last year, driven by solid renewal rates as well as strength across solutions. As Aneel mentioned, we had notable outperformance from planning, core financials, analytics, spend management and our talent portfolio.From a geographic standpoint we saw outperformance in North America and APJ while also driving healthy bookings growth across EMEA. Our medium enterprise team also had an exceptional start to the year as our investments in that market continue to pay off. And our strength continued in vertical markets such as professional and financial services, healthcare and education and government where industry-specific innovation and a dedicated go-to-market efforts are critical to our success.As Aneel previously said, we have significant hiring plans in FY '22 and the sales and marketing organization is one of the biggest areas of planned headcount additions as we look to accelerate and sustain long-term growth. The investments are broad based and global in nature, including quota-carrying capacity, presales and business development.We're also investing in non-headcount areas such as marketing and brand campaign, focused on the office of the CFO. During Q1 we began ramping up this investment and are very pleased with the healthy pipeline growth they helped drive. Based on the initial returns we have seen, we expect to accelerate the pace of this investment in the coming quarters. And I look forward to updating you on our progress.Organizationally, I'm pleased to say that we have successfully integrated the Peakon sales teams into Workday with both our installed base and net new sales teams now actively selling this solution into the market. Although the acquisition just closed in March, we are very excited by the pipeline momentum.We had a number of meaningful Peakon upsell deals within our customer base in Q1, and their solution is already opening up doors for new significant customer relationships. Ensuring customer success has always been a core value at Workday. I'm delighted to say that our customer success and services organizations have performed incredibly well taking hundreds of customers live across our core HCM and financial management offerings as well as our portfolio of broader solutions targeting the CFO, CHRO and CIO.Our partner ecosystem is also critical, not only helping take customer side but co-innovating on the Workday platform, enabling acceleration of our pace of innovation and engaging even more strategically with our partners. Finally, on behalf of the entire Workday leadership team, I would like to say thanks to all of our workmates across the globe. Thank you for a terrific start to FY '22 and let's keep the momentum going.With that I will turn it over to our President and CFO Robynne Sisco. Over to you Robynne.Robynne Sisco -- President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks Chano and good afternoon everyone. As Aneel and Chano mentioned, we delivered a solid Q1 driven by strong execution against an improving market backdrop as organizations look to accelerate the pace of their digital transformations across HR and finance. Subscription revenue in the first quarter was $1.03 billion, up 17% year-over-year, driven by strong new business sales, favorable in-quarter linearity and an over performance on customer renewals.Professional services revenue was $143 million and total revenue came in at $1.18 billion. Revenue outside the US was $292 million representing 25% of the total. 24-month backlog at the end of the first quarter was $6.59 billion, growth of 20%, driven by strong new bookings across both net new and add-on business. As I discussed on the last earnings call, the amount of ACV coming up for renewal in FY '22 is relatively flat from last year. This dynamic is purely a function of the mix of historical contract lengths that created a headwind to 24-month backlog growth in Q1 of a couple of percentage points, an impact that we expect will persist throughout this fiscal year before we return to a more normal level of renewals growth in FY '23.Total subscription revenue backlog at the end of Q1 was $10.08 billion, growth of 23%. Our non-GAAP operating income for the first quarter was $289 million resulting in a non-GAAP operating margin of approximately 25%. Margin over achievement was driven by a combination of top line over performance and favorable expense variances. Specifically, it took longer to ramp up hiring and external resources and we had lower than expected costs related to Peakon. We have very ambitious investment targets for the remainder of the year in support of our growth aspirations and have confidence in our ability to continue to ramp these investments throughout the year.Operating cash flow in Q1 was $452 million, growth of 72% driven by a combination of operating margin expansion and strong customer collections. As Aneel mentioned, our biggest investment continues to be in our people and in attracting top talent to Workday. During Q1, we began to ramp the pace of hiring, successfully adding and integrating roughly 600 net new employees, including over 250 from Peakon, bringing our total workforce at the end of the quarter to over 13,100 employees. Overall, we are very pleased with the momentum we saw in Q1 and we're continuing to invest to support growth as the environment normalizes.Turning now to guidance. Based on our over performance in Q1, we are raising our FY '22 outlook and providing Q2 guidance as follows. For subscription revenue, we're raising our full-year estimate to be in the range of $4.425 billion to $4.440 billion, growth of 17%. As a reminder Peakon is expected to add less than 1 percentage point to our overall subscription revenue growth in FY '22. We expect our Q2 subscription revenue to be $1.095 billion to $1.097 billion, 18% year-over-year growth with sequential growth in Q3 and Q4 of approximately 3% and 4.5% respectively. We still expect professional services revenue to be $590 million in FY '22 as we continue to prioritize driving the highest levels of customer success. For Q2, we expect professional services revenue of $145 million.Taking into account the renewal headwinds I mentioned earlier, we expect 24-month backlog growth of 17% in Q2. Investing for growth remains our number one priority. As Aneel mentioned, we expect an increased pace of hiring across the Company in FY '22 as well as the ramp of non-headcount spending with a focus on sales, marketing and product, specifically targeted at accelerating demand generation, enhancing our market position and advancing our strategic product road map.Given that we expect margins to moderate throughout the year with a Q2 non-GAAP operating margin of 20% and a full-year non-GAAP operating margin in the range of 18% to 19%. The GAAP margins for the second quarter and the full year are expected to be approximately 24 percentage points lower than the non-GAAP margins. There is no change to our FY '22 operating cash flow guidance of $1.2 billion.During Q1, we completed the $171 million purchase of five buildings at our Pleasanton Campus. This purchase is important to our headquarter strategy and affords us control of our core campus buildings. We do not expect any further owned real estate investments for the remainder of the year and we continue to expect $270 million of other capital investments to support our customer growth and continued business expansion.And finally I'll close by thanking our amazing employees, customers and partners for their continued support and hard work. We're off to a great start for FY '22 and our focus remains on driving accelerated bookings growth.With that, I'll turn it over to the operator to begin Q&A.