
OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the FIS Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that today's conference call is being recorded. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to Nate Rozof, Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.Nathan A. Rozof -- Executive Vice President of Corporate Finance and Investor RelationsThank you. Good morning, and thanks to everyone for joining the call today for the FIS third quarter 2021 earnings conference call. This call is being webcasted. Today's news release, corresponding presentation and webcast are all available on our website at fisglobal.com. Gary Norcross, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, will discuss our performance and review our strategy to continue accelerating revenue growth and maximizing shareholder value. Woody Woodall, our Chief Financial Officer, will then review our financial results and guidance, then take you through some additional disclosures in our Merchant segment. Stephanie Ferris, Chief Administrative Officer; and Bruce Lowthers, President of FIS, will also be joining the call for the Q&A portion. Turning to slide three. Today's remarks will contain forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties as described in the press release and other filings with the SEC.The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Please refer to the safe harbor language. Also throughout this conference call, we will be presenting non-GAAP information, including adjusted EBITDA, adjusted net earnings, adjusted net earnings per share and free cash flow. These are important financial performance measures for the company, but are not financial measures as defined by GAAP. Reconciliations of our non-GAAP information to the GAAP financial information are presented in our earnings release. With that, I'll turn the call over to Gary, who will begin his remarks on slide five.Gary Adam Norcross -- Executive Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Nate, and thank you for joining us. Our third quarter results demonstrate continued strength of execution across the company, with revenue growing 10% to reach $3.5 billion. Margins expanded 270 basis points to exceed 45%, and adjusted EPS increased 22% to $1.73 per share. We continue to see elevated demand across our solution portfolio, with sales execution driving a 7% organic increase in our $22 billion backlog across banking and capital markets. Revenue synergies related to our Worldpay integration increased to $150 million in the quarter, bringing the total to $600 million on an annual run rate basis. We remain on schedule to exceed $700 million exiting this year, beating our original target by 40%, while accomplishing this feat a year early. Our cost synergies tell a similar story, increasing to $875 million in the quarter and on schedule to exit the year around $900 million.This is inclusive of approximately $500 million in operational expense as we look to conclude our Worldpay integration well ahead of schedule. In the quarter, new wins across a wide range of clients illustrate that our strategy is working and gives us confidence in our growth. In Banking, these include another two modern banking platform wins, including one with PayPal. PayPal will utilize the Modern Banking Platform to enable their new high-yield savings account. These new wins continue to demonstrate the versatility of our new cloud-native software. Turning to our Merchant segment.We continue to build on its differentiated global e-commerce offering. Our extensive global reach is a significant differentiator for us. We operate in 146 countries, accounting for 126 different currencies and support more than 300 alternative payment methods. This allows us to remove complexity and cost, while increasing authorization rates for multinational enterprises like Microsoft, who recently expanded our relationship from a single region to now span the globe. Our ability to offer sophisticated capabilities and rapidly expand into emerging new verticals also differentiates FIS. For example, we continue to build a strong foundation in crypto, signing Crypto.com, this quarter. We won this business by demonstrating authorization rates that are far superior to their incumbent provider.We also expanded our global travel and airlines market share, winning Allegiant as an impressive new domestic carrier. In Capital Markets, Citi is the latest example of a client transitioning from legacy in-house to a fully outsourced solution with FIS, while another innovative technology company will leverage seven of our capabilities to help power their digital registered investment advisory solution. We cannot be happier with the significant growth the team is driving out of our Capital Markets segment. Our solutions are highly differentiated and proven throughout the industry. It's important to note that our new wins across all our segments include financial institutions, domestic and multinational merchants as well as leading technology companies and innovative fintechs.Few other companies can provide such a complementary set of solutions. I am proud of our team for their ongoing dedication to our clients and for delivering another strong performance this quarter. Turning to slide six. While our team continues to execute at a very high level, our share price is clearly not performing well. Over the last few months, our management team engaged in open and constructive dialogue with the investment community about areas where we can improve the messaging and transparency of our business. We believe in the strength and value of our company. And on today's call, we will directly address the three most common questions we heard. I'll begin by providing an update on our leading competitive position as well as our capital allocation strategy to sustain and accelerate growth.Woody will then provide a deep dive into the Merchant segment after he recaps the quarter's financial performance. The bear case assumes that FIS is standing still or unable to compete, and this is definitely not the case. We anticipated the changing competitive landscape and invested heavily in technology and innovation over the last five years. Ours is a durable business model, and FIS will remain a global leader with sustainable competitive advantages now and into the future. Therefore, we will continue to provide additional clarity as needed to ensure that our shareholders properly understand our business, strategy and the true value of FIS.Turning to slide seven. FIS has the best collection of assets in the industry. Banking and Capital Markets generate approximately 2/3 of our revenue mix, with exclusive long-term contracts and deep client relationships covering mission-critical applications needed to operate our clients' businesses. These segments grew through the pandemic, demonstrating the durability of their revenue streams and are growing faster than ever. Our ongoing investment in new technologies, Indian software suites within these segments generates increased recurring revenue and accelerated organic growth. Through three quarters, our year-to-date new sales already exceed that of the entire year in 2020, which was also a record year for FIS.This historical success has now created $22 billion in backlog of signed revenue, which I referenced earlier. Given our year-to-date success, 2021 is going to be another record-setting year for sales, and that will drive continued strong growth across these segments into 2022 and beyond. Our Merchant segment currently accounts for about 1/3 of our revenue mix. It boasts deep client relationships with exceptionally high retention rates that are supported by sophisticated vertical expertise and five-star client service. Our expert professionals are on the ground in every geography to meet any need.Our clients depend on us to support their global ambitions by opening every sales channel to them with innovative software-led and omnichannel capabilities. Here, too, we are generating record new sales, and revenue growth is accelerating as high-growth channels account for an increasing proportion of the segment's growth. Given the market dynamics in these high-growth channels, we expect to consistently win new clients and expand our share of wallet. Another key advantage is our extensive global distribution and enviable client portfolio, which enable us to quickly and effectively drive adoption of new technologies. There's a reason why incumbents, innovators and disruptors consistently choose FIS as their partner of choice. These durable revenue streams, combined with our scale of delivery, allow us to aggressively invest in differentiated solutions and capabilities.Turning to slide eight. I'd like to directly address the strength of our competitive position and why this company will continue to lead the way powering the global digital economy. FIS powers the intersection of software, payments and embedded finance. Our core competency is commerce enablement, whether that's the electronification of banking, enabling electronic transactions online or at the point of sale or automating treasury, B2B and wealth and retirement. We have multiple competitive advantages, including breadth of capability, global reach, extensive distribution and an enviable client portfolio.With our infrastructure migration to the cloud now complete and the Worldpay integration coming to a close, I'd like to share our strategy to further enhance our competitive position and generate shareholder value. Our strategy is to unlock the true value of FIS by weaving together our extensive digital assets into a global platform that facilitates the rapid adoption of new technology and speeds innovation. By componentizing our capabilities, we will expose our unique set of financial assets to the market as well as continue to push new product through this emerging platform. It expands our TAM by positioning FIS as the destination for innovators and developers, where they can get everything they need to create exciting new customer experiences.And it helps them to do it faster by providing preconfigured capabilities, low-code and no-code technology, third-party integration as well as sandboxes for experimentation and rapid prototyping, complete with the developer forum. Importantly, for our shareholders, it will speed time to revenue for FIS through automation and self-service, while simultaneously creating additional scale benefits by eliminating technology debt. This strategy supports our midterm outlook for 7% to 9% revenue growth, 50 to 100 basis points of annual adjusted EBITDA margin expansion and superior free cash flow. Our past success demonstrates that we execute major programs very well, and our team will keep FIS at the forefront of the industry by executing the next phase of our enterprise technology transformation.As we do this over the next three years, you'll hear us talk less and less about segments, as traditional silos and old ways of thinking fade to the background. Instead, we'll begin sharing exciting examples of a new class of super users, who combine technology across the breadth of FIS in new and exciting ways. Each of these super users is buying capabilities from all three of our traditional segments, demonstrating a powerful value unlock for FIS. Amazon is a great example of the power that our portfolio brings to clients. They started their journey with us by leveraging our nice debit network capabilities a decade ago.Today, they utilize our enterprise acquiring capability for Whole Foods, our global e-commerce capability to enter new online markets and our treasury cash management solution out of Capital Markets. And we've expanded the relationship by leveraging our omnichannel capability to empower their new Amazon 4-star in-store concept internationally, opening its first location in the U.K. At FIS, we embrace being a scaled technology leader and look forward to continuing to advance the industry by enabling the next generation of innovative client experiences.I'll conclude my prepared remarks by reviewing our capital allocation strategy on slide nine. Our priority is to deliver long-term growth by investing internally to improve the value we bring to our clients, while expanding our TAM. In parallel, we continue to actively pursue M&A to add innovative new capabilities as well as to enter high-growth adjacencies. Our team has a well-established track record of successfully integrating the businesses we acquire, consistently outperforming our synergy targets and driving shareholder value. Through this combination of investments in organic and inorganic opportunities, we have successfully accelerated revenue growth by positioning FIS to deliver innovative solutions in attractive markets where our technology and expertise are highly differentiated.The scale and profitability of our business puts us in the enviable position of being able to both invest for growth while simultaneously returning capital to our shareholders. Year-to-date, we have repurchased $2 billion in shares, reflecting our view that FIS currently represents a generational buying opportunity. We still maintain significant headroom for accelerated share repurchase, with 85 million shares of authorization remaining, and we will buy back stock aggressively. We are committed to consistent dividend growth and are increasing our expected annual dividend growth rate to 20% in 2022 and beyond.This will enable us to expand our dividend payout ratio over several years without affecting our ability to invest in growth. Our capital allocation strategy is underpinned by a strong balance sheet and investment-grade credit ratings. This strategy has been consistent for many years, and we will continue to allocate capital to drive robust shareholder returns. In conclusion, while competition is intense across our industry, FIS is built for purpose as the leading commerce enablement company. At FIS, we're doing what no one else can, bringing together a unique breadth of capability and global reach to enable our clients to innovate at speed.With that, I'll now turn the call over to Woody to discuss our financial results and to provide a deep dive into the Merchant segment. Woody?James W. Woodall -- Corporate Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Gary, and thank you all for joining us today. Starting on slide 11, I will begin with our third quarter results and touch on our balance sheet, cash flow and guidance before taking you through our additional merchant disclosures. Both reported and organic revenue growth were 10%. Adjusted EBITDA margins expanded 270 basis points, reflecting high contribution margins and ongoing synergy benefit. Banking revenue growth accelerated to 8%, reflecting continued new sales execution. The Banking segment's adjusted EBITDA margin expanded 250 basis points to 46% primarily due to ramping revenues from recent large bank wins as well as continued recurring revenue growth.Capital Markets revenue growth also accelerated to 11% this quarter primarily due to strong recurring revenue growth as well as two points of tailwind created by the timing of client renewals. Capital Markets adjusted EBITDA margin expanded 330 basis points to 48%, again reflecting high contribution margins and operating leverage. I'll leave Merchant for now and discuss its quarterly performance with its deep dive later. Turning to slide 12. We generated free cash flow in excess of $1.1 billion in the quarter, representing 33% of revenue or 107% of adjusted net earnings. We tripled the pace of our share buybacks during the quarter, repurchasing nine million shares for approximately $1.2 billion.While we are aggressively buying stock back right now, we remain active in the M&A market. As Gary mentioned, we are increasing our dividend growth rate in 2022 from 10% to 20% per year. We're going to continue to invest for growth, and this will have no impact on our ability or intention to do so. In fact, it will only consume about $100 million of incremental cash during 2022, which is insignificant as compared to our annual free cash flow.To be clear, if our adjusted EPS grows mid-teens and our dividend grows by 20%, we will reach the 35% payout ratio toward the end of this decade. On slide 13, you'll see that we're keeping our full year guidance mostly unchanged after raising it earlier this year. We're increasing the lower end of our adjusted EPS range to $6.50 from $6.45 per share. We brought up the lower end of our EPS guide due to our operating results and share repurchase during the third quarter. To add further color on fourth quarter, consensus revenue and EPS are in line with our expectations.I'm expecting some incremental pressure on margins due to rising labor costs and for this to be offset by lower share count. As it pertains to the platform initiatives Gary mentioned, this does not represent incremental investment, but continues the enterprise transformation that we've been executing on for the past five years. This is included in our midterm outlook of 7% to 9% revenue growth and 50 to 100 basis points of margin expansion. As usual, we will provide detailed guidance assumptions in the appendix. With that, let's begin the Merchant deep dive on slide 15. As Gary mentioned, we heard your feedback and are striving to further increase transparency into the Merchant business.I will provide an additional layer of revenue detail and outlook for the business in the next several slides. Starting with our third quarter results, Merchant revenue grew 18%, excluding about four points of headwind created by the unusual timing of the U.S. tax filing deadline in 2020. Merchant's adjusted EBITDA margin expanded 380 basis points to approximately 52%, which reflects the segment's high contribution margins and ongoing synergy benefit. Many of our shareholders told us they are evaluating Merchant growth rates versus the comparable period in 2019.Therefore, I will describe growth rates through the rest of this deep dive on that basis as compared to 2019 and pro forma for the Worldpay acquisition. It's clear that our business is rebounding, with revenue growth accelerating from 3% in the first quarter to 9% in the second quarter to 16% in the third quarter. On slide 16, we show how closely our volumes continue to track with the networks. Clearly, the three of us don't grow exactly the same every quarter or in every country, but the consistency of FIS' performance relative to the networks throughout the pandemic challenges the bear case in my mind. In addition, we included quarterly volume and transaction data within our earnings release going back to the first quarter of 2019.We provide this extra level of transparency to create easy comparisons, so the shareholders can better evaluate any concerns about share loss. We provide additional revenue detail by client type on slide 17. Our global e-commerce business serves web-only merchants. It excludes omnichannel merchant revenue, which is included in enterprise. Global e-commerce is our fastest-growing client type and creates a key strategic advantage. Enterprise includes North American merchants with more than $5 million in annual sales volume in the U.K. This is a scale business with meaningful cross-selling opportunities.We have powerful distribution channels and serve marquee brands across both global e-commerce and enterprise, making us the go-to choice for new technology partners striving for adoption. Finally, software-led SMB is comprised of U.S. small merchants with less than $5 million in annual sales volume. We service these merchants primarily through software-led or technology-enabled partners who are attracted to our world-class scale and leading enterprise capabilities. Moving down this slide, the pie chart show merchants revenue mix by these three client types. The text below the pies defines each client type and summarizes our respective strategies for each.Along the bottom of the slide, we show the quarterly revenue growth progression on a pro forma basis as compared to 2019, where the clear takeaway is the [quick] recovery thus far. The next three slides dive deeper, including TAM growth for each client type based on total merchant acquiring TAM from BCG's Global Payments 2021 report. Beginning on slide 18, our global e-commerce business is differentiated by its global reach. We have the unique ability to help leading multinational companies and global brands seamlessly transact around the world.Unlike most of our peers, who gateway domestic card-not-present transactions within various countries, we enable multinational transactions with local licensing to support our clients' global expansion. In the upper right-hand corner, we show global e-commerce's estimated TAM growth of 13% to 15% on a revenue basis. Our e-com mix is split roughly 50-50 between the U.S. and international. As you can see, domestic e-com TAM is growing upper single digits, while cross-border TAM is growing 25% to 30%. This is why our global reach is so important. It provides a distinct advantage in the fast-growing area -- fastest growing area of the market.Lastly, SMB e-com TAM is growing 12% to 14%. We don't currently play in this portion of the market and see it as a strategic expansion opportunity. As you can see by the elevated growth rates in the lower right corner, FIS is benefiting from the accelerating shift online. Our mix of fast-growing e-com revenue continues to increase, creating the opportunity for us to continue to outpace global merchant acquiring TAM as a whole. Turning to slide 19 to discuss enterprise. Many of our enterprise relationships are decades long and built on sophisticated vertical expertise, such as our unique debit routing, SNAP and WIC capabilities within the grocery vertical.Serving global enterprise clients require significant scale economies to compete at low price points, while quickly and nimbly integrating new technologies. Enterprise TAM is growing 4% to 7%, split between the U.S. and international. Within the enterprise, we see the greatest potential for future growth through continued geographic expansion, enabled by our global footprint and international banking relationships. Our software-led SMB business is shown on slide 20. U.S. SMB TAM is growing 7% to 9%. We have experienced significant recovery each quarter this year, with most of our verticals growing 20%-plus during the quarter.Restaurant is the notable exception. While it's also demonstrating a strong recovery trend, its growth is slower than other verticals. It's difficult to discern whether this is due to slower reopenings, staffing challenges or the performance of some of our partners. However, our win rates continue to improve on leads given to us by our ISV partners, and we continue to sign new ISV partners, making it clear that there is not a problem with our service. Further, our software-led strategy provides significant advantages across the SMB space by providing deep vertical expertise. As I mentioned earlier, we believe that expanding SMB e-com is a significant opportunity for us, especially following the launch of Access Worldpay.In any event, as you can see on slide 21, it's 2% of our consolidated revenue. I'd like to leave you with two thoughts before we open the line to Q&A. First, we continue to enjoy significant competitive advantages across the breadth of our business. 65% of our revenue is driven from Banking and Capital Markets with long-term contracts and sticky client relationships. Within the 32% of our revenue mix in Merchant, we are differentiated by our global e-com, enterprise and software-led capabilities. While the market appears to be focused on U.S. SMB, which represents a sliver of our revenue, our strategy is about driving growth across the enterprise by enabling digital commerce in every segment and in every vertical, as Gary described.Second, on slide 22, we believe that 8% to 10% TAM growth for the total acquiring market reinforces our outlook for sustained double-digit revenue growth within Merchant. We have a strong e-commerce business that continues to grow as a portion of our overall revenue mix. The international expansion opportunity in enterprise creates additional upside, and we have a really unique opportunity to drive our e-com capabilities downstream into SMB. We are confident in the future of FIS, and I would like to thank our colleagues for their continued efforts in serving our clients and driving our business forward. Operator, would you open the line for questions?