  OperatorGood day, ladies and gentlemen. My name is Andrea, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome you to the Ford Motor Company first quarter 2022 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] Please note, this event is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Lynn Antipas Tyson, executive director of investor relations. Please go ahead.Lynn Tyson

 



 Thank you, Andrea. Welcome to Ford Motor Company's first quarter 2022 earnings call. With me today are Jim Farley, our president and CEO; and John Lawler, our chief financial officer. Also joining us for Q&A is Marion Harris, CEO of Ford credit; Hau Thai-Tang, chief industrial platform officer; and Doug Field, chief EV and digital systems officer Ford Model e. Today's discussions include some non-GAAP references. These are reconciled to the most comparable U.S. GAAP measures in the appendix of our earnings deck. You can find the deck, along with the rest of our earnings materials and other important content, at shareholder.ford.com.Today's discussions also include forward-looking statements about our expectations. Actual results may differ from those stated. The most significant factors that could cause actual results to differ are included on Page 28. Unless otherwise noted, all comparisons are year over year. Company EBIT, EPS and free cash flow are on an adjusted basis, and product mix is volume weighted. With that, I'll turn the call over to Jim. 

 



Jim Farley -- President and Chief Executive Officer Hello, everyone. Thank you, Lynn, and thanks for joining our first quarter 2022 earnings call. Yesterday, I was with Bill Ford and our incredible team at the Rouge factory, where my grandfather worked, to celebrate Job One for the F-150 Lightning. We were all so proud as a team for delivering a truly breakthrough electric truck and delivering it on time as a launch. The excitement around the truck is like nothing I've ever seen in my career. In fact, the power went out in the facility, and we ran most of the presentation with F-150 Pro power on board. While we have work ahead to fully scale production and fill an extraordinary order bank, both for our retail Lightning customers and Ford Pro, make no mistake, this is a very important moment for us at Ford. We're accelerating our significant transformation. We have the right plan called Ford+. We are putting in place the right organization. As you know, on March 2, we announced our plan to form two distinct but interdependent business units called Ford Model e and Ford Blue. Together with Ford Pro, these three automotive businesses allow us to clearly define and assign priorities, make the most of our existing strengths, but also build new strategic muscles and, most importantly, capabilities.

 



 Ford Model e is responsible for delivering clean sheet breakthrough EV designs, software advanced electric architectures, partial autonomy. And Ford Blue's mission is to deliver a more vibrant and profitable ICE business, a business that's going to serve in the short term as our profit and cash engine for the entire enterprise. So what have we learned since March 2? And what are we working on at Ford? In terms of Model e, first, it's very clear to us that battery capacity is the key unlock to our EV aspirations and propel our growth in the future. We're in good shape in the near term. In the medium and long term, securing raw materials, processing, precursor and refinement and setting up battery production here in the U.S. and around the world is a big work statement for us. Expect a lot of news from Ford in the future related to the vertical integration of our EV business. Second, we're getting after our talent gap in key areas, EV engineering, software and autonomous driving technology. We have a very good start already, and we will continually be very aggressive on recruiting talent. Third, we're now deep into discussions with our dealer partners around the globe, but especially in North America, on brand new standards that are required to launch a completely different customer experience that is leaner and better for our customers that we believe will not only be competitive but superior to a solely direct model. We're drafting standards as we speak and plan to roll this out this year. Finally, we're crafting our EV future product pipeline and are focused on a small number of highly compelling, highly volume models in key segments where we already lead. I want to make this very clear, some companies seem to be pursuing a strategy of trying to match model-wise volume with eight or nine top hats. That's not a winning plan in our view. We will focus on key volume nameplates, constrained capital because we have it, but really to leverage scale and efficiency to reach and eventually exceed our 8% EBIT target for EVs. I want to be clear here that as we move forward, our EV designs will be progressive, and they're going to be aimed at bringing new customers to Ford and Lincoln. They will not be electric versions of our existing lineup. Now in terms of Ford Blue, we will accelerate our restructuring and address our uncompetitive cost structure. We're going to attack complexity in areas such as powertrain. We can't wait. This work starts now. We will continue to invest in our ICE business but in targeted ways to build our most popular and profitable vehicle lines, F-Series, Bronco, Super Duty and a few others. Another focus is quality. We made good progress on initial quality and launches. However, we continue to be hampered by recalls and customer satisfaction actions. This has to change. We must do more to aggressively address our engineering process and improve our robustness. Now, our Ford Pro business is on track. We see healthy growth in parts sales, mechanic repairs, growth in subscriptions for both charging and telematics, and CV financing. Most importantly, we're making our customers' lives and businesses better. They're using data. They're improving their uptime and their bottom line. Supply chain constraints continue to impact our business, including some of our key profit pillars. That said, we're making progress on launching and scaling new products as you can see with Lightning. That said, our major focus now is accelerating a more fundamental change in our supply chain management to improve visibility through our entire value chain and secure supply, especially in places like Semis and batteries. We're absolutely committed to unlocking value by improving our growth profile, our profitability and ability to generate sustainable cash flows from our automotive-related businesses. Our new targets include producing more than two million EVs in four short years by the end of 2026. That's about 70-plus CAGR. And we expect that by 2030, EVs will account for about 50% of our global sales. We have also reset our profit ambition. We are now targeting 10% company-adjusted EBIT margins by 2026. Now, in terms of the first quarter, I would describe our performance as mixed. The appeal of our new products is really clear, and customers demand is extremely strong beyond the supply constraint of our industry. However, we are still grappling with persistent supply chain issues that prevent us from posting even stronger quarter. We're working to break constraints whenever they exist to take full advantage of this incredibly hot product lineup. Both new EVs like the F-150 Lightning but our iconic ICE vehicles as well. We remain committed to delivering our targets quarter after quarter, year after year, earning your confidence along the way. And now, I'd like to turn it to John to take you through the quarter and our outlook this year.John Lawler -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Jim. In face of ongoing industrywide supply chain disruption and unremitting pandemic hurdles, we continued to execute against our Ford+ plan, including strengthening our product portfolio, investing in electrification and other new and exciting opportunities, fundamental to growth and value creation. In the first quarter, we generated $2.3 billion in adjusted EBIT, resulting in a margin of 6.7%. The year-over-year decline in total company profits was driven by higher commodity prices and lower volume and mix, partially offset by higher net pricing as we take top-line pricing while remaining disciplined with our incentive spend. Importantly, our operations outside of North America were profitable. Global wholesales were down 9%, consistent with our guidance and reflecting the continued supply chain issues. However, our run rate of vehicle production in North America improved significantly during the month of March, and we ended the quarter with an extremely healthy order bank. In fact, in the U.S. alone, our order bank is primed to deliver about $17 billion in revenue. Ford credit delivered another strong quarter. EBT was $900 million, reflecting strong lease residuals and credit loss performance. Free cash flow was $600 million negative, more than explained by unfavorable timing differences and working capital deterioration due to the higher inventory levels, which included about 53,000 vehicles on wheels, completed but awaiting installation of components affected by the semiconductor supply shortage. We ended the quarter with strong cash and liquidity, nearly $29 billion and $45 billion, respectively. This includes our stake in Rivian, which was valued at $5.1 billion at the end of the quarter. Our strong balance sheet provides a solid foundation to continue investing in our Ford+ priorities. Now, let me briefly touch on business unit performance for the quarter. North America delivered $1.6 billion of EBIT with a margin of 7.1%. Now this is down year over year as net pricing improvements were more than offset by higher commodity costs, higher warranty expense, unfavorable mix and lower volume. The volume and mix impact primarily reflects supply constraints unique to full-size pickups in large utilities. South America continues to benefit from our global redesign efforts, delivering its third consecutive profitable quarter and its highest quarterly EBIT margin in over 10 years. The region continues to focus on scaling its business for growth, especially pickup trucks and commercial vehicles. In Europe, our operations delivered an EBIT margin of 3% despite a 9% decline in volumes. The underlying trajectory of our business continues to improve. However, the adverse impact of the near-term supply chain disruption is dampening our overall results. Importantly, we continue to be the No. 1 commercial vehicle brand in Europe. The transit has an extremely healthy order bank, and we recently launched the all-electric E-Transit in Turkey. FORDLiive continues to grow, helping our commercial customers improve vehicle uptime and, ultimately, their bottom line. And finally, Mustang Mach-E is now being sold online in most major markets. Europe is building momentum toward a fully electric future, expecting to reach 600,000 vehicles by the end of 2026. In China, we posted a moderate loss in the quarter. However, our cost performance improved on both a year over year and sequential basis. Lincoln continues to be a bright spot and profit pillar for the region. Market share improved 20 basis points year over year, and the all-new Zephyr is off to a fast start. In the first quarter, China also continued to make progress toward our electrification strategy. We opened 10 more customer experience centers, now 35 in total, and made other investments to modernize our direct-to-consumer network. Our international markets group performed well in the first quarter, continuing to be solidly profitable despite supply constraints and suspension of our joint venture operations in Russia. The upcoming launch of the next-generation Ranger remains on track. And in March, we unveiled the next-generation Ranger Raptor and Everest. And finally, in mobility, we continue to make steady progress toward scale commercialization of moving people and moving goods. In the first quarter, we divested our investments in both TransLoc and Spin, further rationalizing our portfolio with a focus on autonomous development. And now, I'll share with you our current thinking about the remainder of 2022. For the full year, our guidance is unchanged. We expect to earn between $11.5 billion and $12.5 billion in adjusted EBIT, which is up 15% to 25% from 2021, with adjusted free cash flow of $5.5 billion to $6.5 billion. This reflects year-over-year growth in wholesales of 10% to 15% and assumes that semiconductor availability will improve in the second half, including the constraints that adversely impacted our full-size pickups and large utilities in North America in Q1. We also assumed in our guidance that disruptions in the supply chain and local vehicle manufacturing operations resulting from the renewed COVID-related health concerns and lockdowns in China do not further deteriorate our supply chains. Now, relative to adjusted EBIT. On a year-over-year basis, our range assumes significantly higher profits in North America and collective profitability outside of North America. We also expect Ford credit EBT to be strong but lower than 2021, and mobility and corporate other EBIT to be roughly flat. Other assumptions factored into our guidance include, first, we have a very strong order bank, as Jim mentioned, for our new iconic products such as Bronco, Bronco Sport, Maverick, along with a robust EV lineup Mustang Mach-E, E-Transit, F-150 Lightning now in production as well. Second, pent-up demand beyond our order bank, a continued strong pricing environment, including the benefit of pricing actions taken in the first quarter and improved mix. The interplay role between volume and pricing will remain dynamic. And third, we expect commodity headwinds of about $4 billion, which we expect to offset by improvements in net pricing and mix. Fourth, we anticipate other inflationary pressures to continue impacting a broad range of costs. We are aggressively looking at all opportunities to offset this reality, including aggressively ramping up our efforts on additional cost reductions. And fifth, at Ford credit, we expect auction values to remain strong as supply constraints persist. However, as I mentioned, we anticipate strong but lower EBT, reflecting primarily the nonrecurrence of reserve release, fewer return off-lease vehicles and more normalized credit losses. Our results in the quarter, our balance-of-year outlook and commitment to our medium-term targets demonstrate the power of our Ford+ plan as we continue to invest aggressively to drive growth and value creation. This includes devoting resources to customer-facing technology, connectivity, our always on relationships with customers and electrification. We are confident the long-term payback from these investments will be substantial. So that wraps up our prepared remarks. We'll use the balance of the time to hear your questions and address what's on your mind. And so thank you. Operator, please open the line for questions. 