
OperatorGreetings and welcome to the Huntington Bancshares First Quarter Earnings Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mark Muth, Director of Investor Relations.Mark Muth -- Director of Investor Relations

 



Thanks, Gerald. Welcome. I'm Mark Muth, Director of Investor Relations for Huntington. Copies of the slides we'll be reviewing can be found on the Investor Relations section of our website www.huntington.com. This call is being recorded and will be available as a rebroadcast starting about one hour from the close of the call. Our presenters today are Steve Steinour, Chairman, President, and CEO; and Zach Wasserman, Chief Financial Officer. Rich Pohle, Chief Credit Officer, will join us for the Q&A session.As noted on Slide 2, today's discussion including the Q&A period will contain forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on information and assumptions available at this time and subject to changes, risks, and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially. We assume no obligation to update such statements. For a complete discussion of risks and uncertainties, please refer to this slide and the material filed with the SEC including our most recent Form 10-K and 8-K filings.Let me now turn it over to Steve.Steve Steinour -- Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer

 



Thanks, Mark. Good morning, everyone. Slide 3 provides an overview of Huntington's strategy to build the leading people-first digitally powered bank in the nation. We continued to execute against this strategic vision and are pleased with the progress to-date. We see significant opportunities ahead of us as we position our businesses for the recovery at hand.Over the past year we updated our multi-year strategic plan with a focus on driving long-term revenue growth, continuing to build our brand based on best-in-class products, and increasing our industry leading customer satisfaction across our businesses. We also announced the planned acquisition of TCF Financial, which will provide us powerful opportunities to grow revenue, expand our market presence, and provide scale to our businesses while increasing our investments in digital and other areas. This combination will increase our capacity to invest and we will become more efficient with the significant expected expense take-outs. We accelerated our digital investments as part of our strategic vision and are encouraged by the digital adoption trends. Due to the investments we've already made, for the first time over half of new customer deposit accounts were originated digitally in the last quarter. The double-digit growth in active digital and mobile engagement is similarly encouraging.As we look ahead, we are optimistic about a strong economic recovery. Unemployment has decreased significantly across our footprint. We are again hearing a crescendo of commentary from our customers regarding labor constraints and wage inflation. Consumer confidence has meaningfully improved while average consumers are less leveraged and more liquid. Our debit card trends have consistently posted double-digit year-over-year growth rates over the past several quarters. Consumer spending and service industries is expected to broadly accelerate this year as demand returns. Consumer loan production also continues to be strong. On the commercial side, sentiment is encouraging. Our pipelines are up across the board increasing our confidence and recovery in commercial loan demand later this year. While supply chain constraints such as the semiconductor shortages will likely challenge some manufacturers in the near term, progress of a recovery and visibility into growing customer orders are causing outlooks to strengthen.Let me also share some high level remarks on our first quarter results, which provided a strong start to the year and included solid core performance with our momentum going. Commercial loan originations were in line with expectations. However, overall growth was constrained by both forgiveness of PPP loans and continued headwinds in dealer floor plan and commercial line utilization, both of which are temporary challenges. Residential mortgage, auto, and RV marine produced seasonally strong originations in face of tight inventory. Growth in consumer loan balances was obscured by unprecedented levels of paydowns following the two recent rounds of stimulus. Deposit growth continues to consistently exceed expectations.

 



Finally on Slide 4, I'd like to give an update on the pending TCF acquisition. We believe the timing could not be better as the strengthening recovery dovetails with the growth and scale opportunities presented by this combination. We continue to make good progress toward our anticipated closing late in the second quarter and to complete the majority of system conversions late in the third quarter. In March, Huntington and TCF shareholders approved the transaction and our integration plan is on track. We completed the selection of key management and anticipate receiving the outstanding regulatory approvals, including the required branch divestitures in the coming weeks. We've begun major components of the cost reduction plan, including the closure of 44 Meijer branches later this quarter.Now, let me turn it over to Zach for more detail on our financial performance.Zach Wasserman -- Senior Executive Vice President & Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Steve, and good morning, everyone. Slide 5 provides the financial highlights for the first quarter.Reported earnings per common share of $0.48, return on average assets was 1.76%, and return on average tangible common equity was 23.7%. Bottom line results were augmented by two notable items. The first was a $144 million mark-to-market benefit on our interest rate caps driven by the steepening yield curve and increased market volatility. The second was a $125 million or 7% reserve release resulting from the improving economic outlook and credit metrics. Partially offsetting these were $21 million of TCF acquisition related expenses, which are broken out as a significant item in the earnings release with granularity provided on table 8.Now, let's turn to Slide 6 to review our results in more detail. We continue to be pleased with our sustained growth of pre-tax pre-provision earnings, which increased 15% year-over-year in the first quarter.Total revenue increased 19% versus the year-ago quarter. Net interest income grew 23% driven by solid underlying loan growth and a 34 basis point increase in NIM, which were positively impacted by the substantial mark-to-market gain that I mentioned in our interest rate cap derivatives and the $44 million of accelerated PPP loan fee accretion. Fee income growth of 9% was aided by a record first quarter for mortgage banking income as salable mortgage originations set its own record with 89% year-over-year growth and secondary marketing spreads remained elevated. Similarly, our wealth and investment management businesses experienced its best quarter ever with respect to net asset flows and also benefited from positive equity market performance over the prior 12 months. Cards and payments continued to post strong consistent growth. Deposit service charges remained below the year-ago level as elevated consumer deposit account balances continued to moderate the recovery of this line.Total expenses were higher by $141 million or 22% from the year-ago quarter. 3 percentage points of this growth can be attributed to the approximately $21 million of significant items related to the TCF acquisition. There were also approximately $45 million of expenses in the quarter or approximately 7 percentage points of growth resulting from the pull forward of these three expenses that otherwise would have been incurred in the future. The first of which was a $25 million contribution to The Columbus Foundation. Second, we moved our annual long-term incentive grants to March from the historical timing of May. Third, we retimed some expense related to our colleagues health savings accounts, which would otherwise have been incurred in the balance of 2021. These two compensation related items together totaled approximately $20 million. The remaining approximately 11.5% underlying expense growth rate was driven primarily by the accelerated investment in strategic growth initiatives, which we have been communicating for the past several quarters.Turning to Slide 7. FTE net interest income increased 23% as earning asset growth was coupled with year-over-year NIM expansion. On a linked quarter basis, net interest margin increased 54 basis points to 3.48%. As shown in the reconciliation on the right side of the slide, the linked quarter increase primarily reflected the 49 basis point net change in the interest rate caps. As we've discussed previously, we're taking actions on both sides of the balance sheet to offset the inherent margin pressure caused by the prolonged low interest rate environment, managing the underlying core net interest margin near current levels.Given the significant impact on NIM on the interest rate caps, Slide 8 provides additional information on this aspect of our comprehensive hedging strategy. As we disclosed in December, we purchased $5 billion of interest rate caps with an average tenure of seven years to reduce the impact on capital from rising rates. This hedging action performed very well this quarter. In March, we subsequently sold $3 billion of new interest rate caps at a higher strike price to create a collar-like position. This is expected to dampen further mark-to-market impacts and recover approximately half of the premium paid on the initial caps while maintaining the majority of the capital protection from the position.Turning to Slide 9; average earning assets increased $12 billion or 12% compared to the year-ago quarter driven by the $6 billion of PPP loans and the $5 billion increase in deposits at the Fed. Average commercial and industrial loans increased 11% from the year-ago quarter primarily reflecting the PPP loans. On a linked quarter basis, C&I loans decreased 1% primarily reflecting the forgiveness of PPP loans and a decline in dealer floor plan utilization. As we indicated at the RBC Conference in March, commercial loan pipelines remain up significantly from a year-ago and we're seeing that manifest in new commercial loan production. Residential mortgage, RV, and marine; all posted year-over-year growth in new production. Average consumer loan balances declined sequentially as stimulus related paydowns more than offset strong new production in the quarter.On a linked quarter basis, average earning asset growth primarily reflected the $2 billion or 9% increase in average securities as we executed our previous announced plans to deploy excess liquidity through the purchase of securities during the quarter.Turning to Slide 10, we will review deposit growth and funding. Average core deposits increased 20% year-over-year and 4% sequentially driven by increased consumer liquidity levels related to the downturn, consumer growth largely related to stimulus, increased account production, and reduced attrition.Slide 11 provides an update on PPP forgiveness and expectations for the current program. In total, Huntington approved $6.6 billion of PPP loans in the original program and has approved an additional $1.8 billion of loans in the current program. In light of the recent congressional extension of the program and our current application activity, we now anticipate the total amount for the current round to reach approximately $2 billion. We continue to expect approximately 85% of those balances from the original program and the new program ultimately to be forgiven. Through the end of March, $2.4 billion of loans from the original tranche have been forgiven and we anticipate approximately $2.3 billion to be forgiven during the second quarter. For the current program, we expect the majority of the forgiveness to occur this year, particularly in the second half of the year.Slide 12 illustrates the continued strength of our capital and liquidity ratios. The tangible common equity ratio or TCE ended the quarter at 7.11%, down 5 basis points sequentially. The common equity Tier 1 ratio or CET1 ended the quarter at 10.33%, up 33 basis points from the last quarter. The CET1 ratio was modestly above our 9% to 10% operating guideline and we feel it's prudent to maintain strong capital levels going into the TCF acquisition. It also positions as well to execute on our growth initiatives and investment opportunities going forward. As we have previously communicated, we paused share repurchases until we have substantially completed the TCF acquisition and integration.Slide 13 provides our allowance for credit losses. The first quarter included a $125 million reserve release, primarily from consumer while the quarter-end ACL represents 2.17% of loans and 2.33% loans excluding PPP. We believe this is a prudent level to address remaining economic uncertainty while reflecting the improved overall credit metrics and economic outlook.Slide 14 provides a snapshot of key credit quality metrics for the quarter. Our overall credit performance continued to strengthen. Net charge-offs represented an annualized 32 basis points of average loans and leases, slightly below the low end of our average through the cycle target range of 35 basis points to 55 basis points. Our criticized asset and NPA ratios were both relatively stable. As always, we have provided additional granularity by portfolio in the analyst package in the slides. I want to spend a minute on our ongoing investments and progress on digital engagement and origination.Looking at Slide 15, we continue to invest in a focused set of strategic initiatives to drive revenue acceleration and competitive differentiation. In addition to a variety of digital and product investments, we are adding personnel in core revenue generating roles to support strategic growth in our capital markets, specialty banking, small business administration, and vehicle finance businesses. We have also increased marketing spend back to pre-pandemic levels and to promote new launches related to Fair Play banking.Slide 16 illustrate several key digital engagement and origination trends showing some of the benefits of our ongoing tech investments. On the left side of the slide, you can see continued growth in monthly digital engagement and usage levels in consumer and business banking. The digital origination trends on the right side of the slide are particularly encouraging as they show strong customer uptake of the new consumer business digital origination capabilities we introduced over the course of last year. We are executing robust technology roadmaps across our business lines that will drive sustainable revenue momentum via improved customer acquisition, retention, and deepening.Finally, Slide 17 provides our updated expectations for the full-year 2021 on a Huntington stand-alone basis. We now expect full-year average loan growth of 1% to 3%, down slightly from prior expectations as a result of the elevated level of paydowns and a delayed recovery of commercial and vehicle floor plan line utilization. These expectations reflect flat to modestly higher commercial loans inclusive of PPP and low single-digit growth in consumer loans. Excluding PPP, we would expect to see low single-digit growth in both. For deposits, we now expect full-year average balance growth of 9% to 11%, higher than previous expectations given the stronger than anticipated deposit inflows in the first quarter and the overall elevated levels of core deposits, which we expect to persist for several more quarters. We are also adjusting our expectations for full-year total revenue growth higher to a range of 3.5%. We expect net interest income growth to be in the mid-single digits while non-interest income is expected to be modestly lower for the full year. Full-year growth expectations for non-interest expense are now between 7% and 9%.On a non-GAAP basis, excluding $21 million of significant items I discussed previously, we expect non-interest expense to increase between 6% and 8%. This increase relative to our prior expectations is driven by the foundation donation in the first quarter and increases in compensation expenses related to the higher revenue expectation for the year. The large majority of the underlying expense growth continues to be driven by investments in our strategic growth initiatives as we've discussed previously. While expense growth is expected to outstrip revenue growth over the near term, our commitment to positive operating leverage remains over the long term. Our expectation and plan is to bring the expense growth rate back to more normalized levels during the second half of 2021.Finally, credit remains fundamentally sound. We now expect full-year 2021 net charge-offs to be between 30 basis points to 40 basis points reflecting improving economic conditions and stable charge-offs in both commercial and consumer portfolios. Further reserve releases remain dependent on the economic recovery and related credit performance. As a reminder, all expectations are stand-alone for Huntington and do not include consideration made for the pending acquisition of TCF.Now, let me turn it back to Mark so we can get to your questions.`Mark Muth -- Director of Investor RelationsThank you, Zach. Gerald, we'll now take questions. We ask that as a courtesy to your peers, each person ask only one question and one related follow-up. And then if that person has additional questions, he or she can add themselves back into the queue. Thank you.