  OperatorGood morning. My name is Carol, and I'll be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the CarMax fiscal 2021 fourth quarter and year-end earnings conference call. [Operator Instructions]. I would now like to turn the call over to Stacy Frole, vice president, investor relations.Stacy Frole -- Vice President, Investor Relations Good morning. Thank you for joining our fiscal 2021 fourth-quarter and year-end earnings conference call. I'm here today with Bill Nash, our president and CEO; Enrique Mayor-Mora, our senior vice president and CFO; and Jon Daniels, our senior vice president, CAF Operations. Let me remind you, our statements today regarding the company's future business plans, prospects, and financial performance are forward-looking statements we make pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current knowledge and assumptions about future events that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations. In providing projections and other forward-looking statements, the company disclaims any intent or obligation to update them. For additional information on important factors that could affect these expectations, please see the company's Form 8-K issued this morning and its annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 29, 2020, filed with the SEC. Should you have any follow-up questions after the call, please feel free to contact our Investor Relations department at 804-747-0422, extension 7865.Lastly, let me thank you in advance for asking only one question and getting back in the queue for more follow-ups. Bill? Bill Nash -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Stacy. Good morning, everyone, and thanks for joining us. We have a lot of exciting news to cover today. Our comments will focus on material fourth quarter and fiscal 2021 performance insights, updates on our digital enhancements, and of course, the Edmunds acquisition, which we announced this morning. Then we will open it up for your questions. For the quarter, total retail used unit sales were down less than 1% from last year's record sales, and used unit comps were down 2.3% when compared with the same period a year ago. It's worth spending a moment on the events driving our results for the fourth quarter. As we discussed on our last call, entering the quarter, retail sales were pressured due to a surge in COVID-19 cases, which tightened occupancy restrictions and shelter-in-place orders. Sales began to accelerate toward the end of December and into January. By the beginning of February, we were trending toward mid-single-digit comp growth for the quarter, excluding the impact of a Leap Day in the prior year. However, starting in the middle of February, retail sales were affected by the severe winter weather across a large portion of the U.S., closing more than 65 stores in one day. Sales were also impacted by delays in tax refunds relative to last year's timing and a lower inventory position due to COVID and weather-related production constraints. On a two-year stack, total retail used unit sales for the fourth quarter of FY '21 were up 13.8% and used unit comps were up 8.7%. March sales were robust when compared with both COVID impacted March last year, and a record March in 2019. During the month, the initial distribution of tax refund and stimulus checks began, the weather improved and customers continued to respond favorably to our ongoing digital enhancements and other strategic initiatives. In addition, the underlying metrics we track including website visits, online progression, and activity at our Customer Experience Centers or CECs, indicate continued healthy demand for used vehicles as we head into April. Full-year market share data indicates that our share of zero to 10-year-old vehicles in our current comp market fell from approximately 4.7% in 2019 to 4.3% in calendar 2020. We had strong momentum entering the year and we're gaining significant market share up until the start of the pandemic when 95% of the country was under shelter-in-place orders and approximately half of our locations were closed or under limited operations. As markets reopened and our omnichannel experience was launched nationwide, we began gaining market share again. During the last five months of 2020, we saw market share gains and we expect those gains to accelerate in 2021. Atlanta, where we have been in operation since 1995 and our most mature omnichannel market, continues to outperform the company, maintaining its market share in 2020, despite pressure from COVID. During the last five months of the calendar year, our market share in Atlanta increased 13.8%. Over the past two years since we first introduced our omnichannel experience, our market share in Atlanta has increased 10.9%. Retail gross profit per used unit for the fourth quarter was $2,086 compared with $2,195 last year. This GPU is consistent with our expectations and commentary on the last quarter's call. It reflects the impact of the expanded pricing and marketing tests we rolled out in select markets in combination with our national multimedia marketing campaign and the improvements to our omnichannel experience. Early results for these tests were positive, so we expanded to more markets in the quarter. We're going to continue with testing while also monitoring macro factors. We expect to maintain attractive margins above $2,000 in the first quarter. Enrique will provide additional details around the profitability flow through on different aspects of our business that are contributing to the success of these tests in just a moment. Our wholesale business delivered another good quarter when you consider the impact of one less auction day compared with the same period last year. For the fourth quarter, wholesale volume was down 1.2%. Wholesale gross profit per unit was comparable to the prior year at $990 per unit. We estimate the one less Auction day in this quarter impacted the number of wholesale units sold by several percentage points. Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Enrique, to provide more information on our fourth-quarter financial performance, and then to Jon, who will provide additional detail around customer financing. Enrique?Enrique Mayor-Mora -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Bill, and good morning, everyone. For the quarter, other gross profit decreased by $4 million or 3.2%. This decrease was due to a $14 million reduction in service profits, driven largely by our previously announced year-end Thank You bonus for 22,000 full and part-time associates across the company. Many of whom work in our reconditioning and service functions, bonuses related to production glitches, and company support pay related to COVID. Partially offsetting this was favorability in EPP and third-party finance fees. EPP grew $2.6 million year over year for the quarter, driven by a favorable reserve adjustment and an increase in profit sharing revenues. This was partially offset by lower sales volume and a slightly lower penetration rate in the quarter. Third-party finance fees improved by $7.7 million in the quarter, primarily due to the renegotiated fees with our partners, which Jon will talk about shortly. For SG&A, expenses for the fourth quarter increased 14.7% or approximately $71 million to $556 million. SG&A per unit was 2,713 a year-over-year deleverage of $368 per unit on the quarter. The increase in SG&A was primarily driven by an increase in stock-based compensation of $33 million or a deleverage of $160 per unit; an increase in advertising expense of $23 million or a deleverage of $115 per unit, which was in line with our previously communicated expectations as we focused on heavier support for our next brand campaign, and continued spending to advance our technology platforms and strategic initiatives. Our approach to SG&A and costs heading into next year remains consistent. We will continue to invest in our business at this inflection point in our industry, specifically in marketing and in our strategic initiatives. Regarding marketing, as we head into the next fiscal year, we expect our spending to remain elevated with similar per unit trends experienced in the second half of fiscal 2021. Our advertising spend will continue to focus on clearly differentiating our brand and demonstrating the benefits of our omnichannel experience, in addition to ROI-based digital investments that are delivering strong results. Included within this spend is an increased focus on vehicle acquisition. We believe we are well-positioned to aggressively grab market share through the promotion of our omnichannel experience and new product offerings such as Love Your Car Guarantee. We also remain focused on ensuring we are appropriately managing our spending, targeting specific areas of opportunity. This includes our CECs, which are maturing and becoming more efficient and effective through automation, data-driven algorithms, and smart routing, with the goal of ensuring customers get the right support. This past year, our CECs were more efficient than the prior year and we expect this trend will accelerate in FY '22. Regarding our SG&A leverage point in FY '22, we would expect to require a 5% to 8% comp on a two-year stack basis in FY '22 to lever in FY '22. As previously communicated in periods of investment like we are in now, we'll need to be at the higher end of the range to the lever. This two-year comp approach is reflective of the impacts of lapping over COVID and due to the continued investments in the business we made this past year. Now, I'd like to take a moment to provide an update on the financial aspects of the pricing tests we ran in the fourth quarter. As Bill mentioned, we like what we have seen so far. While these tests confirm what we have historically seen regarding price elasticity, several factors have changed, resulting in a stronger flow through from the increased sales and thereby resulting in greater profitability. These factors include higher profitability levels of our CAF originations, our lower variable cost structure as we continue to leverage our centralized CECs and the favorable changes to our third-party lender fee structure. As mentioned earlier, we will continue to perform pricing tests in the first quarter while also monitoring macro factors. Our goal remains to maximize both unit sales and long-term profitability. Our unique and diversified business model still generated a significant amount of cash this past year, despite a challenging environment. From a capital allocation perspective, this positions us well to reinvest in the growth of our core business, fund new growth opportunities such as our announced acquisition of Edmunds, and return capital back to our shareholders. Regarding Edmunds, we expect to pay for the transaction with a combination of cash and equity. We anticipate this transaction will close in June and expect their financials to have an immaterial impact on CarMax's EPS in fiscal year '22. We are confident this transaction will provide significant shareholder value creation over the longer term. We continued executing our share repurchase program, and during the fourth quarter, we repurchased approximately 700,000 shares for $66 million. We currently have $1.34 billion of authorizations remaining, and we are committed to returning capital back to our shareholders. For capital expenditures, we anticipate approximately $350 million in FY '22. As we've pivoted our business to be more technology-driven, the profile of our capex has followed suit. Approximately one-third of our capital spend in FY '22 will be focused on investments in technology, up from about 15% just four years ago. In FY '22, we plan to open 10 new locations with the first grand opening expected later this month. As was the case with our more recent openings these locations are predominantly cross-functional stores and have a smaller footprint and can leverage our scale and the presence of other locations in nearby markets. Our national footprint and nationwide logistics network, continue to be a competitive advantage for CarMax and we remain committed to an appropriate level of investment in these differentiated assets. We are confident that the foundational investments we are making in our omnichannel experience, our proprietary tech stack, and our highly recognizable and trusted band -- brand set us up for accelerated market share gains in 2021. Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Jon.Jon Daniels -- Senior Vice President, CAF Operations Thanks, Enrique, and good morning, everyone. CarMax Auto Finance and our lending partners, once again, delivered solid results. For the fourth quarter, CAF's penetration net of three-day payoffs was 43.5% compared with 43% a year ago. Tier 2 was up slightly to 21% of used unit sales compared with 20.5% last year. Tier 3 accounted for 9.5% compared with 10% a year ago. This distribution across the credit tiers is primarily reflective of the credit mix of applicants observed in the fourth quarter. Year over year, CAF's net loans originated were comparable to the prior-year quarter at $1.8 billion. The weighted average contract rate charged to new customers was 8.5%, up from 7.9% a year ago and down slightly from 8.6% in the third quarter. Similar to the third quarter, this year-over-year difference in APR is attributed to the mix of CAF customers seen within the Tier 1 space rather than an increase in the rate charged to these customers. Regarding the portfolio, the overall interest margin increased to 6.4% versus 5.8% in the same period last year as we continue to realize significant benefit from lower funding costs. Our most recent securitization in January closed with a near-record spread between the APR we charge to customers and the rate we pay to fund the receivables. Our ABS investors continue to recognize the consistency and performance of the CarMax origination channel, and we appreciate their support. CAF income was up 68% to $188 million in the quarter, reflecting a reduced loss provision plus an increase in interest margin. The provision for loan losses was $5 million resulting in an ending reserve balance of $411 million for the fourth quarter. The total reserve is 2.97% of managed receivables, which is lower than the 3.17% at the end of the third quarter. Our reserve as a percentage of managed receivables has trended downward over the past three quarters as our customers have exhibited a willingness to make payments even in these continued challenging times. We believe our current reserve is adequate and considers both the positive payment behavior recently observed as well as the future uncertainty of the macro environment. I would also like to provide an update on the arrangements we have with our third-party lenders that Enrique referenced earlier. Our agreements with our partners have resulted in CarMax historically receiving a $300 participation fee for each of the agreed-upon finance contracts purchased within the Tier 2 space. Within the more subprime Tier 3 space, where CAF keeps approximately 5% of the volume, CarMax has historically offered lending partners, a $1,000 discount for providing financing to a customer that we believe would otherwise not be able to purchase a vehicle from CarMax. At the beginning of the fourth quarter, this Tier 2 participation fee increased to $400 and our Tier 3 discount was reduced to $750. If this structure had been in place for the entirety of FY '21 and penetration rates remain the same, it would have resulted in annual savings of approximately $30 million or $40 on a per-unit basis. With regard to future changes in Tier 2 and Tier 3 space, as of March 2021, CAF has begun to methodically increase its percent of Tier 3 volume beyond the 5% level, and we anticipate reaching and maintaining a 10% share in Tier 3 by May 31 of this year. CarMax will continue to evaluate the lending environment and will consider future adjustments if and when we believe those changes are sustainable and in the best interest of our long-term business goals. Bill?Bill Nash -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Jon. Thank you, Enrique. Our 2021 fiscal year was one of the most challenging operating environments we've ever faced, but due to our ability to act quickly in rapidly changing circumstances, we delivered new customer experiences and continue to innovate while remaining financially strong. That financial strength has enabled us to continue to aggressively invest in our core business and pursue new growth opportunities. Some highlights from this year that will have a lasting impact are as follows; the completion of the national rollout of our omnichannel experience, giving us a common platform across all of CarMax that leverages our scale, nationwide footprint, and infrastructure; the move of all wholesale auctions into a virtual environment; the national expansion of our new online instant appraisal offering on carmax.com and edmunds.com, strengthening our leadership as the largest buyer and positioning us to become the largest online buyer of used autos from consumers; and finally, the introduction of the Love Your Car Guarantee, an industry-leading signature customer experience. All of these were possible because of our exceptional associates. They came together to take care of each other and our customers, while also innovating for the future. Customer response to our omnichannel offering is strong and we're continuing to work to further improve and enhance the digital customer experience at every step of the sale. One critical advantage of our omnichannel model is the ability for the customer to choose how they progress their experience. As previously discussed, the initial rollout of our omnichannel platform enabled customers to buy vehicles online. The parts of the transaction may have required assistance from our CECs. In the fourth quarter, we made significant progress enabling self-service for all components of the sale. Exiting the quarter, approximately 25% of our customers were eligible to buy vehicles online independently if they chose, up significantly from the third quarter. We expect most of our customers to have this ability by the end of the second quarter. Additionally, in Q4, about three-quarters of our customers advanced their transactions digitally with approximately 5% buying the vehicle online. We consider an online purchase to be when all major activity leading up to the purchase is performed independent of our stores. We expect our online sales will grow robustly as we continue to enhance our marketing and digital capabilities. As a reminder, we will be hosting a virtual Analyst Day on May 6, where we will take a deeper dive into our online capabilities and our technology and data advantages. At that time, we will also discuss new metrics around online orders and how they are fulfilled as well as providing insight on our longer-term outlook and expectations. Now, I'll take a moment to highlight some recent enhancements we have made to the customer experience. First is our online instant appraisal offer, which allows us to quickly give customers an offer on their vehicle. This offering was first introduced and tested on edmunds.com in June. In February, we completed the national rollout of this offering on carmax.com. Early response has been strong with online buys quickly exceeding our expectations, providing us with a clear pathway to become the largest online buyer of used autos from consumers. At the end of the fourth quarter, we launched the ability for customers to get penny-perfect transactable financing offers in our online checkout process. With these enhancements, customers can apply and accept finance offers without needing the assistance of an associate to submit a credit application over the phone or in the store. We are rapidly expanding this feature to our overall customer base in the first quarter. We know our customer-centric approach is a differentiator for CarMax, and we will never stop innovating on behalf of our customers. In January, we introduced our new industry-leading signature customer experience Love Your Car Guarantee. This gives customers the ability to take 24-hour test drives before committing to purchase and extends our seven-day money-back guarantee to a 30-day money-back guarantee, which is unmatched in the automotive industry. It's too early to identify trends, but preliminary results show these offerings are highly valued by our customers. As we continue enhancing our online experience and offerings, it's important to educate our customers on our omnichannel experience to differentiate and elevate the CarMax brand and our position in this evolving marketplace. In the fourth quarter, we introduced the next phase of our national multimedia marketing campaign that began last year to increase awareness of our core omnichannel capabilities which was highly successful. We set records every week for web visits since being introduced, reaching more than 8 million weekly visits by the end of February. After the campaign launch, web traffic and Google query volumes were both up over 25% versus the prior months. We want to continue this momentum and ensure customers understand that CarMax offers the ultimate flexibility to shop and buy on their terms, their way. Accordingly, as Enrique mentioned earlier, we are planning on increasing our spending in both awareness and acquisition marketing in FY '22. We will continue to evolve our business as an omnichannel retailer by innovating at an accelerated pace, leveraging our scale across technology, data, talent, and physical assets to unlock opportunities to compete across the used auto ecosystem. This is where we're excited to announce that we've signed a definitive agreement to acquire Edmunds, one of the most influential and popular automotive research sites in the world. Over the past years, our teams have had the opportunity to collaborate with Edmunds on a number of strategic initiatives including our instant online appraisal offer and leveraging its proprietary content on carmax.com. We've been extremely impressed with this technology, content, and online experience, as well as its talented tech and creative teams. We believe we can both unlock additional value by working together to streamline the user experience across the entire car buying and selling journey in addition to identifying other digitally focused opportunities. One thing that has become clear is that we share the commitment to delivering the highest quality online experience to our customers and dealers. Edmunds is a widely recognized and deeply trusted brand. It will continue to operate its core business independently and will remain focused on delivering confidence to consumers and excellent value to its dealer and OEM clients. We are confident this transaction will drive shareholder value as we are able to leverage our combined size, scale, and extensive industry expertise for the benefit of both businesses. To sum up, we are very proud of our performance during this difficult year. We're even more excited about how our continued investments and our existing business and in Edmunds are positioning us to be further differentiated and even more competitive. We expect a robust top line, bottom line, and market share growth for the upcoming year that is a result of not only lapping COVID but demonstrating the impact of the investments we've made and the experiences we are providing. At this point, we will be happy to take your questions. Carol? 