
Tim Stacey -- Group Chief Executive OfficerGood morning, everyone, and welcome to the DFS Financial Year '21 Results Presentation. I am Tim Stacey, the Group CEO and I'm here with Mike Schmidt, our Group CFO. We're pleased to present a record set of results in a challenging operating environment, representing another year of progress on our strategic agenda to lead sofa retailing in the digital age.Now, our presentation today will cover three areas. Firstly, I'll begin with a brief summary of our progress in the year. Secondly, Mike will deliver the financial overview. And finally, I'll present my strategic update before finishing with a Q&A.So, I'm pleased to report a record set of results in terms of revenue, profits and cash flow, reflecting a very strong bounce back from FY'20's COVID impacted performance. We've delivered another year of progress on our strategy to lead sofa retailing in the digital age with gross sales via our online channels increasing by over 184% compared with the year earlier to over GBP400 million. Now, the strength of our online performance remains a key driver behind that 2 percentage point market share growth over the year as a whole.

 



While showrooms were closed for around 21 weeks in the financial year, consistent surges in demand, as we emerge from government lockdowns, highlight just how much customers appreciate our integrated retail offer. We strongly believe that the combination of a digital and the physical channels is the right long-term approach to address consumers within the sofa market. Beyond our core upholstered furniture market, we're successfully accelerating our push into the beds and living room furniture markets targeting a GBP5 billion TAM opportunity.In terms of current trading, demand for our products remains strong with better-than-expected order intake so far this financial year. That said, we are clearly facing a challenging operating environment and I'll come on to talk about that in a moment. Reflecting this financial performance and our outlook, we're also resuming distributions to shareholders with a proposed final dividend of GBP0.075. Now, these results are only possible due to the supreme efforts of our colleagues, and I want to take this opportunity to thank them all for their incredible support during this year, and also thank customers, in particular, and other stakeholders for their patience and loyalty due to the external challenges that we faced.Now, just taking a step back, I wanted to give you a sense of the current market environment. In broad terms, we're seeing a very resilient demand, which continues to outstrip an unpredictable supply environment. Market demand has been stronger and more sustained than we expected with consumer spending still focused on the home and underpinned by better-than-expected consumer confidence and a resilient housing market. In addition, our Group continues to outperform the market, achieving at least a 2 percentage points incremental market share growth from we believe the successful execution of our strategy.Now, on the supply side, as I'm sure you're all aware, companies around the world have been struggling to cope with the strength of the recovery, having scaled back their operations during the peak of the pandemic. Now, for us, this is resulting in a range of challenges from input cost inflation, manufacturing and logistics bottlenecks, as well as continued COVID disruption to supply chains around the world. That said, we are leveraging our structural advantages to mitigate these challenges. And these include leveraging both our scale and our experience of mitigating cost inflation wherever possible. We've also secured additional manufacturing capacity, which will come on stream at the half two.

 



And finally, we're investing in our own logistics platform and key suppliers to increase our delivery capacity. In overall terms, this means that we are working hard to meet these high levels of customer orders, while managing the greater demands on our colleagues and our infrastructure.So what does this environment mean for our Group? Well, we believe that the Group remains very well positioned due to the fundamental attractions that we set out in detail at our recent interim results. As today's record results show, with our market leadership, our integrated retail business model, a sustainable approach to business, supported by a favorable homeware market, we're unlocking and delivering sustainable growth. This growth comes on several fronts, market share growth in our core sofa business, enhancing existing scale economies that generates healthy cash flow to fund future investment. And we believe the significant medium-term opportunity in the GBP5 billion non-sofa home market. And there is future opportunities to leverage our asset base.Looking ahead, it's been over two and a half years since we set out our strategy to lead sofa retailing in the digital age. And we are well on the way to delivering the GBP40 million profit uplift by FY'23 that we identified back in 2018. We're pleased with the performance and resilience of our integrated retail business model, particularly during the last 18 months, which has placed exceptional demands on our infrastructure, but also underlined the importance of the combined showroom offer and digital presence. We're pleased with the performance to date of the Sofology acquisition, which is integrating well with our Group platforms.And as we get closer to FY'23, our strategy is set to evolve from the current 3x3 digital age model to a new model, unlocking new growth from our evolving pillars and platforms strategy. Now, we've been building our platforms for the past few years, and these will underpin the retail brands of DFS, Sofology and our emerging home business. Leveraging our scale and the platforms of technology and data, logistics and operations, and our worldwide manufacturing and sourcing capabilities will enable us to accelerate our drive for sustainable growth. We've also integrated our ESG strategy, it's everything we do. And it is our intention to lead the industry in this space.

 



So, I'll now pass over to Mike, who will present the financial overview.Mike Schmidt -- Group Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Tim. I'll begin with some overall context on the year that we've had. So we've delivered an unprecedented revenue performance. Looking back comparing against the 2019 financial year pre-pandemic, we've seen growth of 9.7%. And so, this has been achieved both through order intake, but also the benefits of a higher order bank beginning the year. Notably, though, despite seeing up to 21 weeks closures for many of our showrooms, order intake across the year has actually been well above the revenues that we've delivered in the period. And this trend has continued into the first 12 weeks of this financial year. Our strength of trading has meant that our order bank has grown significantly. And it creates resilient foundation for our positive outlook for the current financial year as we'll come on to.As with many retailers, we have significant operating leverage within our model and the drop-through of the additional revenues has driven strong profit growth with underlying profit before tax reaching GBP105.8 million. And with these strong profits and order intake has come good cash flow, reducing our bank debt to near zero and our leverage to 0.2 times. Even excluding temporary working capital benefits, we still believe our leverage is well within our target debt range. And with the return of lower leverage and the greater certainty on trading environment, we felt comfortable restarting our dividends with a final payment of GBP0.075. We published very recently our revised dividend policy, I think that was back in March time, and as a reminder, this highlighted that we would look to pay out as ordinary dividends 40% to 50% of underlying cash generation with an intention to hold or grow these payments over time in line with the earnings growth and the prospects of the business.So diving into the results in a bit more detail. Looking at gross margins by brand, both DFS and Sofology have held or grown retail gross margins in each channel despite cost price inflation pressure. For Sofology, this performance is immediately visible on the chart with margins now up to levels broadly consistent with the DFS retail brand. It's very much helped by the scale and the Group relationships we hold on sourcing. For the DFS brand, there are two mix effects going on in the reported numbers shown on the graph that I feel distort our true performance. Firstly, as expected, we saw the percentage mix of margin accretive internal manufacturing decrease. And then, furthermore, the strong web performance by DFS in the year, particularly through the second half during the lockdown periods has also depressed the margin through a sales channel mix effect. We do see a lower margin in the web channel, albeit given the cost-to-serve is lower and the overall profitability of a digital transaction is similar to in-store, we remain broadly channel agnostic.And if I look at the margin earned by the separate channel. For in-store transactions and the digital transactions, we have helped the DFS margins by channel, offsetting the cost inflation that we have seen. And looking forward, we have seen some significant cost price inflation across all our finished goods products in the 5% to 15% range. But we do believe that we're better positioned than most in the industry to manage these effects, given our scale and the fact that we can monitor trends across both two retail brands, but also our own internal manufacturing. We are mitigating these cost inflation trends through range optimization. However, we're also able to look at passing these costs on while maintaining the same cash profit per transaction. We do expect that the pass-through of some cost price increases will slightly depress retail reported margins in the 2022 financial year probably by up to 100 basis points. However, the cash margin per transaction will be unchanged.Okay. So now, moving on to our operating cost base. We have seen a step-up in underlying operating costs of approximately GBP10 million, which, for context, is around a 2% increase in our operating cost base. This is a combination of some investment in our digital capabilities, some higher costs to support higher volumes, but also COVID-linked costs such as sick pay, PPE and the increased cleaning. Notwithstanding the increase in absolute operating costs, it is important to note that operating cost margin is coming down by 3.5 percentage points, which drives our PBT margin and which we believe is a trend we will sustain into the 2022 financial year, with absolute operating cost growing, but costs as a percentage of sales reducing slightly.So turning to cash generation, we have seen a significant reduction in our net bank debt. There's two key factors behind this. Firstly, the significant operating profit and then secondly, a total of GBP85 million of working capital inflow, which is largely underpinned by an increase in customer deposits, and also an increase in trade payables. We do recognize and expect that around GBP70 million of this working capital inflow will likely reverse as our lead times normalize across the future financial periods.In terms of other movements, alongside our expected cash capital expenditure, we took advantage of an exceptional opportunity to acquire the freehold of one of our store leases. This was actually a top 10 trading location for the Group and the situation where our legally binding future rental payments over the next nine years were actually greater than the acquisition price that we paid for the property. The initial yield on the GBP12.7 million acquisition cost is 13%. And this yield will actually grow into the future as we avoid a fixed rental uplift that was in the lease contract. Clearly, a very attractive opportunistic situation that we took advantage of, but actually not one that we expect to be repeatable. We also made progress on our financing structure in the year, introducing an ESG-linked pricing element based on existing external targets into our RCF agreement, which gives us a beneficial interest cost as we make progress against our stated ambitions in our ESG plan.Finally, I think a big picture reflection that I really felt was worth drawing out in this slide. Our free cash generation across financial year 2021, excluding the exceptional working capital release was GBP68.7 million. And that actually would have been even higher excluding the store lease acquisition. Notably, that is a 9.8% yield based on the market capitalization as it stood at the start of this week. This business has outstanding cash generation that we believe we can use to drive value for shareholders either through reinvestment or through capital return.So, a core part of our approach to good cash generation is disciplined capital investment, where we are constantly measuring and testing the returns and we're adjusting our approach on the investments that we're making. We will only deploy significant capital if it's essential maintenance spend or if we've got the clear evidence to support strong future returns. That being said, we do believe we've got some excellent investment opportunities available that strengthen our competitive position and drive future profits. Our cash capital expenditure spend last year was GBP36.5 million, excluding the lease acquisition. And we see a slightly lower level of cash spend around GBP35 million or so this year. We do also expect to sign up to around GBP10 million of leased assets, principally this is the replacement cycle in our vehicle fleet where we saw some deliveries of vehicles deferred from the prior year.Our logistics activities utilize around a third of our annual overall spend, split broadly 50-50 between maintenance and new capabilities. We secured some great recent efficiency on our leased vehicle maintenance spend through switching to operational rotors through the Sofa Delivery Company, which increased the working hours of our final mile vehicle fleet by over 40%. And in terms of new capabilities, in addition to significant space growth, we are adding a consolidation center to allow us to trial ranges from new suppliers that otherwise would struggle to efficiently distribute products through our network. It will also give us a stockholding capability, one that we're already using to trial offering short lead-time products and to sell our sofa in a box proposition.Our showrooms account for another third of the spend overall. Half of that showroom spend is on fitting out new locations where we expect to get within two year cash on cash payback, the remainder is on maintenance and on optimizing the current footprint formats, bringing in new home product categories and introducing strong branded base.Finally, in terms of the areas of our spend, we remain committed to continuing to invest in our technology, which accounts for a third -- a final third of our spend and it is an important part of our growth strategy. Tim is going to come on and talk about the power of our online presence. But it is something we're really excited about. We're also investing heavily in the efficiency of our platforms with plans for an upgraded warehouse management system and the middle mile logistics system, which will be combined with a stronger customer data platform. And we do also have some significant interesting new innovation spend well underway to create differentiated customer proposition in our category, but we won't be saying more on that quite at this stage.So, turning to our current trading and our view on the 2022 financial year. The strong customer demand, which has been evident together with the 2 percentage points market share gain that we experienced through the pandemic has very much continued into the current financial year. This has actually driven order intake well ahead of the previous expectations we shared. And therefore, we have uplifted our previous case -- our previous order intake guidance in the medium case from 7% to 15% with performance over the first 12 weeks having been well above that level overall. It does also mean that our order bank stands at a record high as demand has outstripped our capacity to produce. We're making progress in increasing capacity with existing third-party suppliers. And as Tim will talk about, we will shortly start delivering products from additional new suppliers. However, in the year-to-date, production has once again been impacted by COVID absences and well-publicized disruption in logistics. This does mean that our revenue performance will likely be half two weighted as more supply capacity comes on board through the year.We have also been experiencing material cost inflation in parts of our business. And we expect to incur cost of goods inflation and higher operating costs including logistics across the remainder of the year. While we believe that we can protect absolute operating profits through range optimization, we do expect that average order values will be higher than previously expected, while our expected cash profit per transaction is unchanged. This means that the three scenarios for the current financial year that we previously shared back in June have been updated. The increased average order values that we are expecting feed through to higher revenues. However, profit before tax in each scenario remains in line with previous guidance. And while we are pleased with the order intake that has been above expectations, it has delivered revenues that really will drive our profits and the global disruption that we have seen in logistics has prevented above expectations performance on deliveries to date. Of course, the uplift in order intake in each scenario offers a positive sign for the closing order bank in 2022 financial year. And the resilience that we may hold going to the 2023 financial year.And finally, I think recognizing that the 2021 and 2022 financial years are being distorted by the buoyant consumer market and strong order intake, I'm going to conclude with some thoughts about the sustainable financial model that we expect to operate with from 2023 onwards. And to try and give a simple to digest view, we'll compare our thoughts on the drivers back to a pre-pandemic normal operating environment, which is financial year 2019 when we had approximately GBP969 million of pro forma revenues and approximately a 5% profit before tax margin.On revenues, in our core upholstery category, I think we already see evidence of two percentage points of market share gain, which when combined with the AOV increases equates to over 10% of sustainable increase in like-for-like sales from 2019 levels through to 2023. So that's an additional GBP100 million or so of revenues.By 2023, we will also have added 20 new showrooms as well, which should also give up to around GBP100 million of additional revenues as well. And so, looking at that in aggregate, we think, therefore, a realistic revenue base in 2023 could be over GBP1.15 billion with growth from there coming from continuation of above market growth rates, driven by structural advantages, and also growth from our new beds and living room accessories categories. Of course, if we still have an elevated order bank entering the year to convert or if we see additional market growth, then we may find revenues are higher than this level suggested. But we do believe that we already have evidence for the sustainability of that GBP1.15 billion level.So moving on to profit before tax. Looking at that line, we've previously shared our 7 percentage point plus PBT margin target, we believe that this should be deliverable in 2023 underpinned by the cost efficiencies our strategy has driven, but also from the increased revenues that we've touched on, combined with our operating leverage. And, of course, on cash generation and capital structure, we believe that we're already within our target leverage range and we believe that over 75% of profit before tax will be converted to cash, which will underpin our ordinary dividend policy and will also likely give a choice on how we may deploy remaining cash generation to drive value for our shareholders.Finally, we do focus on return on capital employed, and we believe that we'll be achieving return on capital employed at our targeted high-teens levels. So while we're, of course, truly pleased by our 2021 results, and positive about our 2022 progress, it is actually the sustainable financial performance that we see for the future for 2023 and beyond that is particularly exciting as well.So, I'll now hand back to Tim to talk about the operational and strategic performance that is driving the financials.Tim Stacey -- Group Chief Executive OfficerWell, thanks, Mike. I will now provide an update on our strategy. So you're hopefully all familiar by now with our 3x3 strategy matrix. And our strategies remained broadly unchanged since early 2019 and is focused on three core pillars: drive the DFS core business; build the platforms; and unlock new growth. I'm pleased to report that we've remained focused on the execution of our strategy despite the challenges of the pandemic. And indeed post lockdown one, in the U.K., we accelerated execution on a number of fronts. We continue to target a GBP40 million incremental profit before tax benefit from this range of initiatives, and I'll highlight our progress on the next slide.So this slide highlights how we're progressing toward our GBP40 million target. And we now estimate that we have achieved a net GBP33 million benefit -- incremental benefit to date, compared to around the GBP20 million that we reported at the interim stage. Particular highlights include the strength of the DFS brand performance overall driven by our integrated retail offer. The efficiency benefit of our marketing transformation program, which has been driven by our data platform we've built and a greater shift toward digital marketing has improved the returns on marketing investment.And finally, the progress we're making as we unlock new growth from Sofology's geographical expansion. Our targeted GBP3 million plus logistics savings from the development of the Sofa Delivery Company remain on track and are expected to be achieved from the end of FY'22 onwards.Now, we'll take a more detailed look at progress on our three core strategic pillars, starting with drive the DFS core business. Now, the DFS brand is the largest and most profitable in the Group and the key priority for this pillar is to drive growth across all channels. Our DFS brand delivered strong growth in revenue and profits in the period relative to both the previous year and the pre-pandemic FY'19 financial year. We've extended our market leadership in the period and we estimate a 2 percentage point market share gain for the year as a whole. Now, we believe that this market share gain reflects the strength of our integrated retail proposition and the successful investments we've made in recent years, which have proved their worth, particularly during the pandemic.In relation to our seamless customer journey, we've delivered on a range of initiatives, including faster page load speeds for our websites, improved imaging, the rollout of shared customer baskets, which enables the integration from website to showroom channels.Turning to our product portfolio, we've continued to innovate in the year, launching attractive new ranges that combine design appeal with a greater focus on sustainability, such as our grand designs collection pictured here, featuring fully recycled or recyclable materials.And finally, we are constantly refining and improving the DFS showroom proposition. And we took advantage of the showroom closures in lockdown three to refurbish 14 showrooms into our latest format. The new format features more sofa base and improved customer experience, which has driven average order values and conversion. We are planning to refurbish 16 more showrooms in financial year '22.Now, when we talk about leading sofa retailing in the digital age, the DFS brand is very much leading the way. Now, over the years we've built a truly integrated retail business model and we believe, for the upholstery category, it's the combination of physical and digital channels that is the winning business model. Highlighting our strength in the digital channels, it's worth repeating that DFS is the number one search term on Google in the sofa category, well ahead of both sofa and sofas. Our marketing transformation and investment in digital marketing means that DFS has a far greater share than all of our shared competitors on -- from a visitor point of view, it's around 40% of all visitor traffic.Our historical investment and innovation in our websites, means that we have a greater market share online than we do off-line. We do continue, though, to see our showrooms as critical to our offer, given the nature of our product and the sit test that we've talked about before that customers enjoy, the brand experience that we can bring to people with our inspirational living room settings. So continued investment and innovation in our website is driving conversion and AOV and it means DFS websites over the years have delivered a CAGR of around 20%. This online strength supported the DFS business during the lockdowns and resulted in a record year of over GBP350 million of the revenue in FY'21, up 184% year-on-year.Moving on to build the platforms is our second strategic pillar. So this pillar focus on capturing Groupwide benefits from leveraging existing infrastructure, systems, processes and data. In financial year '21, our focus was on achieving cost savings and efficiency targets across our showroom estate, our property costs. It's also about driving a range of marketing efficiency improvements and continuing our plans to develop the best two-person sofa delivery company in the U.K.With regard to property cost savings, we've achieved a further GBP1.3 million of annualized savings in financial year '21. This takes the cumulative savings since the start of this project to GBP5.6 million and we remain on track to achieve, as a minimum, the GBP6 million to GBP8 million annual savings targeted by FY'23. And recent lease regears are still running at over 30% saving. We also expect to achieve further significant savings in the medium-term, as leases expire beyond FY'23.Turning to logistics, we're progressing well with our objective of building a leading Groupwide supply chain platform known as the Sofa Delivery Company. Now, following the completion of our colleague consultation process, and the creation of an independent subsidiary, the Sofa Delivery Company now offers Groupwide extended hours delivery to customers seven days a week, which is increasingly important given our revenue growth and also customers' busy lifestyles. We're also completing the rollout of our new branding and vehicle delivery across our CDCs, our plans are on track. And as we work toward achieving annualized savings of GBP3 million, which will come into place by the end of financial year '22.Finally, our ongoing marketing transformation program continues to move ahead at pace. Now, we're using data and insights to increase the return on investment of our marketing spend and extending that best practice across the Group in order to support the development of our Sofology brand. Following a review of the DFS retail brand activities, we've also appointed a new communications agency to help support and drive the next phase of our DFS brand marketing. In overall terms, we've now achieved around GBP8 million of net cumulative marketing efficiencies, and we're confident in our ability to drive further returns as we increase our mix of investment toward digital marketing.Our third strategic pillar is to unlock new growth by driving incremental revenue and profit, particularly at our Sofology brand and our emerging home business. Now, following a pause in new store openings in financial year '20, as we appraise the property market conditions around the pandemic, we've opened five new Sofology showrooms in FY'21 on favorable lease terms. We plan to open another eight showrooms in the current financial year. We've already opened five of these so far. We continue to invest in the brand and in retaining a clear differentiation versus the DFS retail brand. Sofology's latest advertising sees Helena Bonham Carter encouraging customers to bring imagination to life in the way that they make their homes, and it's been incredibly successful.In terms of product, building on Sofology's reputation for style and sustainability, launch highlights this year, include the Pioneer eco sofa in the first half, which features zero foam, a 100% recycled springs, sustainably sourced timber and fabric made from recycled yarns plus a 20-year guarantee. We've also recently launched a uniquely stylish capsule range designed by the singer, songwriter, Paloma Faith. We remain very positive on the potential of Sofology and see the opportunity to grow the brand to 65 to 70 showrooms in the medium-term from the current at the end of the financial year 50, as I stand here today 55. We're targeting annual revenues of over GBP300 million and a pre-tax profit margin of between 6% and 7%.Now, within the interim results, we set out a clear medium-term opportunity to extend into the beds and living room furniture market where we have less than a 2% share in a total addressable market of about GBP5 billion. Now, we're focused initially on the online bed market, leveraging our existing strengths in our DFS digital channels, our supplier relationships to create unique products, and our existing manufacturing partners who already manufacture upholstered bed frames. With new partners such as Silentnight, we're also testing in-store space in DFS to grow our share in the medium-term. And this is an image of our beds proposition in the DFS showroom at Leeds, Birstall. We remain very positive on the beds opportunity and have been investing in our infrastructure to support the next stage of growth.We've now fully integrated Dwell into the DFS platforms and are leveraging Dwell supplier relationships and infrastructure to expand the Group's offering into the adjacent living room product areas, such as coffee tables, lighting and accessories. During the year, we also replatformed the Dwell stand-alone website utilizing the DFS technology stack. And we've recently switched to free delivery for Dwell. Both of these things are driving incremental conversion and profitability.So, just stepping back to give you a bit more color on what's happening in the end-to-end supply chain given the well-documented global challenges that many businesses are facing. Now, we're setting out here from our perspective, the key market factors that are impacting our industry, the structural advantages that we have to tackle these challenges and the actions that we have already taken or are taking right now to ensure delivery of performance and also delivery to customers.Now, there are several sources of marketwide disruption well-documented, raw material shortages and price volatility, and increased shipping costs from the Far East, but also in the U.K., driver shortage in the U.K., and limitations on worldwide manufacturing capacity given the higher-than-average global demand. But we believe our Group has a number of structural advantages that leave us better placed than our competitors in order to tackle these external challenges and specifically, our economies of scale, due to the U.K. market share of being around 3 times our nearest competitor, gives us an ability to negotiate with suppliers. We've got long-established relationships with our key supplier partners around the world and we're working in partnership with them. Our own vertical integration in the U.K., both in terms of our own manufacturing and our own logistics is also a key factor, especially with the current U.K. driver shortages. We also have a wealth of experience in maintaining our gross margins across a range of macroeconomic environments, such as when the Brexit vote happened we had a weaker pound.On the right-hand side of this chart is listing some specific actions that we've already taken in the last few months to preserve our competitive advantage and also ensure delivery of performance. As I've said, we've been working closely with existing but also new exclusive suppliers to meet our higher order intake and have recently signed exclusive contracts with the largest furniture manufacturer in the world, and we'll bring them in as a key new supplier delivering products from half two. We're investing in our logistics teams with a view to having some of the best working practices in the industry. And finally, we're pulling a range of pricing and product optimization levers in order to manage our gross margins.Look, in conclusion, it's clear that the external challenges are going to remain for the rest of the financial year and probably beyond. But we think we are relatively well-placed to outperform the market despite the disruption in the supply chain, and we are very focused on delivering for our customers and facing into these challenges head-on.Now, our ESG strategy only officially launched a year ago, but as you can see from this slide, we've made good progress on a number of fronts. Our environmental highlights in the year include our progress on our Phase 1 sustainable leather and textile sourcing targets and the introduction of targets for other materials and chemical products. We hosted our first ESG Supplier Conference in March, which set out our intent to work collaboratively with our suppliers to innovate and develop new ways of making our products and our business even more sustainable and transparent. In June, we also completed our formal materiality assessment in order to identify and prioritize all of the Group's sustainability risks and opportunities.Our Phase 2 ESG targets include an increased focus on social criteria and incorporate our work on diversity and inclusion. We've been listening, learning and educating ourselves around the different races, genders, abilities, sexual orientations, disabilities, religions and nationalities, with the aim of being a Group where everyone is welcome. We've also strengthened our main Board credentials with the appointment of a diversity and equality expert, Loraine Martins. And governance is an area where the Group has traditionally performed well, but we continue to strengthen our processes, and we've just established a Responsible and Sustainable Business Committee to ensure Board oversight at the execution of our ESG strategy. We've also embedded both environmental and social elements into management remuneration targets across the Group.Looking further out, on the right-hand side of this slide, you can see the commitments that we've made in relation to a number of key environmental targets. As I mentioned earlier, we are committed to building the leading sustainable business model in this industry.So, in summary, we have delivered record revenue, profits and cash flow and increased our market share by over 2%, driven by our scale and our integrated retail model. We've delivered another year of progress on our digital strategy, and we are well on our way to achieving the GBP40 million incremental profit target we set out back in 2018. We've created a sustainable base for further growth in market share, for further growth in cash flow to fund our investments and to accelerate into the GBP5 billion TAM non-sofa home market. We're examining new opportunities to leverage our asset base. With this target in sight, we're evolving our strategy toward the pillars and platforms model, and we'll look forward to sharing more details with you in the spring of 2022.I'd like to end by thanking, again, our colleagues, our customers and our wider stakeholders for their support during this incredibly challenging sort of last 18 months. As a Group, I feel fundamentally that we emerged from the pandemic stronger than ever.Thank you very much for listening today. And I'd now like to open up for questions.Okay. Thank you. I've got Hollie here to facilitate some questions. So, over to you, Hollie.