  OperatorGood morning. My name is Regina, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Wells Fargo second-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] Please note that today's call is being recorded. I would now like to turn the call over to John Campbell, director of investor relations. Sir, you may begin the conference.John Campbell -- Director of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Regina. Good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining our call today where our CEO, Charlie Scharf; and our CFO, Mike Santomassimo, will discuss second-quarter results and answer your questions. This call is being recorded. Before we get started, I would like to remind you that our second-quarter earnings materials, including the release, financial supplement, and presentation deck, are available on our website at wellsfargo.com. I'd also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today's call that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings including the Form 8-K filed today containing our earnings materials. Information about any non-GAAP financial measures referenced, including a reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures, can also be found in our SEC filings and the earnings materials available on our website.I will now turn the call over to Charlie. Charlie Scharf -- Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thanks, John. Good morning. I'll make some brief comments about our second-quarter results, the operating environment and update you on our priorities. I'll then turn the call over to Mike to review second-quarter results in more detail. Let me start with the second quarter. We earned $6 billion or $1.38 per common share in the second quarter. These results included $1.6 billion decrease in the allowance for credit losses as credit quality continued to outperform our expectations. Charge-offs continue to decline as the economy continues to improve and our customers continue to have high levels of liquidity. Revenue increased compared with the first quarter. While net interest income was stable, we had sizable gains from equity securities, and card and deposit-related fees increased, reflecting increased spending. Expenses declined, reflecting a decline in personnel expense, which is typically highest in the first quarter, and progress on our efficiency initiatives. If you look through the reserve release and outsized gains from equity securities, we are pleased that our results continue to show progress even though high levels of liquidity, weakness in supply chains, and low-interest rates remained as headwinds. Economic growth was robust in the second quarter, with real GDP estimated to have increased at an 8% annual rate with especially strong gains in consumer spending. We continued to see supply chain shortages impacting both supply and prices across many sectors. Home prices are estimated to have increased at a 24% annual rate as scarcity of properties for sale persisted and half of the unit sales exceeded the asking price. Used car prices continued to increase due to ongoing supply constraints with the second-quarter Manheim Index increasing 17% from first-quarter '21 and 45% from a year ago.

 



 However, prices may have peaked in May after four consecutive months of record highs with June's Manheim Index finishing 1.3% lower than May. For Wells Fargo consumer customers, nearly $50 billion of federal stimulus payments from rounds two and three have been deposited into our customers' accounts, and we estimate roughly 25% remained in their accounts as of July 2. For our customers who received stimulus payments, their median deposit balance was up 56% compared to April 2020, which is prior to the first round of federal stimulus payments. And for all of our customers, including customers who did not receive stimulus payments, median balances were up 49% over that same time period. Weekly debit card spend was up every week compared to 2019 during the second quarter. And the areas hardest hit by the pandemic have recovered, including travel, up 11%; entertainment, up 38%; and restaurant spending, up 28% during the week ending June 25 compared with 2019. Consumer credit card spending activity continued to increase, up 13% in the second quarter compared to 2019. As of the week ended June 25, travel-related spending, which was the hardest hit during the pandemic, was up significantly from 2020 but was the only category that has not fully rebounded to 2019 levels. Our Commercial Banking clients have also continued to have high levels of cash on hand and accommodative capital markets and supply chain disruptions to a continued decline in Commercial Banking loans outstanding, albeit at a slower pace than the last few quarters. Now that we're halfway through the year, let me update you on the progress we've made in the areas I highlighted at the beginning of the year. I've spoken at every call about our most important initiative, making progress on risk and control. Wells Fargo's top priority continues to be building the right foundation for a company of our size and complexity. When done, this should meet our regulatory requirements, and we remain committed to devoting the resources necessary to operate with strong business practices and controls, maintain the highest levels of integrity and have appropriate control and appropriate culture in place. The amount of customer remediation and control-related issues that existed when I arrived was many multiples of what should exist at our company. I've spoken of what we put in place to address these issues. And by most metrics, we are making significant progress. Regarding our work on consent orders and other regulatory requirements, the work remaining is significant, and as such, this remains a multi-year journey for us. While what's required for each is clear, there are numerous complexities with managing this amount of work concurrently, and it will take time to consistently accomplish all at the level we and our regulators expect. As such, we may have setbacks and progress will not be a straight line. However, I remain confident in our ability to complete the work. Building a strong management team was another key priority. When I first joined Wells, our objective was to ensure we have the talent necessary to close our risk and control gaps. During the first half of my tenure, around 60% of senior-level hires were in these functions and many more across the company directed their efforts toward these activities. This remains our most important priority today. We will continue to add resources here, but we're also adding significant resources to improve our competitiveness and provide the foundation for higher levels of performance. During the second half of my tenure, while we've continued to hire senior leaders in risk and control areas, we've been increasing our hiring in areas that will grow our business with over 70% of our senior-level hires focused on this objective. This includes significant hires in data platform and analytics, strategy, digital, and our technology groups. We're focused on the cloud, payments, fintech competition, tech companies, and our own data and digital capabilities. Hires include a digital platform leader for all of our consumer businesses, a head of digital for commercial banking and the CIB, head of strategy and innovation for consumer and small business banking, head of our commercial auto group, head of consumer banking national business development and a new head of payment strategies for the entire company. We're also adding bankers in the CIB and Commercial Bank where we see growth opportunities. We also just announced last week that we've hired Bei Ling as the new head of human resources. She will be joining us in October. And providing clear business focus and strategic direction has been important, as well as we allocate our resources. We will not do anything to jeopardize our control-related work, but we have also begun to execute on plans to build what's necessary to compete effectively in today's dynamic business environment. Our playbook was dated and it was time to provide direction and be more aggressive about building leading products, capabilities, and innovating. We've been focused on targeting our resources to what's most meaningful today for our customers by selling or closing businesses, and we're leveraging our breadth and scale to compete with banks and nonbanks alike by working to build new capabilities and work across the company to deliver all of Wells Fargo to our customer base. We're rebuilding core capabilities but are beginning to instill a mobile-first mindset as part of our broader technology and data-guided efforts. One example is our credit card business where we've been working on it since I arrived to build the foundation to compete more effectively. Being competitive here is both an opportunity to grow, but more importantly, is a strategic imperative as credit and payments are critical to maintain and build customer relationships, and we'll do this with both traditional card products and other ways over time. Our playbook is simple: build an experienced management team, update and relaunch product customers will make top of wallet, improve customer service, and leverage both our branches and strong digital capabilities to serve our customers. In the second quarter, we announced the first new product of several to come, an industry-leading cash back card, which is now just rolling out. We're also enhancing our deposit products. Our no overdraft product, Clear Access Banking, continued to perform well with over 825,000 accounts opened since the launch in the third quarter of last year. We also simplified and improved the benefits of our portfolio by Wells Fargo checking customers in the second quarter this year. These are just a few examples of how we're moving forward, but we have initiatives across all businesses, which we'll cover over time. And lastly, we've continued to take meaningful actions and are progressing toward better returns. As we highlighted at the beginning of the year, we see a path to get to double-digit ROTCE excluding credit loss reserve releases and then moving toward approximately 15%. We said that the path to double-digit ROTCE is dependent on capital optimization and executing on our efficiency initiatives. With CCAR complete and a return to the SCB framework, we're now in a position to return significant capital to shareholders. We expect to increase our third-quarter common stock dividend to $0.20 per share, subject to final board approval. Increasing our dividend is a priority, and our plan contemplates continued increases as we grow earnings capacity. Additionally, our capital plan included approximately $18 billion of gross common share repurchases starting in the third quarter and concluding in the second quarter of next year. This may change depending on a variety of factors, including our earnings and economic outlook. Mike will provide more context here. Importantly, we remain on target to accomplish the expense reductions contemplated in achieving the double-digit ROTCE level. Assuming no material changes in the economic environment or interest rates, we expect to achieve a sustainable 10% ROTCE, excluding reserve releases and other special items, both positive and negative on a run-rate basis during 2022. Beyond this, we continue to believe we can further improve our returns through a combination of factors: moderate balance sheet growth once the asset cap is lifted, a modest increase in interest rates or a further steepening of the curve, ongoing progress on incremental efficiency initiatives, a small impact from returns on growth-related investments in our businesses and continued execution on our risk, regulatory and control framework. The combination of these factors, we believe, would take our ROTCE to approximately 15% over time. And while we're focused on improving our execution and results, we know that supporting our customers and communities will continue to be an important part of our mission. The work we did through the pandemic was meaningful and necessary to help those most in need, especially consumers and small businesses, but there remains much more to do. We offered payment deferrals, waived fees, supported smaller and diverse small businesses through the Paycheck Protection Program. We committed to donate all gross processing fees from PPP loans funded in 2020 totaling approximately $420 million to help small businesses' recovery efforts and have completed funding of $234 million of our commitment. We expect to fund the rest by the end of the year. We are also voluntarily extending our foreclosure moratorium on mortgage loans we own through the end of this year, and we're pleased that the industry is contemplating similar foreclosure extensions. We issued our first sustainability bond, which will fund projects and programs that support housing affordability, socioeconomic opportunity, and renewable energy. We partnered with diverse firms in the offering of our $1 billion sustainability bond, with approximately 75% of the economics going to these firms, underscoring our commitment to supporting historically marginalized communities. We fulfilled the pledge that we made last year to commit $50 million to Black-owned banks and communities across the country with investments in two additional African-American minority deposit institutions during the second quarter. And we announced the Banking Inclusion Initiative, a 10-year commitment to help unbanked individuals gain access to affordable transaction accounts. This is a complex and long-standing issue that will require gathering the best minds, ideas, products, and educational resources from across our communities to bring about change and help remove barriers to financial inclusion. In summary, let me say that the outlook for the economy for the rest of the year is promising, assuming continued success against COVID. The restocking of inventories is expected to be substantial and the excess personal savings should provide a cushion for consumer spending. However, risks remain, interest rates have been volatile and the recent rally in rates is putting pressure on net interest income. We've made meaningful progress in our important priorities during the first half of the year, but this is just the start of a multi-year process to transform Wells Fargo. I want to thank everyone at Wells for their hard work and focus on supporting our customers. I'll now turn the call over to Mike.Mike Santomassimo -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Charlie, and good morning, everyone. Charlie highlighted many of the ways we're actively helping our customers and communities on Slide 2. So I'm going to start with our second-quarter financial results on Slide 3. Net income for the quarter was $6 billion or $1.38 per common share. As Charlie highlighted, our second-quarter results included a $1.6 billion decrease in the allowance for credit losses. Pretax, pre-provision profit grew from both a year ago and from the first quarter as we grew revenue and reduced expenses. We had $2.7 billion or approximately $2 billion after noncontrolling interests of pre-tax equity gains predominantly coming from our affiliated venture capital and private equity businesses. Approximately $2 billion was due to unrealized gains from follow-on financing rounds, reflecting significantly higher valuations in a number of portfolio companies. The remaining approximately $700 million was realized gains. Given the nature of these businesses, these gains tend to be episodic. However, since 2017, these businesses have generated annual gains in excess of $1 billion in every year except 2020, which was impacted by the pandemic. We completed the sale of student loans in the second quarter, which resulted in a $140 million gain and a $79 million write-down of related goodwill. Our effective income tax rate in the second quarter was 19.3%, which reflected accounting policy changes for certain tax-advantaged investments. We elected to make these changes to better align the financial statement presentation of the economic impact of these investments with the related tax credits. Prior period financial statement line items have been revised, which had a nominal impact on net income on an annual basis. The changes did improve our efficiency ratio and increased our effective income tax rate from what was previously reported. We provide details regarding these changes on Slide 16 in the appendix of this deck and on Page 30 of the quarterly supplement. Reflecting on these changes, we expect our effective income tax rate for the full year to be approximately 20%. Our CET1 ratio increased to 12.1% in the second quarter. This year's CCAR stress test confirmed the significant strength of our capital position. Based on the results, we expect our stress capital buffer to increase 60 basis points effective in the fourth quarter of this year. And as a reminder, our GSIB capital surcharge will decrease by 50 basis points effective in the first quarter of next year, which will bring our CET1 regulatory minimum to 9.1% in the first quarter of 2022. As Charlie highlighted, we plan to return a significant amount of capital to our shareholders starting in the third quarter and expect to move closer to our internal target of 100 basis points above the regulatory minimum over time. We also currently expect to maintain an incremental buffer of 25 to 50 basis points above our target to account for potential uncertainties and maintain flexibility. Under the SCB framework, we will have the flexibility to increase capital distributions, and it's possible we will be able to repurchase more than the $18 billion included in our capital plan over the four-quarter period depending on market conditions and other risk factors, including COVID-related risks. Turning to credit quality on Slide 5. Our net charge-off ratio in the second quarter declined 18 basis points. The improving economic environment with the reopening of the economy, government stimulus, and ample liquidity, as well as customer accommodations, have resulted in our credit losses continuing to trend significantly better than our expectations. Commercial credit performance continued to improve and loan charge-offs declined $69 million from the first quarter to seven basis points, our lowest loss rate since second quarter of 2018. The improvement was broad-based with declines in all commercial asset types, including net recoveries in commercial real estate. While the overall outlook for commercial real estate continued to improve, we remain focused on the areas most impacted by the pandemic. The reopening of the economy has continued to have a positive impact on retail and hotel as cash flow has improved. While losses and problem loans in office have been very low, we continue to monitor this sector as longer-term demand trends may be influenced by changes in hybrid work-from-home models. It's also important to note that even with the reserve release in the second quarter, our coverage ratio for commercial real estate loans was still higher than it was a year ago. Consumer net loan charge-offs declined from both the first quarter and a year ago to 32 basis points in the second quarter. Nonperforming assets declined $695 million or 8% from the first quarter driven by lower commercial nonaccruals. Declines in C&I nonaccruals were driven by improvements across a number of COVID-impacted sectors, including entertainment and recreation, energy, transportation services, and retail. Declines in commercial real estate were driven by improvements in office. A year ago, $37.2 billion of our consumer loan portfolio, excluding government-insured guaranteed loans, was in COVID-related payment deferral. Deferrals have declined 79% from a year ago to $7.8 billion at the end of the second quarter. We stopped offering non-real estate-related COVID deferrals in the fourth quarter of 2020 but continue to offer certain COVID-related deferrals in home lending for a maximum of 18 months. It's important to note that loans that have already exited COVID-related deferrals have continued to perform better than we anticipated, with approximately 94% of the balances current as of the end of the second quarter. We started to tighten our credit policies in March 2020 in response to the pandemic, and we have now essentially returned back to pre-COVID levels of policies. However, we continue to be thoughtful of the much higher asset prices in areas like residential real estate and auto. Due to the reserve release in the quarter, our allowance coverage ratio declined from both the first quarter and a year ago. Similar to the first quarter, while observed credit performance was strong, there was still significant uncertainty reflected in our allowance level at the end of the second quarter, and we'll continue to assess the level of our coverage. If current economic trends continue, we would expect to have additional reserve releases. On Slide 6, we highlight loans and deposits. Although average loans declined in the quarter, the rate of decline slowed with balances down $18.7 billion or 2% from the first quarter. The decline from the first quarter was almost entirely driven by lower residential real estate loans primarily due to continued high prepayments and the resecuritization of loans we purchased out of mortgage-backed securities last year. The total period-end loans were down 1% from the first quarter. And while it's hard to predict exactly what will happen during the second half of the year and while line utilization rates remain low, we are seeing signs of green shoots with modest growth in period-end balances compared to the first quarter in auto, other consumer, credit card and commercial real estate. Average deposits increased $49.1 billion or 4% from a year ago and 3% from the first quarter, with growth in our consumer businesses and commercial banking partially offset by continued declines in corporate and investment banking and corporate treasury, reflecting targeted actions to manage under the asset cap. Now turning to net interest income on Slide 7. Net interest income was stable from the first quarter as favorable hedge ineffectiveness accounting results, higher income due to additional forgiveness of Paycheck Protection Program or PPP loans, and one additional day in the quarter was offset by lower loan balances and the impact of lower interest rates. As we think about net interest income for the remainder of the year, the rate volatility observed over the last few weeks has shown how difficult it can be to forecast even for the next couple of quarters. The key drivers continue to be demand for loans and balance sheet yields, which are impacted by the level of rates, the shape of the curve, and credit spreads. While the recent rally in rates and continued softness in loan demand have put downward pressure on net interest income, we still expect NII for the full year to remain in the range of flat to down 4% from the originally reported and annualized fourth quarter 2020 level of $36.8 billion. Where in the range we end up will be dependent on the factors I mentioned. If rates follow the current forward curve and overall loan balances remain flat from the period-end balance at the end of the second quarter for the remainder of the year, which would require modest growth in commercial loans, we would expect net interest income to be in the lower end of the range. If we see rates back up from here and start to see more loan growth, we'll move up in the range. We continue to closely monitor the evolving trends across each of the major drivers of net interest income, and we'll provide updates to our outlook as the year progresses. Turning to expenses on Slide 8. Noninterest expense declined 8% from a year ago, primarily driven by lower operating losses and also reflected the progress we've made on our efficiency initiatives. Let me highlight a few examples. Our customers are increasingly leveraging our digital capabilities with mobile active customers up 6% from a year ago and the number of checks deposited using mobile growing 9% from a year ago. These changes and others have enabled us to adjust branch staffing, and you can see this coming through in lower headcount and expenses in the consumer banking and lending segment. Importantly, to date, we've been able to make these adjustments while improving client satisfaction. We reduced the number of our locations, including branches and offices by 5% since the start of the year, a reduction of over 2 million square feet. We also recently agreed to sell our tower in downtown Phoenix, which includes over 500,000 square feet. We continue to evaluate owned locations and locations with upcoming lease expirations for closure and consolidation opportunities. We reduced professional and outside services expense by 14% during the first half of this year compared to a year ago. This reduction was driven by lower spend on consultants and contractors on various projects across the company. In commercial banking, we've made progress on changing how we serve our customers, optimizing our operations and other back-office teams, and reducing the number of commercial banking lending platforms. These efforts were reflected in lower headcount expenses in the segment. We are on track in executing our efficiency plans included in our expense outlook of approximately $53 billion. Our outlook excluded restructuring charges and the cost of business exits, which totaled $192 million during the first half of this year and included $1 billion of operating losses, which totaled just over $500 million during the first half of the year. Keep in mind, operating losses can be lumpy and unpredictable and especially as we continue to address the significant work left to do to satisfy our regulatory requirements. We also assumed approximately $500 million of incremental revenue-related expenses, and these have been higher than expected so far this year due to strong equity markets, which is a good thing as the associated revenue more than offsets any increase in expenses. If current market levels hold, we would expect incremental revenue-related compensation to be approximately $1 billion, which could put us over $53 billion. We'll continue to update you as the year progresses. Turning to our business segments starting with consumer banking and lending on Slide 9. Consumer and small business banking revenue increased 7% from a year ago, primarily due to higher debit card transaction volume and higher deposit-related fees, which were lower in 2020 due to fee waivers provided at the onset of the pandemic. Home lending revenue increased 40% from a year ago driven by higher servicing income as last year we had a significant negative valuation adjustment to our mortgage servicing rights asset. We also had higher origination and sales revenue in the second quarter due to higher gains from the resecuritization of loans we purchased from mortgage-backed securities last year and an increase in retail originations. The 7% decline in revenue from the first quarter was primarily due to lower retail held-for-sale originations and gain-on-sale margins. Gain-on-sale margins are expected to continue to decline in the second half of the year. Credit card revenue increased 14% from a year ago driven by increased spending. Additionally, in response to the pandemic, second quarter of 2020 included higher customer accommodations and fee waivers. Auto revenue increased 7% from a year ago on higher loan balances. Now turning to some key business drivers on Slide 10. While we believe mortgage originations in the industry declined from the first quarter, our mortgage originations increased 3%. A decline in correspondent originations was more than offset by growth in retail, with an increase in retail held-for-investment volume partially offset by lower held-for-sale volume. Our second-quarter retail mortgage origination volume increased 10% from first quarter and was the highest since 2015. We currently expect third-quarter originations to decline modestly, although refinancing volumes can be stronger than currently forecasted with the recent rate rally if lower rates persist. We also expect our retail originations to decline less than the industry as we've improved capability to serve our customers' mortgage financing needs. Consumer demand for auto loans continue to be very strong despite higher prices and limited inventory. Auto originations increased 19% from the first quarter and 48% from a year ago, with June setting a new monthly record for originations exceeding our previous high set in June of 2016. Turning to debit card. Purchase volume increased 12% from the first quarter and 31% from a year ago, reflecting higher consumer spending due to stimulus payments and improving economic conditions. Credit card point-of-sale purchase volume was up 21% from the first quarter as the economy continued to open. And in May, we had our highest monthly spending volume in recent history. The increased activity has not yet translated into significantly higher balances as payment rates remain high. On Slide 11, the Commercial Banking results are highlighted. And it excludes the corporate trust business, which is now reported in corporate, and prior periods have been revised. Middle market banking revenue declined 9% from a year ago, primarily due to the impact of lower loan balances and lower interest rates, which were partially offset by higher deposit balances and deposit-related fees. Asset-based lending and leasing revenue declined 12% from a year ago driven by the impact of lower loan balances, which was partially offset by improved loan spreads, higher net gains on equity securities in our strategic capital business, and higher revenue from our renewable energy investments. Noninterest expense declined 9% from a year ago, primarily driven by lower salaries and consulting expense. Average loans declined for the fourth consecutive quarter and were down 22% from a year ago. The demand for loans declined due to low client inventory levels and strong client cash positions. While there are some green shoots in select industries, demand has not yet picked up. Average balances were up 5% from a year ago, reflecting significant liquidity from stimulus programs. Turning to corporate and investment banking on Slide 12. In banking, total revenue declined 6% from a year ago. The decrease was driven by lower debt capital markets revenue, the impact of lower interest rates and lower deposit balances predominantly due to actions taken to manage under the asset cap. Commercial real estate revenue grew 21% from a year ago driven by higher CMBS gain-on-sale margins and volumes. Commercial real estate capital markets transaction volume increased significantly from a year ago driven by low rates, tighter loan spreads, excess liquidity in the market, and stable improving real estate fundamentals. While acquisition activity picked up in the second quarter, loan demand was predominantly driven by refinance activity. Markets revenue declined 45% from a year ago from lower trading activity across most asset classes compared to the higher trading activity we experienced in the second quarter of 2020 as the markets recovered due to the monetary and fiscal stimulus in response to the pandemic. Our markets revenue has been negatively impacted by actions we've taken to manage under the asset cap as well. Noninterest expense declined 12% from a year ago primarily driven by lower operating losses. Average deposits declined 20% from a year ago primarily driven by continued actions we've taken to manage under the asset cap. On Slide 13, we have wealth and investment management, which grew revenue by 10% in the second quarter compared with a year ago. Noninterest income was up 18% from a year ago primarily driven by higher asset-based fees on higher market valuations, which was partially offset by lower net interest income driven by lower interest rates. Revenue-related compensation drove the increase in noninterest expense compared with a year ago. We ended the second quarter with record client assets of $2.1 trillion, up 20% from a year ago, reflecting strong market performance. Average deposits were up 6% from a year ago and average loans increased 5% from a year ago due to customer demand for securities-based lending offerings. Slide 14 highlights our corporate results. Revenue growth from a year ago and from the first quarter was driven by the equity gains from our affiliated venture capital and private equity businesses that I highlighted earlier in the call. Second-quarter results also benefited from the gain on the sale of student loans and a modest gain on the sale of our Canadian equipment finance business. We will now take your questions. 