
OperatorGood day and welcome to the Mondelez International Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. Today's call is scheduled to last about one hour, including remarks by Mondelez management and the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] I'd now like to turn the call over to Mr. Shep Dunlap, Vice President Investor Relations for Mondelez. Please go ahead, sir.Shep Dunlap -- Vice President of Investor RelationsGood afternoon and thanks for joining us. With me today, are Dirk Van de Put, our Chairman and CEO and Luca Zaramella, our CFO. Earlier today, we sent out our press release and presentation slides which are available on our website. During this call, we will make forward-looking statements about the Company's performance. These statements are based on how we see things today. Actual results may differ materially due to risks and uncertainties. Please refer to the cautionary statements of risk factors contained in our 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K filings for more details on our forward-looking statements.

 



As we discuss our results today, unless noted as reported, we'll be referencing our non-GAAP financial measures which adjusts for certain items included in our GAAP result. In addition, we provide our year-over-year growth on a constant currency basis, unless otherwise noted. We're also presenting revenue growth on a two year CAGR basis to provide better comparability, given the impact of COVID on 2020 results. You can find the comparable GAAP measures and GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations within our earnings release and at the back of the slide presentation. In today's call, Dirk will provide a business and strategy update, then Luca will take you through our financial results and outlook. We will close with Q&A.With that, I'll turn the call over to Dirk.Dirk Van De Put -- Chairman & Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Jeff. And thanks to everyone for joining the call today. Q3 marked another quarter of high quality top-line growth for our business. These result was marked by a continuation of the solid volume growth that we are used to, as well as higher contribution from pricing as we successfully executed pricing actions in multiple markets in light of the inflationary environments.

 



Demand for our categories remains very strong across both developed and emerging markets and within those categories, our market share remains higher than pre COVID as a result of strength in execution, activation and innovation. As you know, like the rest of the industry, we are currently operating in a very dynamic environment that poses multiple challenges. These include input cost inflation globally, as well as labor and truck shortages in markets like U.S. and the UK. We are taking the appropriate actions to navigate these, including further rounds of pricing and cost control. You will hear more on this in a moment from both myself and Luca later in the call. Despite the current operating environment, we remain focused on and confident in our long-term strategy of delivering accelerated growth through a virtuous, top-line driven cycle which requires continuous investment in our brands and our capabilities.Let me turn to Slide 5 and the consumer. During Q3, consumer confidence stabilized in general with a notable call-out of improved confidence in Western Europe, India and much of Latin America as consumers are now more optimistic about job prospects and personal finances in those geographies. Mobility continues to rise which provides a boost to gum and candy, as well as the travel retail channel but both are expected to remain below pre-COVID levels at least through 2022. Ongoing uncertainty is fueling the desire for comfort and indulgence which has been a consistent trend throughout COVID and of course this is benefiting trusted brand like ours. All of this means that our core categories are growing faster than they were pre-COVID and that our portfolio which skews toward in-home consumption is benefiting. Demand is strong in developed markets but especially so in emerging markets. Notwithstanding a few smaller markets like Vietnam which are suffering from continued COVID lockdowns. On top of all this, we have gained share during the COVID period. The elevated demand for our categories is contributing to price elasticity below historical levels. Consumers are willing to pay more for essentials or affordable treats as they spent less on eating and drinking outside the home.Let me spend a moment on the current operating environment on Slide 6. Like other companies, we are experiencing cost inflation globally, particularly on transportation cost and packaging which are most pronounced in U.S. Costs have moved higher in the second half of the year relative to the first half and we expect inflation to persist in 2022. There is also an element of volatility in the supply chain due to labor shortages at third-parties, combined with a significant gap between demand and supply of trucking capacity and containers in places like U.S. and the UK. In addition, there are energy shortages in China as demand has outstripped the supply of electricity in many areas. And as you might be aware, we also had a strike at three of our plants and three distribution centers in the U.S. The strike is now resolved but impacted our production output in the quarter.The good news is that the new contracts give us flexibility and unlock additional capacity to support our growth ambition. COVID-19 continues to cause disruption in certain geographies. This was felt most acutely in Q3 in Southeast Asia and resulted in a temporary closure of our factory in Vietnam, for example. Although challenging, we are managing through all these dynamics. We believe we are well equipped to continue to deliver against our objectives, given the strength of our brands, our continued investments, pricing as necessary and our focus on execution.

 



Turning to Slide 7, you can see that our strategy is continuing to drive a virtuous cycle. And the results support our ability to consistently deliver profitable, volume driven growth, pricing as needed and return of capital to our shareholders. We grew revenue by 5.5% in the quarter and 5%, sorry, 5.1% year-to-date, a lapping 3.9% growth in the first three quarters of 2020. Gross profit growth was impacted by cost inflation and supply chain volatility in Q3 but continues to be well over 4% year-to-date which we consider to be a very healthy indicator of our ability to deliver the high single-digit adjusted EPS growth that is part of our 2021 outlook and our long-term financial algorithm. Our year-to -- year-to-date working media investments have increased double-digit versus last year. And combined with our advantage portfolio of brands and our execution and activation capabilities, mean that on a two year cumulative basis, we are gaining or holding share across 75% of our revenue year-to-date. And in terms of cash generation and capital return, we increased our year-to-date free cash flow by approximately $400 million versus last year. And we returned $3.1 billion of capital to shareholders.Adding the Q3 revenue growth to our track record of performance since launching our strategy in late 2018, you can see on Slide 8 that we are now averaging a 4.1% quarterly growth rate. And we believe we can consistently grow in line or in excess of our long-term algorithm of 3% plus based on the long runway of growth opportunities we show on Slide 9. And the advantage to enablers, we have to realize them. These enablers include, for instance, increased brand investment, higher quality and purpose-led marketing and pricing when necessary. This quarter, we continued to make progress against our key growth drivers. These include continuing on our journey to grow Oreo by $1 billion by the end of 2023, with activations like Oreo Pokémon which became our fastest selling addition of all-time in the U.S., surpassing the previous records set by Game of Thrones and Lady Gaga Oreos. This also includes expanding our presence in key channels like digital commerce which grew 25% this quarter on a reported basis, lapping 80% of growth in the previous year.And also emerging markets where we continue to gain distribution in places like China and India with another 120,000 and 80,000 stores added this quarters. And finally, this includes increasing our exposures to high growth segments, where we are underrepresented. For example, well-being, where we announced breakthrough innovation this quarter on our largest brands with the Cadbury Plant Bar in the UK which is suitable for vegans and our Oreo Zero sugar in China which has the clear potential to expand to other geographies.Turning to Slide 10, let me update you on our sustainability journey. Climate change is a critical issue facing our planet and we must do our part to help. We also know that if we want to deliver consistent long-term growth and shareholder returns, we must be a sustainable snacking Company. For those reasons, we recently announced that we will take the necessary actions that we believe will allow us to achieve net-zero emissions by 2050. This is a major target that applies to all greenhouse gas emissions across scopes one, two and three. This target also sees us join the United Nation's race to zero campaign, as well as the science-based targets initiative business ambition for 1.5 degrees where we are strengthening our position from our previous commitment of well below two degrees. We plan to deliver net zero by focusing on the highest contributors to our carbon footprint. In our case, that our raw materials which contribute 71% of our emissions. We will amplify our existing programs like Tolko life and harmony wheat in Support of this. And we will focus on leveraging emerging low carbon technology at our owned operations.Alongside working toward net-zero emissions, we will continue to advance all other pillars of our ESG agenda, including sustainable ingredient sourcing, diversity, equity and inclusion and net-zero packaging. We are excited to continue our journey to build a sustainable snacking Company. With our proven strategy, our preferred brands, our executional excellence, our compounding investments and our enhanced ESG agenda, I'm confident that we are well-positioned to deliver strong performance for years to come.With that, I will hand over to Luca for more details on our financials.Luca Zaramella -- Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Dirk and good afternoon. Our third quarter performance was strong across the board. We delivered top-line trends, good operating profit dollar goal, including significant branding investment and excellent free cash flow. Revenue grew 5.5% underpinned by solid volume growth and pricing that we have been implementing to counter unprecedented cost inflation. Emerging markets continued with accelerated growth, displaying the resilience of our categories and strong execution. They grew more than 12% for the quarter and nearly 9% on a two year basis. Our emerging markets results include double-digit growth in Brazil, Mexico and India, as well as high single-digit growth in China, Russia and Africa. These markets are attractive growth engines for us. As consumer purchasing power continues to grow, as we feel, white spaces, as we pursue distribution expansion and that's consumers trade up.We continue to invest behind them in a big way. For the quarter developed markets growth remains solid at 2% with a two year average growth of 3%. Demand and consumption trends are robust in these markets. Albeit, supply chain restrictions limited our growth, specifically North America.Turning to Slide 13 and portfolio performance. Biscuits grew 2.7% and more than 5% on a two year average. Brazil, Russia and Mexico posted double-digit growth, while India and China grew mid-single-digits. Oreo continues to be a standout performer. Chocolate grew more than 11% with a two year average of more than 8%. India, Brazil and France grew double-digits. The UK grew high single-digits and Russia grew mid-single-digits. Cadbury, Milka and Lacta all delivered robust volume-led growth for the quarter. Gum and candy posted double-digit growth, resulting from a continued improvement in mobility.Moving to market share performance on Slide 14; we continue to see good share performance. On a two year community basis we have held or gained share in 75% of the business; these skits and chocolate heads or gain in 80% of our revenue base. Notable share gainers on a two year basis include the U.S., China, Russia and Brazil scaled and U.K., Australia, Russia and South Africa Chocolate. Gum and candy has shown gaining in 30% of our revenue base, primarily due to gum performance in China, Russia and France. Although still below pre-COVID level, this category continues to improve with mobility trends. Moving to page 15, Gross profit dollars grew 2% for the quarter, reflecting the acute impact of elevated inflation in commodities, as well as transportation and labor costs in North America. While all other regions still face some inflation, they all display GP dollars growth in line with our expectations.In the short-term, we have adopted our promo and trade deal spending to the elevated cost environment. But as we expect these dynamics to persist into 2022, we have also taken and announced price increases across a significant number of markets. Of note, we announced a new round of pricing last month in the U.S. which will go into effect at the start of next year. Although cost pressures are not as high as in the U.S. we also have a robust pricing agenda for other markets too. We have implemented pricing in Brazil, Mexico, Russia and Southeast Asia, in addition to other business units. Our goal remains to enter 2022 with improved dollar profitability levels from these actions to support the virtuous cycle which funds continues investment. Operating income dollars increased 4.5% due to strong overhead management and simplification initiatives. We continue to invest in A&C which was up almost double-digit in the quarter. On a year-to-date basis, gross margin has increased nearly 5% while operating income dollars that's grown by more than 8%. A&C has increased double-digits.Moving to regional results on Slide 16. Europe revenue grew 4.6% in the quarter and 4% on a two year basis, while dollars grew 5% -- 4.5% versus last year, reflecting a strong virtual cycle. North America grew 0.3% on top of 6.3% growth last year, resulting in a two year average growth of 3.3%. Operating income declined 9.7% in the quarter. Overall, North America results were negatively impacted by service level constraints in the U.S. as transportations and labor shortages have impacted both cost and [indecipherable]. These constraints are primarily impacting our external manufacturing and third-party logistics partners. We expect profit dollar growth to improve in conjunction with recently announced price increases across much of our U.S. portfolio that go into effect as of January 1 next year.For the quarter, the impact of the six weeks U.S. strike was mitigated by a business continuity plan which included increasing inventory levels ahead of it. Nevertheless, there will be an impact in Q4 which I will discuss in our outlook. AMEA posted growth of 5.72% and a two year average of 4.9% with broad-based strength apart from Southeast Asia where COVID -related restrictions did impact our Q3. India delivered double-digit growth in the quarter and China delivered high single-digit growth. AMEA operating income dollars grew nearly 8% while continuing to make sizable working media and route to market investments. Latin America grew 26% in Q3 and 14% on a two year average. Brazil and Mexico both grew double-digits while dollars in Latin America grew double-digits over prior year due to pricing and volume growth.Now, turning to EPS on Slide 17. Q3 EPS increased 9.4% at constant currency, driven primarily by operating gains, with year-to-date EPS increase of nearly 9%.Moving to cash flow and capital return on Slide 18. We delivered free cash flow of $700 million in the third quarter, bringing us to $2.1 billion on a year-to-date basis.We also repurchased approximately $1.8 billion in shares in the first three quarters at attractive prices. I wanted to spend a quick moment on some of the significant improvements in our best facture financing costs and pension costs on Slide 19. Since 2014, interest expense has been reduced by approximately 60% despite an increase in total borrowings with a current average rate of 1.7%. At the same time, we have extended our maturity from 7.7 years to 9.6 years. Similarly pension funding has improved significantly in the recent years to 99% driving material reductions in pension contribution requirements and costs. And in September, we issued our first which was the largest to-date in the GPG sector, enabling us to cost effectively fund our sustainability initiatives around focal packaging and now our net zero carbon target.Let me spend a moment on Slide 21 regarding the current [indecipherable] and supply chain environment and our actions. The supply chain environment remains a challenge for us, like many others with higher cost inflation, as well as labor shortages at the third-parties and train transportation capacity. We have a well-established [Phonetic] to mitigate the impact of inflation rate and supply chain pressures over time. These include successful implementation of price increases as part of our RGM strategy, supported by the strength of our brand. We're also continuing in our journey of portfolio simplification to identify additional SKU reduction opportunities and to improve service levels and overall efficiency.In terms of our manufacturing network, we are taking actions to free up capacity with more flexibility in some of our plants and logistics networks. We also continue to execute our hedging programs of key commodities which we believe have been effective, as you can tell by looking at our realized and unrealized mark-to-market gains this year. Overall, we are confident that these initiatives will allow us to offset the majority of the pressures we are currently seeing and will drive long-term profit dollar growth, albeit with some lumpiness given the cadence of pricing and input cost increase.Moving to our outlook on Slide 22. We expect most of the trends that we have experienced in Q3 to extend into Q4, including robust demand for our categories and brands in both developed and emerging markets, continued transportation and labor inflation and supply chain pressure in our North American region, increased focus on Revenue Growth Management activities across a wider span of businesses, high level of investment in our people, friends, markets and capabilities. Based on our strong results year-to-date, continued categories resilience and solid demand trends, we are raising our full year revenue growth outlook to approximately 4.5%; this implies Q4 growth of 3% or nearly 4.5% on a two year taker and assumes approximately a one point of top-line headwind from the impact of the continued transportation and logistics constraints and the recent strikes in the U.S. As the market conditions remain fluid, this outlook does not reflect a material worsening from current environment.In terms of EPS, we continue to expect high single-digit growth for the full year despite the initial pressure from commodities and transportation and labor dynamics in North America. We also expect free cash flow generation of $3 billion plus. Forex translation is now expected to positively impact our reported revenue by 2% points and EPS by $0.09 from the year based on current market rates. One note related to our simplified to grow restructuring plan. We have extended the program by one year as we're still left with about $100 million of available funds that we plan to spend on high return supply chain and overheads related projects. The overall amount of the restructuring program is unchanged. So this does not change anything else in our outlook for this next year.Our updated outlook is based on current conditions and does not factor on material degradation in the operating environment that would be triggered by a significant worsening of COVID or supply chain restrictions. To wrap up, we are encouraged by the trajectory of demand for our brands and categories across our geographies. We are confident in our growth strategy and our ability to continue to execute against it going forward. This means balance and consistent top and bottom line growth, continued reinvestment in our business, disciplined cost management and strong free cash flow generation.With that, let's open it up for Q&A.