
OperatorGood morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to AvalonBay Communities Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Your host for today's conference call is Mr. Jason Reilley, vice President of Investor Relations. Mr. Reilley, you may begin your conference.Jason Reilley -- Vice President of Investor RelationsThank you, Casey, and welcome to AvalonBay Communities Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. Before we begin, please note that forward-looking statements may be made during this discussion. There are a variety of risks and uncertainties associated with forward-looking statements, and actual results may differ materially. There is a discussion of these risks and uncertainties in yesterday afternoon's press release as well as in the company's Form 10-K and Form 10-Q filed with the SEC. As usual, this press release does include an attachment with definitions and reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures and other terms, which may be used in today's discussion. The attachment is also available on our website at www.avalonbay.com/earnings, and we encourage you to refer to this information during the review of our operating results and financial performance. And with that, I will turn the call over to Tim Naughton, Chairman and CEO of AvalonBay Communities, for his remarks. Tim?

 



Timothy J. Naughton -- Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive OfficerYes. Thanks, Jason, and welcome, Ben Schall, Kevin O'Shea, Matt Birenbaum and Sean Breslin. For our prepared comments today, Ben will provide a summary of third quarter results, an update on Q4 and full year guidance and provide some thoughts on why we believe AVB is well positioned to outperform. Sean will then elaborate on operating trends in the portfolio, where we continue to see strong momentum and healthy fundamentals that should support robust growth as we move into 2022. And then we'll conclude with an overview of development activity where development economics remain compelling and then offer a brief look at our new expansion markets, including our rationale behind our decision to enter them earlier this year. And then we'll all be available for Q&A after prepared remarks.But before turning the call over to Ben, I did want to take a minute to acknowledge that I expect that this will be my last earnings call as I plan to step down at year-end as CEO, when I'll assume the role of Executive Chairman as we had previously announced last December. I spent the last 32 years at AvalonBay and its predecessors. And over the last 20-plus years or so, I've had the opportunity to interact with many of you on this call on a regular basis. I just want to say that I appreciate your support for and engagement with the company and me over that time. And for the investors on the call, I simply want to thank you for entrusting us as a steward of your capital over the years. It's something we've never taken for granted. And I know that will continue to be the case in the future on the leadership of Ben and this executive team.I look forward to being able to touch base with many of you more directly and hopefully in a little more personal way over the next couple of months. And with that, I'd like to turn the call over and place in the very capable hands of Ben Schall and the rest of the executive team here today. Ben?

 



Benjamin W. Schall -- PresidentThank you, Tim. We wanted to start the call today as a team and an organization by expressing our gratitude and acknowledging Tim for his contributions to the company and the industry over the last 32 years. AvalonBay would not be the company it is today without Tim's strategic leadership, which is deeply intertwined with the company's history and evolution into one of the preeminent real estate companies in the U.S., its exceptional track record of value creation and its inclusive culture focused on continuous improvement. In addition to overseeing AvalonBay's tremendous growth and positioning us as an industry leader, Tim has also had a major influence on the evolution of the multifamily industry and the broader REIT sector during his career. And throughout all of these accomplishments and successes in what is one of Tim's most admirable attributes as a leader and a person, Tim never made it about him.His focus has always been on others, the positive impact he could have on people, the impact that AvalonBay could have in our communities and how he could lead by fostering and reinforcing our evergreen culture and strong organizational values. On behalf of all of those that have been part of AvalonBay and all of us at the company today, thank you, Tim.Timothy J. Naughton -- Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer

 



Thank you, Ben.Benjamin W. Schall -- PresidentAs the next section and before turning to the presentation, we wanted to emphasize upfront a number of factors that we believe position AvalonBay for outsized performance over the coming quarters and as we look toward 2022. Our operating fundamentals continue to show very strong momentum with rents now above pre-COVID levels in five of our six large coastal regions with the strongest performance in our suburban communities, which comprise over 2/3 of the portfolio. Our resident base with concentrations employed in knowledge-based industries are in high demand in today's labor market, setting the table for future rent growth as wages continue to rise. And for the segment of our resident base who would typically be seeking to purchase a home after a period of time with us, this alternative is challenging given the general lack of availability, further supporting our retention rates and demand fundamentals.We also expect our portfolio and market allocation to generate strong growth over the coming quarters. Looking back over the last 18 months, while we've experienced an unprecedented trough and then an equally unprecedented recovery, our rents today are only 7% above October 2019 levels, equating roughly to 3.5% growth per year. With an economy and growth mode, limited availability, low turnover, significant loss to lease and with 1/3 of our portfolio in urban areas that are recovering but still held back by the pandemic, we expect strong operating tailwinds as we head into 2022. Our execution on our operating model initiatives also continued to pay dividends with our investments in technology and innovation, offering enhanced value to prospects and residents while also allowing us to improve operating efficiencies.Through these initiatives, we expect to improve margin by roughly 200 basis points, with $10 million of this improvement already captured and with an additional $25 million to $35 million to be captured over the next couple of years. Finally, we're also creating outsized value creation and earnings growth from our development platform with returns trending above pro forma, leading us to ramp development activity with very attractive spreads between our development yields and market cap rates. We are definitely in growth mode, which is further supported by our access to a historically low cost of capital given the strength of the capital and transaction markets, all of which sets up for a strong end of this year and meaningful growth in 2022. Turning to the presentation and starting on slide four.The rapid pace of recovery continued in the third quarter with core FFO coming in at $0.10 above the midpoint of our prior Q3 guidance and flat on a year-over-year basis. The outperformance relative to guidance was driven primarily by same-store revenue, which produced a 4% sequential increase in revenue on a cash basis. Our growth orientation is reflected in our ramp in development starts with just under $1 billion of starts through the end of Q3. We've also completed $1.1 billion of projects so far this year at an attractive yield of 5.9%. In addition to development, we are growing through acquisitions, and Q3 marked our first acquisitions in our new expansion markets of Texas and North Carolina totaling $275 million.And subsequent to quarter end, we closed on an additional acquisition in Fort Lauderdale, Florida for $150 million. We're funding our growth with low-cost capital, primarily from asset sales and incremental debt proceeds, including a recent $700 million, 10-year unsecured bond at a fixed rate of 2.05%, the lowest coupon and lowest spread in AvalonBay history and also our first green bond. Turning to slide five and given these strong operating trends, we have raised our guidance for Q4 and for the full year 2021. Q4 FFO guidance has been raised to a range of $2.19 to $2.29 per share, an $0.11 increase over our previous Q4 guidance at the midpoint. This improved outlook is driven by our improved revenue expectations with residential revenue now projected to increase in Q4 by 5% on a year-over-year basis. In addition to occupancy and rate trends, the same-store revenue outlook assumes approximately $12 million of additional rent relief payments in Q4, relatively consistent with what we received during Q3.Other activity incorporated into our updated Q4 guidance includes $250 million to $300 million of dispositions from our Northeastern markets at an expected cap rate of sub-3.5% and $300 million to $350 million of acquisitions in our expansion markets, one of which is the Fort Lauderdale community and with the others under agreement. Slide six shows the components of rental revenue change on a year-over-year basis, residential revenue growth being driven primarily by higher occupancy and rent relief recognized during Q3, leading to a 1% increase on a GAAP basis and a 4.3% increase on a cash basis. On a sequential basis, as shown on slide seven, the rental revenue increase was driven by our momentum on lease rates as well as the recognition of rent relief payments, leading to a residential rental revenue increase of 3.3% on a GAAP basis and 4% on a cash basis.With that positive backdrop, I'll turn it to Sean to discuss our operating performance more fully.Sean J. Breslin -- Chief Operating OfficerAll right. Thanks, Ben. I thought I'd share a few slides on the portfolio rent trends for the quarter and into October, both at the same-store level and across different markets and submarkets. Overall, we have continued to experience a significant rebound in the business. If you look at slide eight, like-term effective rent change turned positive in June, has accelerated materially over the last few months. It is now running at roughly 11%. If you turn to slide nine, you can see what's supporting the improvement in our rent change, which is the growth we've experienced in average move-in rent value. Our average move-in value has grown by roughly 24% since the beginning of the year, including a 9% increase since the end of Q2 and is now about 7% above the level we achieved in the fall of 2019. Moving to slide 10. Improved performance has been broad-based with every region experienced an increase in average move-in rent over the past quarter.As noted in the charts, the recent flattening of move-in values reflect a normal seasonal pattern, although the seasonal adjustment has only been about 1/3 of the amount we typically see moving from the summer into the fall. Rents are now equal to or greater than 2019 levels in every region except Northern California, which has seen roughly 20% growth in move-in rents this year but still remains roughly 7% below the level we achieved in 2019. The time line for a full recovery in Northern California has been delayed in large part by major tech employers extending their return-to-office dates into early 2022. At the other end of the spectrum, the Southern California region has experienced strong growth in move-in values, supported by very healthy job growth, including significant growth in the content-producing segment of the media industry, limited supply and a very tight for-sale market.Turning to slide 11 to address suburban and urban performance trends. The average October move-in rent for our suburban portfolio was roughly 12% above the rent we achieved in October 2019. In our urban portfolio, while demand has returned in a meaningful way and rents have recovered significantly, move-in rents are still slightly below what we achieved in October 2019. To provide a few examples, in Boston and New York City, urban move-in rents are now 1% above what we achieved in 2019. But the District of Columbia and San Francisco are lagging with move-in rents that are 3% and 13%, respectively, below what we achieved in 2019. Given the continuing adoption of vaccine requirements and a steady climb of vaccination rates, we expect urban office occupancy rates will continue to rise as we move into 2022, which is one of the opportunities we expect to benefit from next year.In fact, moving to slide 12, the macro environment should support healthy fundamentals in our markets over the next several quarters. Starting at the top left of slide 12. While the labor market continues to improve, we're still almost five million jobs short of where we started. The demand for labor continues to be robust, which is putting material upward pressure on wages, a key driver of rent growth. Chart one shows job, wage and total personal income growth for the professional services sector of the economy, which is where most of our residents are employed. As noted in the chart, we've only experienced positive year-over-year growth across all three categories since Q2 of this year. And as many businesses refining as they attempt to recruit and retain professional services employees, the market has only strengthened since Q2.In Chart two, office usage hit a trough in Q2 2020 at the onset of the pandemic. Since that time, while we've seen steady improvement, the gains have been modest. As we look forward into 2022, gains in office usage should support additional rent growth, particularly in our urban and job center suburban submarkets. And touching on Charts three and four regarding the housing market, price appreciation in the for-sale single-family market and relatively stable multifamily supply both support a healthy near-term outlook for rental rate growth. With that favorable macro outlook as context, turning to slide 13, we also see terrific tailwinds in our portfolio as we move into next year. Beginning in the upper left of the slide, the Chart number one, we're starting from a position of strength with turnover trending lower and strong, stable occupancy, which brings with it unusually strong pricing power.Turnover has declined this year. It was down about 1,000 basis points or 15% in Q3 relative to what we would experience in a more normal year like 2019. And occupancy has been running above 96% for several months now, a point at which we can continue to push rents. In Chart two, given the very healthy rent change we've experienced the last few months, we'll be starting 2022 with built-in revenue growth of roughly 3%, the starting point that we didn't benefit from in any year during the last cycle. The strongest starting point in the last cycle was roughly 2.25% at the beginning of 2012. In addition to the baked-in revenue growth in Chart two, our loss to lease is currently running at roughly 14% and is depicted in Chart number three, providing plenty of opportunity to benefit from moving existing leases to market when they expire. Moving to the bottom of slide 13.There are three other somewhat unusual tailwinds that should also benefit revenue growth as we move into 2022. In Chart four, the amortization of concessions associated with previously signed leases, which should burn off as we move through the next several quarters. In Chart five, a reduction in bad debt, which won't revert quickly to the pre-pandemic average but should begin to abate as the eviction moratoria expire and our legal remedies become more widely available to us. And then finally, on Chart six, continuing receipts from the emergency rental assistance program for our same-store portfolio, we receive -- we have received $14 million from the program with $11 million of it coming in the last quarter. Since less than 1/4 of the roughly $47 billion authorized by the federal government have been distributed as of September 30, we expect to receive additional funds in Q4 this year and in 2022. So with that summary, I'll turn it back to Ben to address development and our new expansion markets. Ben?Benjamin W. Schall -- PresidentThanks, Sean. As shown on slide 14, these strong operating trends are also translating into outperformance for our six development projects currently in lease-up with lease rates up $180 per unit and with projected yields up 30 basis points to 6%, driving further value and earnings. Turning to slide 15. Our total current development portfolio is poised to deliver meaningful incremental NOI and NAV growth over the coming quarters. Specifically, these projects are projected to generate $145 million of NOI upon stabilization, of which only $26 million is in place today on an annualized basis. These communities are slated to generate $1.2 billion of net value above our costs or close to $9 per share of NAV and meaningful earnings growth. As further highlighted on slide 16, our industry-leading development platform has created significant value throughout various cycles with consistently strong spreads between development yields and market cap rates, which today sits at a spread of roughly 210 basis points.As we look forward over the coming years, our existing development rights pipeline totals $3 billion of potential projects, lining us up well for a strong pace of continued profitable development. Turning to slide 17. Our four new expansion markets, in addition to our continued growth in Southeast Florida and Denver, provide us with meaningful additional growth opportunities as well as the ability to optimize our overall portfolio over time. This slide provides the high-level framework we utilize to evaluate markets and that drive portfolio allocation decisions across our existing markets and our expansion markets. At the top of the list, our focus remains on being a best-in-class developer and operator in markets that over-indexed to knowledge-based employment, which we expect to experience outsized job and wage growth. We also continue to believe that markets with a high cost of home ownership create an attractive rent versus owned backdrop for our product offering.While our expansion markets generally have lower home prices than our existing markets, the rise in home prices, particularly in certain submarkets in these areas, create similar positive dynamics for future rental growth. We remain closely attuned to the regulatory environment in each of our markets with local land use restrictions, creating certain favorable barriers to new supply in our existing markets, providing opportunities for our development teams to leverage our long-standing relationships to unlock development opportunities. These coastal markets have, however, seen an increase in landlord-tenant regulations, and our expansion into new markets is partially driven by our desire to diversify our regulatory exposure. And the fourth factor highlighted here, public infrastructure and cultural amenities, is our proxy for the overall quality of life that large, knowledge-based employers and our type of customers will continue to seek out.This thematic framework is, in turn, supported by our proprietary market research, which shapes our market and submarket capital allocation decisions as we drive long-term value. slide 18 highlights the characteristics supporting growth in our recently announced expansion markets and what we believe positions these markets well in the long term. As we enter these markets, our focus is on creating long-term value by exporting our development and operational acumen as well as our culture to an expanded set of opportunities. And to wrap up, we believe that we are well positioned to outperform as we head into 2022. A favorable macro backdrop, including continued job and wage growth; declining affordability of for-sale housing; a fuller return to offices, particularly benefiting the 1/3 of our portfolio in urban environments; and a relatively stable supply forecast in overall AVB markets should provide a strong tailwind. Our embedded growth in loss to lease, along with the benefit of concessions and bad debt normalizing over time, should be key drivers of revenue next year.Our operating initiatives are on track to deliver significant margin expansion and serve as one of our drivers of earning growth over the coming two to three years. Our development platform is also poised to deliver meaningful value and earnings growth with a development rights pipeline of $3 billion and with development yields substantially above stabilized cap rates and our cost of capital. Finally, our expansion markets provide a broader set of opportunities to leverage our platform for growth. We're excited for the growth opportunities ahead of us. And with that, I'll turn it to the operator to open the line for questions.