
OperatorHello, everyone, and welcome to the CDW Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. My name is Bethany and I'll be coordinating this call for you today. [Operator Instructions] I will now hand the call over to your host, Kevin White, Director of Investor Relations. Kevin, over to you.Kevin White -- Director of Investor RelationsThank you, Bethany. Good morning, everyone. Joining me today to review our Third quarter results are Chris Leahy, President and Chief Executive Officer and Al Morales, Chief Financial Officer. Our Third quarter earnings release was distributed this morning and is available on our website investor.cdw.com, along with supplemental slides that you can use to follow along during the call.

 



I would like to remind you that certain comments made in this presentation are considered forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Those statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Additional information concerning these risks and uncertainties is contained in the earnings release in the Form 8-K we furnished to the SEC today and in company's other filings with the SEC. CDW assumes no obligation to update the information presented during the webcast.Our presentation also includes certain non-GAAP financial measures including non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating income margin, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP earnings per share. All non-GAAP measures have been reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in accordance with SEC rules. You'll find reconciliation charts in the slides for today's webcast and in our earnings release and Form 8-K we furnished to the SEC today.Please note that all references to growth, growth rates are dollar amount increases and our remarks today are versus comparable period in 2020 unless otherwise indicated. In addition, all references to growth rates for hardware, software and services today represent US net sales only and do not include the results from CDW U.K. or Canada. Replay of this webcast will be posted to our website later today. I also want to remind you that the conference call is property of CDW and may not be recorded or rebroadcast without specific written permission from the company.With that let me turn the call over to Chris.

 



Christine Leahy -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Kevin and good morning everyone. I'll begin today with an overview of third quarter results and drivers of performance, I will take you then through a more detailed look at our financials, as well as our capital allocation strategy and outlook. We'll move quickly through our prepared remarks as we always try to do to ensure we have plenty of time for questions.But before I get started, I do want to pause for a moment to honor the life and legacy of our former CEO, Tom Richards, who passed away last week after a valiant fight with cancer. I suspect most of you on this call have likely met Tom, in person. I'm certain that everyone on this call has been impacted by Tom. He was a fierce competitor and equally a kind human being. Tom, had a lot of what we like to call it CDW Tomism. Simple way of getting to the essence of something in a way that stuck. One of my personal favorite is when Tom used to say, at CDW we take what we do seriously, but we don't take ourselves too seriously. That's the essence of who we are. That is our CDW culture. Capture so simply and amplifies so strongly by Tom Richards. Tom, also had an unexpected way of signing off on our earnings call. Usually with the right comment about an upcoming holiday. Like Halloween or Mother's Day or even Valentine's Day. As a result, we always ending the call on a high note and with the chuckle. Some news audience as well.In honor of Tom, I'd like to kick off this earnings call with the tag line depend on every communication to a coworkers. Tom always signed off with you make a difference. Literally injecting into each coworker, Tom, personal belief in them and their important impact. On behalf of all of our coworkers around the globe, our customers and our partners, our communities and our investors, I would like to say thank you to Tom, you've made a difference.

 



Let me turn now to the Q3 performance. Once again CDW posted strong top line growth and profitability. Overall demand was strong and the teams did a great job addressing customer needs. For the quarter, we delivered record net sales of $5.3 billion, 11% higher than last year and up 10.7% in constant currency. Non-GAAP operating income of $435 million, up 12.6% and non-GAAP net income per share of $2.13, 15.4% higher than last year on a reported basis and up 15.8% in constant currency.Our ability to deliver the strong top line and profitability was the result of three key drivers, our balanced portfolio of customer end markets, the breadth of our product and solutions portfolio and our ongoing execution against our three part strategy which is focused on taking share and investing in the solutions and capabilities our customers need and want. Let me walk through each one of these and share some detail about how they contributed to our performance.First, our balanced portfolio of customer end markets. As you know, we have five US sales channels. Corporate, small business, healthcare, government which include federal and state and local customers and education with K-12 and higher ed. We also had our U.K. and Canadian operations each serving public and commercial customers. All of these operations represent meaningful businesses in their own right. Often different factors impact these diverse customer end market. In this quarter we saw that play out as our commercial business in the US, our small and corporate channels and our international operations posted significant double-digit increases, while our US public business posted a mid single-digit decline.From a macro perspective, supply remained under pressure this quarter demand outpaced supply and lead times extended, particularly in several solutions areas. The team continue to leverage our distribution centers extensive logistics capabilities deep vendor partner relationship and strong balance sheet and liquidity position to navigate the supply environment, they did an exceptional job working with our partners to stay on top of availability status. Our sellers and technical specialists also work with customers and whenever possible found alternative available product and build alternative solutions. These efforts helped mitigate some of the pressure and our backlog increase was consistent with last quarter. The tight supply environment continue to impact prices which our teams were generally able to pass along.Let's take a deeper look at third quarter customer end market performance. Commercial customer priorities remain the same as in the second quarter. Digital transformation, security and hybrid and cloud solutions. Customers continue to prioritize investments to enable the future and add resiliency to their operations to strengthen and secure infrastructure platform and endpoint. Within this backdrop corporate increased 25% and customer -- customer demand remains strong. While many customers delayed return to office, they continued to prepare, as well as invest to facilitate hybrid work. This drove ongoing strong double-digit increases in transactions, propelled by notebooks, audiovisual and desktop.At the same time digital transformation remains a top priority. While buying sentiment was clearly there in many cases the product would not. Writings were strong but with extended lead time backlog built during the quarter. Lack of product availability particularly in the common storage muted corporate solutions growth. Small business also delivered another exceptional quarter growth increasing almost 40%. The team continue to help customers with remote enablement, security and video driving strong growth across both transactional and solutions categories.As we've shared previously small business customers tend to be more flexible in their technology requirements. So while they did see some impact from supply constraints, small business did not experience as much as corporate a great example of the power of diverse end markets. You also see the power of our diverse end markets in our public performance. Net sales for our government channel decreased 33%, federal declined double digit in large part due to the overlapping of our devices service solution for the US Census Bureau and other client device programs that were particularly strong last year.Security remains robust with net sales, up more than 30%. Security of Washington were slower than typical at federal year end and we had contracting delays in several large contract. This is not unusual. Given the magnitude of federal contract timing can influence performance. You've heard us talk about federal's lumpy nature in the past. This will unwind and we expect to see a reversal back to growth in the first half of 2022. It local posted a mid single-digit decline.Stimulus funding remained largely unallocated to the local level. This because access multi-year American rescue plan Act funding with deadlines in 2024 led to greater focus on the multi-year budget planning. At the same time, state and local customers were focused on digesting last year's meaningful stimulus funded IT investment. We continue to work with our customers. But given the complexity of the various funding opportunities and multi-year phasing, we do not expect to see projects moving ahead meaningfully until early 2022.Education increased by 2%. Higher ed delivered high single-digit growth driven by ongoing focus on campus connectivity and enhancing the dorm room experience with double-digit growth in both security software and servers. The K-12 team did an excellent job and matched last year's record net sales coming in flat on top of last year's 30% plus growth. This was consistent with the expectations we shared on our year-end 2020 call, where we look for strong non-seasonal first half performance to be followed by a deceleration in the second half.Chromebook availability continue to improve during the quarter and client devices increased low-single digit on top of last year's stimulus equity in access driven growth. Overall transactions increased low-single digits on top of last year's strong double-digit growth. Solutions declined driven by a double-digit decline in net, largely reflecting supply challenges. We continue to expect above historical net sales against some very tough on seasonal forth quarter compares.Healthcare posted a 31% increase, by the second wave of COVID, staff shortages and limited ICU bed availability during the quarter, some projects that have been sidelined did resume. This was particularly the case in security and healthcare remains the target for cybercrime. Our security experts continue to guide hospital systems to find the best solutions that protect their sensitive data and security sales increased strong double digits.Other, which represents our U.K. and Canadian operations increased over 30% on a reported basis. Both the U.K. and Canada delivered mid 20% growth in local currency. Customer priorities in both markets remain the same as the US digital transformation, security and hybrid and cloud solutions. As do their investments to enable the future and add resiliency to their operations. Both operations experienced increased back orders.Clearly, the 11% plus, sales growth we delivered demonstrates the power of the first driver of our performance, our balanced portfolio of customer end markets. It also demonstrates the power of the second driver of our performance this quarter, the breadth of our product and solutions portfolio, which you can see in our major category performance. Transactions increased low double digits driven by client device growth in video. Solutions were flat with double digit increases in servers and collaboration tools offset by declines in Netcom and enterprise storage. Drilling further down into key solution categories cloud customer spend once again increased strong double digits. We saw robust growth across all three top cloud workloads, security, infrastructure as a service and productivity. We expect strong customer demand for cloud solutions to continue and we are well positioned to deliver.And once again given its ongoing important through our customers, our security practice delivered excellent results. Customer spend was up strong double digit. Our teams continue to guide customers on their security posture assess their environment, design the best approach and deploy and manage the solutions throughout its life cycle. Overall for the quarter, we delivered double-digit growth in hardware, low single digit growth in software and strong double digit growth in services. Software net sales increased low-single digits. Strong double digit increase in security software database software and backup and recovery were partially offset by declines in network management software, storage and telephony related software. As I've shared before services are fundamental to our go-to-market approach and a key enabler of our value proposition. This quarter's nearly 30% growth with the product of both organic, performance and inorganic contribution and was driven by both professional and managed services. And this leads to the final driver of our performance in the quarter, the impact of investments we are making in our three part strategy for growth.As you know, in October, we announced our planned acquisition of Sirius Computer Solutions. When we announced the acquisition I shared how it deepens and add scale to our services capabilities. Capabilities that will ensure we remain the trusted technology advisor to our customers as they accelerate their digital transformation. Notice, I said deepen, Sirius is additive to our existing capabilities. Capabilities we have built through both organic and inorganic investments. Capabilities that enable us to serve customers as their trusted advisor whether in a physical, digital or cloud-based environment in the US and internationally. Why so many investments and services capabilities? Simply put, services are becoming an increasingly larger component of total customer IT spend. For CDW services position us to enable the whole solution, increase our engagement with customers and stickiness and provide insight into opportunities to further help our customers across the full IT lifecycle.Today IT leaders are accountable for both running the business and using technology to transform the business and deliver strategic outcomes. To both run the business and transform that leaders need to invest resources where they can have the greatest impact and do so with the greatest speed. Services are critical to making this happen. To address this need we have built engineering services capability [Technical Issues] our technical organization has grown to more than 3,700 presale specialists and engineers. Today we can deliver complex digital transformation solutions from [Technical Issues] them quickly.Let me share example of how our services team is helping a global online home retailer transform their business for their next wave of growth. Our transformation that was hindered by [Technical Issues] to accelerate their transformation [Technical Issues] customer opted for a combination of public cloud technologies and new cloud native patterns. This would create the agility they needed essentially [Technical Issues] and on-demand environment. A great idea but accelerating cloud technology require specialized expertise that is inefficiency keep on staff and that is where CDW came in. First, we leveraged our cloud managed services and offloaded some of the projects from the customer to CDW, then we pulled in our digital velocity talent orchestration services or DVT. DVT orchestration customers with talent to work inside the customer's existing team [Technical Issues] talent is becoming more and more vital in today's environment. Digital velocity talent orchestration delivers highly vetted resources whether already employed by CDW or sourced by us. CDW services enabled the solution, but it did so much more. As you can imagine, this level of high touch integration creates customer loyalty with ongoing relationships on the ground and continue to exchange between CDW and the customer, ultimately leading to more business. Great for the customer and great for CDW.This is an excellent example of our three part strategy in action and how M&A enhances our organic investments to ensure we remain our customers number one choice as a trusted advisor solving key business problems for our customer in today's environment requires strong service and solutions capabilities. Capabilities that when combined with our great relationships and competitive advantages of scale, scope and disciplined execution enable us to win in the marketplace and deliver sustainable profitable growth today and in the future.And that leads me to our expectations for the balance of the year. We continue to look for growth in 2021 to come in between nine and a quarter and 10% in constant currency. But roughly between 5% IT market growth and 425 to 500 basis points of CDW market outperformance. This reflects our expectation that supply constraints, do not mitigate anytime in the near future, but do not get materially worse. Remember these constraints don't just reflect component shortages but also labor and logistic challenges. Challenges we do not expect to reverse in the near term and challenge that we do not expect to resolve at the flush rather gradually.As far as wildcards in addition to the fluids supply situation and the potential for another wave of COVID given the slowdown in the third quarter GDP growth, we will keep a watchful eye out for any slowdown in the economy. As we do, we will continue to do what we do best, leverage our competitive advantages to help our customers address their IT priorities and achieve their strategic objectives and outexecute our competition.I hope you can tell from my comments this quarter's performance reinforced our confidence that we have the right strategy in place. A strategy that served us well when confronted with macro or customer-specific challenges and positions us for sustainable growth. A strategy designed to continue our evolution as the leading IT solutions provider and most importantly a strategy that delivers profitable growth and returns to shareholders. This confidence underpins today's action by our board to increase our quarterly cash dividend by 25%.I know many of you may be wondering what we expect for next year. We are in the middle of our planning process and as we always do, we'll provide our outlook for 2022 on our year-end conference call. And with that let me turn it over to Al, who will share more detail on our financial performance, Al.Albert Morales -- Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Chris, and good morning everyone. I'll start my prepared remarks with more detail on the third quarter. Move to capital allocation priorities and then finish up with the 2021 outlook. Turning to our third quarter quarter P&L on Slide 8. Consolidated net sales were $5.3 billion, up 11% on a reported and an average daily sales basis. On a constant currency average daily sales basis, consolidated net sales grew 10.7%. Net sales and channels most impacted by COVID-19 last year corporate small business and international continue to rebound hosting strong double digit growth in the quarter and delivering sales above 2019 levels. This quarter's growth also benefited from strong double digit performance in healthcare and was tempered by a slowdown education and declining government.On the supply side, average overall backlog increased several hundred million dollars in the quarter and continues to be elevated year-over-year. The team did a great job leveraging CDW's competitive advantages so the backlog did not increase even more. Gross profit for the quarter was $115 million an increase of 10.8% on a reported basis. Gross margin was 17.3%, down approximately 10 basis points versus last year. This is primarily driven by lower product margin partially offset by an increase in the mix of net service contract revenue primarily in software as a service, in addition to strong professional and managed services, performance.Turning to SG&A on slide 9. Non-GAAP SG&A increased 9.2% increase is primarily driven by payroll costs including sales compensation which moves with gross profit growth and performance-based compensation consistent with higher attainment against financial goals. Finally, it reflects investments in the business, including increased coworker count focus on execution of our strategy. Coworker count at the end of the third quarter was 11,098 up 432 from the second quarter and 1118 over prior year. The increase in coworker count reflects organic -- and organic -- inorganic investments to support high growth solution areas in our own digital transformation. GAAP operating income was $386 million, up 26%. Non-GAAP operating income, which better reflects operating performance was $435 million, up 12.6% and non-GAAP operating income margin was 8.2%.Moving to slide 10 interest expense is $36 million, down 9.4%. The decrease was primarily due to savings from last year's refinancing. Our GAAP effective tax rate shown on slide 11 was 23.9%. To get to our non-GAAP effective tax rate. We just taxes consistent with non-GAAP net income, add backs as shown on slide 12 for the quarter, our non-GAAP effective tax rate was 25% up 200 basis points versus last year's rate, primarily due to one-time impact of state and foreign tax benefits recognized in the prior year. As you can see on slide 13 with second quarter weighted average diluted shares outstanding of $139 million GAAP net income per share was $1.91, up 43.2% our non-GAAP net income was $298 million in the quarter, up 12.3% and non-GAAP net income per share was $2.13, up 16.4% from last year.Turning to year to date results on slides 14 through 19 net sales were $15 billion, an increase of 13.1% on a reported basis and 13.7% on an average daily sales basis. We had one fewer selling day year to date in 2021 which will be made up in Q4 when we have one extra selling day compared to the prior year. On a constant currency average daily sales basis, year to date consolidated net sales were 12.6% higher than the prior year. Growth profit was $2.6 billion, up 11.3% and gross profit margin was 17%, down approximately 20 basis points year over year. Operating income was roughly $1.1 billion and non-GAAP operating income was $1.2 billion, up 18.7%. Net income was $773 million and non-GAAP net income was $834 million, up 20.7%. Non-GAAP net income per share was $5.89, up 23.5%.Turning to the balance sheet on slide 20. At September 30, cash and cash equivalents were $245 million and net debt was $3.8 billion. Liquidity remains strong with cash plus revolver availability of approximately $1.4 billion. Year to date free cash flow was $341 million as shown on slide 21, this is lighter than last year's record $1.2 billion of free cash flow, which benefited from timing and onetime items. Year to date we saw some of the timing reversed as we mixed out of vendors with extended payment term. Additionally, working capital increased to support our strong year to date growth and we continue to make strategic investments in inventory to support our customers through this choppy supply environment.Moving to slide 22, the three-month average cash conversion cycle was 25 days, up nine days from last year's third quarter. Increase is primarily driven by mixing out of vendors with longer payment cycles. In addition to holding customer driven stocking positions in the timing of receipts and shipments.Turning to capital allocation on slide 23. Our 2021 priorities remain the same. First, increase the dividend in line with non-GAAP net income including today's 25% increase to the dividend. The increase annual dividend of $2 is approximately 25% of trailing 12 month non-GAAP net income through September. The Q4 2021 dividend demonstrates our confidence in the earnings power and cash flow generation of the business and marks the eight consecutive year of increases since our initial public offering in 2013. Our dividend has grown at a compound annual growth rate of 36% from its initial level. We will continue to target a 25% payout ratio going forward, growing the dividend in line with earnings. Second, we ensure we have the right capital structure in place with a targeted net leverage ratio of 2.5 to 3 times. We ended the third quarter at 2.3 times. Third, supplement organic growth with strategic acquisitions. Sirius, which we announced on October 18th and our recent focal point and amplified IT acquisitions are great examples. And fourth, the return excess cash after dividends and M&A to shareholders through share repurchases.During the quarter we continue to deploy cash consistent with our capital allocation priorities returning $505 million to shareholders, including $55 million of dividends and $450 million of share repurchases, at an average price of approximately $188 per share. We continue to expect to return approximately $1.7 billion to shareholders for the full year 2021 including $1.5 billion in share repurchases with the balance from dividends.Going forward, we continue to continue to execute against our capital allocation priorities as we have done since 2014. In 2022, post closing of the Sirius acquisition, we expect to have an initial net leverage ratio of approximately 3.3 times. While our capital allocation priorities will remain the same, we will shift our objectives to focus on paying the dividend and reducing debt. As a result of this focus, we will put a lower priority on M&A and share repurchases until our net leverage is in our target range of 2.5 to 3 times which we expect to achieve by the end of 2022. We continue to expect to close the Sirius acquisition in December and we intend to share additional thoughts on the financial impacts of consolidating Sirius in the CDW on our 4th quarter call.Moving to the outlook for 2021 on slide 24. Supply and product lead times remain fluid making it challenging to comprehensively forecast the high degree of confidence. On the demand side, we continue to see strong activity and momentum, particularly with both US and international commercial commercial customers. On the supply side, visibility remains a challenge. Constraints continue to notebooks, desktops, video, Netcom and data center -- data center categories resulting in longer lead times and a higher backlog. With the exception of Chromebooks the supply environment has not improved since our last earnings call and we do not expect it to improve in the near future.With that context for full year 2021, we continue to expect the US IT market to grow approximately 5% and our net sales to grow 425 to 500 basis points faster than the US IT market in constant currency. This assumes a consistent supply chain environment and impact to our backlog. We feel good about the health of the business and we continue to navigate the fluid supply environment. We continue to expect currency to contribute an approximately 80 basis points for the full year net sales growth, assuming exchange rates of $1.38 to the British pound and $0.80 to the Canadian dollar.Moving down the P&L, we now expect non-GAAP operating income margin to be in the high 7% range for full year 2021. As you've heard us say, we believe now is the time to invest in the business and expect investments made in the fourth quarter to driving operating margin which will deliver our full-year outlook. Putting it altogether, we now expect non-GAAP constant currency earnings-per-share growth in the high teens, call it 18% plus or minus 25 basis points. Currency is expected to contribute an additional 70 basis points to earnings-per-share growth. Additional modeling thoughts for annual depreciation and amortization, interest expense and the non-GAAP effective tax rate can be found on slide 25.For free cash flow, our long-term rule of thumb remains unchanged at three and three quarters to four and a quarter percent of net sales. Assuming current tax rate. However, given the timing impacts that contributed 2020 significant over delivery and ongoing customer driven stocking positions as well as at the time of receipts and shipment -- shipments, we expect 2021 free cash flow to come in slightly below the low end of the range. Additional modeling thoughts on the components of free cash flow, including capital expenditures and the cash conversion cycle can also be found on slide 25.That concludes the financial summary. As we always do, we will provide updated views on the macro environment and our business on our future earnings calls. And with that, I'll ask the operator to open up for questions and we would just please ask each of you to limit your questions to one with a brief follow-up. Thank you.