  OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the fourth quarter 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to your first speaker today, Mr. Dennis McDaniel, investor relations officer. Please go ahead.Dennis McDaniel -- Investor Relations Officer

 



 Hello. This is Dennis McDaniel at Cincinnati Financial. Thank you for joining us for our fourth quarter and full year 2021 earnings conference call. Late yesterday, we issued a news release on our results, along with our supplemental financial package, including our year-end investment portfolio. To find copies of any of these documents, please visit our investor website, cinfin.com/investors. The shortest route to the information is the quarterly results link in the navigation menu on the far left. On this call, you'll first hear from chairman, president, and chief executive officer, Steve Johnston; and then from chief financial officer, Mike Sewell. After their prepared remarks, investors participating on the call may ask questions.At that time, some responses may be made by others in the room with us, including chief investment officer, Marty Hollenbeck; and Cincinnati Insurance's president, Steve Spray; chief claims officer, Marc Schambow; and senior vice president of corporate finance, Theresa Hoffer. First, please note that some of the matters to be discussed today are forward looking. These forward-looking statements involve certain risks and uncertainties. With respect to these risks and uncertainties, we direct your attention to our news release and to our various filings with the SEC. Also, a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures was provided with the news release. Statutory accounting data is prepared in accordance with statutory accounting rules and, therefore, is not reconciled to GAAP. And now I'll turn over the call to Steve. 

 



Steve Johnston -- Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Dennis, and good morning. Thank you for joining us today to hear more about our results. It's satisfying to see excellent operating results and overall financial performance in 2021 for both the fourth quarter and full year. As usual, we face challenges, but our strategy continues to work well. Thanks to outstanding efforts by our associates and the independent agents who represent Cincinnati Insurance. Net income for the fourth quarter rose $421 million compared with the fourth quarter of last year, including $346 million more benefit on an after-tax basis in the fair value of securities held in our equity portfolio. Non-GAAP operating income for the fourth quarter 2021 was up $58 million or 22% versus a year ago. And on a full year basis, it was 96% higher than 2020. Our 84.2% fourth quarter property casualty combined ratio was 3.1 percentage points better than last year with decreased catastrophe losses this year, representing 11 points of the improvement. An outstanding full year 2021 combined ratio of 88.3% was nearly 10 points better than last year with lower catastrophe losses representing 4.1 points of the improvement. The current accident year combined ratio before catastrophe loss effects also continued to improve and was 1.5 percentage points better than accident year 2020 measured at 12 months. We believe we can successfully balance prudent underwriting and business growth to maintain a 2022 GAAP combined ratio in the low to mid-90% range.

 



 We also believe our 2022 property-casualty premium growth rate can be 8% or more. We recognize that weather and significant changes in industry market conditions that influence insurance policy pricing trends are some of the variables that will affect the property-casualty results we ultimately report. Premium growth continued at a strong pace during the quarter, reflecting a strengthening economy, generally steady pricing, and the benefit of great relationships with our agents. Consolidated property casualty net written premiums rose 10% for both the fourth quarter and full year 2021. Pricing segmentation continues to be an emphasis with our underwriting working to retain and write more profitable accounts while taking appropriate action on opportunities that we determine have inadequate pricing. Renewal pricing during the fourth quarter continued to be ahead of our estimate for prospective loss cost trends for each property-casualty segment. Our commercial lines insurance segment again, experienced mid-single-digit percentage range estimated average renewal price increases up a little for the third quarter. Our fourth quarter personal lines segment average renewal price increases slowed a little compared with the third quarter, remaining in the low single-digit range. While the excess and surplus lines insurance segment was near the low end of the high single-digit range. Our commercial lines segment had a superb year with its 83.8% combined ratio improving by 14.5 percentage points compared with 2020. And growing net written premiums by 8%. For our personal lines segment, net written premiums grew 8% for the quarter and 6% for the year, driven by planned expansion of high net worth business produced by our agencies. Its full year 2021 combined ratio of 94%, improved 3.1 percentage points from a year ago, including an excellent 80% for the fourth quarter. Our excess and surplus line segment produced a sub-90% combined ratio for the fourth quarter and the year and grew full year net written premiums by 22%, another terrific year. Cincinnati Re and Cincinnati Global, each had another year of healthy growth. Cincinnati Re grew net written premiums by 53% for the full year 2021 as reinsurance market conditions improved. It experienced a modest underwriting loss that included significant losses from Hurricane Ida. Those losses remain within our expectations of loss potential for events of Ida's magnitude based on our models. Cincinnati Global, grew its 2021 premiums by 6%, with a combined ratio below 90%. Our life insurance subsidiary generated full year 2021 net income of $44 million, up 38% from a year ago and grew term life insurance earned premiums by 7%. On January 1 of this year, we again renewed each of our primary property casualty treaties that transfer part of our risk to reinsurers. For our per risk treaties, terms and conditions for 2022 are fairly similar to 2021. The main change for our property-casualty treaty is retaining an additional $43 million of losses for the layers between $100 million and $600 million, while adding $47 million of coverage in a new layer between $800 million and $900 million. Rates for our property-casualty treaties generally rose in the high single-digit range. We expect 2022 ceded premiums for these treaties in total to be approximately $110 million, about 3% higher than last year. I'll conclude with the value creation ratio, our primary measure of long-term financial performance. Strong operating results measured as net income before investment gains and improved valuation of our investment portfolio, each made large contributions to VCR for both the fourth quarter and on a full year basis. With VCR of 12.1% for the quarter, VCR for the full year was 25.7%, far exceeding our average annual target range of 10% to 13%. Now our chief financial officer, Mike Sewell, will comment on some other important aspects of our financial performance.Mike Sewell -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Steve, and thanks to all of you for joining us today. Investment income continued to grow at a strong pace, up 8% for the fourth quarter and 7% for the full year 2021 compared with the same periods a year ago. Fourth quarter dividend income was up 14%, and net equity security purchases totaled $177 million for the year. Bond interest income grew 4% in the fourth quarter, while the pre-tax average yield of 4.05% for the year was down one basis point from a year ago. The average pre-tax yield for the total of purchased taxable and tax-exempt bonds during the full year 2021 was 3.47%. Investing in fixed maturity securities continues to be a priority with net purchases during the year totaling $927 million. Valuation changes for our investment portfolio during the fourth quarter of 2021 were favorable for our stock holdings in aggregate, but unfavorable for our bond holdings. The overall fourth quarter net gain was nearly $1.4 billion before tax effects despite a decrease of $82 million for unrealized gains in our bond portfolio. At the end of the fourth quarter, total investment portfolio net appreciated value was approximately $8 billion, including $7.2 billion for our equity securities. Cash flow was very strong in the fourth quarter as it has been all year. It contributes to investment income and was a major factor in the 5% increase in interest income we reported for the year. Cash flow from operating activities for full year 2021 generated just shy of $2 billion, a 33% increase compared with a year ago. Expense management efforts in 2021 were very good, and we continue to carefully balance strategic business investments and expense controls. The full year 2021 property casualty underwriting expense ratio was 0.5 percentage points lower than last year even with an increase of 0.7 points from higher accruals for agency profit-sharing commissions. Regarding loss reserves, our approach to reserving remains consistent and aims for net amounts in the upper half of the actuarially estimated range of net loss and loss expense reserves. As we do each quarter, we consider new information such as paid losses and case reserves and then updated estimate ultimate losses and loss expenses by accident year and line of business. During full year 2021, we experienced $428 million of property-casualty net favorable development on prior accident years. It favorably contributed to the combined ratio by 7%. On an all-lines basis by accident year, net reserves developed for the year was favorable by $283 million for 2020, $56 million for 2019, $44 million for 2018, and $45 million in aggregate for accident years prior to 2018. We believe overall reserves remain adequate. During 2021, net loss and loss expense reserves in total increased by 8%. The IBNR portion increased by 6% in 2021, which followed an increase of 18% in 2020 for IBNR. Turning to capital management. We also follow a consistent approach, including share repurchases as part of maintenance intended to offset the issuance of shares through equity compensation plans. We believe that our year-end financial strength remained in good shape and provides plenty of financial flexibility. During the quarter, we repurchased approximately 866,000 shares at an average price per share of $119.56. I'll conclude my prepared remarks as I typically do, with a summary of fourth quarter contributions to book value per share. They represent the main drivers of our value creation ratio. Property-casualty underwriting increased book value by $1.26. Life insurance operations increased book value of $0.04. Investment income, other than life insurance and net of noninsurance items included $0.98. Net investment gains and losses for the fixed income portfolio decreased book value per share by $0.35. Net investment gains and losses for the equity portfolio increased book value by $6.93, and we declared $0.63 per share in dividends to shareholders. The net effect was a book value increase of $8.23 per share during the fourth quarter to a record $81.72 per share. And now I'll turn the call back over to Steve.Steve Johnston -- Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Mike. As I said in my opening remarks, 2021 ended with many positives. We again achieved excellent premium growth and completed a tenth straight year of underwriting profit. We extended our record of annual dividend increases to 61 years and have already set the stage for a second -- 62nd year. Earlier this month, A.M. Best recognized our capital strength and strong operating trends by affirming our A+ financial strength rating with a stable outlook. The key to our consistent results lies with our associates, who deliver -- who continue to deliver outstanding service to our agents and their clients, deepening our relationships with our agents and executing on our strategies for long-term success. Before we open the call for questions, I want to take a minute to recognize Steve Spray's recent promotion to President of the Cincinnati Insurance Company and all of our U.S. subsidiary companies. This promotion is a natural next step in the evolution of our executive leadership team that began several years ago. Because he's been in leadership roles across our organization, Steve has a deep understanding of what it will take to succeed far into the future. I'm confident that under his direction, our insurance subsidiaries will continue to grow deepening the products, services, and capabilities we have to support our agents and create shareholder value. As a reminder, with Mike, Steve, and me today are Marc Schambow, Marty Hollenbeck, and Theresa Hoffer. Joanna, please open the call for questions. 