  OperatorGood morning, everyone, and welcome to the Delta Air Lines December quarter and full-year 2021 financial results conference call. My name is Cody, and I'll be your coordinator. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, today's call is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to Julie Stewart, vice president of investor relations. Please go ahead.Julie Stewart -- Vice President of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Cody. Good morning, everyone, and thanks for joining us for our December quarter and full-year 2021 earnings call. Joining us today from Atlanta are CEO Ed Bastian; our President, Glen Hauenstein; our CFO, Dan Janki. Ed will open the call with an overview of Delta's performance and strategy, and Glen will provide an update on revenue, and Dan will discuss costs and our balance sheet. [Operator instructions] Today's discussion contains forward-looking statements that represent our beliefs or expectations about future events. All forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. Some of the factors that may cause such differences are described in Delta's SEC filings. We'll also discuss non-GAAP financial measures, and all results exclude special items, unless otherwise noted.You can find a reconciliation of our non-GAAP measures on Investor Relations page at ir.delta.com. And with that, I'll turn the call over to Ed. Ed Bastian -- Chief Executive Officer

 



 Well, thank you, Julie. Good morning, everyone. I really appreciate you joining us today. Before getting into the December quarter results and outlook, I want to spend a couple of minutes discussing the current environment. As everyone is aware, the omicron variant has significantly impacted our people, our customers, and our operation, as well as most parts of society over the last three weeks. The combination of the rapid spread of the variant at the peak of a strong holiday demand period and in the face of extreme winter condition in parts of the country created some of the most difficult travel conditions that we ever remember experiencing. I'm incredibly appreciative of the great work that our frontline team has done and continue to do to help our customers get to where they need to be as safely and quickly as possible, no matter the circumstances. Our teams have faced these difficulties head-on while also managing the impact of the virus in their own lives, and I want to thank every member of the Delta team for your work during a very challenging period. To our customers who have been affected, we appreciate your patience and your understanding. The good news is that over the past seven days, our operation has stabilized with omicron-related cancellations impacting only about 1% of our flights. And since Sunday, the number of omicron-affected cancellations are around 20 a day out of nearly 4,000 daily flights. And in fact, yesterday, we only had two omicron-related mainline cancellations. So while the new variant is not done, it appears that the worst may be behind us. Based on how quickly the case counts have risen, our medical team expects cases to peak in the U.S. over the next few days, followed by a steep decline in cases, and we're already starting to see that happen among our own staff. Given the high transmissibility and lower severity of omicron, this variant is likely to mark the shift in COVID-19 from being a pandemic to a manageable and ordinary seasonal virus, which should accelerate the path to a normalized environment.

 



 When we spoke last month about omicron as a risk at capital markets day, a lot was unknown. Today, we know a lot more. And while the first 60 days of the year will be impacted, we're confident that the pace of travel recovery will resume its December trajectory as we move into President's Day weekend and a strong spring and summer travel season are ahead of us. So as we reflect on 2021, it was a year like no other for Delta. While challenging, we made significant progress in our recovery. At capital markets day, we highlighted that our competitive strengths have deepened through the course of the past two years, and I'm extremely proud of our entire team for all their efforts. Full-year revenue of $27 billion in 2021 improved nearly $11 billion or 67% from 2020 with the rate of recovery accelerating from only 25%, as measured against 2019 at the start of the year, to a close of the year of nearly 80% as we exited December. This resulted in a full-year 2021 pre-tax loss of $3.4 billion. And while we obviously have still much work ahead of us, our pre-tax results improved by $5.5 billion versus 2020 and included a profit of around $400 million for the second half of this year. This performance positions Delta as the only major U.S. airline to achieve second-half profitability and demonstrates that we have significant momentum in the continued restoration of our financial foundation. Sharing our success is one of the pillars of Delta's culture, which is why we are happy to announce this morning a special profit-sharing payment for all global employees. On February 14, the vast majority of our people will receive a payment of $1,250. This is a well-earned recognition for the incredible work they have done over the past year to move our airline through the crisis and position us for recovery. Turning to December quarter highlights and our March outlook. In the fourth quarter, we recorded a pre-tax profit of $170 million. Excluding the impact of omicron disruptions, we estimate our profitability would have been approximately $250 million in the quarter. This was on revenue that was 74% recovered to 2019 levels, up 8 points from the September quarter. We started the quarter with lingering impacts to the prior variant but encouraged by the significant improvement in demand and pricing that we saw throughout the quarter in each of our passenger segments. Turning to the March outlook, we expect to incur pre-tax losses in the months of January and February before returning to solid profitability in the month of March. The omicron case surge is impacting business travel and international recovery the most. As meetings are canceled, planned office reopenings are postponed and countries put restrictions back in place. On the consumer side, we're seeing some near-term hesitation and booking behavior given the prominence of COVID in our daily lives. And that, combined with operational challenges that the industry is facing, consumers are delaying travel until case counts subside and the industry operational reliability is restored. So as a result, we're seeing the rate of recovery step down in the months of January and February to approximately 70% versus '19 levels from nearly 80% where we were in December. And while the downturn in demand has been quick, we expect an equally rapid improvement once U.S. case counts begin to decline, remain confident in a strong spring and summer travel season with significant pent-up demand for consumer and business travel, both domestically and internationally. We expect the month of March to return to the recovery trajectory that we were on in December, resulting in revenue recovery of 72% to 76% for the full quarter. Glen will talk in greater detail about the revenue environment, and Dan will walk through our costs shortly. Based on our current outlook, we expect first quarter to be the only loss-making quarter for the year, and we're confident that we'll generate a meaningful profit for the full year of 2022 as the recovery resumes and accelerates in the spring and the summer. Despite the challenges of the current environment, the multiyear recovery plan that we laid out last month at capital markets day is unchanged. No one is better positioned than Delta to lead the recovery as business travelers return to the skies. Delta is also uniquely prepared to benefit from the reopening of international markets which we are optimistic we will start seeing this spring as restrictions lift. Our three core priorities discussed last month remain unchanged: fortifying our trusted consumer brand, restoring financial performance and foundation and building a better future for our people and our planet. As part of this, we remain firmly committed to our values and ESG goals, including our commitment to fighting climate change and moving forward toward the future of net-zero aviation. We recently announced the hiring of our new chief sustainability officer, Pam Fletcher, the industry's only C-level CSO. Pam established an impressive track record as a senior leader at General Motors and has an extensive history of putting the customer first and developing products that help to enable a world free of emissions. So as we move past the final phase of the pandemic, I'm confident that we'll continue our trajectory to not only emerge stronger than before but to expand our lead in the industry and strengthen our position as the premium airline of choice in the years ahead. Our ambition to transcend the -- is to transcend the industry and create significant long-term value for all of our stakeholders. Everything we've done during this long crisis puts us closer to achieving that ambition. Thank you again. And with that, I'll turn the call over to Glen.Glen Hauenstein -- President  Thank you, Ed, and good morning, everyone. Like Ed, I couldn't be prouder of what the Delta people accomplished during 2021, and I want to congratulate our people on their much-deserved special profit-sharing payout they'll be receiving later next month. During the December quarter, we generated $8.4 billion of revenue. This was above our expectations at the onset of the quarter driven by a strong consumer demand over the holidays. Total RASM was up 6% from the September quarter on a 7% improvement in yield. For the quarter, capacity was 79% restored versus 2019, 5 points below the industry as we maintain a disciplined approach to restoring our capacity. The strengths we've talked about last month at capital markets day are evident in our December quarter results. First, we saw a very strong demand during the holiday period. Domestic results were particularly strong with holiday PRASM finishing up 8% versus 2019 and with passenger revenue more than 90% recovered. Second, long-haul international trends were positive in October and November as borders reopen and restrictions lifted. This momentum stalled in the second half of December as the omicron variant resulted in more stringent restrictions and impacted our bookings. Third, we saw a continued progression of business travel with domestic volumes approaching 60% restored during the December quarter. Fourth, our premium products continued to perform well. Domestic premium revenue was 84% recovered versus December quarter '19, 9 points better than Main Cabin. Fifth, our diverse revenue streams remain resilient. Amex remuneration during the quarter was more than 110% restored, and cargo revenue was more than 160% of 2019 levels. We also continued to see very strong consumer engagement with another record quarter for Fly Delta app downloads and sign-ups for our loyalty program. In the December quarter, we added 1.5 million new SkyMiles members, up 5% from 2019 levels. For all of '21, we added 5.5 million new SkyMiles members. This growing engagement demonstrates strong brand preference and our customers' desire to travel on Delta in 2022. As Ed discussed, the recent rise in COVID cases is having an impact on near-term demand and bookings. Omicron has been different than previous waves. While infections are thankfully less severe in most cases, its high transmissibility is resulting in a swift increase in case counts and impacting short-term demand. With U.S. case counts expected to peak within the next few days, we expect booking levels to rebound quickly. Once case counts begin to decline, we expect revenues to rebound within 30 to 45 days. Additionally, we expect some of the January and February demand decline to be recaptured in future as customers make up for canceled trips. Consistent with our approach all along, we are remaining nimble and agile in how we fly our network. For the March quarter, we expect our capacity between -- to be between 83% and 85% restored, a few points below our initial expectation. This includes a more conservative approach to long-haul international flying that we expect to be. And we expect to be 15 to 20 points lower than the industry. We have also actioned our regional capacity to ensure labor constraints at regional providers do not impact our operational integrity. We expect these constraints will ease in the second half of the year. For 2022, we still expect our full-year capacity to be approximately 90% recovered versus 2019 with the progression weighted to the back half of the year, but this will ultimately be determined by demand. As we outlined at capital markets day last month, Delta is well-positioned for the next phase of the recovery. The Delta people have proven time and time again why Delta is the global airline of choice. We remain focused on improving our competitive position and extending our commercial advantages by investing in premium products, growing our loyalty ecosystem, and increasing our revenue diversification. We are confident that the demand recovery will accelerate as the variant subsides, keeping us on a path to exceed 2019 financial performance by 2024. And with that, I'll turn the call over to Dan.Dan Janki -- Chief Financial Officer Great. Glen, thank you. The Delta team executed well in 2021 in an environment that remains very dynamic. I want to thank our people for their hard work, congratulate them on a well-earned special profit sharing payment. So me let start with the highlights from the December quarter. We delivered a profitable fourth quarter, reporting earnings of $0.22 per share, representing a pre-tax income of $170 million and a 2% margin on total revenue of $8.4 billion. While it was a strong close to the year, operational disruptions during the last two weeks of the quarter impacted our pre-tax results by $80 million. Total fourth quarter operating expenses were $8.1 billion, a 3% increase from the third quarter, driven by both fuel and nonfuel costs from the continued restoration of the airline. Fuel expense of $1.6 billion increased 4% sequentially as fuel prices per gallon increased to $2.10. Total fuel expense included a $0.24 per gallon benefit from the refinery. Embedded in fuel costs is a continued benefit from our fleet renewal; which supported a 4.3% improvement in fuel efficiency compared to 2019. Nonfuel CASM was up 8.3% compared to 2019. This included a 1.2% impact, primarily due to lower capacity from cancellations during the last two weeks of the quarter. Now turning to cash flows and the balance sheet. We generated operating cash flow of $518 million. We invested $948 million into the business, and we repaid $1.1 billion of debt in the December quarter. We ended the year with $14.2 billion of liquidity and adjusted net debt of $20.6 billion. Now on to the current environment and the March quarter outlook. As Ed and Glen noted, the variant is magnifying normal seasonality in the March quarter, which is our seasonally weakest of the year. The operational challenges has reduced our capacity outlook, and we now expect first quarter ASMs to be between 83% and 85% recovered to 2019. This reduction is a few points from our previously expected capacity recovery. In this environment, we are also paying higher crew premiums, overtime, and COVID-related costs as we work through staffing challenges, mitigation of cancellations, and protect our people. We estimate that this will impact first quarter by $60 million to $70 million. The disruptions are impacting our first quarter nonfuel CASM comparison to 2019 by 3 points with the majority of that driven by fewer ASMs. Absent the omicron disruption, our March quarter nonfuel CASM is 12% higher than 2019 as our network remains 15% smaller. The sequential step-up in nonfuel CASM from December to March quarter is due to maintenance normalizing to 2019 levels. As we talked about last month, when comparing nonfuel CASM to 2019, there was a 7-point benefit related to maintenance in 2021 total year due to depressed flying. This inflects to a 1-point headwind in 2022 as flying is restored. Our quarterly progression basis, the maintenance tailwind was about 5 points specifically in the fourth quarter of 2021, and there will be no benefit in the first quarter of 2022. Additionally, with the ASM sequentially -- essentially flat sequentially, we are not yet benefiting from the scale and efficiency. As the ASM restoration progresses and we exit 2022 close to fully restored, we will realize the scale and efficiency benefit, and our comparisons to 2019 will improve. This is consistent with the framework and guidance we laid out last month at capital markets day. Underlying our 7% to 10% full-year cost guidance, we expect nonfuel CASM versus '19 for the first half of the year to be up in the low to mid-teens. While in the second half of the year, averaging mid-single digits as that scale and efficiency are restored and transition costs subside. While we did not previously expect omicron-related operational disruptions, there is still a lot of the year to unfold as it equates both to capacity and demand. And we remain confident in our nonfuel CASM framework and the guidance we laid out last month. For the March quarter, adjusted fuel price per gallon is expected to be between $2.35 to $2.50. Fuel efficiency is estimated to be approximately 6% better than the same period in 2019. When combined with our revenue outlook Glen provided, we expect a loss in January and February months and a return to profitability in the month of March. Now looking beyond the March quarter. Even with the challenging start of the year, we remain positioned to generate a healthy profit in June, September and December quarters, resulting in a meaningful profit for 2022. At this point in the year, we are not providing additional full-year guidance beyond the metrics given last month at capital markets day. This includes capacity at 90% restored to 2019; nonfuel CASM, up 7% to 10%; and gross capex of $6 billion. The $6 billion compares to $2.9 billion in 2021 and includes $4.7 billion of aircraft capex, including delivery of approximately 70 aircraft and $350 million of modification costs. The remainder is related to ground and technology projects. The March quarter will be our largest delivery quarter with 22 deliveries, resulting in March capex of $1.6 billion. Now reducing debt remains a top financial priority. During 2021, we reduced gross debt by $6 billion, fully funded our pension on a Pension Protection Act basis with a $1.5 billion contribution and a 16% return on our planned assets. In 2022, we have $1.8 billion in debt maturities with $1.2 billion in the current quarter. With a heavier capex quarter, we expected adjusted net debt to increase to $22 billion in the first quarter. As we achieve sustained cash generation over the next 12 to 18 months, we will continue to opportunistically manage our balance sheet, reducing debt to return to investment-grade metrics and making progress toward that $15 billion adjusted net debt target by the end of 2024. So in closing, at our recent capital markets day, we outlined our financial priorities and our recovery path over the next three years. The power of the brand, the strength of the competitive advantage give us strong conviction in the trajectory and the path to full financial recovery. So with that, let me turn it back to Julie for Q&A. Julie Stewart -- Vice President of Investor Relations Thanks, Dan. Cody, can you please remind the analysts how to queue up for a question and go to our first question? 