  OperatorGood morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Mosaic Company's full year 2021 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the companies complete their prepared remarks the lines will be open to taking your questions. Your host for today's call is Paul Massoud, vice president, investor relations of the Mosaic Company. Mr. Massoud, you may begin.Paul Massoud -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, and welcome to our fourth quarter and full year 2021 earnings call. Opening comments will be provided by Joc O'Rourke, president and chief executive officer, followed by a fireside chat as well as open Q&A. Clint Freeland, senior vice president and chief financial officer. And Jenny Wang, senior vice president of global strategic marketing, will also be available to answer your questions. We will be making forward-looking statements during this conference call. Statements include, but are not limited to, statements about future financial and operating results. They are based on management's beliefs and expectations as of today's date and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from projected results.Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are included in our press release first yesterday and in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We will also be presenting certain non-GAAP financial measures. A press release and performance data also contain important information on these non-GAAP measures. Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Joc. Joc O'Rourke -- President and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Good morning. Thank you for joining our fourth quarter and full year 2021 earnings discussion. I hope you've had a chance to review or posted slides, as well as our news release and performance data which were made available on our website yesterday. I will provide some additional context before we respond to the questions we received last night. And then we'll conclude with a live Q&A session. Mosaic delivered an excellent financial performance in 2021 with a total EBITDA for the year of $3.6 billion, our highest total since Mosaic was listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Adjusted earnings per share were $5.4 the highest since 2011. Our results were a reflection of strong performance across all of our segments. Phosphate segment adjusted EBITDA totaled $1.7 billion, over 200% higher than the segment's total in 2020, reflecting strong pricing and growth in MicroEssentials, which more than offset the production impacts of Hurricane Ida. Potash segment adjusted EBITDA totaled $1.3 billion, up 78% from the prior year as pricing, increased output from K3, and the restart of Colonsay largely mitigated the closure of K1 and K2. In Brazil, Mosaic Fertilizantes generated adjusted EBITDA of $821 million, up 74% from the prior year as the team capitalized on strong demand, a trend that we expected and drove our decision to acquire Fertilizantes four years ago. In 2021, Mosaic Fertilizantes was able to achieve its $200 million transformational EBITDA improvement target, over a year ahead of schedule. These results highlight the decisions we've made over the last decade that have strengthened the business. Most significant has been the construction of K3, which at full capacity will be one of the largest, most efficient, and automated potash mines in the world. Assuming a net investment consistent with what we discussed at our 2019 Analyst Day, at today's prices, K3's payback period can be measured in months rather than years. Also in potash, we successfully restarted Colonsay and restart the targeted annual run rate of 1 million tons during the fourth quarter.

 



 Colonsay's fourth quarter cash cost averaged $85 per ton, well below our pre-idle cost of $100 a ton despite higher price-driven taxes and royalties. In Brazil, our acquisition of Mosaic Fertilizantes in 2018 followed by the team's transformational work to improve margins has driven significant shareholder value. At the time of the transaction, pro forma EBITDA was less than $70 million. Our 2021 results show that we've been able to optimize that business through integration and transformational share gains and co-product sales. In our phosphate business performance products, primarily higher-margin MicroEssentials now account for more than 40% of the segment's finished product sales volumes. All of these decisions, combined with strong execution, put us in a position to benefit from 2021's favorable [Inaudible] market backdrop and improved Mosaic's financial position. In 2021, Mosaic retired $450 million of long-term debt, raises the annual dividend by 50%, and repurchased nearly $0.5 billion in shares. Looking forward, we continue to see agricultural market strength extending through 2022. Global demand for grain and oilseeds remains high. While stock-to-use ratios are at the lowest point in more than a decade. Food security concerns and rising biofuel consumption are driving demand for corn, and soybean, as well as rice, wheat, coffee, palm oil, and other agricultural commodities. These dynamics are sustaining agricultural commodity prices. It's the strength and crop markets combined with global industry supply constraints that have pushed fertilizer prices higher. Global supply disruptions from 2021 are expected to continue impacting the global market in 2022. In potash, sanctions against Belarus are beginning to have a profound impact on supply. Global buyers are beginning to acknowledge this including India and China, which both signed contracts with Canpotex at $590 per ton to ensure they have an adequate supply for 2022. In phosphates, the secular shift of China's supply away from exports toward domestic agriculture and industrial consumption is expected to outlast the short-term export ban currently in place. Over time, we believe domestic demand will drive China's phosphate exports lower as secular demand trends continue to grow, especially on the industrial side from chemicals and electric vehicles' lithium-ion phosphate batteries. Globally, strong demand over the last 18 months resulted in many producers delaying maintenance downtime to meet customer needs, which will have to be addressed at some point. On the demand side, farmer economics and most global growing regions remain constructive, inflation and input costs are impacting profitability. But recent increases in crop prices are improving farmer economics for 2022, even if estimated profitability remains below the 2021 record levels. As we head into North American spring planting season, we are seeing normal buyer behavior as demand continues to reflect strong underlying crop prices. In Brazil, fertilizer shipments in 2022 appear set to equal last year's record-setting total. Grower economics are improving thanks to rising crop prices, credit availability, and a favorable exchange rate. In India, while farmer demand remains very strong availability is still lagging. This month, the Indian government released its initial budget for nutrient subsidies, highlighting the Indian government's willingness to respond to market conditions with revisions. Given depleted Indian inventories, we see India as a source of pent-up demand, which should see phosphate and potash consumption grow in 2022. As we look at our business in the context of today's global markets, we remain very optimistic. In potash, K3s ramp-up is expected to be completed by the end of the first quarter. Meaning it will reach full capacity under budget and two years ahead of schedule. When combined with the Belle Plaine and a full year of production from Colonsay, we expect higher production in 2022 with production costs trending lower as the year progresses. In the first quarter, we expect sales volume of 1.8 million to 2 million tons with average realized FOB prices more than $125 per ton higher than prices realized in the fourth quarter. In phosphates, we also expect a recovery in volume in 2022 following last year's production curtailments related to the sulfur shortage in the second quarter and Hurricane Ida in the third and fourth quarters. We expect to see input cost inflation in 2022, especially related to our open-market purchases of sulfur and ammonia. But in ammonia, we continue to benefit from two-thirds of our needs being met by internal production and our supply agreement with CF Industries. In the first quarter, we expect phosphate sales volumes of 1.6 million tons to 1.8 million tons. Our expected sales volumes reflect supply chain constraints, as well as low inventories at the start of the year because of Hurricane Ida. Average realized FOB prices are expected to be more than $60 per ton higher than prices realized in the fourth quarter, somewhat offset by higher input costs. For Mosaic Fertilizantes, we expect the business to continue reflecting the favorable market backdrop and our transformation efforts in 2022. Sustained grower demand and improved market positioning should continue to drive results. We are seeing inflation affect our cost structure but believe our transformation initiatives should offset much of the impact. Given the direction of our business, we anticipate generating significant earnings and free cash flow in 2022. With that in mind, it is imperative that we allocate capital wisely across our three strategic focus areas of capital return to shareholders, balance sheet strength, and investing in the business. Returning capital to shareholders will be a key focus in 2022 over the coming year. We anticipate returning most of our free cash flow up to 75% to shareholders through a combination of share repurchases and dividends. At today's price, we believe our shares represent compelling value given the dynamics we're seeing. To underscore this point, we will be initiating a $400 million accelerated share repurchase program in the coming days. After the ASR, we will have repurchased approximately $830 million against our $1 billion authorization established last August. We plan to exhaust the remaining portion of that authorization through open market purchases. As a result, Mosaic's Board has approved a new $1 billion repurchase authorization, which goes into effect after the current program is completed. The ASR and our new authorization together represent about 8% of our market capitalization. Combining both authorizations represents approximately 12% of our current market cap. In addition to share repurchases, Mosaic's Board has also approved raising the regular annual dividend from $0.45 to $0.60 per share beginning in the second quarter. This is the third regular dividend hike in the last 12 months and reflects our confidence in the long-term strength of the business. In the area of balance sheet strength, we remain committed to reducing long-term debt by $1 billion. Last year, we retired $450 million, which leaves $550 million left toward our ultimate goal. This coincides with $550 million of long-term debt that matures later this year. It is also important to note that our working capital needs tend to grow as our end markets strengthen. Because of this, we have expanded our working capital lending facilities by $375 million to help us more efficiently manage our liquidity. Given our outlook for the year, we expect we'll also be able to continue investing wisely and efficiently in our business, even as we return the majority of our capital to shareholders. Over the last five years, the value created by key investments like accelerated construction of K3, the acquisition of Mosaic Fertilizantes, and the development and growth of MicroEssentials, speaks for itself. Looking forward, we will continue to seek out high-returning investments, but our focus is not on large-scale greenfield projects. Rather, we believe in better return can be realized in areas like enlarging our footprint in Brazil, expansion of MicroEssentials, and investment in soil health and biologics. In the last area, we are seeing very promising results. As an example through our partnership with BioConsortia, field trials of a first-generation nitrogen-fixing formulation for corn have shown promising results that we believe are as good as anything available in the market today. And we believe further development can result in a best-in-class nitrogen solution for growers in the next two years. We will have exclusive rights to that product when it comes to market in the Americas, China, and India, key growing regions that want to reduce their nitrogen costs. This is just one example of many partnerships as we continue to explore rural solutions across biologicals and soil health, and we continue to do this through small, efficient investments that establish exclusive rights partnerships like with BioConsortia or give us access to entire product portfolios, as is the case with our recent investment in plant response. A small AG technology company that develops and commercializes plant and soil health products. In total, we've invested approximately $50 million over the last two years to build the foundation for an exciting future portfolio of value-added products that our customers are asking for. We anticipate having more to share on these investments over time. These moves emphasize our commitment to disciplined capital allocation. We will remain flexible in our approach. Continuing to evaluate compelling opportunities that strengthen our business over the long term, optimize our balance sheet, and return significant capital to shareholders. Finally, a discussion of the future of our business would be incomplete without including an update on some of the initiatives we've taken to make sure we continue to operate sustainably. Over the last year, we've made significant progress toward our ESG performance targets originally set in 2020, so much so that we've set even higher targets. In the area of carbon emissions, Mosaic has set a target of being net-zero at this Florida operations by 2030 and globally by 2040. For diversity and inclusion, we set new goals for 2030 around the issues of race, gender, and community support. Our global goals ensure that our actions are purposeful, sustainable, and measurable as we seek to operate our business, while also helping to build a more inclusive culture where all of our employees can thrive. With that, let's move on to the Q&A portion of the call.Paul Massoud -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thanks, Joc. Before we open lines for the live Q&A, we're going to address some of the most common questions we received last night after our materials were released. To speed things along, we won't identify each individual analyst because many submitted similar questions. Our first question is on the issue of the potash market in Belarus. How should investors think about the impact of sanctions on the global market?Joc O'Rourke -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you. First, the potash market was already tight before any sanctions came into place. Higher crop prices, higher demand for fertilizer globally has led to a tightness in this market that was driving higher prices before the Belarusian sanctions. The Belarusian sanctions have simply exacerbated and made the tightness more serious in terms of the length of the sanctions. We really don't know, and there's no obvious immediate resolution to that issue right now. Part of maybe a regime change. I can't see how the issue is going to be resolved in terms of the shortfall. We believe it could be anywhere from a few million tons in the best-case scenario to as much as 8 million tons if the sanctions remain all through the year. Our base case we're working on right now is that there will be about a 4 million tons deficit this year. Now, the best evidence for this, from our perspective, is not what we see, but what our buyers are saying. Our buyers are signaling that this issue could be longer-lasting than some of our producers have suggested India and China both signed 2022 contracts with $590 for longer durations than the previous six-month contracts. We are hearing similar sentiments from our other global customers. They cannot get the tonnage and if they can there is no method to pay for it with US banks. So it's fair to assume that every producer is likely already evaluating every economic time that they can get out to the market including us. But remember, in addition to maximizing and increasing tonnage, we cannot forget about the supply chain constraints substantially increasing our logistics capability. Producers will need more railcars or port capacity, and all of this takes time and capital to overcome.Paul Massoud -- Vice President, Investor Relations A follow-up question on this issue. How much can Mosaic raise volumes to help fill the gap? Specifically, what run rates are you targeting? Is there any potential upside in the near term?Joc O'Rourke -- President and Chief Executive Officer And thank you. Before the sanctions, mosaics targeted run rate by the end of the first quarter was about 10.5 million tons. And let me just quickly give you the break-up of the Esterhazy in its existing form, which we believe can run a consistent, sustainable 5.5 million tons, Belle Plaine around 3 million tons, Colonsay before the shutdown was running somewhere around 1 to 1.5 million tons, and we will find the right spot for that this year. That gives us an MLP tonnage of around 9.5 to 10 million tons available today. And then [Inaudible] just a little over 700,000 tons takes our total to about 10.5 million tons of sustainable production capability. So as we look forward, what can we do to push our capabilities? We know we have some latent capacity at Colonsay and we're looking right now at how we can do a little extra development with some mining panels into place that was shut down a few years ago. In terms of K3, the run rate of 5.5 million tons, we think we could run a little more than that. And that'll play out as we start getting more and more mining areas running and we get the 11th miner in position. The other issue at Esterhazy, we think there are some pretty good debottlenecking projects that we're already studying, and we believe some of those will lead to a little better tonnage coming out of Esterhazy. In terms of Belle Plaine, we believe it's running pretty much at its maximum right now. So the easy tonnage is will come from debottlenecking Colonsay, getting more miners into higher production panels, and then pushing K3 and doing the small debottlenecking projects that come at the end of a long capital project.Paul Massoud -- Vice President, Investor Relations Joc, the next issue is on the broader phosphate market and China in particular, how much will China export this year? Could that export ban be lifted early?Joc O'Rourke -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you. We think China exports could be down as much as 2.5 million tons this year to about 9 million tons. We do expect that the ban could be lifted as early as the end of the planting season, and we have to expect that at today's prices, it wouldn't be surprising to see China's producers try to benefit from that high-price environment. But we do think that annual exports are going to continue to trend lower over time. That [Inaudible] domestic demand in China will pull increasingly large amounts of phosphates away from the export market. And we cannot ignore industrial uses. Battery growth and domestic fertilizers will take precedence over exports, and we expect the Chinese government will continue to force suppliers to prioritize domestic demand.Paul Massoud -- Vice President, Investor Relations Our next question focuses on farmer economics, and I think this one's for you, Jenny. Our group economics is now at the point where nutrient demand disruption is a real threat to the market.Jenny Wang -- Senior Vice President of Global Strategic Marketing In today's crop prices around all major growing regions, we are seeing farmer economics and affordability are very constructive. And it is probably lower than last year's level. It is far above the historical average. In North America, we are seeing customers' and farmers' behavior are as normal as the spring season. In Brazil, especially over the last few weeks as the sodium price rallied, we are seeing very strong customer buying happening in the country. And in India, we expect that the government is going to do again readjust their subsidy level in order to support their farmers' demand for phosphate and potash, as they did last year. If there is any stretch to the consumption of demand, it is probably because of lack of availability, cargoes, phosphate, and potash. And the global demand is there if the tons are available.Paul Massoud -- Vice President, Investor Relations Joc, we've received quite a few questions on phosphate first quarter guidance, 1.6 to 1.8 million tons, seems like compared to history. What's happening there? Is the lower sales volume guidance due to operational issues? Or due to demand disruption and buyers blocking at current prices.Joc O'Rourke -- President and Chief Executive Officer Well, thank you. In terms of our expected volumes for quarter one, I think there are really two big issues we have to consider when we look at our sales volume. The first of all us is actually quarter four was Hurricane Ida and subsequent repair events impacted at the beginning of the fourth quarter and left us with very, very low inventories entering this year, which of course, tends to contribute to first-quarter sales. In terms of the other issue, from our perspective, it's really the logistics COVID and winter weather are having a major impact on the supply chain including rail, ocean freight, ports, and trucking logistics. The industry is seeing delays throughout the system, and that's contributing to the lower than historical sales volume guidance. Just as an example, rail along this year, we're seeing about a 20% to 30% increase in cycle time for our trains. And you can expect that to have a big impact on [Inaudible] at the very end of the quarter. That said, we expect our annual sales to be in line with historic norms for phosphates. Delayed shipments due to supply chain issues will resolve themselves as we come out of the winter weather and we get through this last wave of COVID. So we will see those come in the next quarter or two. The thing I would emphasize is we're seeing normal buyer behavior. Yes, nutrient prices are up, but crop prices more than offset that and point to a very good year for growth profitability, even if it's a small step back from the 2021 levels. We expect crop prices to continue to incentivize farmers to apply fertilizer as they normally would.Paul Massoud -- Vice President, Investor Relations Clint, our last two questions are for you. The first set is on working capital. Can you add some color around working capital. What do you anticipate needs to be in 2022?Clint Freeland -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Sure, thanks, Paul. So I think as everyone knows, our business is highly seasonal and we can experience pretty significant working capital changes throughout the year. And over the last couple of years, we have put in new working capital facilities to help us manage through some of that seasonal dynamic and the current pricing environment and the environment that we've been in and the rate of change that we've seen just amplifies those seasonal working capital moves. And so, more recently, we've upsized some of our working capital lines to better align our options and our tools to the needs of the business. Just to give you a sense as we look at the second half of last year, our core working capital needs were up well over $1 billion, and the majority of that was in the fourth quarter. And as we look forward to 2022, I think any incremental working capital needs are likely to be dictated by the price environment that we see to the extent that the pricing environment moderating the rate of change moderates, then I think the working capital incremental needs will moderate. But if we do see a continuation of what we've seen in the last six months, I think we could expect to see increasing working capital requirements.Paul Massoud -- Vice President, Investor Relations Clint, our final question is on a capital allocation strategy. We seem to be prioritizing share repurchases over other uses of capital, is that correct? And what are those other uses? And is it possible to do it all? Given our commitment to return up to 75% of our free cash flow to shareholders?Clint Freeland -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Paul. As we look forward to the balance of 2022, we expect to generate a significant amount of earnings and cash flow as we think about the capital allocation for this year, and we intend to continue strengthening both our business and our balance sheet by continuing to invest in high return and opportunistic investments and paying down debt. But we think we can do those things and return a significant amount of capital to shareholders this year within the construct that we've outlined. Today, we announced an increase in our dividend for this year and going forward, as well as a buyback using an ASR tool. As we go through the balance of the year, we intend to remain disciplined and nimble and look at different ways of returning capital to our shareholders. But our current priority is on buybacks. We look at our share price where it is, and we think that it is compelling given the environment that we see. So that's our priority today. But again, we intend to remain flexible as we go through the year.Paul Massoud -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thanks, Clint. That wraps up the fireside chat portion of this call. I would now like to turn it over to the audience for your questions. 