  OperatorGreetings and welcome to the Penn National Gaming second-quarter earnings and acquisition of the Score Media and Gaming conference call. [Operator instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Joe Jaffoni, investor relations. Please go ahead.Joe Jaffoni -- Investor Relations Thank you, Rita. Good morning, everyone and thank you for joining Penn National Gaming's conference call to review the company's 2021 second-quarter results and today's announcement that Penn National has agreed to acquire Score Media and Gaming. There are investor presentations on the Penn National website for both the quarterly results and the transaction news. We'll get to management's presentation and comments momentarily as well as your question and answer, but first, I'll review the safe harbor disclosure.

 



 In addition to historical facts or statements of current conditions, today's conference call contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, which involve risks and uncertainties. These statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminologies such as expects, believes, estimates, projects, intends, plans, seeks, may, will, should or anticipates or the negative or other variations of these or similar words or by discussion of future events, strategies or risks and uncertainties, including future plans, strategies, performance, developments, acquisitions, capital expenditures and operating results. Such forward-looking statements reflect the company's current expectations and beliefs but are not guarantees of future performance. As such, actual results may vary materially from expectations.The risks and uncertainties associated with the forward-looking statements are described in today's news announcements and in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the company's reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q. Penn National Gaming assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. Today's call and webcast will include non-GAAP financial measures within the meaning of SEC Regulation G. And when required, a reconciliation of all non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP can be found in today's press release as well as on the company's website. Thank you for your patience with that. And now it's my pleasure to turn the call over to Penn's CEO, Jay Snowden. Jay, please go ahead. Jay Snowden -- Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thanks, Joe. Good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining us for our second-quarter earnings call and, I would say, more importantly, the exciting announcement of the acquisition of Score Media and Gaming. I have with me here in Wyomissing our CFO, Felicia Hendricks; our head of operations, Todd George as well as other members of my executive team. And later on, John Levy, founder and CEO of theScore, will join me to discuss our exciting new partnership that we announced this morning. We'll also be joined in a bit by Barstool founder, Dave Portnoy; and Barstool Sports CEO, Erika Nardini, to get their perspective on the deal as well. But first, I'll begin today's call with the highlights of our record financial results this quarter, which exceeded our preannounced ranges. This is a reflection of the ongoing recovery in regional gaming and it speaks more specifically to the outstanding job that Todd and his operating teams, both here at corporate and at the property levels, are doing to help drive our continued margin improvement and boost higher spend per visit from our existing 55-plus age group, while finding new ways to attract younger patrons looking for alternative entertainment options. We also saw impressive revenue growth and near breakeven EBITDA results across our Penn Interactive segment. We're preparing to launch the Barstool Sportsbook app in four or five more states by the start of NFL season next month. And by the end of this calendar year, we expect to be live in at least 10 states while also introducing several new features to the app, such as same game parlay and shareable bet slip, which we're really excited about. With greater operating scale and leverage, improved products and unique value-creating marketing strategies, we believe we are extremely well positioned for a strong fall as we roll into Barstool Sports' favorite time of the year, football season, which provides a nice segue to our pending acquisition of theScore, which is the No. 1 sports app and sports media name in Canada and the third most popular sports app and sports media name in North America. When we add theScore's unique integrated media and betting platform and modern state-of-the-art technology to the massive audience of Barstool Sports and it's wildly popular personalities and content, we'll be creating North America's leading digital sports content, gaming and technology company. Under the terms of the agreement, which have been unanimously approved by the boards of the Directors of both companies, we'll be acquiring theScore for approximately $2 billion in cash and stock. theScore's shareholders will receive $17 in cash and 0.2398 shares of Penn National common stock for each of theScore share, which implies a total purchase consideration of USD 34 per theScore share based on Penn National's five day volume-weighted average trading price as of July 30, 2021.

 



 We are uniquely positioned to seamlessly serve our customers with the most powerful ecosystem of sports, gaming and media in North America, ultimately creating a community that does not exist today. This transaction will allow us to provide state-of-the-art mobile sports betting and iCasino with highly customized bets and enhanced in-game wagering opportunities, along with highly engaging, personalized sports and media content and real-time scores, stats and videos. We believe this powerful new flywheel will result in best-in-class engagement, retention and loyalty and this larger cross-promotion ecosystem will provide us with multiple growth channels that transcend our current business verticals. In the near term, we'll just be scratching the surface of where we can ultimately take this company. The transaction also provides us with a path to full control of our own tech stack with a deep pool of engineering talent. theScore has developed a modern player account management system and is currently in the process of finishing up the development of an in-house managed risk and trading service platform built specifically for the North American market that should lead to significant savings in third-party platform costs and more importantly, allow us to broaden our product offerings, providing the missing piece for operating at what we believe will be industry-leading margins. In fact, we expect to realize margin improvement of 500 basis points or more over time for Penn Interactive. But more important than cost synergies, we believe the transaction will provide us with significant incremental revenues, not just in Canada but also in the U.S. The financial benefits of this transaction are very compelling. Despite significant planned investments in technology and new launches, we anticipate that the acquisition of theScore will provide adjusted EBITDA accretion by year two and an incremental $200 million medium-term adjusted EBITDA opportunity with a $500 million incremental long-term adjusted EBITDA upside. Our perspective is that operators that have achieved early online market share have done so primarily through first-mover advantage, leveraging existing customer databases and significant paid media spend. We believe the long-term winners will be defined by best-in-class products, bespoke content, efficient customer acquisition, multi-platform reach and broad market access, all of which we have in spades. Before turning it over to John, I want to speak for a minute about our excitement to be entering the Canadian gaming market, which represents a compelling revenue growth and talent-acquisition opportunity. Canada and particularly Toronto, is known for its deep pool of world-class engineering and technology expertise and we and theScore intend to tap into that pool to expand theScore's tech team there as the business continues to scale. I also want to reinforce that we intend to operate theScore as a stand-alone business, much like we have with Barstool, which will remain headquartered in Toronto. Finally, it goes without saying that this transaction reflects the deep respect we have had for theScore brand over the years and what John and his family have created. We have known the Levy family for years and, like our Barstool acquisition, we don't want to come in and change who they are, which is what has made them so successful. A large part of what we love about both Barstool and theScore is their authentic voice, their scrappy nature and entrepreneurial spirit. We want theScore to keep on doing what it does best and are proud to have John and his entire team and family bring their unique perspective to our Penn National family. This is going to be a long-term partnership. So with that, I'd like to turn it over to John Levy.John Levy -- Founder and Chief Executive Officer So thanks very much, Jay. And as Jay mentioned, we've been strategic partners with Penn in the U.S. since 2019. And over that time, it's been great getting to know Jay and his team who really do share the same culture and like us are proud to be disruptors. We quickly realized that when we shared a common vision and approach related to a rapidly growing opportunity in media gaming all across North America. We've admired how Penn has strategically built their business and when this opportunity arose, it was clear that there was a natural alignment. This deal brings together two companies who've developed large and loyal customer bases. We can't wait to join forces with Penn and leverage our respective strengths to create the most powerful sports media, gaming and content company in the market. We will combine to create a first-of-its-kind company, which brings together world-class technology, highly engaging sports content and unparalleled reach, enabling us to uniquely serve users like no one else can. Penn obviously has a massive retail footprint across the U.S. but their approach to online gaming is also equally appealing. Like us, Penn has made a strategic decision to build their gaming operation around a strategy that originally integrates media and betting. Through Barstool, leveraging their hugely influential content machine, it's been apparent how the powerful strategy -- how powerful the strategy can be. Our product-led approach to integrating media and betting with technology accomplishes the same objective through an entirely complementary way. We look forward to collaborating with Dave, Erika and Barstool team as we leverage our unique brands, large audience and respective approaches to serving sports fan. Now, I'd also like to thank our team at theScore for helping us build this truly incredible organization. For years, the team maintained a dedicated focus and attention to understanding how to empower the fan experience. That effort has driven the innovation and ultimate success across all of our verticals, sports media, esports and gaming. This concentrated unified mission took us head first into the regulated gaming industry, going the path less traveled for media companies and actually becoming the sportsbook. We knew there was a better way to serve sportsbook betters. In a few years, we've built an innovative, technology-led, integrated media and gaming operation that has poised us for success across North America, including the highly anticipated upcoming rollout of commercial sports betting right here in our home turf. This enormously potential and demonstrated ability to execute that has excited our partners at Penn and their shared vision of where we can take it has excited us. That very much includes the opportunity here in Canada. With Penn's support, we will continue to invest in building our Canadian operations, growing our footprint and expanding our workforce, including our technical capabilities. Mobile technology has always been the foundation of our organization since we began with apps on our flipped home. We have built it into a world-class technology platform and will continue to pioneer on that front, setting the standards for digital sports, media and gaming. Now with Penn, we have the opportunity to leverage it on a much larger scale. This combined entity truly creates a unique market leadership position across media, gaming and technology and we could not be more excited with the opportunity ahead. On a personal note, I'd like to thank Penn for being a great partner these past few years and express how much Benjie and I look forward to continuing to work with them and now, obviously, in a much closer capacity as we continue to head up theScore as part of this new combined company. With that, now I will turn it back to Jay.Jay Snowden -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, John. Now, I'd like to turn it over to Dave Portnoy and Erika Nardini to say a few words as well. Dave, it's all yours.Dave Portnoy -- Founder Yes. Thanks, Jay. So I'm super excited and things come full circle. I've told this a little bit, but even before we were involved with Jay and Penn when the Chernin guys invested as the first company, really the only company. When they said, is there anybody else that you guys think you're synergistic with that could really grow exponentially what you're doing, my answer was theScore. So Erika and I met with John way back and had a meeting. We didn't have the resources at the time to pull it off. But I think what makes Barstool successful and what has made the Barstool and Penn relationship work is we really know the market. We know the gambling space, we know sports gambling. And I've been a user of theScore for -- I don't even know how long I was trying to check when I installed the app on my phone. It's got to be 10, 15 years. So we're super excited. I think it's so synergistic with what they do and what we do and continues the belief that I know Jay and I have -- John and I have, which is controlling the media and having the entire ecosystem where people get scores, they get info and they can also place the wager. It just fits so perfectly. And I've said all along, the company as everyone's spending that I would want to work with is theScore. So it's been a long time coming, but we just see the world the same way and continues on the belief of the convergence of media, sports gambling and the next step. So I couldn't be more excited. It's a company that I know well and have believed in and really just fits the vision of where we want to go. So super excited.Erika Nardini -- Chief Executive Officer And then this is Erika, just jumping on top of that. We have so much respect for John, his entire family and what theScore has become and the business they've created. Dave is exactly right. The first company we met with after PASPA was repealed was theScore. We have such a profound respect for what they've created in Canada. I'm so blown away by how they think about community, the type of tech that they're creating, the way they're innovating around information and betting. And we believe that those things, coupled with PENN's strengths and footprint and our brand, can create a company that will have an incredible amount of synergy. We also couldn't be more excited to be partnering with a Canadian company and we're ready to go to the moon.Jay Snowden -- Chief Executive Officer Awesome. Thanks, Erika. Thanks, Dave. Well, let me -- before we open it up to questions, let me just close it out by reiterating a few things. And I think you heard it loud and clear from John Levy, from Dave and from Erika that to all of us, there's really a shared vision of where we're headed and it's not really where everyone is today. We look at this transaction and this partnership as it's not just about sports betting, it's not just about media, it's not just about tech or gaming. It really does transcend any one of those individual verticals from our perspective. And to really become best-in-class and have a really successful flywheel, you have to have the best and widest variety of content, a modern tech platform, omnichannel assets, smart engineers, best-in-class marketers. And we believe strongly, theScore, Barstool Sports and Penn National combined check every box. So we're here today to announce that we're doubling down on the belief that we have the best strategy. And today, with this partnership, we'll be making the moat that we've built wider and deeper. So that's what we're here to talk about, excited to answer your questions. And with that, Rita, we'll hand it over to you. 