
OperatorGood morning and welcome to the Allegion First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Please note, this event is being recorded.I would now like to turn the conference over to Tom Martineau, Vice President, Investor Relations and Treasurer. Please go ahead.Tom Martineau -- Vice President, Investor Relations, and Treasurer

 



Thank you, Andrew. Good morning, everyone. Welcome and thank you for joining us for Allegion's first quarter 2021 earnings call. With me today are Dave Petratis, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Patrick Shannon, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Allegion.Our earnings release, which was issued earlier this morning and the presentation, which we will refer to in today's call are available on our website at investor.allegion.com. This call will be recorded and archived on our website.Please go to Slides 2 and 3. Statements made in today's call that are not historical facts are considered forward-looking statements and are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of federal securities law. Please see our most recent SEC filings for a description of some of the factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from our projections. The company assumes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements.Today's presentation and commentary include non-GAAP financial measures. Please refer to the reconciliation in the financial tables of our press release for further details.

 



Dave and Patrick will now discuss our first quarter 2021 results, which will be followed by a Q&A session. Please, for the Q&A, we would like to ask each caller to limit themselves to one question and one short follow-up and then reenter the queue. We would like to give everyone an opportunity, given the time allotted.Please go to Slide 4, and I'll turn the call over to Dave.David D. Petratis -- Chairman, President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Tom. Good morning and thank you for joining us today. I'm pleased with the company's first quarter performance. We delivered revenue growth, margin expansion, double-digit earnings growth and strong available cash flow against a tough prior-year comparable. We continue to make progress on our seamless access strategy, while maintaining the focus on keeping our employees safe and serving our customers efficiently.

 



Let's begin by walking through the first quarter financial summary. Revenue for the first quarter was $694.3 million, an increase of 2.9%, or 0.5% organically. The organic revenue increase was driven by strength in the Americas, residential and Allegion's International businesses offsetting continued softness in Americas non-residential. Currency tailwinds provided a boost to total revenue and more than offset the impact of divestitures. Patrick will share more detail on the regions in a moment.Adjusted operating margin increased by 30 basis points in the first quarter. We executed extremely well and the restructuring and cost management actions taken during 2020, along with the volume leverage on the businesses that grew offset the mix headwinds we are experiencing. Adjusted earnings per share of $1.20 increased $0.16 or 15.4% versus the prior year. The increase was driven by expanded operating income along with favorable other income and share count. Year-to-date available cash flow came in at $105.5 million, an increase of more than $86 million versus the prior year. The increased cash flow was driven by improvement in net working capital, growth in net earnings and reduced capital expenditures.Please go to Slide 5. As we discussed previously, reflecting on 2020 despite the ongoing pandemic, Allegion continues to invest in our future, most notably, through our innovation engines. From industrial design, engineering and IT to ventures, partnerships and acquisitions, we're building a build-borrow-buy approach to accelerate seamless access. Investing in our capabilities, partnering and integration are all core to our innovation strategy.Let's review some of Allegion's innovation and investments. Allegion's Overtur, our cloud-based ecosystem, where project teams collaborate on the specification, design and construction of door security and openings, expanded in multiple ways during the past year. Key and credential management was added; more functionality and integration for our building information modeling customers and automation that helps hardware specification writers. Overtur allows digital connectivity to our customers over the life of the structure. It's proving its value as a single source of truth for hardware requirements and decisions and to empower our partners to work more productively.Our ISONAS brand also launched a significant upgrade of its software platform in Q1. The Pure Access Cloud 4.0 reader controllers are pre-configured to the cloud and only require a network connection onsite making the ISONAS system truly plug and play. The software upgrade includes new front-end technology with customized dashboards, gives a boost to cyber security and anticipates adding capabilities in future new devices.Our product innovation spans the world of Allegion. SimonsVoss recently released a SmartLocker, a retrofit no-drilling lock option for lockers and furnitures in schools, hospitals and industrial facilities. This innovation was customer-inspired based on trends and needs in the market. Importantly, it integrates the existing SimonsVoss digital ecosystem. And there is additional functionality to provide or open each lock remotely to display break-in attempts in the software and to send notifications.And just as our internal innovations continue to delight our customers, innovation is built through key partnerships and our early leadership in the IoT market has established us as a go-to partner. In Q1 Homebase announced that they're working with Allegion and Walmart in-home to enable direct-to-fridge grocery delivery for apartment residents starting in the Kansas City metro. Homebase enables communities -- Homebase-enabled communities come with pre-installed Schlage smart locks, meaning that the Walmart associate making the delivery get secure one-time access for entry during a designated timeframe for delivery. This is a clear demonstration of seamless access adding value to people's everyday lives.Partnering with CBORD, Apple and Android has rapidly expanded seamless access use cases on higher education campuses. By enabling mobile credential technologies, we are part of the ecosystem that supports contactless student IDs for iPhones, Apple watches and Google Pay. CBORD also brings our Von Duprin exit devices and deploy, giving colleges new remote lockdown and monitoring capabilities. These integrations are good for campus securities and help the universities and colleges operate more efficiently and safely.Rounding out our build-borrow- buy approach to innovation, Allegion Ventures continues to invest in companies like Kasa, Mint House, Verge Sense and Openpath.We also acquired Yonomi, a technology company and leader in IoT cloud platforms. Founded in 2013 by building automation and enterprise computing experts, Yonomi was the first to create a smart home ecosystem, one that automatically discovers and coordinates devices. Allegion was an early customer and investor. Today, Yonomi solutions are used in more than 150 countries connected to millions of IoT devices. IoT -- excuse me, Yonomi also holds unique intellectual property that matches well to Allegion's strategic priorities for accelerating growth through seamless access, innovation and meaningful partnership. Our goal is to be the provider of choice among IoT developers and integrators. You'll continue to see more examples of investments and innovation through our build, borrow and buy approach in '21 and we look forward to sharing more with you in the future.Patrick will now walk you through the financials and I'll be back later to discuss our '21 outlook and wrap up.Patrick Shannon -- Senior Vice President, Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Dave and good morning everyone. Thank you for joining today's call. If you would, please go to slide number 6. This slide reflects our earnings per share reconciliation for the first quarter. For the first quarter, 2020 reported earnings per share was $0.0. Adjusting a $1.04 for charges related to intangible asset impairments, restructuring expenses and integration costs related acquisitions, the 2020 adjusted earnings per share was $1.04. Operational results increased earnings per share by $0.06 driven by volume leverage, along with continued benefits from cost-control measures and restructuring actions taken in 2020. Favorable price and currency also contributed to the increase. The combination of these items offset the unfavorable mix.Favorable other income and interest expense increased earnings per share by $0.08 and was driven primarily by favorable unrealized investment gains in 2021 compared to unrealized investment losses experienced in 2020. Favorable share count drove another $0.03 per share impact, more than offsetting the $0.01 reduction from investments. This results in adjusted first quarter 2021 earnings per share of $1.20, an increase of $0.16 or 15.4% compared to the prior year. Lastly, we have a $0.02 per share reduction for charges related to restructuring costs. After giving effect to these items, you arrive at the first quarter 2021 reported earnings per share of $1.18.Please go to slide number 7. This slide depicts the components of our revenue performance for the first quarter. I'll focus on the total Allegion results and cover the regions on their respective slides. As indicated, we experienced a 0.5% organic revenue growth in the first quarter as solid price performance was able to offset lower volume. Although the total company volume was slightly down, we did see strength in the Americas, residential and the International businesses. Currency also provided a tailwind to total growth and more than offset the impact of divestitures.Please go to slide number 8. First quarter revenues for the Allegion Americas segment were $498.9 million, down 2.6% on a reported basis and down 2.9% organically. The region continue to deliver good price realization. On volume Americas residential was outstanding again experiencing low 20% [Phonetic] growth, boosted by continued strength in retail point of sale, new home construction and electronics growth, which nearly offset the anticipated decline in the non-residential business caused by lower new construction and discretionary project delays. Electronics revenue was down mid-single-digits, with growth in residential products that was offset by reduced commercial electronics driven by delays in discretionary projects. We continue to see electronics and touchless solutions as long-term growth drivers and expect electronics accelerated growth to resume when market conditions normalize.Americas adjusted operating income of $135.5 million decreased 7.6% versus the prior year period and adjusted operating margin for the quarter was down 140 basis points. The decrease was driven primarily by volume deleverage, negative mix and incremental investments, partially offset by benefits from cost reduction actions and restructuring.Please go to slide number 9. First quarter revenues for the Allegion International segment were $195.4 million, up 20.2% and up 11% on an organic basis. The organic growth was driven by strength across all major geographies and businesses as markets continue to rebound. Part of the year-over-year growth was due to the comparative impact of COVID-related shutdowns in the prior-year. Favorable currency impacts also contributed to total revenue growth and were slightly offset by divestiture impacts.International adjusted operating income of $18 million increased nearly a 1,000% versus the prior year period. Adjusted operating margin for the quarter increased by 820 basis points. The margin increase was driven primarily by solid volume leverage, benefits from lower operating costs from the restructuring cost control actions taken during 2020, as well as favorable currency impacts. This is also our first quarter reporting under the new Allegion International segment. The transition was seamless and made possible by having strong leadership in place to drive effective change.Please go to slide number 10. Year to date available cash flow for the first quarter 2021 came in at $105.5 million, which is an increase of more than $86 million compared to the prior year period. The increase was driven by improvements in net working capital, higher earnings and reduced capital expenditures. Our strong cash flow generation continues to be an asset of the company.Looking at the chart to the right, it shows working capital as a percent of revenues decreased based on a 4 point quarter average. This was driven by reduced working capital needs from the lower volume throughout 2020, as well as strong collections performance. The business continues to generate strong cash flow and we remain committed to effective and efficient use of working capital. We will continue to evaluate opportunities to optimize working capital and drive effective cash flow conversion.I will now hand it back over to Dave for an update on our full year 2021 outlook.David D. Petratis -- Chairman, President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Patrick. Please go to Slide 11. We have more visibility into our markets and I am increasingly optimistic on the economic recovery. The Americas residential business continues to be hot, and is expected to grow in 2021. We anticipate strength in residential to persist for the foreseeable future. DIY demand remained strong and the construction market is strengthened by a shortage of available new homes, continued low mortgage rates and improved trends and permits and starts. However, completion rates have been lagging starts due to labor and supply shortages, which should improve as we move further past the pandemic.Looking at the Americas non-residential business, we saw demand begin to increase on the repair retrofit projects sooner than we previously anticipated. We expect this trend to continue for the remainder of the year. In new constructions, we are starting to see positive movement in macroeconomic indicators, but it's important to remember the late cycle nature of this market. For 2021, I expect non-residential new construction to remain soft but the monthly change in the architectural building index, Dodge construction starts and potential stimulus spending are trending favorable and assuming this continues, it will lead to growth in 2022 and beyond. Seamless access, software and electronics continue to be long-term growth drivers, and they will remain our top investment priorities. They are the future of Allegion. With these parameters in place, we are now projecting total and organic revenue in the Americas to be flat to up 1% in 2021.In the Allegion International segments, markets continue to recover and we expect full year growth in most of our International segments, led by our Germanic and Global Portable Securities business. We continue to monitor the pace of vaccine rollouts internationally as this will lead to sustainable improvements in the economic environment. Currency tailwinds more than offset the divestiture of our QMI door business and contribute to total growth. For the region, we are raising our outlook for total revenue growth to 12% to 13% with our organic growth of 7.5% to 8.5%.All in, for total Allegion, we are now projecting total revenue to be up 3% to 4% and organic revenue to increase 2% to 3%. We are also raising our earnings per share outlook with reported EPS at a range of $4.85 to $5.05 per share and adjusted EPS to be between $5 and $5.15. This guide incorporates pricing actions to offset direct material inflation, as well as reflecting our supply chain capability to mitigate industry challenges on supply and electronic component shortages. We anticipate that these challenges will persist for the balance of the year and we will continue to monitor and adapt to changing market conditions.Our outlook for available cash flow is also being raised and now projected to be $430 million to $450 million. The outlook assumes investment spend of approximately $0.10 to $0.15 per share. The full year adjusted effective tax rate is expected to be approximately 12.5%. The outlook for outstanding diluted shares continues to be approximately 91 million.Please go to Slide 12. Allegion is off to a great start. We experienced reported and organic revenue growth, expanded operating margins and delivered strong cash flow. We have solid business fundamentals and a proven ability to execute and adapt to changing and uncertain market conditions. We have managed the business extremely well to set us up for success as markets return to normal. Macroeconomic indicators and specific indices related to our business are trending positive and I am increasingly confident in the recovery.The Allegion commitment to shareholders, employees and customers is to be stronger exiting the pandemic than when we entered; our work continues. I want to take this opportunity to thank our employees for their diligence and dedication during the pandemic. It is their commitment that has driven the company to perform well and accelerated our vision of seamless access and a safer world. Allegion's future is bright.Thank you. Now, Patrick, and I will be happy to take your questions.