
OperatorGood afternoon, and welcome to Hologic's Second Quarter Fiscal 2021 Earnings Conference Call. My name is Jenny [Phonetic] and I am your operator for today's call. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to introduce Mike Watts, Vice President, Investor Relations and Corporate Communications, to begin the call.Michael Watts -- Vice President, Investor Relations and Corporate Communications

 



Thank you, Jenny. Good afternoon and thanks for joining us for Hologic's second quarter fiscal 2021 earnings call. With me today are Steve MacMillan, the Company's Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Karleen Oberton, our Chief Financial Officer. Steve and Karleen both have some prepared remarks, then we'll have a question-and-answer session.Our second quarter press release is available now on the Investors section of our website. We also will post our prepared remarks to our website shortly after we deliver them. Finally, a replay of this call will be archived through May 21st.Before we begin, I'd like to inform you that certain statements we make during this call will be forward-looking. These statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied. Such factors include those that are referenced in the Safe Harbor statement included in our earnings release, and in our filings with the SEC.Also during this call, we will be discussing certain non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation to GAAP can be found in our earnings release. One of these non-GAAP measures is organic revenue. We define organic revenue as constant currency revenue excluding the divested Blood Screening business as well as the acquired Acessa, Biotheranostics and Diagenode businesses.

 



Finally, any percentage changes we discuss will be on a year-over-year basis, and revenue growth rates will be expressed in constant currency, unless otherwise noted.Now I'd like to turn the call over to Steve MacMillan, Hologic's CEO.Stephen P. MacMillan -- Chairman, President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Mike, and good afternoon, everyone. We're pleased to discuss our financial results for the second quarter of fiscal 2021. We posted excellent financial results overall, highlighted by best-in-class growth rates. Total revenue was $1.54 billion and non-GAAP earnings per share were $2.59, both in line with our guidance. Organic revenue doubled, driven by strong recovery and momentum in our base businesses as well as our continued contributions to the COVID-19 fight. On the bottom line, EPS more than quadrupled.

 



Our diversified business model again demonstrated its value in the second quarter, as strong growth rates in our core businesses enabled us to meet our overall guidance even though COVID assay sales were less than expected. Our base Diagnostics business and our Surgical franchise both finished slightly better than forecast, even while overcoming a tough January for US healthcare utilization that was driven by increasing COVID cases. And our Breast Health division clearly outperformed, as our diversification strategy has led to a faster than expected recovery.Karleen will cover the revenue and expense details, but before she does, I'd like to discuss two primary topics. When the COVID pandemic began more than a year ago, we set out to accomplish two things in simple terms. First, we committed to make as big an impact as possible against the pandemic. And second, we wanted to ensure that every action we took helped us emerge from the pandemic as a stronger company. We are clearly accomplishing both goals, which makes us more excited than ever about our future.In terms of our first goal, helping fight the pandemic on a global scale, let's summarize our contributions by focusing on four key numbers. Our first number is 100 million. Soon we will ship our 100 millionth COVID test to customers, which included 27 million in the second quarter. At the same time, we have maintained our commitment to provide women's health tests by dramatically increasing total molecular diagnostics production capacity. We are on track with our expansion plans in San Diego and Manchester, UK to have the capacity to make at least 75 million tests a quarter across our portfolio by January of 2022.Our second number is 40. This is the number of countries in which we have sold COVID tests as we helped battle what has been and continues to be a global crisis. COVID testing continues to strengthen our international business, our relationships with customers, our future prospects in diagnostics and even market access for our other franchises. These COVID sales contributed to total international revenue of $474 million in the second quarter, which represented tremendous growth of 142%.Our third number is 717. This is the number of Panther instruments we have shipped to global customers over the last year, including about 190 in the second quarter. As a reminder, in the five years before COVID, we shipped an average of 225 Panthers a year. So we've more than tripled that pace over the last 12 months. In addition, we are encouraged that demand for Panthers remains very high. And for all of fiscal 2021, we expect to exceed last year's record placements. Overall, our global installed base now stands at roughly 2,600 instruments, approximately 40% higher than when the pandemic began, giving us a robust platform for future growth as more customers come to appreciate our systems' best-in-class capabilities. And as we have discussed, we are seeing this play out with record levels of new non-COVID business on these Panthers.All these numbers lead to our fourth number, which is $2.35 billion. This is the total COVID assay revenue we have generated on a global basis since the pandemic began, including $680 million in the second quarter. And this has contributed very significantly to operating cash flow of nearly $1.9 billion over the last year. This has enabled us to acquire four companies and sign a deal for a fifth, even while further strengthening our balance sheet.We'll discuss our business development activity more in a minute. Before we do that, we wanted to provide our current perspective on the changes in the COVID testing market that you have all seen with the understanding that the pandemic and its impact on Hologic remain highly unpredictable. Based on publicly available data for the US, molecular COVID testing volumes remain very high, much higher than for any other molecular test, but have declined significantly since January based on a better than expected vaccine rollout.In this context, our US sales of COVID tests also declined significantly in March and further in April. We believe that molecular COVID testing demand will likely decline further as vaccines roll out, but remain important into fiscal '22 and beyond. This reflects the ongoing need for accurate clinical diagnoses, the value of testing for infection control purposes and the so-called back to life testing that is helping to reopen economies.In this environment, the combination of our huge Panther installed base at facilities close to the patient and our gold standard assay performance have us uniquely positioned to gain market share. Customers continue to tell us that Panther and Aptima remain their products of choice and that they intend to consolidate on our platforms. But we believe many of them are first using up less automated assays before they expire. Customers had accumulated these tests in the winter when they needed multiple manufacturers to accommodate then higher levels of demand. This dynamic is further supported by the public AdvaMed data that many of you see, which show that industrywide tests performed are now running ahead of tests shipped, indicating that inventory is being worked down.In response to these market changes, we pivoted in two ways in the second quarter. First, by selling more COVID tests to our base hospital customers who want to bring highly accurate testing closer to their patients, improving turnaround times and clinical relevance. Panther is well positioned for this with first test results being delivered in about three hours. Notably, COVID tests are now being run on Panthers in more than 600 clinical labs in the United States. This means that COVID is the second most decentralized test that we sell, following only APTIMA Combo 2, which has been on the US market for roughly 20 years.Second, we pivoted by selling more tests internationally. As everyone has seen in the news, the vaccine rollout is proceeding at different paces around the world. Europe in particular has struggled with inoculations, increasing the importance of testing. For example, in the second quarter, almost 40% of our COVID assay revenue came from outside the United States, mainly from Europe.Now, let's shift gears to our second major topic, an update on how the tremendous impact we've made against COVID has strengthened our business for the other side of the pandemic. As many of you will recall, before the pandemic hit, our organic growth rate had been steadily improving to around 5% based on new products, international expansion and our early acquisitions. Now, as we begin our annual strategic planning process, we are confident that organic growth for the next several years, excluding COVID assay sales, will be higher than it was before the pandemic hit.In Diagnostics, we've used COVID cash flows to broaden our portfolio by buying assets that are growing faster than our base business. Since the Gen-Probe acquisition in 2012, we had acquired exactly zero companies in Diagnostics. But since late February, we have completed two deals and announced a third, dramatically accelerating our long-standing goal to become a more complete diversified diagnostics leader.In February, we closed our $232 million acquisition of Biotheranostics, a leader in molecular tests for breast and metastatic cancers, enabling us to expand into the adjacent growth market of oncology. This business is off to a very strong start based mainly on the inclusion of the breast cancer index test in NCCN guidelines to predict the benefit of extended treatment within different therapies.A few days after that, we closed Biotheranostics -- I'm sorry, a few days after we closed Biotheranostics, we acquired Diagenode, a Belgian developer and manufacturer of molecular diagnostic assays and epigenetics products for approximately $153 million. Diagenode, which generated more than $30 million of revenue in the last year, will enable us to offer a broader more differentiated menu of molecular diagnostic tests on our fully automated, high throughput Panther Fusion instrument. We know Diagenode's capabilities in assay development well, since we have partnered with them since 2016 to develop and manufacture PCR-based assays for fusion.As you might recall, the ability to leverage external PCR expertise was one of the reasons we developed the Fusion system years ago. Now that Diagenode is part of Hologic, we can accelerate those assay development efforts and make many of their CE-marked PCR tests available on our unique platform, further enhancing European growth.Finally, earlier this month, we announced our agreement to acquire Mobidiag, a Finnish developer of innovative molecular diagnostics tests and instrumentation, for approximately $795 million. In contrast to Diagenode, which helps us leverage our Fusion installed base around the world, Mobidiag brings new capabilities that we have been interested in for more than a decade. Specifically, Mobidiag is an innovator in near patient acute care diagnostics, a large rapidly growing area that we don't compete in today. This market encompasses tests for respiratory and gastrointestinal conditions, healthcare-associated infections and antibiotic resistance among others.Having monitored this space closely over the years, we believe Mobidiag's Novodiag platform is a truly differentiated asset with a unique combination of ease of use, rapid turnaround, multiplexing and low costs. Mobidiag generated more than $40 million of revenue in calendar 2020 with a limited commercial presence and no sales in the United States. So we believe we can accelerate their growth globally, but especially in the United States once we get some of their assays approved here.Before I turn the call over to Karleen, I wanted to touch briefly on how we have also strengthened our Breast and Surgical businesses during the pandemic. In Breast, we have continued to expand on our strategy to diversify the business across the patient continuum of care. We now sell a full portfolio of capital equipment, hardware and software upgrades, interventional tools and service. While the world has been understandably focused on COVID, we have increased our direct presence with Breast Health customers. We have launched new software products based on our investments in artificial intelligence, and we have strengthened our interventional franchise by relaunching Brevera, which is doing very well, and buying Somatex, a long time partner and leading developer of breast cancer markers. Together, all these strategies helped Breast Health outperform in the second quarter, with total sales exceeding 2019 levels and global growth of 7.3%. While the mammography market is not quite back to pre-COVID levels, we are very pleased with our competitive position and growth outlook for the future.In Surgical, both our R&D and business development pipelines have been productive, broadening the portfolio of products that we sell through a high-performing, highly engaged sales force. New products such as our Fluent Fluid Management System, new hysteroscopes and Acessa's laparoscopic RF product, ProVu, are complementing our market leading MyoSure and NovaSure devices. As a result, Surgical sales surpassed 2019 levels in the second quarter and grew 6.6% on a global basis, even while overcoming a slow January that resulted from reduced procedures in US regions that were hit hard by COVID.In conclusion, I want to emphatically state that I have never been more excited or confident in our future. We have responded to the world's need for COVID testing in remarkable fashion and will continue to be there for testing needs around the world. Even more importantly, we have literally strengthened every one of our businesses in every geography and added multiple new growth platforms to our Company during the last 12 months. I am truly amazed at what our team has done and we really look forward to the quarters and years ahead.Now I'll turn the call over to Karleen.Karleen Oberton -- Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Steve, and good afternoon, everyone. In my remarks today, I'm going to provide an overview of our divisional sales results, walk through our income statement, touch on a few other key financial metrics and finish with our guidance for the third quarter of fiscal 2021.As Steve said, our second quarter results were excellent, as revenue and EPS grew significantly compared to the prior year. Reported revenue of $1.54 billion, increased 99%. Organically, revenue grew an even 100%, driven by strong growth in our base businesses and a healthy contribution from global COVID testing revenue. We met our top and bottom line guidance, even as the COVID testing market changed rapidly late in the quarter. Based on our strong top line, we significantly improved profitability compared to the prior year. As a result, EPS of $2.59 more than quadrupled in the second quarter, increasing 354%. Further, operating cash flow has continued to be exceptionally strong, which I'll discuss in a moment.Before I do that, let me provide some detail on our divisional revenue results. In Diagnostics, our largest division, global revenue of $1.065 billion grew 225% in the second quarter. This was driven by molecular, where sales increased 378%. Although COVID testing declined sequentially from peak levels in the first quarter, demand was still very high. We shipped about 27 million COVID tests to customers, generating revenue of $680 million globally. Excluding COVID, our base molecular business continued to grow as customers capitalize on the breadth of our assay menu and the strength of Panther's best-in-class automation. Rounding out Diagnostics, the cytology and perinatal businesses grew 1% in the quarter, in line with trends before the pandemic.In Breast Health, global revenue of $336.3 million grew 7%, which we are very pleased with. Revenue also increased sequentially compared to Q1 and exceeded the second quarter of 2019 on a reported basis. The division's strong performance was well-rounded, as breast Imaging grew 6%, driven by upgrade packages, and the interventional business increased 14%, driven by Brevera. Furthermore, Breast Health achieved growth in disposables, service and even capital versus the prior-year period. Although the capital environment probably isn't fully back to normal, we have been encouraged by the continued improvement in this area, as customers have learned to effectively manage through the pandemic and become more comfortable making future investments.In Surgical, second quarter revenue also exceeded 2019 levels, continuing the division's rapid recovery. Compared to the prior year, sales of $114.2 million grew 7%, as elective procedure volumes strengthened throughout the quarter following a challenging January. The improving macro environment coupled with multiple new products and a motivated sales force gives us confidence in the future trajectory of the Surgical franchise.Lastly, in Skeletal, revenue of $22.6 million declined 7% compared to the prior year.Overall, in terms of geography, domestic sales of $1.06 billion increased 85% on a reported basis. On an organic basis, US revenues was up 87%. Outside the United States, sales of $474 million increased 142%. Organically, sales outside the US grew 141%, a fantastic result that reflects our growing international strength.Now let's move on to the rest of the P&L for the second quarter. Gross margins of 75% increased 1,400 basis points, driven by the sales of our high margin COVID tests. Total operating expenses of $277.7 million increased 25% in the second quarter. This included about $1.3 million of credits from BARDA associated with the development of our COVID assays. This was about $5 million less than in Q1. The increase in our operating expenses was driven by investments in R&D and marketing for future growth, as well as incremental expense from the acquisitions that Steve discussed. Also remember that in the second quarter of 2020, we had begun to pull back on spending given the initial uncertainty of the pandemic.Our non-GAAP tax rate in the quarter is 21.2%, slightly lower than forecast, driven by a favorable geographic mix of income primarily from sales of COVID-19 assays outside the United States. Putting this all together, operating margin increased 2,540 basis points to 56.9% and net margin increased 2,380 basis points to 43.8%. As a result, non-GAAP income finished at $674.1 million and non-GAAP earnings per share were $2.59, in line with our guidance and more than four times the prior-year period.Before we cover our guidance, I'll quickly touch on a few other financial metrics. Driven by demand for our COVID tests and the strong performance of our base business, cash flow from operations was $552 million in the second quarter. These strong cash flows have given us tremendous financial and strategic flexibility. For example, in the second quarter alone our operating cash flow essentially paid for $568 million of productive capital redeployment. Specifically, we repurchased 1.6 million shares of stock for $120 million, closed the Somatex deal for $63 million, acquired Biotheranostics for $232 million, and bought Diagenode for $153 million. As Steve said, we believe these acquisitions will make Hologic a stronger company as the pandemic subsides and sets us up for faster growth.Overall, we had $816 million of cash at the end of the second quarter and our leverage ratio was 0.7 times. We intend to continue to put our cash to work on a combination of division-led tuck-in acquisitions and share repurchases that improve our top and bottom line growth rates. Finally, ROIC was 33.4% on a trailing 12-month basis, a significant increase of 2,090 basis points.Before we open the call for questions, let me discuss our expectations for the third quarter of fiscal 2021. While we anticipate that fiscal 2021 will be an excellent year for Hologic overall, COVID testing revenue remains highly unpredictable. So we are continuing our recent practice of providing a single quarter of guidance today.In our third quarter of fiscal 2021, we expect strong financial results again, with total revenue in the range of $1 billion to $1.07 billion, representing constant currency growth of 18% to 26% versus the prior-year period. As a reminder, in the third quarter of 2019, we generated about $850 million of revenue, which also included the divested Cynosure business. So we expect to grow above those pre-pandemic levels.In our base businesses, we expect continued momentum in recovery to generate very strong revenue growth rates compared to the prior year, given the negative impact of the pandemic a year ago.In terms of COVID assay sales, the market remains unpredictable as discussed. While trends seem to be stabilizing today, the environment certainly could change again in May or June depending on a number of factors. So we're going to be very cautious with our third quarter guidance and get back to our usual practice of providing conservative estimates that we have high visibility on. If demand exceeds our current expectations, we are poised to deliver for our customers. There's a lot we don't know, but what we do know is that our assays and systems are best-in-class and that we have Panthers in all the right hospitals and labs. So we are confident that we will get more than our fair share of the ongoing demand.With this background, we expect sales of our COVID tests to range from $200 million to $250 million in the third quarter. In addition, COVID-related items in Diagnostics, such as collection kits, instruments and ancillaries are expected to be down $40 million to $45 million sequentially.Our third quarter guidance includes about [Phonetic] more than $20 million of revenue from Somatex, Biotheranostics and Diagenode. Backing this out as well as $9 million of expected blood screening revenue, we expect organic revenue growth of 15% to 24% in the quarter. This is excellent growth against a difficult comp, as we generated $324 million of COVID assay sales in the prior-year period.Beyond revenue, here are a few other points on guidance. Our guidance does not include the impact of the pending Mobidiag acquisition, which is expected to close early in our fourth fiscal quarter. It does, however, include a full quarter of expenses from Biotheranostics and Diagenode, which will contribute to a sequential increase in total operating expenses. Below operating income, I would point out that we expect other expenses net to increase to about $25 million in the third quarter. Our guidance is based on a tax rate of 21.5% and diluted shares outstanding of 261 million for the quarter.All this nets out to expected EPS of $1 to $1.15 in the third quarter. This would translate into very strong growth rates of 33% to 53% that significantly outpace revenue, even as we increase investments for future growth.As you update your forecast, let me remind you that macro uncertainty due to the pandemic is still high. We would therefore encourage you to model at the middle of our ranges, which incorporate both potential upsides and downsides.Before we open the call for questions, let me wrap up by saying that Hologic showed tremendous growth in the second quarter and posted results that met our guidance. We continue to make a huge impact on the pandemic and on women's health globally. Further, with organic investments and multiple acquisitions, I am confident that we will emerge from the pandemic a stronger, larger, faster growing company.With that, I will ask the operator to open the call for questions. Please limit your questions to one plus a related follow up, then return to the queue. Operator, we are ready for the first question.