
OperatorGood day, everyone, and welcome to Williams' First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] At this time for opening remarks, and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Danilo Juvane, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Danilo Juvane -- Vice President of Investor RelationsThank you, Nikos, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us, and for your interest in The Williams Companies. Yesterday afternoon we released our earnings press release and the presentation that our President and CEO, Alan Armstrong; and our Chief Financial Officer, John Chandler will speak to this morning.

 



Also joining us on the call today, are Micheal Dunn, our Chief Operating Officer; Lane Wilson, our General Counsel; and Chad Zamarin, our Senior Vice President of Corporate Strategic Development.In our presentation material, you'll find a disclaimer related to forward-looking statements. This disclaimer is important and integral to our remarks and you should review it. Also included in the presentation materials are non-GAAP measures that we reconcile, as Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. In these reconciliation, schedules appear at the back of today's presentation materials.So with that, I'll turn it over to Alan Armstrong.Alan S. Armstrong -- President and Chief Executive Officer

 



Great. Well thanks, Danilo, and thank you all for joining us today. Our natural gas focused strategy continues to deliver solid financial results in this past quarter was no different. Our base business performance was remarkably strong in the first quarter and the severe winter weather in February boosted marketing margins, but even without these weather benefit or those benefits, as John will detail later our adjusted EBITDA was up, reflecting strength in our base business.Once again, well-positioned assets and reliable operations came through as we delivered another quarter of growth in almost all of our key operating metrics despite the severe weather. In fact, average daily firm contracts and transmission capacity, average daily transported volumes, average daily gathering volumes and average daily plant inlet volumes all increased on a quarter-over-quarter basis.Extreme weather experienced in the first quarter really underscores the importance of having resilient and reliable energy network. Williams also stood out on this front, as no firm service was cut on any of our gas transmission systems during Uri, and in fact, our Northwest Pipeline hit another record-peak day for throughput during the storm. It demonstrates that affordable and dependable natural gas will be a very critical part of the energy mix, as we work to support growing economies and meet the key challenges we face around climate change, both in the U.S. and abroad.We truly believe Williams' existing infrastructure is key to tomorrow's clean energy economy. I'll talk more about how we're planning for the future when we get the key focus areas, but in the meantime, John is going to go through our financial results. John?

 



John D. Chandler -- Senior Vice President, Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Alan. At a very high level summary, the quarter benefited from the impact of winter storm, Uri, and to be clear, we have collected all receivable -- receivables relative to that event. But even beyond the winter storm impact we saw nice increases in profitability from our Northeast gathering systems, and uplift in revenues on our Transco pipeline from new projects that have been put into service last year and higher profits from our NGL marketing activity in our West segment. These profits were offset somewhat by higher bonus expense accruals reflecting the solid year that is unfolding and lower Gulf of Mexico revenues due to some downtime issues during the first quarter of this year. And you can see the strong performance in our statistics on this page. In fact, we saw improvements in all of our key financial metrics.First, our adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was up $153 million or 12%, but even after excluding the impact of winter storm, Uri, our adjusted EBITDA was up 6%. We will discuss EBITDA variances in more depth in a moment. Adjusted EPS for the quarter increased 35%, simply reflecting the after-tax impact of the higher EBITDA, AFFO grew for the quarter similarly to our growth in EBITDA, and again AFFOs essentially cash from operations including JV cash flows, but excluding working capital fluctuations.If you put AFFO up against our capital investments for the quarter of $277 million, of which we consider roughly $47 million of that to be maintenance capital, and you put it up against our dividends of $498 million you can see that we generated over $250 million in excess cash for the quarter.Also, you see our dividend coverage on this page based on AFFO divided by dividends sets at a very strong 2.07 times. This strong cash generation and strong EBITDA for the quarter along with continued capital discipline has helped move us toward our leverage metric goal of 4.20 times. You will see later in our guidance update in this deck we've moved our guidance now for the year from around 4.25 times at the end of the year, now to around 12.20 times at the end of the year. I'm really proud of our success on this front.So now, let's go to the next slide. Let's dig in a little deeper into our EBITDA results for the quarter. Again, Williams performed very well this quarter, but before we dive into each segment we believe it's important to isolate a few items that are not part of our core business. The first item is the net impact of winter storm Uri on our operations in the West.That impact produced a $55 million net benefit and included the positive impact on our marketing operations offset somewhat by reduced revenues at our Piceance processing facility, whose rates are impacted by net liquid margins. We also had slightly lower volumes in the Mid-Continent Haynesville and collectively we estimate winter storm Uri impacted our West volumes by about 70 Mcf a day during the quarter. In addition, we also realized a $22 million Uri uplift in profits from the Wamsutter upstream assets that we acquired from BP in February, and that is on top of the $8 million from normal operations from these upstream assets.So the total winter storm impact was about -- was a $77 million benefit. Again, with that benefit EBITDA was up 12% and even without the impact of winter storm Uri, EBITDA was up 6%. So digging into our core operations, our Transmission and Gulf of Mexico assets produced results that were about $9 million less than the same period last year. However, new transmission pipeline projects added $29 million in incremental revenues for the quarter, including the Hillabee Phase 2 project that came into service in the second quarter of last year, the Southeastern Trail project that went into service during the fourth quarter of last year, and a portion of the Leidy South project that went into service in the fourth quarter of last year.You can see that evidenced in the growth in our firm reserve capacity, which is up 5% from the first quarter of 2020. These revenue increases were almost entirely offset by lower Gulf of Mexico revenues due to some production and downtime issues, lower revenues from lower rates and just a few Transco markets that went into effect upon closing the rate case last year, and one less billing day this year than last year given last year was a leap year which, believe it or not, has a $6 million impact on our transmission revenues.So the reduced EBITDA results for this segment really have nothing to do with revenues and are largely due to higher operating expenses, which interestingly enough are being impacted by higher bonus accruals and equity compensation accruals given that we are off to such a strong start for the year. We traditionally do not increase those accruals until later in the year. In addition, we did see slightly higher compression expenses for this segment.Now moving to the Northeast, that G&P segment continues to come on strong contributing $32 million of additional EBITDA this quarter. Collectively, total Northeast gathering volumes grew 920 Mcf a day or about 11% this quarter versus the first quarter of last year, while processing volumes grew 15%. The volume growth was predominantly at our JVs in the Bradford Supply Hub where we benefited from a gathering system expansion on that system in late 2019, and at our Marcellus South supply basins where we benefited from more productive wells at larger pads.As a result, our EBITDA from equity-method investments improved by a little over $33 million, which also includes the benefit of additional profits from Blue Racer due to our increased ownership, which we acquired in mid-November last year.Now moving to the West G&P segment, it was up $44 million compared to the prior year. And remember again, that this excludes the $55 million net benefit from winter storm Uri. So, of this $44 million improvement commodity margins from our marketing activities contributed a big part of that improvement and they were up $52 million versus the first quarter of 2020. And again, this excludes the $74 million benefit from winter storm Uri related just only commodities. These increased commodity margins were the result of a few things, all driven by higher NGL prices during the quarter. The first and most significant is it related to inventory in transit.Last year, we saw prices declined and had a small loss, while this year we saw prices increasing during the quarter, and realized a gain on net inventory. The second relates to transfers of propane and other NGLs the higher net back markets, where we saw some real market differentials during the quarter and we're able to take advantage of that.For example, the differentials between Conway and Mont Belvieu. Offsetting the higher commodity margins were lower profits from our JVs, we did see a $5 million JV benefit from the winter storm Uri on our Brazos JV. So if you exclude that our JVs were down about $8 million that can be mostly attributable attributed to OPPL where one Oak has pulled much of their volume and moved into their solely on system. Those items, namely higher commodity margins offset by lower JV profits again mostly explain the variance in the West, otherwise lower revenues were offset by lower expenses.Revenues were down $14 million when you exclude a negative $23 million impact tied to winter storm Uri on West revenues, and again mostly that was in the PR related to net liquid margins. Volumes in Northwest were down 250 Mcf a day or if you exclude winter storm Uri about -- they were down about a 180 Mcf a day, with most of that reduction in the Haynesville and the Eagle Ford, which of course are running and Eagle Ford, we are protected by MVCs so that doesn't have revenue impact.So really the biggest impact on revenues was the rate reduction in the Haynesville and a slight volume reduction and Haynesville. And I'll remind you that, we traded that rate reduction in the Haynesville in part for receiving the south Mansfield acreage from Chesapeake earlier this year.Now again, offsetting the lower revenues or lower cost, including lower comp -- lower compression cost and no bad debt expense where during the first quarter of 2020, we did reserved for the Wamsutter in MVC, that are now realizing those MVCs as part of this settlement with South win.I'll now turn the call back over to Alan, to discuss several important investor focus areas and updates to our 2021 guidance. Alan?Alan S. Armstrong -- President and Chief Executive OfficerWell, thanks, John. And here moving on to the key investor focus areas on Slide 3. We're increasing the midpoint of our '21 EBITDA guidance range to $5.3 billion, which is up a $100 million. The increase in our guidance goes beyond the gains realized during the winter storm, as it also reflects confidence in the strength of our base business. Achieving this new midpoint we've produced a three year CAGAR of about 4.5%, even while we have continued to improve our balance sheet and produced free cash flow after capex and dividends.Regarding the balance sheet, our deleveraging goal is now on an accelerated path as we've hit the targeted 4.2 this quarter, which obviously is earlier than we had forecasted earlier, and we're currently on positive watch at Moody's and hope to see a credit upgrade soon.Given the accelerated achievement of key milestones on our balance sheet we will begin to evaluate various capital allocation alternatives. As you know, debt reduction has been our top capital priority, and now we will begin to evaluate the best use of free cash flow in '22 and beyond. So next on the list here is a few thoughts about the Sequent acquisition, as we announced last night, we recently reached an agreement to purchase Sequent Energy Management and Sequent Energy Canada from Southern Company Gas for a purchase price of $50 million plus working capital at close, and for several years we have been evaluating the best way to enhance our marketing capabilities at Williams in way that it could be well integrated, culturally aligned, and focused on driving fee-based revenues across our networks for several years. So this is something we've had in our strategic capabilities, and something we needed to build for several years, and so we're really excited to be taking this step to fill what's been a strategic capability gap.The addition of Sequent including its talented workforce and industry-leading platform complements the current geographic footprint of our core pipeline transportation and storage business for perspective, we handle 30% of the nation's natural gas, which is approximately 30 Bcf per day. This acquisition increases our natural gas transport and storage optimization capabilities, up to 8 Bcf per day from 1 Bcf per day that we were doing previously in -- here within Williams.So certainly bringing it more in line from a natural gas focused business as large as Williams. The scale of the combined company will not only allow for optimization of our existing assets, but it will also facilitate expansions in the new markets with opportunities to reach incremental gas-fired power generation, liquefied natural gas exports, and future RNG opportunities.In discussing with both our existing and potential LNG focus customers, we are hearing a clear need to have wellhead to water natural gas supplies that can demonstrate and document responsibly produced low carbon supplies. We see this acquisition as a way to more effectively aggregate, transport and market these in-demand supplies. So we're really excited to welcome the Sequent team to Williams later this summer and finally, we don't expect the acquisition to have any dramatic impact on our current mix of business nor material impact for our '21 EBITDA or capex guidance.So now moving on to project's execution here on Slide 3, still, we continued our pace of strong project execution in the first quarter placing on Southeastern Trail project in the full service in early January and making great progress now on the Transco Leidy South project to bring additional gas from Appalachian area and particularly Northeast PA to growing demand centers along the Atlantic Seaboard by next winter.We filed our FERC application for the Regional Energy Access project, a low environmental impact project being designed in a manner that is acceptable to future renewable energy sources, like clean hydrogen and blend -- like clean hydrogen blending and RNG. So in today's environment, as we're all learning more and more existing infrastructure is more important and more valuable than ever and the Brownfield nature of Regional Energy Access in Leidy South and Southeastern Trails are all grate examples to that.With the largest and most flexible gas transmission system in the nation, Williams conserves new demand primarily through Brownfield expansions. This means maximizing the use of established transmission quarters and facilities and resulting in reduced community and environmental impact while also enabling economic growth and the use of lower carbon fuels in those markets.Next, onto the Gulf of Mexico opportunities here. We remain on track to executing on the four key Gulf of Mexico projects, which is Whale, Ballymore, Taggart and Anchor, these projects are progressing very well and we look forward to these projects coming online here now with the next few years. We also have a number of other smaller projects, but those are the ones that we continue to focus your attention on.So next on the Northeast G&P project execution. Certainly, some of the producers in the Northeast remain in production maintenance mode, but our project execution team is busy trying to keep up with the increased demand for processing and fractionation services for their growing rich gas volumes in the Southwest Marcellus area. And as we've stated before, that rich gas volumes provide us with a much higher service fee and margin capture, so we're thrilled to see continued expansion in that area.And finally, on sustainability here, we continue to focus on sustainable operations, and I'll remind you that last year Williams became the first North American midstream company to issue a climate commitment focusing on ready-now solutions to address climate change. And by setting a near-term goal of a 56% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, as a part of our climate commitment, we are well in line with the Biden administration's recently announced Nationally Determined Contribution target of a 50% to 52% reduction by 2030. So we're really excited that we are actually ahead of that here and what's been said as an aggressive goal for the country.We will continue to leverage our natural gas focused strategy in today's technology to focus on immediate opportunity to reduce emissions. At the same time, natural gas and our infrastructure are enabling the next generation of clean energy technology. There really is not another energy infrastructure system that integrates a reliable delivery network with a massive storage solution on the scale that the natural gas infrastructure across our nation does. We believe our infrastructure can be a critical part of both near and long-term solutions.And on our near-term efforts we're focused on renewable natural gas, solar energy and our footprint is ideal for bringing in renewable natural gas to markets and solar projects in a supply mix. On the solar front, we've currently identified three additional projects and now have a total of 16 solar project opportunities that should start operating beginning in 2023.On the emerging fuels fronts, such as green hydrogen and renewable natural gas we are -- we certainly expect that to play an increasing role in the clean energy future and both as a storage vehicle for excess renewable energy in the form of green hydrogen and as a net-zero emitting form of natural gas in the renewable natural gas. So we continue to make sure that we are on the front edges of those opportunities.We are looking forward and anticipating future innovations and technologies that we can use on our key energy network to deliver on this next phase of the energy transition. In fact, in a partnership with University of Wyoming, we are currently pursuing a grant from the State of Wyoming to fund the feasibility study to pursue a pilot program that would evaluate in creation of green hydrogen hub near our operations in Wyoming.The study will be presented to the Wyoming Energy authority and it could be an initial step for Williams to better understand the working of the hydrogen economy. I certainly want to keep that in context for you that simply is us filing for a study there to determine if we want to pursue a pilot there. So that is perhaps something I don't want to see people getting out over our skis on here. This is a step and we certainly are going to make sure that we stay in front of these kinds of opportunities. But we're a long ways from making any kind of big investment decisions on that.We also recently joined the Clean Hydrogen Future Coalition that was launched to advance clean hydrogen as a key pathway to achieving global decarbonization and U.S. energy competitiveness. And finally, we are proud to be a founding sponsor of Houston's Greentown Labs, a green technology incubator to support climatetech start-up.So in closing, I'll reiterate that our intense focus on our natural gas-based strategy has built a business that is steady and predictable with continued moderate growth, improving returns and an increasing amount of free cash flows. Our best-in-class long-haul pipes, Transco, Northwest Pipeline and Gulfstream are in the right place and right markets. And by design our formidable gathering assets are in the low cost basins that would be called on to meet gas demand as it continues to grow.As evidence on a year-over-year basis, the lower-48 natural gas production here, of course, in United States is declined by 5% here in the first quarter at the same time, Williams' natural gas gathering volumes were up by 5%, indicating that our strategy of focusing on key low-cost natural gas basins is working. These gathering assets are irreplaceable and critical infrastructure within the natural gas value chain and the importance of this infrastructure was prudent in our recent ability to navigate to substantial customer bankruptcies in a way that actually improve the value proposition in the Wamsutter and the Haynesville basin.This is a crystal clear example that even in the most dire circumstances our long-term approach and careful contracting allows us to turn negative such as producer bankruptcies in the net positive for Williams. We remain bullish on natural gas because we recognize the critical role it plays and will continue to play in both our countries and the world's pursuit of a clean energy future. Natural gas is an important component of today's fuel mix and should be prioritized as one of the most important tools to aggressively displace more carbon intensive fuels around the world. Our networks are critical to serving both domestic and global energy demand in a lower carbon and economically viable manner.So with that, we thank you very much for joining us today. And I'll open it up for your questions.