
OperatorGood morning, and welcome to the Newell Brands First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, today's conference is being recorded. A live webcast of the call is available at ir.newellbrands.com.I will now turn the call over to Sofya Tsinis, VP of Investor Relations. Ms. Tsinis, you may begin.Sofya Tsinis -- Vice President Investor Relations

 



Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Welcome to Newell Brands first quarter earnings call. On the call with me today are Ravi Saligram, our President and CEO; and Chris Peterson, our CFO and President, Business Operations. Before we begin, I'd like to inform you that during the course of today's call, we will be making forward-looking statements, which involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results and outcomes may differ materially. I refer you to the cautionary language and risk factors available in our earnings release, our Form 10-K and other SEC filings available on our Investor Relations website for a further discussion of the factors affecting forward-looking statements.Please also recognize that today's remarks will refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures, including those referred to as normalized measures. We believe these non-GAAP measures are useful to investors, although they should not be considered superior to the measures presented in accordance with GAAP. Explanations of these non-GAAP measures and available reconciliations between GAAP and non-GAAP measures can be found in today's earnings release and tables as well as in other materials in Newell's Investor Relations website. Thank you.And now, I'll turn the call over to Ravi.Ravi Saligram -- President and Chief Executive Officer

 



Thank you, Sofya. A very hearty good morning, everybody, and welcome to our call. I am pleased and honored to share the highlights of our phenomenal first quarter results as we carry forward the strong momentum from the back half of 2020. The top line grew an outstanding 21% as normalized operating profit doubled and normalized earnings per share tripled versus last year. This is the third consecutive quarter of core sales growth for the company and by far, the best result yet. Even on a 2-year stacked basis, gross sales grew in the mid-teens. I'm particularly encouraged that the first quarter growth was in all eight businesses, all four regions and all channels.Importantly, the collective power of our iconic brands is evident in this performance with top 18 out of 20 brands, demonstrating growth with Oster, Yankee Candle, Coleman, Rubbermaid and Dymo leading the pack. While top line strength was truly broad-based as seven out of eight business units grew sales at double-digit rates. Home Fragrances and Home Appliances businesses stole the show. We were also really pleased to see that the Writing business is moving past the pandemic-related woes, as more schools open up for in-person learning. The business returned to strong core sales growth in the first quarter, mirroring the levels of the company. All four geographic regions grew core sales at a double-digit rate with international markets up nearly 27%, continuing to outpace North America.In the U.S., we experienced strong consumer demand throughout the first quarter with acceleration in the last month. We started to lap initial lockdowns from 2020 in mid-March and also saw a lift in demand following the passage of fiscal stimulus. Shoppers continue to seek out home-centric products as well as those that favor personal well-being and outdoor activities. With the gradual reopening of the economy, we're also seeing an uptick across some categories such as Writing, that have been disproportionately hit by the pandemic. We expect continued evolution of consumer behavior throughout this year as vaccination rates and mobility improve. At the same time, we believe many of the new habits consumers formed will persist beyond the pandemic.Example, at-home cooking. We expect the shift toward online shopping to have a lasting impact on consumption trends. Newell's e-commerce sales growth accelerated into the mid-40s range during the first quarter, as global sales penetration improved about four percentage points versus last year to approximately 21%. While sustained growth in the digital business paved the way for such a strong top line outcome in Q1, sales trends were also healthy across other channels as we started to lap year-ago lockdowns in mid-March and mobility improved, particularly in the U.S. E-commerce is a notable competitive advantage and an engine for growth for Newell Brands. I am thrilled to share that we have recently filled a critical role in this area as we appointed Mike Geller as President of E-commerce & Digital.

 



He joined us from PepsiCo where he served as Senior Vice President, E-commerce, Marketing, Technology and Data Science. Prior to that, Mike spent 10 years at Amazon. With extensive e-commerce expertise, his technology prowess, data science and analytics capabilities, his entrepreneurial zeal and intellectual curiosity, Mike will build on Newell's strong e-commerce foundation to make us a digital powerhouse and an omni leader. I am pleased to report that the leadership team now is complete. We've built a team that is best in class, diverse in thinking and unified in strategic direction and will pave the way for lasting success. The strength of the first quarter results reflects the progress we're making on the execution front, strengthening our brands, scaling innovations, increasing distribution, improving customer relationships, leveraging consumer trends as well as macro tailwinds.The common theme in this quarter was the broad-based strength in consumption, core sales growth across the entire portfolio, share gains in several categories and regions and strength in international. The Home Fragrance business delivered phenomenal results in the first quarter as consumption growth accelerated to about double the levels from the back half of 2020. In fact, this was by far our fastest-growing business, built from a core sales and POS perspectives, a reflection of pent-up demand following supply constraints in 2020. Consumers continue to seek out moments of serenity in their homes as they adopt a more holistic approach to well-being. We drove core sales growth more than double the rate of the overall company. To put it in perspective, Home Fragrance grew net sales at a double-digit rate both versus 2020 and 2019 despite closure of about 150 stores during this time frame and last year's exit from the fundraising business.We are successfully managing the purposeful transition of our business as we pivot toward expanding distribution across traditional, retail and direct-to-consumer channels while reducing our Yankee Candle retail store footprint. We're driving strong growth in our direct-to-consumer channel through personalization and loyalty programs that are maximizing lifetime customer value. Our recent launch of Yankee Candle Signature Collection, the most meaningful redesign of the Yankee line in years, is gaining traction. We're not just focused on winning in candles. We're gaining share in tracked channels, but also within the overall Home Fragrance category with an exciting pipeline of new products planned across, the sleep diffuser, wax melts, autumn wreaths and ScentPlug categories.The Food business, which now includes Calphalon cookware and cutlery, maintained a strong growth momentum as sales increased in the 20s, with a large portion of meals still prepared and eaten in the home. It is not surprising that consumption has remained strong, particularly in the food storage and fresh-preserving categories. I am delighted to share that early in April, Rubbermaid was named the most trusted food storage brand in Newsweek magazine. What an honor. We've driven strong share gains from Rubbermaid and are seeing solid traction on the Brilliance Glass and [Triton] food and pantry storage line. We continue to drive elevated demand for our canning business, where we also built on our leading share position with Ball leading the way. Heightened consumer interest in gardening bodes well for continuation of this trend, and we are continuing to bring new innovation and new users to the market.In the first quarter, Ball launched nesting jars that stack together, which helps make storage more compact and will reduce the amount of space needed for mason jars by 30%. FoodSaver continues to do well. Our VS3000 innovation launched in July 2020 has already sold 350,000 units and is moving the needle. Home Appliances delivered its strongest performance yet. Sales grew 38% with double-digit increases across all four regions as the category remained quite buoyant. In the U.S., double-digit growth in consumption was evident across most subcategories, including heated cooking, blending, coffee, pain management and air purifiers as stimulus provided additional fuel. Despite the lockdowns, Latin America posted very strong results across all countries with Brazil, Colombia, Chile and Peru being the standouts.Similar consumer trends played out in Asia Pacific and EMEA, where we saw broad-based sales growth. During the first quarter, we continued to build on the terrific fall 2020 launch of Mr. Coffee iced coffee maker by expanding its distribution with additional rollout plans in place for balance of the year as capacity comes online to meet demand. It's quickly becoming the number one selling coffee SKU in relevant retailers where the product is available. I'm pleased that this is another innovation that's gaining traction. Just last week, Crock-Pot, which celebrates its 50th anniversary this year, was recognized as the most trusted slow cooker brand in Newsweek. In other exciting news, NPD Mexico awarded Oster as the winner of 2020 market share growth in the kitchen electronics segment. In the first quarter, our Writing business rebounded nicely as core sales grew at a strong double-digit rate with broad-based growth across writing and creating expressions, labeling and fine writing businesses. We're finally beginning to put the 2020 pandemic-related disruption on this business in the rearview mirror.While the category also returned to growth in the U.S. in the first quarter, Newell's consumption grew at approximately double the rate of the market in the segments we compete as we gain meaningful share. Dymo captured over 400 basis points of incremental share, while our share in gel pens increased by more than 1,300 basis points on the heels of the successful year-ago launch of Sharpie S-Gel. Sharpie S-Gel has become a needle mover with excellent gross margins. The fourth quarter expansion of Sharpie S-Gel platform through Sharpie S-Gel fashion barrels in frost blue and pearl white as well as Sharpie S-Gel metal barrels in gun metal and champagne are off to a promising start and already are among our top selling pens. The rebound in our Writing business as well as the category is driven by the return of nearly 60% of school districts to in-person learning and cycling against the onset of the pandemic.Similar dynamics played out in the U.K. and Australia and New Zealand where our consumption growth significantly outpaced the market. Although admittedly, there's still a fair amount of uncertainty surrounding the timing of return to normalcy in schools and offices, we're excited about the prospects for the Writing business this year and together with our retail partners are planning for a normal back-to-school season. We continue to assume that offices may remain in a hybrid model for the balance of the year. Sales growth for our Baby business accelerated to mid-teens rate in the first quarter as we experienced a significant uptick in consumption levels across our baby gear and baby care categories.The strong outcome was driven by a combination of healthy share gains by Graco and NUK in the U.S., stimulus funding as well as cycling against comparatively depressed consumption levels in March 2020 as lockdowns were implemented. This team is knocking it out of the park with fantastic e-commerce penetration of more than 50% of global sales in the first quarter, up more than 700 basis points versus last year. Both Graco and NUK continue to bring news to the market in Q1 through launches such as Graco SlimFit 3, a 3-in-1 car seat, and NUK Space line of pacifiers in EMEA. I'm also pleased to announce a new addition to our Baby portfolio with the launch of Century, a sustainable and stylish baby brand for young families. Q1 was another strong quarter for the commercial business unit as low double-digit sales growth reflected sustained momentum in many consumer-facing categories such as outdoor and garage, organization, gloves and home cleaning.Consumers continue to direct discretionary spending toward home improvement projects, with home still being their hub. We're beginning to see traction in commercial demand for some of our products such as cleaning carts, step-on containers and professional gloves. However, lockdowns along with slow global reopening and back-to-office is still a limiting factor in commercial categories, particularly within the foodservice, travel and entertainment and hospitality verticals as well as in washroom solutions. With good momentum on recent launches, such as Rubbermaid Easy Install 7 times7 in sheds, deck boxes and [Real Brew] as well as a robust innovation pipeline, we think commercial is very well positioned going forward. The Connected Home & Security business delivered double-digit growth. The team is making considerable progress on our complete innovation overhaul of their smoke alarm product line as part of UL 217 through advanced technology.This team leads in IoT and has made huge advances in automation in their Juarez plant. Similar to the rest of our business units, Outdoor & Recreation started off 2021 on a solid note as sales increased at a high single-digit rate, reflecting growth in the outdoor equipment business with particular strength in the international regions. In the U.S., consumption accelerated versus the second half of 2020, driven by broad-based demand across most of our growing equipment categories such as coolers, tents and stoves. Consumers are tired of being cooped up inside and have seen the call of the outdoors. Although core sales were still under pressure, consumption for technical apparel turned positive during the first quarter. We expect the beverage business to rebound as the on-the-go activities pick up and more schools reopen. While still early days, we are seeing traction from the recent introduction of three new product lines in Contigo's hydration portfolio.Coleman continues to bring news to the market with an exciting assortment of new products launched in the first quarter, including Skydome tent expansion, XPAND soft cooler collection and the Reunion steel-belted cooler collection. While the first quarter results came in ahead of our expectations, and Chris will explain the key reasons, we contended with a fair amount of challenges as well, including port congestion, the impact of Texas storms on raw material availability, a significant rise in inflationary costs, freight challenges as well as demand spikes across many categories. Our supply chain teams operated with excellence through these turbulent conditions and successfully managed broad-based demand surges. Looking out into the remainder of 2021 and beyond, we're laser-focused on building on the solid momentum in the business as our turnaround continues to gain traction.There's no change in the five strategic priorities that I laid out last quarter, which include: first, galvanize our employees behind our purpose to create a consumer-obsessed, customer-focused organization that is digital savvy and committed to providing moments of joy and peace of mind to consumers. Second, sustain top line growth by focusing on the end-to-end consumer journey, securing new distribution across channels, especially food, dollar and home centers, strengthening omnichannel capabilities while accelerating online penetration and focusing on scaling and modernizing our top brands. We will also strengthen efforts to improve supply availability to improve customer service levels through a strong focus on forecast accuracy. Third, become an innovation engine by sharpening our focus on consumer insights and trends and implementing an enterprise innovation operating model and building cross-business unit technology platforms.A distinguishing aspect of our go-forward innovation efforts is that in addition to our normal line extensions, refreshes and renovations, we will strive to launch three to five major needle mover, new product innovations per year that can be scaled to $50 million to $100 million in sales and have strong gross margins. Sharpie S-Gel, FoodSaver VS3000 and Mr. Coffee Ice are illustrative of this thinking. Fourth, accelerate international growth and improve profitability. And fifth, continue to make progress on reducing complexity, controlling overheads and strengthening the balance sheet. And in particular, for 2021, offsetting the significant surge in raw material inflation as well as labor and freight costs through a combination of productivity improvements and selective price increases. We're still in the early stages of realizing the full potential of our business and see tremendous opportunity for value creation through focused execution of our strategic priorities and serving as a force for good in the world.We feel good about the last three quarters and are confident about the second quarter 2021 as we see sales and consumption momentum continuing in April. The second half of 2021 is difficult to predict, given global uncertainties around COVID and evolving consumer habits. Nevertheless, we're optimistic and see more upside than downside. I'd like to conclude by thanking our 31,000 employees for their commitment, hard work and perseverance, all of which made it possible to deliver such an incredibly strong outcome, onwards and upwards.And now, I'll turn over the call to my partner in crime, the billion-dollar man, efficiency guru and complexity reductions czar, one and only, Chris Peterson.Christopher Peterson -- Chief Financial Officer & President, Business OperationsThanks, Ravi, and good morning, everyone. First quarter results were simply outstanding as the integrated set of strategies we put in place two years ago are driving accelerated financial results across all metrics. Before getting into the details, I want to provide a little color on the current operating environment and proactive choices we are making. We are off to a much stronger-than-anticipated top line start in 2021. With healthy consumer demand early in the year, we expected and guided for a strong outcome during the first quarter as a result of the strategic improvements we have made to drive profitable top line growth as part of our turnaround plan. Three factors contributed to over-delivery relative to our expectations.First, the U.S. stimulus package, which passed in March, turbocharged already robust demand across many of our categories. Second, the vaccination rate across the U.S. has been faster than anticipated, which led to more schools reopening their doors to in-person learning. And finally, operational improvements we have been driving across the company, particularly surrounding SKU count reduction, operating efficiency and the S&OP demand planning process are paying big dividends. Earlier this year, we made the proactive choice to invest in higher inventory levels on our top-selling SKUs. Because of the operating improvements we made, we were able to add capacity without incurring any significant capital expenditures. This allowed us to both meet the surge in consumer demand during Q1 and build inventory levels to support an improved top line outlook for Q2 and the balance of the year.Effectively, we have created more agility within our supply chain to respond to shifts in demand with the hard work from the past 2-plus years clearly paying off. The other changing dynamic has been inflationary pressure as the recent run-up in costs, particularly in resin, transportation, source finished goods and labor has translated into approximately $150 million of additional expenses in 2021 for a total gross impact of about $360 million. We plan to mitigate these headwinds through a combination of strong productivity savings, driven by our FUEL program, operating leverage from the combination of strong revenue growth and tight cost controls and selective pricing actions across businesses that are most impacted by inflationary pressure. The net result is that we are maintaining our operating margin expansion outlook for the year. In the U.S., we announced price increases in mid-April across five of our business units, including Food, Commercial, Outdoor & Recreation, Baby and Home Appliances, which are expected to go into effect in June.These pricing actions do not fully offset the inflationary cost pressure as we were using productivity savings and operating leverage as offsets as well. Now turning to first quarter results. Newell Brands' net sales increased 21.3% year-over-year to $2.3 billion, driven by core sales growth of 20.9%. Foreign exchange more than offset the unfavorable impact from business and Yankee retail store exits. This was the third consecutive quarter of core sales growth for the company. Growth was broad-based with each of our eight business units and four geographic regions growing on a year-over-year basis. Importantly, core sales grew compared to both 2020 and 2019 levels. Normalized gross margin contracted 60 basis points year-over-year to 32.2% as fuel productivity savings and pricing were more than offset by significant inflationary pressure, particularly in resin, transportation and labor costs. Normalized operating margin expanded 410 basis points year-over-year to 10.1% with a better-than-expected outcome driven by operating leverage resulting from strong top line results, higher-than-anticipated fuel productivity savings and tight overhead cost controls.Normalized operating profit roughly doubled year-over-year to $230 million. Net interest expense increased by $4 million year-over-year to $67 million. The normalized tax rate was 22.4%, above the year-ago level of 7.1% as the company realized discrete tax benefits last year. We grew Q1 normalized diluted earnings per share more than 3 times year-over-year to $0.30. Stronger-than-anticipated top line results and resulting operating leverage, in addition to disciplined cost management and productivity, enabled us to exceed our expectations. Let's turn to our segments. Core sales for Home Appliances increased 38.9%, driven by growth in all major regions. This was the first quarter without contribution from the Calphalon cookware business. As a reminder, cookware financial and operating results are now included in the Food business within the Home Solutions segment. Core sales growth for the Commercial Solutions segment increased 12.9% with double-digit increases across both the Commercial and the Connected Home & Security business units. Core sales for the Home Solutions segment increased 33.8% driven by double-digit growth across both the Food and Home Fragrance business units. The Learning & Development segment increased core sales 17.3%, a strong rebound, which reflected double-digit increases across both the Writing and Baby business units.The Outdoor & Recreation segment also returned to core sales growth, increasing 7%. Operating cash flow was $25 million -- operating cash outflow was $25 million during the seasonally small quarter, reflecting an increase in working capital to support consumer demand increases both in Q1 and Q2. Importantly, 2021 is off to a strong start on the cash conversion cycle as we shortened it by about 13 days versus last year. We continue to strengthen our balance sheet during the first quarter as the company's net debt-to-normalized EBITDA leverage ratio moved down to 3.3 times, which is a 0.2 point improvement relative to year-end 2020 and a 0.9 point reduction versus the year-ago period. We are steadily marching toward our leverage target of 3 times and expect debt pay-down as well as EBITDA growth to contribute to this outcome. For perspective, in Q1, normalized EBITDA on a trailing 12-month basis increased about 10% compared to last quarter. During the first quarter, the company redeemed the remaining $94 million of its 3.15% senior notes that were scheduled to mature in April 2021 and repurchased $5 million of its 3.85% senior notes due 2023. We remain in a very strong liquidity position with over $2 billion in available short-term liquidity, including $682 million of cash on the balance sheet.Let me provide some context for our underlying assumptions for the balance of the year and how they've evolved since February. The macro backdrop remains quite dynamic, both as it relates to the pandemic as well as input cost fluctuations. While we are optimistic about progress on vaccine rollout and the impact of the latest U.S. stimulus on the consumer, uncertainty remains, particularly in the back half of the year where comparisons are tougher. With stronger-than-anticipated momentum in the business in the first quarter and, thus far, in Q2 as well as improved capabilities within our supply chain to address demand spikes, we are pleased to raise our full year outlook on top line. We continue to expect a stronger first half relative to the second half. In the first quarter, core sales grew not just on a year-over-year basis but relative to 2019 as well. On a similar note, our updated outlook implies that core sales will be up versus 2020 and 2019 in both Q2 and for the full year. For the back half of 2021, we expect core sales to be up versus 2019 levels. Here are the specifics on our outlook. For the full year 2021, we are raising our net sales forecast by approximately $400 million to $9.9 billion to $10.1 billion, which represents 5% to 8% growth versus last year. We now forecast core sales growth of 5% to 7%, up from our prior assumption of low single-digit growth.Although currency has gotten slightly less favorable relative to a few months ago, we continue to expect it to remain a tailwind and more than offset the unfavorable impact from closure of Yankee Candle retail stores and other minor business exits. Despite the meaningful uptick in inflation, we are still planning for normalized operating margin expansion of 30 to 60 basis points year-over-year to 11.4% to 11.7%. We expect the combination of productivity, pricing, overhead savings and incremental volume leverage as a result of better top line growth to more than cover the increase in inflationary pressure. We are still planning for higher advertising and promotion spending relative to year-ago levels to support a strengthening innovation pipeline as well as our digital initiatives. There is no change in our assumption of a high-teens effective tax rate. We are not factoring in any potential changes in the U.S. corporate tax rate policy at this time. Our normalized earnings per share outlook moves up $0.08 to $1.63 to $1.73. Share count is still expected to be up slightly versus 2020.Our operating cash flow outlook for the year remains strong and unchanged at approximately $1 billion driven by continued reduction in Newell's cash conversion cycle. Q2 is off to a strong start, and we are planning for net sales of $2.5 billion to $2.58 billion, which implies 18% to 22% growth year-over-year. Core sales are expected to increase 17% to 20% as we lap a 12.6% decline from a year ago. As a reminder, in Q2, we are cycling against the most significant disruption from the COVID-19 pandemic. Currency should be a tailwind, helping to mitigate the impact from Yankee Candle store footprint rationalization and minor business exits. Our outlook for the second quarter reflects normalized operating margin expansion of 130 to 180 basis points year-over-year to 11.5% to 12% as volume leverage, in combination with productivity savings, should more than offset the inflationary pressures as well as planned increases in advertising and promotional spending.This outlook assumes that the normalized effective tax rate is in the high teens for Q2, with normalized earnings per share in the $0.41 to $0.45 range as compared to $0.30 in the year-ago period. We are energized by the overwhelming progress our teams are driving on the turnaround plan. We continue to take decisive strategic actions to improve the appeal of our brands and products and upgrade our operating effectiveness and efficiency. Despite the disruption and volatility in the macros, we have not wavered from our strategic imperatives, which has put us on a much stronger footing.Operator, let's now open up the Q&A session.