
OperatorGood day, and welcome to the Centene Corporation First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] After today's presentation, there'll be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to turn the conference over to Jennifer Gilligan, Senior Vice President of Finance and Investor Relations. Please go ahead, ma'am.Jennifer Gilligan -- Senior Vice President of Finance and Investor Relations

 



Thank you, Rocco, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us on our first quarter 2021 earnings results conference call. Michael Neidorff, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Jeff Schwaneke, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Centene, will host this morning's call, which also can be accessed through our website at centene.com. Any remarks that Centene may make about future expectations, plans and prospects constitute forward-looking statements for the purpose of the Safe Harbor provision under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by those forward-looking statements, as a result of various important factors, including those discussed in Centene's most recent Form 10-Q filed today, and the Form 10-K dated February 22, 2021, and other public SEC filings, including the risks and uncertainties described with respect to the potential impacts of COVID-19 on our business and results of operation.Centene anticipates that subsequent events and developments may cause its estimates to change. While the company may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so. The call will also refer to certain non-GAAP measures. A reconciliation of these measures with the most directly comparable GAAP measures can be found in our first quarter 2021 press release, which is available on the company's website under the Investors section. Additionally, please mark your calendars for our upcoming Investor Day to be held virtually on June 16, 2021.With that, I would like to turn the call over to our Chairman, President and CEO, Michael Neidorff. Michael?Michael Neidorff -- Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer of Centene Corporation

 



Thank you, Jennifer. Good morning and thank you for joining Centene's first quarter earnings call. Today -- on the call today, I will review our first quarter performance, provide an update on our markets and products, and discuss how we are positioned to sustain our momentum in the ongoing pandemic environment. While we have made great progress in working our way out of the pandemic, nationally, as we have seen recently, it is not yet over. We are off to a strong start in 2021, with solid revenue and earnings growth. It was a good quarter. Our teams continue to execute well, generating revenue of $30 billion, an increase of 15% compared to the first quarter of 2020. Membership was $25.1 million at the quarter end. This represents an increase of $1.3 million compared to the year ago quarter.Adjusted diluted earnings per share of $1.63 compared to $0.86 in the prior year quarter, representing an increase of 90%. Overall, we are pleased with our first quarter performance and the trajectory of our business. And today, we are updating our full year guidance. This is primarily driven by several tailwinds. These include first, continued Medicaid membership growth, amid suspended eligibility redeterminations. Our current guidance anticipates the suspension continuing to at least August 1, based on the fact that is renewed 90 days at a time. Second, the marketplace special enrollment period, which I will discuss in more detail shortly. And third, the hold on the Medicare sequestration. Our results to date also reflect a decrease in normal utilization, offset by COVID-19 expenses and stake recoupment of premiums, which Jeff will provide additional detail on shortly.As we have done throughout pandemic, we continue to monitor the headwinds and tailwinds, we anticipate will impact our operating landscape for the remainder of the year and possibly into 2022. Consistent with past quarters, I will provide you with updates based on the facts as we know them today. When taken together, we believe the essence of these factors to be positive. Anticipated tailwinds include, continued lower than normal utilization. Overall, the first quarter was lower compared to the prior quarter, although we saw an increase in non-COVID utilization in our marketplace business. While the trajectory of utilization depends on the pandemic and remains uncertain, we continue to expect utilization to come in below historical averages during the second quarter, with the potential for some normalization starting to occur in the second half of the year. Other key profitable tailwinds we see include; potential for continued growth resulting in higher-than-anticipated membership in our marketplace business from the special enrollment period, and a probable extension of the Medicaid eligibility redetermination suspension beyond August and through the end of the year, possibly into the beginning of 2022.As a potential headwind, we continue to monitor additional state rate adjustments. For 2021, we anticipate a $550 million revenue impact of state revenue actions and rate actions. Jeff will provide some additional color on this shortly. But I will share that we have seen only one action in the first quarter of the year. And we are not currently aware of any additional planned adjustments or quarters. In fact, some quarters may -- we believe may be allowed to expire. To reiterate, overall, as we see them today, we believe these factors balance in our favor. As we conclude the first quarter of 2021, we are pleased with our ability to drive significant growth and our updated guidance reflects the strength of our business through the year. We also remain vigilant that this is a year with unique drivers, including the suspension of Medicaid eligibility redeterminations and the marketplace special enrollment period, which we cannot be certain will continue throughout all of 2022. Consistent with prior years, at our June Investor Day, we will provide an update on these factors in 2022. We recognize a lot of factors as we see them today, balance to the positive, the outlook remains fluid, independent on the prevalent policy landscape.

 



The strength of our diversified business is apparent across our product portfolio. In our Medicaid business, we continue to participate in an active RFP pipeline. We successfully renewed our contract in Hawaii at the end of March. And North Carolina and Oklahoma both remain on track to go live later this year. For 2021, we continue to expect a composite rate adjustment of 1.7%, consistent with our initial guidance. Our Medicare business delivered continued growth. Medicare grew by over $1 billion year-over-year in the first quarter, representing growth of 41% and demonstrating the strength of the platform and our ability to leverage our national scale going forward.In our marketplace business, we are pleased to be operating in a supportive environment. The administration continues to invest in the product. And just last week, announced an additional $80 million for navigators to boost enrollment. Based on data released by CMS, Centene is a clear leader in new enrollment on the federal exchange. And since the beginning of the year, we have enrolled over 320,000 new members in our market case product. We believe these results demonstrate the strength of our strategy to provide consistent quality care and not to participate in a price-related race to the bottom with narrow network coverage. I will remind you that now networks often encourage out-of-network utilization, which tends to be uncontrolled and expensive. We see opportunity to further grow with the enhanced advanced premium tax credits that took effect April 1. The impact of which we believe will encourage consumers to prioritize quality, consistent -- consistency and experience over premium loan. Moving ahead, we intend to maintain and consider building additional products around this strategy.On the technology front, we're making meaningful progress to advance our capabilities to provide high-quality integrated care for our members. We look forward to providing you more details on our unique technology strategy at our Investors Day in June. We continue to advance toward the completion of the Magellan Health acquisition and remain on track to close the transaction early in the second half of 2021. The Hart-Scott-Rodino waiting period expired in mid-March, and we're working diligently toward obtaining the necessary state approvals. Our integration planning efforts are in full swing, and we are enthusiastic about the combination, which will enable us to expand access to special care and nurture -- to specialty care and nurture a fully integrated model across behavioral and physical health. I will remind you that Magellan will be part of our Healthcare Enterprise portfolio, which will allow them to maintain independent and serve third-party customers.I would like to take a moment to comment on the situation in Ohio. We are still an active RFP process, where we finished second out of 11 bidders, according to a scoring summary released by the Ohio Department of Medicaid. Regarding the legal and regulatory landscape, Centene has been clear that we maintain the claims to be unfounded. For additional information about our position on this matter, I want to direct you to our website for links to our court filings. We look forward to answering any questions from our governmental partners regarding this issue and remain committed to the highest levels of quality and transparency and how we serve our state partners. Before I close, I'd like to talk about Centene's role in COVID-19 vaccine distribution. Over the past few months, our data and care management teams have worked tirelessly to identify members at the highest list for COVID-19 and provide those individuals with personalized and culturally sensitive outreach. In addition, we have partnered with Lyft to support individuals with transportation to vaccine appointments. And with the Gold Jackets of the pro football hall of fame, with whom we have had an ongoing partnership, we created PSA's focus on increasing awareness about the safety and efficacy of COVID vaccines. This type of innovative work is happening across the organization, and I want to recognize and thank our employees for their unwavering commitment and dedication.In closing, we started the year strong and look forward to carrying this positive momentum through the remainder of 2021 as we experience a supportive environment in expanding access to care. We continue to see long-term opportunities to drive growth in our top and bottom line and enhance margins as we provide the highest level of care to our members at the lowest cost.I look forward to seeing all of you, albeit virtually at our investor event on June 16th. Thank you for your continued interest in Centene. I'll now hand the call over to Jeff.Jeffrey Schwaneke -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Michael, and good morning, everyone. This morning, we reported first quarter 2021 results and what was a good start to the year. First quarter revenues were $30 billion, an increase of 15% compared to the first quarter of 2020, and adjusted diluted earnings per share was $1.63, compared to $0.86 last year. As a result of the strong first quarter performance, we increased our full year 2021 adjusted EPS guidance by $0.05 per share to a range of $5.05 to $5.35. I will provide further comments related to our updated financial guidance shortly. First, let me provide additional details for the first quarter. Total revenues grew by $4 billion over the first quarter of 2020 due to a full quarter of contribution from WellCare and the ongoing suspension of Medicaid Eligibility Redeterminations, partially offset by an overall decrease in marketplace membership, state rate and risk-sharing actions and the repeal of the health insurer fee in 2021. Our marketplace membership decline in the quarter was less significant than previously expected as a result of membership gains achieved during the special enrollment period. Total membership increased to 25.1 million in the quarter, up 5% compared to a year ago. Since the pandemic began in March of 2020, we have added a total of two million Medicaid members. Our HBR was 86.8% in the first quarter, compared to 88% in the first quarter of 2020. The HBR benefited from lower overall medical utilization trends due to COVID pandemic and lower costs associated with the flu. This was partially offset by COVID-related costs, state risk-sharing mechanisms and higher COVID and traditional utilization in the marketplace business.Our adjusted selling, general and administrative expense ratio was 8.1% in the first quarter this year compared to 8.6% last year and 9.7% in the fourth quarter of 2020. The adjusted SG&A expense ratio benefited from the ongoing suspension of Medicaid eligibility redeterminations and the leveraging of expenses over higher revenues due to recent acquisitions. Cash flow provided by operations was $43 million in the first quarter. The lower operating cash flow for the quarter was primarily driven by a delay in premium payments of $910 million from the state of New York due to the end of their fiscal year, which was collected in April. We continue to maintain a strong liquidity position of $369 million of unregulated cash in our balance sheet at quarter end, debt at quarter end was $16.8 billion, which includes $152 million of borrowings on our revolving credit facility. Our debt-to-capital ratio was 38.5%, excluding our non-recourse debt, compared to 39% in the fourth quarter of 2020. Our debt-to-capital ratio was 38% when netting our unregulated cash with our debt at quarter end, which represents a 90 basis point decrease since March of 2020. Our medical claims liability totaled $12.8 billion at quarter end and represents 49 days in claims payable, compared to 51 days in the fourth quarter of 2020. DCP was impacted by the timing of medical and pharmacy claim payments.We are making excellent progress toward the closure of Magellan, and we remain comfortable with our previously communicated accretion targets. Over the last several months, we have gained increased visibility into a number of important factors and have included those items in our updated 2021 financial guidance. These factors specifically include the ongoing suspension of Medicaid eligibility redeterminations through August 1. The delay in the California pharmacy carve out until July 1, and the delay in the New York pharmacy carve out through year-end 2022. The new business win in Oklahoma with an assumed go-live date of October 1, expected marketplace membership gains through the special enrollment period, Medicare membership fee schedule increase and sequestration delay and updated expectations of state rate and risk-sharing mechanisms. These changes increased our total revenue guidance for the year by $4 billion at the midpoint to be within a range of $120.1 million and $122.1 billion.Our HBR guidance increased by 50 basis points at the midpoint due to the mix of items, such as the Medicare fee schedule, increased state risk-sharing mechanisms and Medicaid growth, which all carry a higher HBR. Taken all together, this has an overall neutral effect to earnings, and the dynamics are consistent with the headwinds and tailwinds we provided on our fourth quarter earnings call. Additionally, as I highlighted earlier, we have increased our adjusted diluted EPS guidance for the full year at the midpoint by $0.05, reflecting our strong first quarter performance. Let me highlight some more details on some of these items. We now expect Medicare Advantage enrollment growth to exceed 20% in 2021. This strong growth demonstrates the value of the WellCare acquisition, provides positive momentum for the organization to build off of, as we formulate our bids for Medicare Advantage in 2022. As Michael mentioned, marketplace enrollment expectations for 2021 are better than our previous estimates. As the special enrollment period provides Centene with an opportunity to reach many more eligible consumers. This strong growth demonstrates our organizational commitment to leadership in this product. We continue to view marketplace as a long-term growth opportunity for Centene.We have increased our estimate for state rate and risk-sharing mechanisms from our previous guidance to $550 million for 2021. In the first quarter, the state of New York implemented a risk corridor retroactive to April 1, 2020, that increased our payback by $40 million. At this time, we are not aware of any new corridors or retroactive rates and the increase in our full year estimate reflects the performance of risk mitigation programs enacted last year. As Michael noted, we continue to monitor utilization. During the first quarter, we saw overall utilization that continues to be below the historical baseline and also slightly lower than the fourth quarter of 2020. COVID inpatient admissions and costs peaked in January and decreased throughout the quarter. We continue to see a diverging pattern of COVID and non-COVID utilization. The updated financial guidance reflects typical utilization that remains below the historical baseline during the first half of 2021, continuing to trend to normalized levels by the end of the year. COVID utilization, including testing and treatment costs are expected to partially offset the impact of lower traditional utilization. The duration and intensity of higher COVID costs will be impacted by the trajectory of the pandemic and vaccination rates.Finally, as Michael discussed, we continue to monitor some additional factors that are not in our updated guidance today. They include the potential for the additional SEP membership gains in marketplace above our expectations driven by the enhanced advanced premium tax credits. The potential for Medicaid Redeterminations to be extended beyond August 1st, any additional state rate and risk-sharing actions and the uncertainty associated with both COVID and traditional medical utilization for the remainder of the year. We believe these additional factors represent a net tailwind to the company for the remainder of 2021. The seasonality of our earnings remains unchanged with approximately 60% in the first half of the year. I'll close by reiterating our confidence in the strength of our business, our balance sheet remains strong, and we believe we have ample liquidity to meet our operational and strategic needs. We remain focused on executing against our strategic plans and are committed to delivering shareholder value.That concludes my remarks, and operator, you may now open the line for questions.