
OperatorGood afternoon. Welcome to the Equinix Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]I'd now like to turn the call over to Katrina Rymill, Vice President of Investor Relations and Sustainability. You may begin.Katrina Rymill -- Vice President of Investor Relations

 



Good afternoon, and welcome to today's conference call. Before we get started, I'd like to remind everyone that some of the statements we'll be making today are forward-looking in nature and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may vary significantly from those statements and may be affected by the risks we identified in today's press release and those identified in our filings with the SEC, including our most recent Form 10-K filed on February 19, 2021, and 10-Q filed on April 30, 2021. Equinix assumes no obligation and does not intend to update or comment on forward-looking statements made on this call. In addition, in light of Regulation Fair Disclosure, it is Equinix' policy not to comment on its financial guidance during the quarter unless it is done through an explicit public disclosure.In addition, we will provide non-GAAP measures on today's conference call. We provide a reconciliation of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures and a list of the reasons why the company uses these measures in today's press release on Equinix' IR page at www.equinix.com. We have made available on the IR page of our website a presentation designed to accompany this discussion, along with certain supplemental financial information and other data. We'd also like to remind you that we post important information about Equinix in the IR page from time to time and encourage you to check our website regularly for the most current available information. With us today are Charles Meyers, Equinix' CEO and President; and Keith Taylor, Chief Financial Officer. Following our prepared remarks, we'll be taking questions from sell-side analysts. [Operator Instructions]At this time, I'll turn the call over to Charles.Charles J. Meyers -- President and Chief Executive Officer

 



Thanks, Kat. Good afternoon, everybody, and welcome to our second quarter earnings call. As reflected on our results, we are seeing significant momentum in our business as digital transformation outpaces previous expectations. Technology spend is accelerating, and Equinix remains uniquely positioned as traditional technology markets continue to shift to as-a-service consumption models and hybrid multicloud is widely adopted as the architecture of choice. The pandemic has highlighted that digital infrastructure is not just a business enabler, but a primary source of competitive advantage for digital leaders across all industries, and we continue to see a multitude of trends driving infrastructure that is more distributed, more on-demand and more ecosystem connected than ever before, playing to our distinctive strengths.Our results reflect strong performance across our geographies, tremendous momentum in our market-leading interconnection franchise and deep customer demand across our expanding portfolio of services. Against this robust demand backdrop, we had a great second quarter, delivering record bookings fueled by continued momentum in our Americas business and a strong quarter from Equinix Metal. We processed more than 4,600 deals in the quarter across more than 3,200 customers, demonstrating both the scale and the consistency of our go-to-market machine. We achieved our 74th consecutive quarter of top line growth and are pleased to have been recently been included in the Fortune 500, an exciting milestone made possible by the confidence our customers place in Equinix and by the incredible commitment and passion of our 10,000-plus employees around the world.And we continue to expand our global platform with 35 projects underway across 25 markets in 19 countries, with Q2 openings in Bordeaux, Helsinki and Silicon Valley. Aligned with our values and our purpose, we're also proud to share further enhancements to our old commitments on sustainability, leaning in across all elements of ESG. In early June, we became the first in the data center industry to commit to being climate neutral by 2030, backed by science-based targets, an aggressive green financing plan and a comprehensive sustainability agenda. Aligned with the current climate agreement, this commitment is a critical step to ensuring Equinix continues to advance investments and innovations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and greening our customers' digital supply chains.Additionally, as part of our ongoing focus on diversity, inclusion and belonging and our commitment to well-being, we recently hosted our Second Annual WeConnect event, a 24-hour virtual gathering led by our employee connection networks and our DIB and well-being teams. This event celebrates equality, diversity and connection and offers our employees an opportunity to listen, to learn and to engage in courageous conversations as we build a culture and a community that can have a meaningful, sustainable impact on the future of our world.

 



Turning to our results, as depicted on Slide three, revenues for Q2 were $1.7 billion, up 8% year-over-year. Adjusted EBITDA was up 7% year-over-year, and AFFO was again meaningfully ahead of our expectations. Interconnection revenues grew 12% year-over-year with solid unit adds and healthy pricing. These growth rates are all on a normalized and constant currency basis. Our global interconnection franchise continues to perform well. We now have over 406,000 total interconnections on our industry-leading platform. In Q2, we added an incremental 7,800 interconnections and now have 15 metros with more than 10,000 total interconnections, a reflection of the scaled digital ecosystems that drive our differentiated value proposition.Internet exchange saw peak traffic up 4% quarter-over-quarter and 31% year-over-year. And we're seeing IX diversify as large-scale peering expands to a broader base of enterprise customers. Equinix Fabric saw excellent growth across all three regions, driven by healthy unit growth and increasing yields as customers expand usage of higher bandwidth connections to interconnect regional and global footprints.More than 2,600 customers are now on Fabric, and we continue to see strong attach rates as businesses diversify their end destinations and evolve their connectivity needs in support of highly distributed infrastructure and the adoption of hybrid multicloud. Turning to digital infrastructure services, customers are responding very positively as we augment our portfolio to enable physical infrastructure delivered at software speed. We had strong bookings with Equinix Metal this quarter, including our largest win to date with our channel partner, Avant, for a blockchain company, building a network of validation nodes across eight markets. Our network edge offering showed meaningful acceleration with average deal size increasing nicely as enterprise customers are deploying a diverse set of virtualized network functions from our marketplace vendors.Importantly, and as expected, digital infrastructure services are also driving strong cross-selling activity and interconnection pull-through with nearly 1,000 vertical connections already provisioned to support these deployments. Shifting to our xScale initiative. We continue to expand our plans in light of robust market demand and positive customer feedback. Late in the quarter, we announced agreements for additional joint ventures with GIC, Singapore sovereign well fund. When closed and fully built out, the total investment between Equinix and GIC in our xScale data center portfolio, we will be nearly $7 billion across 32 facilities globally, with more than 600 megawatts of power capacity. We currently have seven xScale builds under development across all three regions, and we pre-leased our entire Frankfurt nine asset in Q2, representing 18 megawatts of capacity fully committed in advance of delivery.With this deal, we have -- now have -- have now leased more than 100 megawatts of xScale capacity and 100% of our open capacity at least. We are actively engaged with partners to develop entry plans and other expansion markets globally, including Australia. Now let me cover highlights from our verticals. Our network vertical delivered strong bookings across all three regions, with particular strength in APAC as traditional carriers continue to invest and specialty telecom firms evolve their portfolios to address demand for cloud, mobile, IP services and over-the-top delivery.New wins and expansions this quarter, including McKay Brothers, a local telecom service provider, leveraging interconnection to better serve low latency financial customers. Crosslake Fibre, a leading provider of network services deploying in our London four and Paris seven IBXs to support the first new subsea cable laid across the U.S. channel in nearly 20 years and a global telecommunications provider expanding their presence to new locations, including Milan and Bordeaux. Our cloud and IT vertical saw continued momentum over indexing Europe as organizations accelerate hybrid multicloud adoption.Expansions this quarter included Zoom, a leading video communications platform, expanding coverage and scale to support market demand and a cloud-delivered enterprise network security provider deploying infrastructure to support offerings in new locations. Our enterprise vertical achieved record bookings, with broad global strength punctuated by an exceptionally strong quarter in the Americas across several subsegments, including healthcare, consumer services, business and professional services and retail. New wins and expansions included Red Bull, a major sports energy drink manufacturer, deploying infrastructure across all three regions to take advantage of Equinix' cloud ecosystem; a leading global cosmetics retailer deploying digital infrastructure to optimize their network, move out of legacy data centers and locate private infrastructure adjacent to their cloud providers; and a Fortune 500 global insurance provider optimizing their infrastructure to support multicloud. Content and digital media also achieved solid bookings led by growth in CDM, publishing and digital media and gaming, as digital transformation continues to shape this vertical.Expansions included StackPath, a leading edge computing and services provider, deploying infrastructure across multiple edge locations; Earnest Research, a leading data analytics company, transforming network topology and interconnecting to multiple cloud across Platform Equinix; and i3D.net, a leading provider of application hosting and infrastructure services, deploying on Platform Equinix to enable a consistent high-performance gaming experience globally. And our channel program continues to outperform, delivering a record quarter and accounting for over 35% of bookings.Wins were across a wide range of industry verticals and use cases including multiple Equinix Metal and edge deals as the channel embraces our digital infrastructure services. We saw continued strength from alliance partners like AWS, Cisco, Dell, Google, IBM and Microsoft. And we also had success with key resellers around the world, including a win with HPE for Woolworths Group, a leading Australian retailer, to modernize and scale their payments platform, which processes over 30 million transactions per day.So now let me turn the call over to Keith to cover the results for the quarter.Keith D. Taylor -- Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Charles, and good afternoon to everyone. I hope you and your families are well and enjoying the summer months. So let me start by saying it was great to spend time with many of you, albeit virtually at our June Analyst Day. No surprise, we were eager to share our plans on how we intend to scale, extend and innovate the business over the coming years to drive long-term shareholder value, meaning more revenues, higher margins and more cash flows. With respect to the quarter, the business continues to perform exceedingly well, as the macro environment for digital infrastructure continues to drive favorable demand.In fact, we exceeded our expectations. There are many highlights to share with you through the quarter. To start, we had record bookings activity at both the company and the Americas regional level. We enjoyed robust channel activity and lower-than-planned churn. Interconnection additions were solid, both physically and virtually, and our digital infrastructure service lines, which include edge and metal, are gaining momentum. Simply put, we're continuing to execute against the goals highlighted at the Analyst Day. And given our performance, we're raising our guidance across each of revenues, adjusted EBITDA, AFFO and AFFO per share for the year.Now let me cover the results for the quarter. Note that all growth rates in this section are on a normalized and constant currency basis. As depicted on Slide four, global Q2 revenues were $1.658 billion, up 8% over the same quarter last year due to strong business performance across our platform, led by the Americas region. And as expected, nonrecurring revenues increased quarter-over-quarter to 7% of revenues due to a meaningful step-up in xScale joint venture fees in APAC and EMEA and custom installation work across all three regions. As you can appreciate, nonrecurring revenues are inherently lumpy and therefore, as a result, we expect our Q3 nonrecurring revenues to decrease by $8 million compared to Q2. Our backlog of "booked but yet to be built" cabinets has increased slightly, despite the 4,200 increase in billing cabinets in the quarter.Q2 revenues, net of our FX hedges, included an $11 million benefit when compared to our prior guidance rates. Global Q2 adjusted EBITDA was $797 million or 48% of revenues, up 7% over the same quarter last year, meaningfully outperforming our expectations due to strong operating performance and the timing of spend. Q2 included a planned rebound in repairs and maintenance spending and higher utility costs relative to Q1. Q2 adjusted EBITDA, net of our FX hedges, includes a $6 million FX benefit when compared to our prior guidance rates and $4 million of integration costs. Total Q2 AFFO was $632 million, including a $25 million recurring capex increase compared to the prior quarter, above our expectations due to strong operating performance and lower integration costs.Turning to our regional highlights, whose full results are covered on Slides five through seven. APAC had the highest year-over-year revenue growth of 11%, owned by the Americas and EMEA regions, both at 8%. The EMEA revenue growth rate reflects the lapping of the significant interconnection price increases and other one-off positive adjustments from last year. We expect the EMEA growth rate to return to normalized levels in Q4. The Americas region saw continued strength with our second consecutive quarter of record bookings, as six of our seven largest markets improved over the prior year.Also, we're enjoying healthy booking activity across our smaller markets, too, including Atlanta, Boston, Denver and Seattle. Deals were focused on retail interconnected deployments with healthy pricing. And the Americas region also benefited from strong imports from the other two regions, a reflection of our continued focus on platform selling. Our EMEA region had a strong quarter led by Dublin and Stockholm and our newly opened Bordeaux market as well as high exports to the other two regions. Enterprise has contributed approximately 1/3 of the region's bookings, up significantly over the prior year. We're also seeing good momentum across our flat markets. And the EMEA region benefited from nonrecurring revenues related to xScale fees earned from the pre-lease of our entire Frankfurt nine and London 11 buildings, 37 megawatts of demand.And finally, the Asia Pacific region had a solid quarter, led by Singapore and Japan with strong regional bookings. Pricing for small- and medium-sized deals remain strong, and we're seeing good traction with Equinix Metal. The APAC region's quarterly MRR growth was partially constrained due to COVID-related capacity delays in Singapore and political uncertainty in our Hong Kong market.And now looking at the capital structure, please refer to Slides eight and nine. We ended the quarter with cash of about $1.8 billion, and our net debt leverage ratio is 3.8 times our Q2 annualized adjusted EBITDA, highlighting the financial flexibility and strategic advantage we have relative to anyone else in our space. In May, we raised $2.6 billion, including an incremental $1 billion in green notes. Since Equinix' inaugural investment-grade issuance in late 2019, we've reduced our annualized interest expense by approximately $196 million, offset in part by the incremental debt capital raised. Our blended cost to borrow is now the lowest in the industry at approximately 1.7% and our weighted average maturity is nearly 10 years. We also raised $100 million of ATM equity in the quarter.We continue to expect to use both debt and equity to fund our future business needs with an increase leading toward debt capital. Turning to Slide 10 for the quarter, capital expenditures were approximately $692 million, including recurring capex of $45 million. We opened three new retail projects this quarter, including new IBXs in Bordeaux and Silicon Valley. We also purchased lab for development in Frankfurt and Helsinki. Revenues from owned assets now represents 58% of our total revenues due to the acquisition of our Singapore three IBXs. On the xScale side of the business, after quarter end, we contributed our Dublin five asset to the EMEA joint venture in return for net proceeds after our 20% equity contribution of $49 million.Our capital investments delivered strong returns as shown on Slide 11. Our 153 stabilized assets increased recurring revenues by 3% year-over-year on a constant currency basis. These stabilized assets are collectively 86% utilized and generated a 27% cash-on-cash return on the gross PP&E invested. Looking forward, we expect to exit the year closer to the top end of our stabilized asset growth rate, in part due to strong Americas revenue growth.Please refer to Slides 12 through 16 for our updated summary of 2021 guidance and bridges. Do note, our 2021 guidance does not include any financial results related to the pending GPX India acquisition, which is expected to close in Q3. For the full year 2021, we're raising our revenue guidance by $50 million and adjusted EBITDA guidance by $27 million, primarily due to strong operating performance and favorable FX rates, although slightly offset due to the timing of spend as we proactively pulled forward expenditures to mitigate supply chain risks. This guidance implies a normalized and constant currency revenue growth rate of approximately 8% in midpoint compared to the prior year and an adjusted EBITDA margin of greater than 47%.And given the operating momentum of the business, we're raising our 2021 AFFO guidance by $15 million, growing 10% to 12% on a normalizing constant currency basis compared to the previous year, while also increasing our AFFO per share range. 2021 capex is now expected to range between $2.7 billion and $3 billion, including an approximate $450 million of on-balance sheet xScale capex, a significant portion, which is expected to be reimbursed by either the current or future JVs and $193 million of recurring capex spend, a slight increase over the prior quarter due to timing of spend as we mitigate supply chain risks.So let me stop here and turn the call back to Charles.Charles J. Meyers -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Keith. The momentum behind digital transformation is as robust as ever and shows no signs of letting up. As a world digital infrastructure company, Equinix plays a unique role in this evolving story and is positioned to be both a catalyst and a key beneficiary as we partner with customers to unlock the enormous promise of digital, both economically and socially. As we discussed at our recent Analyst Day, we are focused on three strategic levers as we execute on this transformational opportunity.First, we will continue to scale, doubling down on the strength of our core business, investing to further scale our go-to-market machine to win new customers, putting our capital to work to add capacity in existing markets and executing on targeted operational improvements to standardize, simplify and automate, driving expanded operating margins and providing a better experience for customers and partners. Second, we will extend the reach of our platform and accelerate our aspirations in xScale. By the end of this year, we'll be in 66 markets around the world and see continued opportunities for expansion in growth across both retail and xScale.And third, we will continue to innovate across our portfolio supporting scalability, self-service and energy efficiency across our colo estate, delivering advanced features to sustain momentum in our market-leading interconnection franchise and driving adoption of our digital infrastructure services to deepen our relevance to customers. Our ability to scale, extend and innovate starts with our people and with our commitment to building a diverse and inclusive workplace for every person every day can confidently say, "I'm safe, I belong and I matter." We show up every day with an in-service-to mindset, starting by being in service to each other, which enables us in turn to be in service to our customers, to our communities and to you, our shareholders. Purpose creates passion, and we are inspired by ours to be the platform where the world comes together, serving as an enabling force for our customers and unlocking their incredible potential to deliver the innovations that enrich our work, our life and our planet.So let me stop there and open it up for questions.
OperatorGood afternoon, and welcome to the Equinix first quarter earnings conference call. [Operator Instructions]I'd now like to turn the call over to Katrina Rymill, Vice President of Investor Relations and Sustainability. You may begin.Katrina Rymill -- Vice President of Investor RelationsGood afternoon, and welcome to today's conference call. Before we get started, I'd like to remind everyone that some of the statements we're making today are forward-looking in nature and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may vary significantly from those statements and may be affected by the risks we identified in today's press release and those identified in our filings with the SEC, including our most recent Form 10-K filed on February 19, 2021. Equinix assumes no obligation and does not intend to update or comment on forward-looking statements made on this call. In addition, in light of Regulation Fair Disclosure, it is Equinix' policy not to comment on its financial guidance during the quarter unless it is done through an explicit public disclosure. In addition, we will provide non-GAAP measures on today's conference call.We provide a reconciliation of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures and a list of the reasons why the company uses these measures in today's press release on the Equinix IR page at www.equinix.com. We have made available on the IR page of our website a presentation designed to accompany this discussion, along with certain supplemental financial information and other data. We'd also like to remind you that we post important information about Equinix in the IR page from time to time and encourage you to check our website regularly for the most current available information. With us today are Charles Meyers, Equinix' CEO and President; and Keith Taylor, Chief Financial Officer. Following our prepared remarks, we'll be taking questions from sell-side analysts. [Operator Instructions]At this time, I'll turn the call over to Charles.Charles J. Meyers -- President, Chief Executive Officer and DirectorThank you, Katrina. Good afternoon, and welcome to our first quarter earnings call. We had a great start to the year, delivering one of the strongest net bookings quarters in our history, fueled by strong demand across our platform, our lowest churn quarter in many years and continued momentum in our Americas business. With the addition of the Bell Canada assets, we are now the market leader in 19 of the 26 countries in which we operate. And we are delighted to now be the market leader in retail colocation across all three regions of the world, taking the #1 spot in Asia Pacific for the first time this quarter. Our bookings performance continues to highlight the consistency and scale of our go-to-market engine, executing 4,300 deals with more than 3,200 customers. We have a robust build pipeline to support this demand, including 36 major projects under way across 28 markets in 19 countries, one of our most active build years ever. We fully recognize that COVID remains a very acute issue with continued tragic impacts in key markets around the world, including India and Brazil. Our hearts go out to our colleagues and customers in those markets, and we are actively taking steps to support those communities. But as we navigate toward a post-pandemic world, we believe Equinix remains uniquely well positioned.Digital transformation continues to accelerate, and businesses across a broad range of verticals are recognizing that their infrastructure can be a key source of competitive advantage in an increasingly digital world. Demand is as strong as ever, with global IT spend expected to rebound above pre-pandemic levels as enterprises increase hybrid cloud spending and service providers build out their delivery platforms to tap into this demand. Against this backdrop, we remain focused on the clear set of priorities I outlined at the start of the year: investing in our people and culture, simplifying and scaling our business, accelerating our digital services and expanding our global reach, both through our retail footprint and our rapidly growing xScale business. While we're delighted with our business results, we are also highly attuned to our responsibilities as a market leader and continue to advance a bold sustainability agenda across all dimensions of ESG. Supporting our people and strengthening our culture continue to be foundational to our strategy. And in a time where it matters more than ever, our vision remains clear: for Equinix to be a place where every employee every day can confidently say, "I'm safe. I belong. And I matter." And for our workforce at all levels to better reflect and represent the communities in which we operate.In early April, we hosted our second annual days of understanding, where thousands of our employees around the world attended workshops to listen, learn and promote a culture of mutual understanding and inclusion as we continue to build and foster an engaged diverse workforce. Our people show up every day inspired by our purpose: to be the platform where the world comes together, enabling the innovations that enrich our work, life and planet. As we pursue this purpose, we are also deeply committed to our role as an important component in greening digital infrastructure. We recently published our 2020 corporate sustainability highlights, and I am proud that Equinix once again achieved more than 90% renewable energy coverage for our global data center footprint and received an A- score for our CDP Climate Change Survey, a leading environmental rating system focused on climate-related transparency and action. In January, we announced, alongside other providers, the formation of the European Climate Neutral Data Center Pact, committed to ensuring data centers in Europe are carbon-neutral by 2030. We continue to invest significant resources in our ESG leadership, and we'll roll out additional global ambitions over the coming quarters in both our environmental and social initiatives. Now turning to our results as depicted on Slide 3. Revenues for Q1 were $1.6 billion, up 7% year-over-year. Adjusted EBITDA was up 10% year-over-year, and AFFO was meaningfully ahead of our expectations. These growth rates are all on a normalized and constant currency basis. Our leading interconnection franchise continues to perform well with revenues substantially outpacing colocation, growing 13% year-over-year, driven by the continued strength of Equinix Fabric. We now have over 398,000 interconnections and added more organic interconnections year-over-year than the next 10 competitors combined.In Q1, we added an incremental 6,700 interconnections, fueled by hyperscaler build-outs and strong enterprise demand, offset by a slight seasonal increase in network grooming activity. Internet exchange saw peak traffic up 9% quarter-over-quarter and 28% year-over-year, driven by the cloud and network segments. Equinix Fabric also saw strong growth driven by expanded use of our inter-metro offering and continued diversification of end destinations. More than 2,500 customers are now on Fabric, and we remain focused on driving higher attach rates for this product across our platform. We're also seeing strong customer interest in our Equinix Metal offering and continue to deliver on our commitment to expand the availability and feature set of this offering, enabling as-a-service consumption of our value proposition across 18 global metros. On the xScale side of our business, we're accelerating our pace and continue to make meaningful progress on our ambitious plans for 2021 as rapid growth of the digital economy drives increased demand for global cloud connectivity. With our xScale facilities, hyperscale companies can add large footprint core deployments to their existing network and on-ramp footprints at Equinix, enabling faster time to market and offering direct interconnection to a vibrant ecosystem with their customers and strategic partners. Our more than $3 billion program financed with the support of our JV partners will develop over 290 megawatts across our first two JVs with several more already in the works. We are broadening our reach with the first building of our Dublin five campus, which is JV-ready and already 100% pre-leased to a major hyperscaler. Additionally, after quarter end, we pre-leased our entire London 11 asset. These two deals alone represent nearly 40 megawatts of capacity fully committed in advance of delivery. Now let me cover highlights from our verticals. Please note that we updated our customer segmentation approach to better reflect industry classifications and use cases as well as combined our financial services and enterprise segments to reflect the true scale and momentum of the enterprise opportunity. Going forward, we'll report under these four key verticals.Our network vertical saw strong bookings led by the previously mentioned strength in the Americas as firms expand their capabilities and capacity for digital business, and momentum begins to build for industrial 5G applications. A meaningful part of our network vertical is resale, an indication of the momentum of our channel efforts as we work with partners to deliver more complete solutions to support enterprise digital transformation. Expansions this quarter include British Telecom, a leading telecommunications provider, optimizing network and connecting to multi-cloud for their global enterprise end customers; and Alestra, one of the first Mexican cloud service providers leveraging Equinix Fabric to provide a multi-cloud product offering; and SUB.CO, a leading subsea cable system development firm deploying a cable node to establish the first route between Oman and Australia. Content and digital media achieved solid bookings as indoor entertainment continues to drive activity in the social media, gaming and streaming platforms. Expansions included marquee wins like Roblox expanding across Platform Equinix to support their rapidly growing user base and big data requirements as well as a global edge cloud provider expanding capacity and deploying network nodes to support accelerating demand for video content. Our cloud and IT vertical delivered strong bookings led by hyperscalers continuing their global growth. And it's worth noting that these bookings results do not include the previously referenced xScale wins, which are additive to this strong retail performance. Q1 was also an exceptional quarter in terms of cloud on-ramp additions with 21 new on-ramp wins in the quarter, roughly equivalent to our cumulative volume over the prior four quarters and representing a 75% share of on-ramps launched in our metros. As a result, Equinix customers can now enjoy low-latency access to multiple clouds in 31 metros across the globe, including eight of the world's top 10 metros by GDP. Expansions this quarter included a Fortune 30 software provider deploying infrastructure to support digital transformation and IT initiatives; and Everest, an Australian cloud services provider specializing in healthcare, expanding to meet country-specific data compliance requirements and improve user experience.Our enterprise vertical continued to be a major contributor to overall bookings performance, driven by strength in the retail and financial services subsegments as enterprises shift from pandemic initiatives such as work from home and collaboration to a broader focus on digital transformation. Expansions included CME Group, a top global financial derivatives exchange, expanding their footprint to support growing demand of matching engines resulting from a new platform launch; as well as a leading global airline rearchitecting to connect to their preferred network and cloud partners and tap into our growing transportation ecosystem. And our channel program continues to deliver exceptional results, contributing more than 30% of our bookings and accounting for over 60% of our new logos. We had great wins with resellers and alliance partners, including AT&T, Dell and IBM, across a wide range of industry segments focused on digital transformation efforts and COVID-19 response.Partner wins included working with Verizon, utilizing their Network-as-a-Service strategy to help a large U.S. healthcare provider modernize their mission-critical contact center and leverage a new cloud architecture supporting 12 million members across the U.S.; as well as a win with a global Canadian manufacturer deploying in Canada and Germany for WAN optimization and cloud access, utilizing Cisco's SD-WAN solution interconnected to Equinix Fabric.Now let me turn the call over to Keith to cover the results for the quarter.Keith D. Taylor -- Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Charles, and good afternoon to everyone. On the heels of a record end to 2020, we delivered a great Q1 with strong gross bookings, in fact, our best Q1 ever and our second best net bookings quarter ever with solid performance across virtually all of our key metrics. Our platform continues to shine with strong inter- and intra-region activity, with a high interest in our expanded product and service capabilities further separating us from our peers. Interconnection revenues now represent 19% of our recurring revenues, reflecting our continued interconnection momentum. With a great start to 2021 and increased visibility over the rest of the year, we're raising our guidance substantially across revenues, adjusted EBITDA, AFFO and AFFO per share on a constant currency basis. Now let me cover the highlights for the quarter. Note that all growth rates in this section are on a normalized and constant currency basis. As depicted on Slide 4, global Q1 revenues were $1.596 billion, up 7% over the same quarter last year, our 73rd quarter of top line revenue growth, due to strong business performance led by the Americas. As expected, nonrecurring revenue decreased quarter-over-quarter to 5% of revenues. But as noted on our last earnings call, we anticipate a meaningful rebound in Q2 NRR due to forecasted custom installation work across a number of markets, highlighting the inherent lumpiness of this revenue source. Q1 revenues net of our FX hedges included a $6 million headwind when compared to our prior guidance rates. Global Q1 adjusted EBITDA was $773 million or 48% of revenues, up 10% over the same quarter last year, significantly outperforming our expectations due to strong operating performance and lower net utility costs. Our Q1 adjusted EBITDA performance net of our FX hedges included a $3 million FX headwind when compared to our prior guidance rates and $4 million of integration costs. Global Q1 AFFO was $627 million, meaningfully above our expectations due to strong operating performance and lower seasonal recurring capital expenditures.Q1 global MRR churn was 2%, a meaningful step-down with lower churn across all three regions. This improved churn is a reflection of our continued discipline strategy of selling the platform for the right customer with the right application and into the right footprint. For 2021, we continue to expect MRR churn to average between 2% and 2.5% per quarter. Turning to our regional highlights whose full results are covered on Slides five through 7. APAC and EMEA were the fastest MRR-growing regions on a year-over-year normalized basis at 10% and 9%, respectively, followed by the Americas region at 4%. The Americas region saw continued momentum with record price-adjusted gross and net bookings, firm pricing and a large step-up in cabinets billing. We're seeing good momentum across many markets in the region with particular spend in Dallas, New York and the smaller metros of Denver and Mexico City. We have a strong booked but unbilled backlog and continue to expect a large step-up in billing cabinets through the first half of 2021, as partially experienced in Q1 and with more to follow in Q2.Based on this momentum, we expect the Americas normalized quarterly revenue growth rate for the remainder of the year to be at or near 6% or better. Also, our power hedging strategy minimized the impact to our business from the utility price spikes in Texas during the extreme weather situation in February. Our power hedging program, along with our world-class operational management, ensured we also protected our customers from these price spikes as well. There is no incremental revenue due to this unexpected weather situation. Separately, our Texas and Oklahoma wind farm settlements trended positively during this quarter. Our EMEA region saw strong bookings in the quarter, including healthy exports and record intra-region activity. Although our flat markets remain core to the region's booking engine, we're also seeing increased customer interest in our edge metros, with strong momentum in Dublin, Madrid and Stockholm and our new market of Muscat and our soon-to-be-open Bordeaux facility.Revenue growth remained strong although moderated from previous levels, as expected, as we lap past our successful cross-connect repricing initiative. Interconnection revenue stepped up to 13% of recurring revenues, showing continued momentum. And finally, the Asia Pacific region had solid net bookings with good pricing and strong enterprise and cloud growth led by our Singapore and Japan businesses. Utilization rates continue to remain high, but we've opened capacity in key markets this quarter and will add additional capacity through 2021 to ease potential inventory constraints. I'm now looking at our capital structure. Please refer to Slide 8. We ended the quarter with cash of approximately $1.8 billion, an increase over the prior quarter, largely due to our inaugural euro-denominated green bond refinancing, which raised EUR1.1 billion at a weighted average interest rate of 66 basis points. As a result, Equinix now has the lowest weighted average cost of debt capital and the longest weighted average maturity of any publicly traded data center company. We also expect to refinance our remaining U.S. dollar high-yield bond over the near term, further driving down our average cost of debt. Our net debt levels remain low relative to our peers at 3.7 times our Q1 annualized adjusted EBITDA. We continue to work alongside our credit rating agencies and are pleased to announce that earlier today, S&P upgraded Equinix to BBB flat and widened our leverage tolerance to 5 times.One, we're very appreciative of the continued support we get from S&P, and importantly, we're delighted with this increased financial flexibility. Looking forward, as stated previously, we'll continue to take a balanced approach to funding our growth opportunities while creating long-term value for our shareholders. Turning to Slide nine for the quarter. Capital expenditures were approximately $564 million, including recurring capex of $20 million. We opened eight new retail projects this quarter, adding 7,400 cabinets, including a new IBX in Milan. On the xScale side of the business, we opened three new facilities in London, Paris and Tokyo, adding an initial 28 megawatts of capacity in our JVs. All this hyperscale capacity has been presold. We also purchased land and buildings for development in Montreal and Mexico City. Revenues from owned assets represent 56% of our total revenues now. Our capital investments delivered strong returns as shown on Slide 10. Our now 154 stabilized assets increased recurring revenues by 5% year-over-year on a constant currency basis. Also consistent with prior years, during Q1, we completed the annual refresh of our IBX categorization exercise. Our stabilized asset count increased by net seven IBXs. These stabilized assets are collectively 85% utilized and generate a 27% cash-on-cash return on the gross PP&E invested. And now please refer to Slides 11 through 15 for an updated summary of 2021 guidance and bridges. Do note, our 2021 guidance does not include any financial results related to the pending GPX India acquisition, which is expected to close in Q2, nor any future capital market activities.For the full year 2021, we're raising our underlying revenues guidance by $40 million and adjusted EBITDA guidance by $33 million, primarily due to strong operating performance and favorable net utility costs. This guidance implies a normalizing constant currency growth rate of 7% to 8% year-over-year and an adjusted EBITDA margin of approximately 47%. And given the operating momentum of the business, we're raising our 2021 AFFO by $26 million to grow between 10% and 12% on a normalized and constant currency basis compared to the previous year. We're also raising our 2021 AFFO per share to range -- to now grow between 9% and 11% on a normalized and constant currency basis. 2021 capex is now expected to range between $2.725 billion and $2.975 billion, including approximately $180 million of recurring capex spend, which represents about 3% of revenues. This guidance also includes an incremental $200 million of balance sheet xScale projects, funds that we expect to recover after contributing these investments into our current and our future JVs.So let me stop here. I'll turn the call back to Charles.Charles J. Meyers -- President, Chief Executive Officer and DirectorThanks, Keith. In closing, we had a terrific start to the year. As evidenced by our results, the demand backdrop for digital transformation remains strong, and I'm very pleased with our Q1 execution and the continued progress against our key areas of focus. As the world's digital infrastructure company, we are supporting service providers of every size and shape to build out their infrastructure at the digital edge, infrastructure that is more global, more distributed and more cloud connected than ever before. And together, we're leveraging the power of our platform to cultivate scaled digital ecosystems, enabling our enterprise customers to access all the right places, all the right partners and all the right possibilities as they transform their businesses and seek to accelerate their digital advantage. On behalf of the 13,000-plus dedicated members of the Equinix family around the world, I want to say thank you to our 10,000 customers for the trust they place in Equinix.Finally, we look forward to our Analyst Day in June, where we'll continue the discussion of our highly differentiated business model, outline the enormous opportunity ahead and discuss the actions we are taking and the investments we are making to drive sustained long-term value creation for our investors and our customers.So let me stop there and open it up for questions.