
OperatorGood day and welcome to the Qorvo, Inc. Q4 2021 Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Douglas DeLieto, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead sir.Douglas DeLieto -- Vice President of Investor Relations

 



Thanks very much. Hello everybody. Welcome to Qorvo's fiscal 2021 fourth quarter earnings conference call. This call will include forward-looking statements that involve risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from management's current expectations. We encourage you to review the Safe Harbor statement contained in the earnings release published today, as well as the risk factors associated with our business in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC, because these risk factors may affect our operations and financial results.In today's release and on today's call, we provide both GAAP and non-GAAP financial results. We provide this supplemental information to enable investors to perform additional comparisons of operating results and to analyze financial performance without the impact of certain non-cash expenses or other items that may obscure trends in our underlying performance.During our call, our comments and comparisons to income statement items will be based primarily on non-GAAP results. For a complete reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures, please refer to our earnings release issued earlier today available on our website at qorvo.com under Investors.Joining us today are Bob Bruggeworth, President and CEO; Mark Murphy, Chief Financial Officer; James Klein, President of Qorvo's Infrastructure and Defense Products Group; and Eric Creviston, President of Qorvo's Mobile Products Group, as well as other members of Qorvo's management team.

 



And with that, I'll turn the call over to Bob.Robert Bruggeworth -- Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Doug and welcome everyone. Qorvo concluded our fiscal 2021 with an exceptionally strong March quarter. Quarterly revenue, gross margin, and EPS were well above guidance. Outperformance was driven primarily by 5G smartphones and WiFi 6 and 6E. Demand was broad-based across customers, and design activity suggest continued strength in fiscal 2022, supported by multiyear trends in wired and wireless connectivity markets. In smartphones, the adoption of 5G is driving demand for higher value content. Device architectures are increasing in complexity as higher frequencies with wider bandwidths are added, transmit is introduced in the diversity path, MIMO architectures are adopted, and new receive paths featuring carrier aggregation. This is placing a premium on Qorvo's highly differentiated semiconductor technologies and enabling us to supply an expanding portfolio of products to industry leaders.For calendar 2021, we expect 5G smartphones to double versus last year. Within these phones, we expect the RF content to increase $5 to $7 per phone when compared to 4G, including in the mid-tier. Turning to the March quarterly highlights, Qorvo achieved record shipments of low, mid-high, and ultrahigh band main path solutions and WiFi 6E FEMs in support of leading Android OEMs. On the design front, we continue to expand our content opportunity with the leading Android OEMs by securing complete main path solutions and secondary transmit in the diversity path. In Ultra-Wideband, Qorvo was selected by a leading provider of consumer IoT products to integrate Ultra-Wideband into a broad set of connected home devices. More customers are looking to add ultrawideband to their products to take advantage of its superior location accuracy, security and latency compared to other wireless technologies. Customer interest in Qorvo's ultrawideband solutions has been robust, and we continue to see adoption in smartphones as the catalyst for an expanding ecosystem of connected devices that includes associated peripherals, automobiles, consumer and industrial IoT applications.

 



Finally, in mobile, we're very pleased to have been honored by Samsung with the Best Quality Award, recognizing Qorvo's innovation and outstanding performance in support of their Galaxy product family. In IDP, Wi-Fi revenue, including Wi-Fi 6, was a record. The rate of adoption of Wi-Fi 6 is outpacing the adoption that we experienced for Wi-Fi 5 and the rollout is forecasted to span multiple years across enterprise, retail and service providers. Qorvo is seeing a strong attach rate given the performance advantages we enable related to range, efficiency, signal integrity and form factor. To that end, we recently secured the entire bill of materials in support of a major U.S. MSO gateway. We also released multiple 5G -- 5 gigahertz iFEMs that deliver improved band isolation and enhanced capacity and range in tri-band Wi-Fi 6 home mesh networks.In broadband, MSOs are increasing downstream and upstream data capabilities by upgrading to DOCSIS 3.1 infrastructure. During the quarter, we expanded shipments of DOCSIS 3.1 GaN power amplifiers to major U.S. MSOs, offering greater efficiency, longer range and increased bandwidth to maximize upstream and downstream data connectivity.In automotive, Qorvo has for years been successful supporting the increased demand for in-vehicle infotainment. During that time, we have expanded our automotive portfolio and engaged with customers to enable the transition to connected car through cellular V2X. In the March quarter, these efforts helped to generate the first production orders for our cellular V2X front-end modules and BAW coexistence filters to support the leading European automotive OEMs. Of note, Qorvo's high-frequency BAW coexistence filters also enable the concurrent operation of cellular V2X and Wi-Fi.In programmable power management, customer demand has been strong in support of two trends. First, the transition of solid-state drives is ongoing, primarily in laptops and gaming consoles. During the quarter, Qorvo's programmable PMICs continued to support this transition with expanding shipments to and new engagements with multiple leading solid-state drive providers. Second, the transition of brushless DC electric motors is accelerating, enhancing efficiency and a broad set of consumer products, including power tools and appliances. Qorvo increased shipments of motor control solutions during the quarter, supporting multiple major consumer brands. In defense applications, the shift to higher frequencies, the adoption of phased array radar and the proliferation of GaN are among the trends supporting demand for Qorvo's products. For radar applications, we released a reconfigurable dual-band GaN power amplifier MMIC for the S and X-bands, enabling more compact next-generation radar systems. Over 30 million miles away, the successful landing of NASA's JPL Mars Perseverance rover was supported by our components integrated into the rover's descent radar. In infrastructure, we continue to ramp shipments during the quarter to a base station OEM in support of US C-band massive MIMO deployments. And we captured initial design wins for massive MIMO deployments in Canada, Japan and Korea.Qorvo brings decades of technology leadership in wireless infrastructure and we are leveraging the full breadth of our GaN power and small signal portfolio to support OEMs on upcoming 5G deployments. We have strong customer engagements, we are investing in critical enabling technologies and design activity remained robust. We see tremendous opportunity in 5G infrastructure globally over the next four to five years as deployments continue to roll out.After the quarter closed, we received an emergency use authorization from the FDA for Omnia COVID-19 rapid antigen test, which leverages high-frequency BAW sensors for high sensitivity and specificity. Qorvo began efforts to use BAW sensors to develop diagnostic test solutions in 2013 in a manner similar to how we leveraged our BAW filters to achieve superior frequency selectivity in RF applications.Now with the authorization from the FDA, we are preparing to scale production to help support ongoing public health efforts. To that end, Qorvo was awarded a contract with the National Institute of Health through the rapid acceleration of diagnostics, or RADx, initiative. With $24 million from the Biological Advanced Research and Development Authority, or BARDA, the award is helping to advance the production and market launch of our Omnia diagnostic test platform. Also after the quarter closed, Qorvo acquired NextInput, a pioneer in the emerging field of force sensing solutions for the next generation of human machine interface. NextInput will be part of the mobile products, providing MEMS-based sensors and innovative products for customers in existing and new markets. They have shipped tens of millions of MEMS-based sensor solutions to leading manufacturers of smartphones, wearables, automobiles and other applications. We see multiple opportunities for their solutions to augment or displace capacitive touch and mechanical buttons with smaller, more reliable and air-tight solutions that are applicable to any surface, including glass, polycarbonate, aluminum and carbon fiber. We welcome the NextInput team to the Qorvo family and we are excited to expand our technology portfolio and accelerate the deployment of the technology to our broad customer base and new markets.Before handing the call over to Mark, I want to acknowledge the entire Qorvo team for their commitment to supporting our customers and keeping the world connected. Qorvo is enabling multiyear upgrade cycles in existing markets and introducing disruptive technologies, including Ultra-Wideband, RF-based biotechnology testing and MEMS-based solutions. We expect broad-based end market demand for our products and another year of strong financial results.And with that, I'll hand the call over to Mark.Mark Murphy -- Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Bob, and good afternoon, everyone. Qorvo's revenue for the fiscal 2021 fourth quarter was $1.73 billion, $33 million above the midpoint of our guidance and up 36% or $285 million versus last year. Mobile Products revenue of $808 million was up 45% year-over-year on the growth of higher content 5G smartphones. Infrastructure and Defense Products revenue of $265 million was up 14% versus last year, led principally by robust WiFi demand. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021, we delivered our third consecutive quarter of gross margin over 50%. Non-GAAP gross margin was 52.6% and above our guidance as less favorable mix was more than offset by better-than-expected price, manufacturing costs, and inventory charges. Non-GAAP operating expenses in the fourth quarter were $207 million or 19.3% of sales and in line with expectations. Sequential and year-over-year increases in OpEx were driven by technology and product development expenses associated with recent acquisitions and other key growth programs.Non-GAAP net income in the fourth quarter was $315 million and diluted earnings per share of $2.74 was $0.32 above the midpoint of our guidance. Cash flow from operations in the fourth quarter was $403 million, and CapEx was $77 million, in line with our expectations. CapEx for the year was $187 million and below 5% of sales. During the quarter, free cash flow was $325 million, and we repurchased $175 million of shares. On the balance sheet, cash increased to $1.4 billion and debt remained unchanged at approximately $1.7 billion. Our leverage remains low, our revolver is untapped, and we have no material near-term maturities. In April, S&P upgraded our credit rating to investment-grade, reflecting the steps we've taken to profitably grow the business and maintain a strong balance sheet.Before turning to the outlook, I will comment briefly on the past year. Qorvo's full year fiscal 2021 performance realized what was envisioned at the time of the merger: to create an enterprise best able to serve customers' technology and product needs when connectivity trends accelerated and as product performance requirements increased. Qorvo's commitment to R&D, active portfolio management, sustained productivity, and capital discipline positioned us to serve our customers' needs, expand supply chain partner opportunities, and improve financial results. In fiscal 2021, Qorvo delivered revenue over $4 billion, non-GAAP gross margin over 52%, non-GAAP operating margin over 32%, and free cash flow over $1.1 billion. Qorvo's free cash flow has increased fivefold over the past four years. We are committed to build on this and are investing and executing to do so. Now, turning to our current quarter outlook. We expect revenue between $1.065 billion and $1.095 billion. Non-GAAP gross margin of approximately 50%. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $2.45 in the midpoint of our guidance.Our June quarter revenue outlook reflects sustained and broad-based customer demand driven by multiyear technology upgrade cycles. In mobile, demand for 5G is adding RF complexity and driving higher content. We forecast mobile revenue in the current quarter to be approximately $810 million at the midpoint or up 73% year-over-year. In IDP, we project revenue of approximately $270 million in the current quarter, sustained by Wi-Fi 6 demand and other markets. Our June quarter gross margin guide is approximately 50%, reflecting seasonal patterns and less favorable mix. That is up 140 basis points versus last year on higher volumes, active portfolio management and pricing and continuous productivity efforts. We expect our June quarter gross margin to be the lowest gross margin quarter of the year. Non-GAAP operating expenses are projected to increase in the June quarter to around $214 million on added labor and other development expenses associated with recent acquisitions and key growth programs.At the midpoint of our June quarter guidance, operating margin is forecast to be over 30% for the fourth consecutive quarter. We project our current quarter and full year non-GAAP tax rate to be between 9% and 10%. Capital expenditures will remain around $70 million in the June quarter as we work to intersect projected demand and support long-term supply agreements with multiple customers. For our full year fiscal 2022, we forecast approximately 15% revenue growth on an increase in smartphone volumes in the range of 5% to 10%, a doubling of 5G handsets, sustained Wi-Fi demand and growth in other markets, including power management and defense. We project full year gross margin to be approximately 52%. We expect OpEx to increase sequentially through the year and remain below 20% of sales for the full year. This level of OpEx is in line with what we laid out years ago and supports Qorvo's ongoing product and technology leadership in existing markets, while funding investment in newer areas such as UWB, biosensors, power management and MEMS.We forecast other expense to drop slightly on lower interest expense, but remain above $60 million. We see CapEx around 5% of sales, so up on an absolute basis as we add capacity to intersect known and high confidence opportunities. We expect free cash flow to grow year-over-year modestly due to slightly higher CapEx and working capital build. Based on our strong free cash flow performance in fiscal year 2021 and our fiscal year 2022 outlook, along with our substantial balance sheet capacity and other factors, the Board of Directors has authorized a $2 billion share repurchase program. Amidst the pandemic, the Qorvo team executed well in serving customers and advancing technologies critical to a more connected world. Entering fiscal 2022, we are well-positioned to continue delivering premium technology to an expanding set of customers in 5G, WiFi, IoT, defense, power management and other markets.In closing, I'd like to join Bob in thanking Qorvo employees again for their contributions over this past year.Now I'll turn the call back over to the operator for questions.