
OperatorGood morning. Welcome to S&P Global's First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. I'd like to inform you that this call is being recorded for broadcast. All participants are in a listen-only mode. We will open the conference to questions and answers after the presentation and instructions will follow at that time. To access the webcast and slides, go to investor.spglobal.com. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to introduce Mr. Chip Merritt, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations for S&P Global. Sir, you may begin.Chip Merritt -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations

 



Thank you for joining S&P Global's first quarter 2021 earnings call. Presenting on today's call are Doug Peterson, President and CEO; and Ewout Steenbergen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. We issued a news release with our results earlier today. If you need a copy of the release and financial schedules, they can be downloaded at investor.spglobal.com.Before we begin, I need to provide certain cautionary remarks about forward-looking statements. Except for historical information, the matters discussed in the teleconference may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including projections, estimates and descriptions of future events. Any such statements are based on current expectations and current economic conditions and are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from results anticipated in these forward-looking statements. In this regard, we direct listeners to the cautionary statements contained in our Form 10-Ks, 10-Qs and other periodic reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.In addition, as we announced late last year, S&P Global and IHS Markit entered into a definitive merger agreement. In March, shareholders of both companies overwhelmingly voted in favor of the merger. The merger is pending regulatory approval, and we expect to close in the second half of 2021. This call will touch on the merger, but does not constitute an offer to sell or buy or the solicitation of any offer to buy or sell any securities, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which this offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities law of any such jurisdiction. No offering of securities shall be made except by means of a prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10 of the Securities Act of 1933.In connection with the proposed transaction, S&P Global and IHS Markit has filed a registration statement on Form S-four with the SEC, which includes a joint proxy statement and a prospectus. S&P Global and IHS Markit have filed other documents regarding the proposed transaction with the SEC. Investors and security holders of S&P Global or IHS Markit stock are urged to carefully read the entire registration statement and joint proxy statement prospectus, which is available on our website and sec.gov.

 



In today's earnings release and during the conference call, we provide adjusted financial information. This information is provided to enable investors to make meaningful comparisons of the corporation's operating performance between periods and to view the corporation's business from the same perspective as management's. The earnings release contains exhibits that reconcile the difference between the non-GAAP measures and the comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP. This call, especially the discussion of our outlook, contains statements about expected future events that are forward-looking and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations can be found in our filings with the SEC and on our website. I would also like to call your attention to European regulation. Any investor who has or expects to obtain ownership of 5% or more of S&P Global should give me a call to better understand the impact of this legislation on the investor and potentially the company.We're aware that we do have some media representatives with us on the call. However, this call is intended for investors, and we would ask that questions from the media be delivered to Dave Guarino at 201-755-5334.At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Doug Peterson. Doug?Doug Peterson -- President and Chief Executive Officer

 



Thank you, Chip. Welcome to today's earnings call. Since the beginning of the pandemic, the essential nature of our products has demonstrated the resilience of our business model. As the economy improves, our colleagues continue to launch innovative new products to help our customers with the ratings, benchmarks, data and insights they need to navigate the recovery. We continue to prioritize the safety of our colleagues, and I want to thank them again for their dedication and commitment in these extremely unusual and challenging times.Now let me begin with our first quarter financial highlights. S&P Global is off to a great start in 2021, as we delivered exceptional first quarter results. Revenue increased 13%, and all four businesses delivered revenue growth and adjusted operating profit margin improvement. Ratings once again delivered the strongest revenue growth from a surge in leveraged loans, high-yield issuance and structured finance. Adjusted expense growth was limited to less than 2%, thanks to our ongoing productivity program and lower T&E. It's very rare when we increase guidance on our first quarter earnings call. However, we expect additional growth in Ratings from strong issuance of high-yield and structured finance and in Indices from the higher level of AUM and equities. Therefore, we're raising our annual guidance for 2021. Ewout will provide details in a moment.I would also like to share some additional highlights from the first quarter. We issued a report, highlighting the performance of our ratings in 2020, which demonstrated that our ratings showed their value as indicators of creditworthiness and relative default risk. Our investment in growth initiatives continues to result in new product launches particularly in ESG, Platts benchmarks, Kensho and our Marketplace. Our China Ratings business is gaining momentum, and we just entered into the first sustainability-linked banking facility in the US information services space. We'll provide further details on all these accomplishments on today's call.The most important initiative of the year will be our upcoming merger with IHS Markit. This is an incredibly transformative opportunity for our company and our customers. The combination of S&P Global and IHS Markit creates a very strong company. We will have increased scale and world-class products across numerous core markets with a track record of deploying cutting-edge technology to accelerate our powering the markets of the future strategy. Together, we can offer our customers differentiated data, analytics, research and benchmarks, important to the workflows of many of the world's leading companies. I'm incredibly proud of the team we've built at S&P Global, and I look forward to welcoming the talented IHS Markit employees to our company. There are three parallel paths that are under way to close the transaction and prepare for the combination. Our progress is on track, and we continue to expect closing in the second half of 2021.The first was shareholder approval. The recent shareholder votes at both companies was overwhelmingly passed with 99% of the votes in favor of the merger. The second is regulatory approval. We're working toward regulatory approval in the countries listed. The third is pre-close integration planning. The integration teams continue to prepare for day one readiness. These teams are developing plans that focus on organization integration, real estate consolidation, technology, scale and efficiency, cross-selling and new product development. And the value capture work stream is preparing to pursue and track synergies. We've been doing a lot of work to make sure that when our companies are united, we have the culture, purpose and values in place to position us for success.To recap the financial results for the first quarter, revenue increased 13% to $2 billion. Our adjusted operating profit increased 23%, and our adjusted operating profit margin increased 450 basis points to 57.6%. As you know, we measure and track adjusted operating profit margin on a trailing four quarter basis, which increased 300 basis points to 54.5%. In addition, diluted shares outstanding decreased [Technical Issues] in adjusted diluted EPS. Each quarter, we highlight a few key drivers to our business and important projects under way. This quarter, let me start with Ratings bond issuance trends. During the first quarter, global bond issuance increased 9%.Turning to the data. In the US, bond issuance in aggregate increased 4% as investment-grade decreased 17%, high-yield increased 111%, public finance increased 9% and structured finance increased 17%, mostly due to a 63% increase in CLOs. European bond issuance increased 23% as investment-grade increased 22%, high-yield increased 53% and structured finance increased 6%, mostly due to more than a tripling of CLO volume. In Asia, bond issuance increased 11% overall. The data on this slide only [Technical Issues] overall global issuance increased 13%. Since bank loan ratings are an important element of Ratings revenue and they're not included in our bond issuance slide, we like to disclose this bank loan rating revenue each quarter. In the first quarter, bank loan rating revenue surged 70% to $148 million. In fact, first quarter revenue from leveraged loans is more than half the leveraged loan revenue in all of 2020.The next two slides look at the combined high-yield issuance and leveraged loan volume for the US and Europe. Data is not readily available for the rest of the world. This slide shows that over the last three years, the combination of global leveraged loan and high-yield issuance has averaged $244 billion per quarter. The first quarter of 2021 reached a quarterly record of $465 billion, nearly twice the quarterly average for the past three years. This slide depicts the combination of high-yield issuance [Technical Issues]. The category with the largest increase was refinancing, some of which could include pull forward. M&A and LBO activity and buybacks and dividends also increased.The CLO market had the busiest quarter on record in both the US and Europe, with twice the volume of new issuances in the first quarter of last year. We believe that investor demand for floating-rate instruments, their search for yield and the relatively strong CLO performance during 2020 pandemic had contributed to increased CLO issuance this year. Whilst exciting to see increases in issuance, what's always more important to us is how our ratings perform. 2020 was a tumultuous year, yet our ratings performed as designed. In February, S&P Global Ratings issued a report entitled Credit Trends: Review of Ratings Performance Highlights Resilience in 2020. We pulled this chart from the report. You can see that the level of [Technical Issues] with lower-rated issuers having higher levels of default.You will notice that the graph only includes high-yield issuers. This is because, in 2020, not one single issuer that was rated investment-grade by S&P Ratings at the beginning of 2020 defaulted. Importantly, amid challenging economic circumstances our ratings in 2020 showed their value as indicators of creditworthiness and relative default risk. Turning to our investments in growth initiatives. Let me start with ESG. We continue to make advances with our ESG franchise across the board. After recording ESG revenue of $65 million in 2020, we're off to a good start in the first quarter with revenue up more than 40% to $21 million.In Ratings, in the first quarter, we completed 18 ESG evaluations, six Green Evaluations and 53 SAM benchmark engagements. This compares to 40 ESG evaluations, [[Technical Issues]SAM benchmark engagements completed in all of 2020. We also launched new social and sustainability Framework Alignment Opinions. In Market Intelligence, our ESG scores have been enhanced. 400 data points have been made available for each company that we score. The additional data points will provide clients with a better understanding of companies' environmental reporting disclosures, biodiversity commitments, CO2 and greenhouse emissions, waste and hazardous disposal, energy consumption and water usage.For the social dimension, it will now be possible to determine whether companies disclose safety policies, human rights commitments, code of ethics and whether social reporting disclosures have been independently audited. The new data sets will also provide greater insights on the governance and economic dimensions and help obtain better understanding of companies' codes of conduct and policies addressing anticrime, corruption and bribery, governance of the Board and executive compensation, [[Technical Issues] disclosures, risk and supply chain management and tax strategy and reporting.Market Intelligence also launched an ESG data solution to support the European Commission's sustainable finance disclosure requirements, enabling market participants to meet these disclosure requirements. In Indices, we had $22.9 billion of ESG, ETF, AUM at the end of the first quarter. This is an increase of more than 400% since the end of the first quarter of last year. Our Indices business also launched ESG versions of our S&P MidCap 400 and S&P SmallCap 600 indices. In addition, UBS licensed the S&P 500 ESG Elite Index for a new ETF, and Barclays licensed the S&P EuroUSA 50, Low Carbon ESG Select Equal Weight Index for use in structured products. Platts has been very active [Technical Issues]. You may be wondering why we include a copper assessment as an ESG product. It's because this new assessment will help support the need for increased solar, wind, energy storage systems, electric vehicle and EV charging stations, all of which require large amounts of copper.For example, an electric vehicle uses approximately 175 pounds of copper. Platts also launched hydro-treated vegetable oil price assessments. HVO, also known as renewable diesel in America, is a biomass-derived fuel suitable for diesel engines. It is made of non-petroleum renewable resources such as natural fat, vegetable oil and greases and can be blended in traditional diesel or used as a substitute.And finally, Platts launched daily assessments for low-carbon aluminum and zero carbon aluminum, which will complement existing Platts European price offerings for high-grade primary aluminum. [Technical Issues] quantify cost and manage risk for the opportunities associated with a growing focus on carbon reduction strategies amid increasing global regulation. On Earth Day last week, S&P Global launched a new ESG brand, Sustainable1, your single source of essential sustainability intelligence. With the wide array of ESG capabilities that we have and the fact that many of our customers are interested in multiple products from different divisions, we have unified our ESG efforts across the company. This includes product development, technology, channel partnerships, distribution, marketing, sales and client support. We believe that this new brand will help convey S&P Global's commitment and leadership position in ESG.Outside of ESG, let me highlight a few other new product launches and product enhancements. We launched Kensho NERD, short for Named Entity Recognition and Disambiguation. NERD was developed by the company's natural language processing team, which specializes in machine learning research and engineering related to analyzing and understanding human language. This is the first entity extraction system specifically optimized for business-related documents. NERD makes it easier for users to analyze unstructured text, for example, investigating suppliers and competitors mentioned in company filings, and enables them to drill down instantaneously to the documents they need to see.We launched the S&P MAESTRO 5 Index, which is designed to measure the performance of a multi-asset risk parity strategy with a 5% target volatility. The index allocates risk equally among seven equity, fixed income and commodity indices and further mitigates equity market volatility by dynamically allocating to S&P VIX future indices. With about 100 different data sets available on the Marketplace we launched last year, we created Product Finder, to help clients find what they're looking for based on their job function, topic, use case and workflow. For example, someone working in investment banking and deal origination can receive different results from a search than a corporate client in a supply chain role. Platts expanded its presence in shipping with the new APSI five dry bulk weighted index for Supramax class bulkers. APSI five is the dry bulk freight market's first regional weighted average index, capturing the Asia Pacific trade on Supramax bulkers. This product continues to fill out our shipping products.One of the most important aspects of managing benchmarks is to ensure that they are periodically updated to reflect underlying market conditions. When streams of oil that feed a benchmark become depleted, they need to be replaced. After consulting with market participants, Platts is progressing work to add West Texas Intermediate Midland as an additional stream to Dated Brent. Since the 1980s, Dated Brent has acted as the benchmark for and is currently used to price approximately 60% of global waterborne crude. This change will provide significant additional volume and ensure the continued robustness of the Brent complex. Let me now turn to our outlook for global issuance and GDP. After issuance growth of 15% in 2019 and 17% in 2020, our ratings research group initial 2021 forecast called for a decrease of 3%. The updated forecast issued earlier this week now calls for a decrease of 2%, excluding international public finance. There were two changes. Structured finance went from a 3% gain to a 6% gain and non-financials went from a 9% decrease to a 7.5% decrease.Please note that this is a bond issuance forecast. This is not a revenue forecast. For example, it doesn't address non-transaction revenue and doesn't include leveraged loan activity. There are clearly puts and takes when we think about 2021 issuance. For example, the bulk of the first quarter's corporate issuance came from repeat issuers who may have exhausted their funding needs early this year on the anticipation of rising rates.However, there are several items that should support upcoming issuance, including a rebound in economic growth, very favorable financing conditions, large amounts of sovereign debt with negative yields and a growing pipeline of pending M&A deals. We have revised our 2021 global GDP growth forecast, up by 50 basis points to 5.5%. The economic recovery looks set to accelerate in mid-2021, particularly in the US on back of a massive fiscal stimulus plan, although a high degree of unevenness and uncertainty persists. An issue is the pace of vaccinations and the spread of virus variants.The US and UK have taken the lead in vaccinations. A slow rollout is hampering the rebound in Europe, and we expect slow vaccination rollouts to cause the recovery in several key emerging markets to lag. Our economists view orderly reflation as a positive development for both the economy and credit. We also believe that rising yields on the back of a robust recovery is a positive as opposed to rising yields solely on inflation concern. Moving away from very low rates lessens the search for yield and lessens distortions to financial and non-financial asset prices. And finally, Platts is forecasting that oil will remain above $60 a barrel through 2022. This bodes well for the health of the oil industry.I will now turn the call over to Ewout Steenbergen, who's going to provide additional insights into our financial performance and outlook. Ewout?Ewout Steenbergen -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.Thank you, Doug. Let me start with our first quarter financial results. Doug covered the highlights of strong revenue and adjusted earnings-per-share growth. I will take a moment to cover a few other items. While there were some acquisitions and divestitures since the first quarter of 2020, the revenue associated with them was not large enough to result in a difference between reported and organic revenue growth.Adjusted total expenses only increased 2%, thanks to ongoing productivity programs and lower T&E. Keep in mind that while T&E remains almost nonexistent, the year-over-year benefits will no longer exists, beginning in the second quarter. The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily due to a decrease in the tax benefit associated with stock-based compensation and an increase in taxes on foreign operations. While the effective tax rate fluctuates from quarter-to-quarter due to the timing of discrete tax adjustments, our full year tax rate guidance remains unchanged. Our diluted shares outstanding declined by 1.7 million shares. This was the result of shares repurchased before we paused the share repurchase programs, due to the pending merger. During the quarter, changes in foreign exchange rates had a positive impact on adjusted EPS of $0.03. The only meaningful impact was in Ratings, where adjusted operating profit was positively impacted by $9 million.We are introducing three new categories to provide insight into the type of expenses that are going to be incurred related to the pending merger. The first category is transaction costs. These are costs related to completing the merger. They include legal fees, investment banking fees and filing fees. The second category is integration costs. These are costs to operationalize the integration. They include consulting, infrastructure and retention costs. The third category is cost to achieve. These are costs needed to enable expense and revenue synergies. They include lease terminations, severance, contract exit fees and costs related to product development, marketing and distribution enhancements.In the first quarter, the non-GAAP adjustments collectively totaled to a net pre-tax loss of $81 million. They included $9 million for merger transaction costs; $40 million for merger integration costs. There were no merger costs to achieve this quarter. These will begin to occur around the closing of the merger. A $2 million gain for an adjustment on the prior year period divestiture, $2 million for Kensho retention-related expenses and $31 million in deal-related amortization. This quarter, all four divisions delivered increased revenue and adjusted operating profit. On a trailing four-quarter basis, adjusted operating profit margin increased significantly in Ratings, Platts and Market Intelligence, while Indices had a small decrease. I will provide color on the individual business results in a moment.Now, turning to the balance sheet. Our balance sheet has low leverage and ample liquidity. We have cash and cash equivalents of $4.5 billion, debt of $4.1 billion, an undrawn revolver capacity of $1.5 billion and no commercial paper outstanding. Our adjusted gross debt to adjusted EBITDA improved since the end of last year to 1.8 times. We recently entered into the first sustainability-linked banking facility in the US information services sector. Linking our line of credit to our emission reduction targets verified by the Science Based Targets Initiative is another tangible example of our commitment to becoming net zero by 2040. Free cash flow excluding certain items was $718 million in the first quarter, an increase of $100 million or 16% over the prior year period. Due to the pending merger with IHS Markit, share repurchases have been curtailed. If there is an open window and we have an opportunity, we will repurchase shares before the merger closes. If not, we anticipate resuming share repurchases after the merger is completed.Now let's turn to the division results. Ratings revenue increased 23%. This revenue growth was driven by the increase in issuance Doug already discussed. Adjusted expenses increased 9%. Excluding changes in foreign exchange rates and the acquisition of Greenwich Associates by CRISIL, adjusted expenses increased 5% primarily due to increased salary and incentives, partially offset by lower T&E. These resulted in a 32% increase in adjusted segment operating profit and a 440 basis point increase in adjusted segment operating profit margin. On a trailing four-quarter basis, adjusted segment operating profit margin increased 340 basis points to 63.6%. Please keep in mind that, the 67.5% adjusted segment operating profit margin achieved in the first quarter is temporarily elevated based on the surge of issuance in high-yield, levered loans and structured finance.In China, we see momentum and interest in our ratings picking up. In fact, we completed 18 ratings in the first quarter compared to 22 in all last year. Non-transaction revenue increased 10% primarily due to growth at CRISIL, fees associated with surveillance as well as elevated new entity ratings and Ratings Evaluation Services activity. Notably, revenue from Ratings Evaluation Services and new entity ratings each increased approximately 30%. In fact, there were 217 new entity ratings this quarter, the highest quarterly total in over two years. This was due to investors quest for yield and increased risk appetite, enabling increasingly weaker credits to raise debt.Transaction revenue increased 35% primarily due to substantial levels of high-yield issuance, bank loan ratings and structured finance. This slide depicts Ratings revenue by the end markets. The largest contributor to the increase in Ratings revenue was a 27% increase in corporates. In addition, financial services revenue increased 10%, structured finance increased 34%, governments increased 18% and the CRISIL and other category increased 8%. On the right side of the slide, you can see the changes in revenue within structured finance. The clear driver of growth was a 70% increase in CLO revenue.Turning to S&P Dow Jones Indices, the segment delivered 4% revenue growth primarily due to gains in AUM linked to our indices and data subscriptions, substantially offset by reduced exchange-traded derivative activity. In the first quarter, adjusted expenses only increased 2%. This was particularly low as the first quarter of 2020 had elevated expenses, including a $4 million catch-up charge on past royalties. The adjusted segment operating profit increased 5%, and the adjusted segment operating profit margin increased 70 basis points to 71.3%. On a trailing four-quarter basis, the adjusted segment operating profit margin decreased 40 basis points to 69.3%.Revenue growth was mixed this quarter. Asset-linked fees increased 15% with gains in ETFs, mutual funds and insurance and over-the-counter derivative activity. Exchange-traded derivative revenue decreased 24% on reduced trading volumes. The first quarter of last year saw extraordinary volatility related to the pandemic market correction, creating a very difficult comparison. Data and custom subscriptions only increased 1% due to a catch-up in real-time customer reporting in the first quarter last year. For our Indices division, over the past year, ETF net inflows were $125 billion and market appreciation totaled $749 billion. This resulted in quarter-ending ETF AUM of $2.2 trillion, which is 65% higher compared to one year ago, when the market was near its pandemic low. Our ETF revenue is based on average AUM, which increased 30% year-over-year. Sequentially, versus the end of 2020, ETF net inflows associated with our indices totaled $73 billion and market appreciation totaled $143 billion.As I just noted, exchange-rated derivative revenue faced a difficult comparison. Activity at the CBOE decreased in the first quarter with S&P 500 Index options activity decreasing 29% and VIX futures and options activity decreasing 23%. Activity at the CME equity complex decreased 6%. Market Intelligence delivered reported and organic revenue growth of 4%. Collectively, revenue from recently launched products increased by over 40%. This was primarily from ESG, Panjiva, aftermarket research, Marketplace and SME data. Adjusted expenses were flat as recent productivity initiatives and lower T&E offset salary growth and higher investment spending. Investment spending continues, particularly with the Marketplace and SME initiatives. Adjusted segment operating profit increased 13%, and the adjusted segment operating profit margin increased 260 basis points to 33.5%. On a trailing four-quarter basis, adjusted segment operating profit margin increased 120 basis points to 33.1%.Looking across the Market Intelligence components, Desktop revenue grew 2%. Data Management Solutions revenue grew 9% and Credit Risk Solutions revenue grew 6%. Based on our ACV trends, we expect Desktop to grow low to mid-single digits for the full year and both Data Management Solutions and Credit Risk Solutions to grow high single-digit this year. And now turning to Platts. Reported revenue increased 5%. Our core subscriptions increased 6%. Over the past year, oil prices have increased, resulting in a customer base that is healthier, and our retention rates remained in the mid-90s.Global Trading Services decreased 4% compared to a very strong first quarter of 2020. GTS revenue decreased, mainly due to lower petroleum and natural gas volumes partially offset by increased LNG volume. Adjusted expenses improved 7% due to lower T&E, rent and bad debt provision. Please note that we expect expenses to pick up in the second quarter as Platts investment spending increases. Adjusted segment operating profit margin increased 520 basis points to 58.1%. The trailing four-quarter adjusted segment operating profit margin increased 280 basis points to 56%.On our first quarter earnings call last year, Doug noted that the first-ever Kensho-powered price assessments went live. One year later, we now have 19 markets that have Kensho-powered price assessments. This has resulted in more than a 75% reduction in publishing time. This quarter, because shipping has increasingly become an important product offering for Platts customers, we're introducing shipping as a new category. Shipping is essential to commodities trading with 90% of global trade transported by sea.S&P Global Platts has been in the business of providing transparency to the shipping market for more than 35 years. These assessments are used by market participants for physical benchmarking, and five are listed by exchanges as the basis of derivative contracts. In 2014, Platts expanded its freight offering into the dry freight market with daily assessment of freight rates for key commodity trade routes for products such as iron ore, coal, grains, sugar, bauxite and alumina. Platts now publishes hundreds of daily freight rate assessments covering all major shipping markets. To help you with your models, we have provided historical quarterly information on the new reporting basis in the appendix of this slide deck.And finally, while every category on this slide grew revenue during the quarter, the fastest growth was in petrochemicals. We're not providing 2021 GAAP guidance because, given the inherent uncertainty around the merger, management cannot reliably predict all the necessary components of GAAP measures. This slide depicts our adjusted guidance. While we expect that the merger will occur in the second half of this year, we're providing adjusted guidance on a stand-alone basis. The second column shows our new 2021 adjusted guidance with all the line items that James highlighted.We're making these changes because we now have expectations for greater revenue growth primarily due to improved outlooks in Ratings and Indices. While we expect greater revenue growth, it's not enough to change our revenue guidance. Therefore, our revenue guidance remains a mid single-digit increase. Operating profit margin is increased by 20 basis points to a range of 54% to 54.5%. And this results in a $0.30 increase in adjusted diluted EPS guidance to a new range of $12.55 to $12.75. And finally, free cash flow generation has been increased by $100 million to a range of $3.4 billion to $3.5 billion. In conclusion, we're off to a great start to 2021 with exceptional first quarter results. Vaccinations are rolling out. The global economy is poised for accelerated growth, and our customers are benefiting from these improvements.During this pandemic, we have been working hard to ensure the safety of our employees, and I want to end by thanking them for their perseverance, creativity and passion and by thanking all of you for your continued investment in S&P Global.And with that, let me turn the call back over to Chip for your questions.Chip Merritt -- Senior Vice President of Investor RelationsThank you. Just a couple [Technical Issues] We have a technical difficulty at this end. Can you hear me now? Operator, let's have the questions. Thank you.