
OperatorGood morning, and welcome to Kimco's First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to turn the conference over to David Bujnicki. Please go ahead, sir.David F. Bujnicki -- Senior Vice President, Investor Relations And Strategy

 



Good morning, and thank you for joining Kimco's first quarter earnings call. The Kimco management team participating on the call today include: Conor Flynn, Kimco's CEO; Ross Cooper, President and Chief Investment Officer; Glenn Cohen, our CFO; David Jamieson, Kimco's Chief Operating Officer; as well as other members of our executive team that are also available to answer questions during the call.It is important to note that we will need to keep this call focused on Kimco's first quarter earnings results and outlook as a stand-alone company, with more information forthcoming when the merger proxy statement is filed with the SEC. As a reminder, statements made during the course of this call may be deemed forward looking, and it is important to note that the company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements due to a variety of risks, uncertainties and other factors.Please refer to the company's SEC filings that address such factors. During this presentation, management may make reference to certain non-GAAP financial measures that we believe help investors better understand Kimco's operating results. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures can be found in the Investor Relations area of our website. Also, in the event our call was to incur technical difficulties, we will try to resolve as quickly as possible, and if the need arises, we'll post additional information to our IR website. And with that, I'll turn the call over to Conor.Conor C. Flynn -- Chief Executive Officer

 



Good morning, and thanks for joining us today. Today, I will focus my remarks on our leasing results, the supply and demand dynamics surrounding those results and the exciting strategic direction we are taking the organization. Ross will cover the transaction market, and Glenn will cover the quarterly numbers and our updated guidance.2021 is off to a refreshing and good start with robust demand for space in our last mile open-air, grocery-anchored portfolio coming from both well capitalized omnichannel tenants seeking more market share as well as some smaller businesses that have regrouped and are prepared to reinvest in their business models. The largest leasing demand categories include: Restaurants, personal care, fitness and dollar stores. We also see healthy activity and have consummated multiple leases with grocery stores, off-price and pet supply retailers. Our leasing volume continued to build from the record-setting trend last quarter. Our new lease count was 121, totaling 586,000 square feet. This exceeds both last quarter and the prior year quarters. Of particular note, the 586,000 square feet of volume surpassed our five year first quarter average for new lease GLA of 506,000 square feet, and new lease spreads finished at a positive 8.2% pro rata. We closed the quarter with 237 renewals and options totaling 2.2 million square feet, with GLA exceeding the quarter sequentially and the prior year quarter. Renewals and option spreads finished at 6.4% pro rata.These spreads continue to reflect the recovery under way and the pricing power inherent in the quality of our portfolio. Conversely, our ability to have withstood the impacts of the pandemic reflects the defensive nature and strength of our recurring cash flows. From a supply and demand perspective, the reality is that due to the speed of the recovery, pandemic-induced vacancies were short-lived. With limited new supply, market rents never adjusted down in any meaningful way. So when the demand snap back, we generated positive spreads. While our occupancy dipped slightly from year-end to 93.5%, it strengthened as we move through the quarter. It is our intent to continue expanding occupancy, and we are encouraged by multiple demand factors playing to the strengths of our last mile locations.Our job is clear, focus on the blocking and tackling of leasing, work with best-in-class retailers, enhance the merchandising mix and let the numbers speak for themselves as we strengthen the resiliency of our cash flows. Our first, second and third priorities are leasing, leasing, leasing. And we continue to believe we are in the early innings of this reopening and recovery. In addition to leasing, we are prioritizing our smaller redevelopments that average double-digit returns to create an additional organic growth driver. Long term, we believe our entitlement program will continue to create shareholder value as we unlock the highest and best use of our real estate. The pandemic has both validated and strengthened our conviction in our strategic vision to concentrate our open-air, grocery-anchored and mixed-use portfolio in the top MSAs across the country. Tenants no longer look at the last mile stores, simply a retail destination, rather, its value to retailers is now viewed holistically, providing distribution, fulfillment and retail. In valuing the location, retailers assess their ability to integrate e-commerce and bricks-and-mortar to give the customer what they demand.

 



Convenience, value and a fulfilling experience continues to point to the last mile shopping center as mission-critical for both consumers and retailers. Our platform is well positioned for growth, and with that growth will come further debt reductions and other benefits of scale. We are enthused about the opportunities ahead yet recognize the challenges involved. We remain committed to prioritizing ESG initiatives and supporting our tenants and local communities as we continue to navigate the pandemic and beyond. I'd also like to touch on the exciting recent news regarding our highly strategic merger with Weingarten, a transaction that we expect to unlock considerable value in some of the highest growth markets in the country. By coming together, we will be the nation's preeminent open-air, grocery-anchored shopping center and mixed-use real estate platform. With our focus on these last mile locations and increased scale in our targeted high-growth Sun Belt markets, this transaction will significantly strengthen and enhance our portfolio quality to further gain market share and to make Kimco even more valuable to all of our tenants. In closing, Kimco's open-air and grocery-anchored portfolio, diversed tenant mix, targeted geographic presence in the strongest growth markets in the country and improving balance sheet, provide us with a long runway for growth as we move ahead. Needless to say, the entire organization is generally energized by our efforts to build shareholder value. With that, I'll turn the call over to Ross.Ross Cooper -- President, Chief Investment OfficerThank you, Conor, and good morning. What a difference a quarter makes. With continued recovery from the pandemic, vaccination rollout and reduced capacity restrictions across the country, we have seen optimism building from retailers, consumers and real estate investors at the highest level since the pandemic began almost 14 months ago. Specific to the transaction, industry volume, while still off nearly 40% in the first quarter of 2021 compared to 2020, has seen a meaningful uptick from the back half of 2020. The conviction and the stability of property rent rolls and by extension cash flows has grown beyond only the essential retailers and now includes other categories that were much less clear previously.There is no doubt the grocery-anchored shopping center is still the most in-demand category of retail and continues to command the most aggressive pricing and lowest cap rates. Furthermore, open-air is valued at an even higher premium. Recent transactions with more specialty and lifestyle components in addition to traditional power centers have given transparency to the value and stability that our approach provides. Multiple grocery anchor deals have transacted at sub 6% cap rates in Dallas, South Florida, California, Philadelphia and Seattle, to name a few. There are also no signs of investor demand waning for that product type. We anticipate bidding to become even more aggressive as the spread of cap rate to interest rate remains wide for our asset class, particularly when compared to industrial, multifamily, self-storage and others. More recently, aggressive bidding extending beyond the bread and butter neighborhood product is starting to emerge. Two recent deals that have a grocery store, but also a significant restaurant and entertainment component saw bidding wars with multiple rounds of offers and pricing well beyond initial expectations. These properties located in Dallas and Denver have the mix of grocery traffic, restaurants and entertainment, last-mile infill locations and future densification opportunities that investors are excited about.On the financing side, an equally important observation is the reemergence of the traditional lender in the space. While the down-the-fairway grocery-anchored assets have been financeable throughout the pandemic, lenders were requiring significant holdbacks and structure around deals with perceived risk. As positive trends continue to emerge, that is having direct impact on the transaction market with more deals getting across the finish line at superior pricing and terms. With renewed optimism and conviction comes a vibrant transactions market in which we will remain a disciplined player, and we expect to see deal velocity continue to accelerate, which is a great sign for the continued recovery of our industry. Now on to Glenn for the financial results for the quarter.Glenn G. Cohen -- Executive Vice President , Chief Financial Officer And TreasurerThanks, Ross, and good morning. The positive results we drove in the fourth quarter last year continued into the first quarter of 2021. With the backdrop of an improving economy and strong leasing velocity, our solid performance was highlighted by improved rent collections and lower credit loss relative to the fourth quarter last year. Our balance sheet metrics also was strengthened. We continue to benefit from all the capital markets activity we undertook the past 24 months to enhance our financial structure. Now for some details on first quarter results. NAREIT FFO was $144.3 million or $0.33 per diluted share for the first quarter 2021 as compared to $160.5 million or $0.37 per diluted share for the first quarter of the prior year. The reduction was mainly driven by lower pro rata NOI of $13.6 million due to COVID-related rent abatements and credit loss as well as the impact of lower occupancy on net recovery income, below-market rent recaptures and straight-line rent. These NOI reductions were offset by a $5.5 million onetime benefit from lease terminations. Also impacting NAREIT FFO was $5.4 million of higher G&A and interest expense due to lower capitalization from development and redevelopment projects that have been placed in service. Our operating portfolio is continuing to perform effectively. All our shopping centers are open and over 98% of our tenants are operating. With the strong leasing velocity, as Conor discussed, our lease versus economic spread has increased to 230 basis points, representing a total of $27 million of pro rata ABR, which is an excellent indicator of future cash flow growth.As expected, same-site NOI decreased 5.7% for the first quarter as it comp against a largely pre-COVID first quarter in 2020. It also marks significant progress from the prior sequential quarter, which was down 10.5%. The improvement was mainly attributable to lower credit loss. We collected 94% of pro rata base rents billed during the first quarter of 2021, up from 92% for the fourth quarter last year. Our cash basis tenants represent 8.9% of ABR, and we collected 70% from these tenants during the first quarter. In addition, our deferred rent payments have been strong as we collected 84% of deferred rents billed for the first quarter, with $34.1 million of deferred rent remaining to be built. Turning to the balance sheet. Our metrics continue to improve and our liquidity position is in excellent shape.At the end of the first quarter, consolidated net debt-to-EBITDA was 6.7 times. And on a look-through basis, including pro rata share of JV debt and preferred stock outstanding, the level was 7.4 times. This represents further progress from the year-end 2020 levels of 7.1 times for consolidated net debt-to-EBITDA and 7.9 times on a look-through basis. In addition, Moody's has affirmed our BAA1 unsecured debt rating with a stable outlook. From a liquidity standpoint, we ended the first quarter with over $250 million of cash and the full availability on our $2 billion revolving credit facility. In addition, our Albertsons marketable security investment is valued at over $750 million.Our debt maturities remain minimal as we have only $125 million of consolidated mortgages maturing this year, which will be repaid in the second quarter. As a result, we will be unencumbering an additional 23 properties. Our weighted average debt maturity profile stands at 10.7 years, one of the longest in the entire REIT industry. Based on the first quarter results and expectations for the remainder of the year that includes same-site NOI turning positive in the second quarter, along with further improvement in credit loss during the second half of the year, we are raising our NAREIT FFO per share guidance range to $1.22 to $1.26 from $1.18 to $1.24 previously. As a reminder, our increased guidance range is on a stand-alone basis and does not incorporate any impact from the pending merger with Weingarten. In addition, the guidance range assumes no transactional income or expense and no monetization of our Albertsons investment. And with that, we are ready to take your questions.David F. Bujnicki -- Senior Vice President, Investor Relations And StrategyBefore we start the Q&A, I just want to offer a reminder that this call will focus on our first quarter results and request that you can find your questions and comments to these results, not the announced merger with Weingarten. [Operator Instructions] Operator, you may take our first caller.