  OperatorGood afternoon, and welcome to the MGM Resorts International fourth quarter and full year 2021 earnings conference call. Joining the call from the company today are: Bill Hornbuckle, chief executive officer and president; Corey Sanders, chief operating officer; Jonathan Halkyard, chief financial officer; Hubert Wang, president and chief operating officer of MGM China; and Sarah Rogers, SVP of Corporate Finance. Participants are in a listen-only mode. After the company's remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. In fairness to all participants, please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up. Please note, this conference is being recorded. Now, I would like to turn the call over to Sarah.Sarah Rogers -- Senior Vice President, Corporate Finance

 



 Good afternoon, and welcome to the MGM Resorts International fourth quarter and full year 2021 earnings call. This call is being broadcast live on the internet at investors.mgmresorts.com, and we have also furnished our press release on Form 8-K to the SEC. On this call, we will make forward-looking statements under the safe harbor provisions of the federal securities laws. Actual results may differ materially from those contemplated in these statements. Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ from these forward-looking statements is contained in today's press release and in our periodic filings with the SEC. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update these statements as a result of new information or otherwise. During this call, we will also discuss non-GAAP financial measures in talking about our performance. You could find the reconciliation to GAAP financial measures in our press release and investor presentation, which are available on our website.Finally, this presentation is being recorded. I will now turn it over to Bill Hornbuckle. Bill Hornbuckle -- Chief Executive Officer and President

 



 Thank you, Sarah, and thank you all for joining us today. We had a very strong end to a great year, producing our highest consolidated adjusted EBITDAR quarter ever in the history of the company. Our Las Vegas Strip resorts delivered yet another all-time quarterly EBITDAR record, and our regionals delivered a fourth quarter EBITDAR record. Our Strip and regional margins also remained very strong in the fourth quarter. These results are testament to a very talented team across the country, our sharpened focus on operational efficiency, and the proven resiliency of demand for the services and experiences that we provide at MGM Resorts despite the overhang of COVID. Our employees remain the cornerstone of our organization, and I am so appreciative of their dedication to our company and our guests. We could not have achieved these phenomenal results without our world-class team members. We know it has not been the easiest of journeys over the last couple of years, but I cannot say thank you enough and how grateful I am for everyone in the MGM family. Simply, thank you. Our strong employee base and our leadership team also propelled us forward to advance our strategic plan and long-term vision: To simply be the world's premier gaming and entertainment company. As a reminder, our strategic plan consists of the following four priorities: investing in our people and planet, providing unique experiences for our guests by leveraging data-driven customer insights and digital capabilities, delivering operational excellence at every level, and allocating our capital responsibly to yield the highest return for our shareholders. I briefly touched on the great results we delivered in the fourth quarter, and Jonathan will go into more detail in his remarks. For now, I'd like to spend some time highlighting the significant milestones we achieved in '21 to transform our company. First, we took steps to complete our goal of monetizing our real estate assets, meaningfully bolstering our domestic cash position. We have simplified our structure, bringing the operations of City Center fully under our control, selling MGP to VICI, a transaction that is expected to close in the coming months. We are also making strategic changes in our Las Vegas portfolio with the announced acquisition of the operations of The Cosmopolitan of Las Vegas and the sale of the operations of The Mirage.

 



 We believe these transactions will enhance and diversify our offerings in one of the most desirable and competitive destinations in the world. BetMGM, our joint venture with Entain, has established a strong brand and leadership position with the U.S. sports betting and iGaming space, finishing 2021 as the No. 1 operator in iGaming and the No. 2 player in overall sports and iGaming. I am incredibly pleased with BetMGM's excellent execution to date. We have substantial progress in Japan where the city of Osaka chose us as their partner to build and operate a new world-class integrated resort. Doing so will allow us to continue to diversify geographically into what we believe will be one of the world's largest gaming markets in the world. We also returned meaningful cash to our shareholders. And finally, we bolstered our executive team last year with the addition of Jonathan and Tilak Mandadi, who recently joined us from Disney. They both have already been vital to the execution of our long-term goals. We are pleased with all that we've accomplished in '21, and we're even more excited how this sets us up for strong momentum into 2022. Starting with BetMGM, we remain confident in the team's ability to sustain and advance its leadership position in both new and existing states. As evidenced by these comments, both owners anticipate collectively investing another $450 million to BetMGM this year. You heard from Adam and Gary on their recent call, and we'll hear more from the BetMGM team during their Investor Day in May. In terms of new expansion opportunities, we are working with our partners, Orix, in the city of Osaka to submit an area development plan to the central government by April. We remain hopeful and confident in being awarded a license later this year to build an integrated resort in Japan. Stateside, we're encouraged by the continued progress being made in the commercial gaming license opportunity in New York, which could be awarded as early as this year. We believe MGM is extremely well-positioned given our existing operations at Empire City. And finally, as we think about organic growth in our business, we see an opportunity to deepen loyalty and garner incremental revenue share by maximizing the full potential of our network of premium resort properties and entertainment venues across the U.S. We are addressing this opportunity through a fully coordinated companywide effort, which leverages our strategic investments in advanced analytics, data, and technology. Our goal is to identify and efficiently acquire high-value gaming and nongaming customers by optimizing our target marketing, improving on-property service and improving new experiences for those guests throughout their visit. We view our loyalty program as an integral part of this effort to acquire, to engage and to retain high-value customers. On February 1, we announced the enhancement and the rebranding of our customer loyalty program from M life to MGM Rewards. Not only does the name better align with our business, but the updated program allows us to address key opportunities, including targeting high-value nongaming customers in addition to high-volume gaming customers, incentivizing cross-property patronage and tier progression with more motivating benefits and further activating BetMGM's customers in our properties. In 2021, approximately 42% of our new database enrollments came from BetMGM. We envision that this rapidly growing group of omnichannel customers will be able to traverse seamlessly between our online and offline offerings over time, experiencing MGM Resorts benefits proportionate to their tier status. MGM Rewards is the first of several steps in our organic growth journey to attract and retain more high-value gaming, digital gaming, and nongaming customers. Over the next several years, we'll be investing over $2 billion into our properties, creating customer-centric experiences and services in addition to the needed technology platform and advanced analytics to better engage and service our guests and drive market share in our principal markets. Before I turn it over to Jonathan to discuss our fourth quarter and full year results, I'd like to make some high-level comments on our current trends and the future outlook. As you all know, the emergence of omicron variant in November led to a rapid rise in COVID cases. Fortunately, this didn't put a damper on the year-end plans we had and had a great December. However, January, which typically relies more heavily on group business in Las Vegas, saw significant headwinds driven by groups mostly looking to postpone until later in the year. Cancellations, while elevated, were mostly concentrated in a very short term with limited impact beyond March. CES in January was the most visible event this year with attendance down approximately 70%. Despite the tougher January, we're happy to see COVID cases again on the downswing across the broader U.S. Cancellations are declining, and group lead volumes are normalizing. Forward hotel book has been stable over the past few weeks and are once again starting to outpace 2019 levels. I expect that given positive COVID trends in Nevada, we will start to see meaningful loosening of COVID restrictions in the very, very near future, consistent with what we have seen in other states. Furthermore, our weekends have remained very strong. In fact, this past weekend, the city had the East-West Shrine Bowl, the NHL All-Star game at T-Mobile Arena, the NFL Pro Bowl Allegiant Stadium, Garth Brooks at Dolby Live at Park MGM and a pay-per-view fight in the Michelob ULTRA Arena at Mandalay. Our Strip hotels ran 91% on Friday and 98% on Saturday. This upcoming weekend, we expect a very strong Super Bowl turnout. And we look further -- and as we look further out, for the first time ever, the GRAMMYs are coming to Las Vegas in April, and we're hosting this iconic event at the MGM Grand. Las Vegas is also serving as the host of the NFL draft in a couple of months' time. These types of wins continue to demonstrate that the city, with MGM Resorts at its epicenter, remains a resilient and leading destination for exceptional entertainment and now most notably, sports. Turning to our regional properties. We delivered an all-time record EBITDAR year in 2021 with most of our properties leading in GGR share with their respective markets. Our regional success continues to be driven by our premium offerings, as well as strength in our rated gaming spend levels, combined with our efforts to yield to our higher-worth customers. We are reopening nongaming amenities at a measured pace as demand and resources allow. And our teams remain focused on labor productivity, giving us confidence in our ability to sustain margins above 2019 levels longer term. I will conclude with some comments on Macau. Despite the continued choppiness in the operating environment driven by various travel restrictions and structural shifts in the high end, MGM China reached an all-time record 14% in market share. The official launch of the Emerald Suites at MGM Cotai during the quarter enhanced their hospitality offering and is helping us also grow share. We believe MGM China remains well-positioned for the market's eventual rebound given its strengths in premium mass. Importantly, recent constructive developments around the concession renewals reaffirm our confidence in the government's judicious and fair approach to the process. Macau is an important part of our future, and we will continue to work with the government to ultimately get our license renewed. We look forward to further promoting the long-term development of Macau's gaming industry and supporting the government's tourism and diversification goals for the region. As many of you know, this is Cathy Park's last earnings call with us. I cannot thank Cathy enough for all that she has done for the company and wish her all of the very best, although I will note today, it's 69 degrees in Las Vegas, and it's not so in Boston. Jonathan, with that, it's yours. Jonathan Halkyard -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks a lot, Bill. I'd like to join Bill in deep gratitude for our entire team here at MGM. Your heroic efforts have allowed us to deliver another quarter of outstanding results, and I look forward to working with you to continue this success in 2022. Now let's discuss our fourth quarter results in a bit more detail. Our consolidated fourth quarter net revenues were $3.1 billion, a 13% sequential improvement over our third quarter results. Our net income attributable to MGM Resorts was $131 million. And our adjusted EBITDAR improved sequentially to $821 million, led once again by our domestic operations. Sixteen of our 17 domestic properties achieved either all-time or fourth quarter EBITDAR records, and 14 achieved either all-time or fourth quarter margin records. This performance reflects strong broad-based demand across all segments, even into the latter part of the quarter, which is typically our seasonal low period. We also demonstrated our ability to improve our operations while maintaining cost discipline against the backdrop of workforce and supply chain challenges. Our fourth quarter Las Vegas Strip net revenues, which now fully includes City Center, were 26% above the fourth quarter of 2019 at $1.8 billion. Adjusted property EBITDAR for the Strip was $699 million, 84% above the fourth quarter of 2019. Hold had a positive $8.5 million impact on our EBITDAR this quarter in Las Vegas. So Hold adjusted Strip EBITDAR was $690 million. Our Strip margins were 39% in the fourth quarter, a 1,200-basis-point improvement over the fourth quarter of 2019 and equal to our margins in the third quarter of 2021. We continue to drive healthy casino performance in the fourth quarter with Strip, slot handle and table games drop increasing 31% and 17% above the fourth quarter of 2019, respectively. Now that's when including Aria and excluding Circus Circus Las Vegas in both periods. Our fourth quarter casino revenues grew 66% over the fourth quarter 2019 or 40% when including Aria and excluding Circus in both periods. Notably, for the first time since the pandemic began, our rated 65-and-over age demographic in Las Vegas reached its pre-pandemic levels in terms of room nights in the fourth quarter. Our Strip hotel occupancy was 86% in the fourth quarter, improving sequentially from 82% in the third quarter. This was driven by strong weekdays anchored by our best convention quarter since the pandemic began and even stronger weekends. Our ADRs in the fourth quarter were 19% above that of fourth quarter 2019 or 7% above on a same-store basis. Now Bill discussed the current operating dynamics, which have been challenging and also why we continue to be optimistic about our business beyond the first quarter. To help provide a sense of the magnitude of the impact presently, we just finished January with Las Vegas Strip occupancy at 66%. But we expect the rest of the first quarter to improve with February occupancy running in the mid-70s and March in the mid-80s. February and March ADRs are pacing near 2019 levels, fueled by weekend ADRs up over 20%. And while we had occupancy drop last month, January was our highest booking month since March of 2021, and it was better than any single month in 2019. These are rooms that were booked in January for the future. Yes, we all feel pretty good about the outlook here in Las Vegas. Our fourth quarter regional net revenues were $900 million and flat versus the fourth quarter of 2019. We delivered adjusted property EBITDAR of $309 million, which was 36% above 2019 levels. Combined with our Las Vegas results, our domestic businesses delivered over $1 billion of EBITDAR in the quarter. Our fourth quarter regional margins grew 900 basis points over the fourth quarter of 2019 to 34%. Recall that our third quarter margins grew by a similar 886 basis points over the third quarter of 2019. Our regional casino business remains strong despite the typical seasonality in the business during the fourth quarter. Our slots and table games volumes improved by 7% and 5%, respectively, over the fourth quarter in 2019. And our net theo per day for our rated customers increased 34% over the same quarter in 2019, led by our high-value $400 segment. I'd like to make some comments about our cost structure and how it has evolved over time. Our Las Vegas and regional EBITDAR margins have remained very strong throughout the last year. And while they benefited from pent-up consumer demand and elevated casino spend, they also evidenced the great work that our teams have put into maximizing the effectiveness of our operating model and rethinking how we run our business. This ranges from labor productivity to optimizing F&B offerings to strategic player reinvestment. And as we continue to staff our teams to more sustainable levels and our nongaming revenues increasingly become larger contributors to our overall business, we expect our domestic margins to stabilize still well above 2019 levels. Moving to BetMGM. We're currently live in 21 markets, having launched in both New York and Louisiana in January, as well as Puerto Rico today. The team remains busy, that's probably the understatement of the call, with expectations to go live in Illinois next month, as well as Canada later this year. Adam and Gary from BetMGM provided a business update back on January 19, during which they announced having delivered net revenue from operations of $850 million in 2021, growing nearly five times over 2020. We expect the momentum to continue into 2022 with BetMGM expecting to deliver net revenue from operations of over $1.3 billion. Our 50% share of BetMGM's losses in the fourth quarter amounted to $57 million, which is reported as a part of the unconsolidated affiliates line of our adjusted EBITDAR calculation. This brings our share of BetMGM's losses to $211 million for the full year 2021. And as Bill alluded to earlier, we continue to believe that BetMGM is one of the most attractive growth opportunities for our company and one that will generate meaningful returns on our investment. Finally, in Macau, overall marketwide gross gaming revenues in the fourth quarter grew 2% sequentially from the third quarter. MGM China's net revenue grew 9% sequentially to $315 million. And adjusted property EBITDAR slightly declined sequentially to $5 million, partially driven by VIP hold and higher bad debt. Travel restrictions are still the greatest bottlenecks to a more meaningful recovery in the region, but we remain encouraged by the clear signs of demand for our offerings. In fact, for the recently ended Chinese New Year holiday period, total visitor counts to our properties were up 30% over the prior year, with our mass segment showing healthy year-over-year growth and recovery. Fourth quarter corporate expense, excluding share-based compensation, was $117 million, which included about $8 million of transaction costs. We incurred some additional expenses related to our loyalty program relaunch and true-ups for performance-related compensation. And as a result, we expect that our net corporate expense in the fourth quarter will run lower -- for the first quarter will run lower than in the fourth quarter. Unfortunately, one of the most important topics facing our company today is the allocation of our capital. And we believe that among the most productive uses of that capital is returning it to our shareholders. At current trading levels, we believe there's tremendous value in the shares, and we've acted on that conviction. In the fourth quarter, we repurchased approximately 17 million shares for $727 million. And so far, this quarter, we've repurchased roughly 8.5 million shares for $370 million. Since we started the program last March, not even one year ago, we have repurchased over 52 million shares for just over $2.1 billion. That's over 10.5% of our market cap. These repurchases have been funded in part by a series of transformational transactions announced over the last year, transactions that improve our portfolio, simplify our structure, bolster our liquidity position, and advance our vision to be the world's premier gaming entertainment company. This year, we are working to bring these deals across the finish line. Our transaction with VICI remains on track to close in the second quarter, subject to regulatory approvals. We also expect to close our acquisition of the operations of The Cosmopolitan of Las Vegas in the second quarter, subject to regulatory approvals. In December, we announced our agreement to sell the operations of The Mirage to Hard Rock for $1.075 billion, representing a 17-times multiple on its 2019 adjusted EBITDAR less rent. And we expect this transaction to close in the second half of the year. We remain highly liquid. As of December 31, our cash position, excluding MGM China and MGP, was $4.8 billion or $7.4 billion when adjusted for the VICI, The Cosmopolitan in Las Vegas, and The Mirage transactions, as well as the retirement of our $1 billion senior notes coming due next month. Our approach to capital allocation continues to be as follows: first, we'll maintain a strong balance sheet with adequate liquidity; second, we'll return cash to our shareholders; and then finally, when assessing potential growth opportunities, we'll invest where we have clear advantages, and we'll exercise prudence in measuring prospective returns for our shareholders. And then before I turn it over -- back over to Bill, I'd just like to address my final comments to our organic growth plan, starting with our new MGM Rewards loyalty program. Today in Las Vegas, we attribute over 80% of our gaming revenue to specific customers enrolled in MGM Rewards, enabling the delivery of personalized service and relevant offers. But when it comes to hotel dining and entertainment spending, that percentage that is attributable to specific customers is less than 40%. For MGM, these nongaming revenues amount to approximately $5 billion per year in Las Vegas alone. And I think we'd all agree that MGM has the best, most diverse hotel dining and entertainment experiences in Las Vegas. This is a huge opportunity for us. Expanding the ways our customers earn rewards, simplifying the benefits that they receive in return provides compelling reasons for guests to share their journeys with us. As our understanding grows, it will enhance our ability to provide a more compelling, personalized experience and offers for our guests. As a result, we believe we will drive deeper loyalty and grow our customer base over time, delivering financial gain for our shareholders. With that, I'll turn it back to Bill for his closing remarks.Bill Hornbuckle -- Chief Executive Officer and President Thanks, Jonathan. Jonathan, by the way, just celebrated his first year's anniversary. I wonder what he's been doing. When I first spoke with all of you as the CEO approximately two years ago, I expressed my desire to be focused, disciplined and transparent in how we run this company. I believe these virtues have served us well over the last couple of years, and I believe they will continue to serve us well into the future as we look to drive long-term shareholder value. I'd like to close by thanking again all of our employees for their service, for their commitment, and their dedication to this company. Together, we have accomplished a lot in the past year, and I'm excited about what we can further do and accomplish this year and beyond. With that, Chad, I'll turn it back to you for questions.  