  OperatorGood afternoon, and welcome to Ulta Beauty's conference call to discuss results for the second quarter of fiscal 2021. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. It is now my pleasure to introduce Ms. Kiley Rawlins, vice president of investor relations. Ms. Rawlins, please proceed.Kiley Rawlins -- Vice President of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Paul. Good afternoon, everyone. Hosting our call today are Dave Kimbell, chief executive officer; and Scott Settersten, chief financial officer. Kecia Steelman, chief operating officer, will join us for the Q&A session. This afternoon, we released our financial results for the second quarter of fiscal 2021. A copy of the press release is available in the Investor Relations section of our website. Before we begin, I'd like to remind you of the company's Safe Harbor language. The statements contained in this conference call which are not historical facts may be deemed to constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.Actual or future results may differ materially from those projected in such statements due to a number of risks and uncertainties, all of which are described in the company's filings with the SEC. We caution you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of today, August 25, 2021. We have no obligation to update or revise our forward-looking statements except as required by law, and you should not expect us to do so. In today's comments, we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures, including adjusted operating income and adjusted diluted EPS, which have been presented to reflect our view of our ongoing operations by adjusting fiscal 2020 results for store impairment charges and costs associated with the permanent closure of 19 stores. A reconciliation of these measures to the corresponding GAAP measures can be found in our earnings release. We'll begin this afternoon with prepared remarks from Dave and Scott. Following our prepared comments, we'll open up the call for questions. To allow us to accommodate as many questions as possible during the hour scheduled for this call, we ask that you please limit your time to one question.

 



 To ask a second or follow-up question, please requeue. As always, I'll be available for any follow-up questions after the call. Now, I will turn the call over to Dave. Dave? Dave Kimbell -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Kiley, and good afternoon, everyone. The Ulta Beauty team delivered excellent results again this quarter, and I want to start by expressing my sincere appreciation to all of our Ulta Beauty associates for their outstanding efforts to drive these results. As I have traveled around the country visiting with our teams across all parts of the company, I continue to feel inspired by their commitment and passion for our guests, our business, and for each other. We are excited about the momentum we are seeing in our business and are optimistic about our future. The beauty category is recovering faster than we expected and the investments we've made over the last year to adapt to the market disruption and strengthen our leadership position are delivering results. Our value proposition is strong, and we are evolving and innovating to lead in the new beauty landscape, capture more market share, and drive profitable growth. For the second quarter, net sales increased 60.2% to $1.97 billion. Operating margin increased to 16.9% of sales and diluted EPS was $4.56 per share.

 



 These strong results exceeded our internal expectations and reflect our ongoing efforts to serve our guests, especially as we continue to adapt to the changing environment. In recognition of their dedication to our guests and their efforts to deliver these strong results, this quarter we awarded a one-time discretionary appreciation bonus to eligible store and DC associates. For the quarter, comp sales increased 56.3%, driven by strong growth in our brick-and-mortar channel. As consumer confidence optimism and comfort to shop in physical stores continues to increase, we are seeing more of our members return to stores. Traffic trends in stores improved from the first quarter but remained lower than 2019 levels. However, comp sales in stores increased to this quarter compared to 2019, driven by strong average ticket growth. We continue to optimize operating hours and I'm pleased to share that our retail operating hours are nearly back to 2019 levels. As expected, e-commerce declined as compared to the second quarter last year but were more than double 2019 levels. The sales decline was driven by a decrease in the number of transactions. Average ticket remains strong. Recall that our e-commerce business increased more than 200% in the second quarter last year as we faced the reopening of stores. Guest utilization of buy online, pickup in store remained high, totaling 20% of e-commerce sales in the quarter. To enhance the experience, we made operational improvements to increase order accuracy and fulfillment speed and in the second quarter, 97% of orders were ready for pickup within two hours. We have also increased the number of stores with dedicated parking spaces, and we continue to look for opportunities to make curbside pickup available at nontraditional Ulta Beauty locations. Customer engagement in our digital platforms remains strong even as store traffic ramps up. Compared to the first quarter, our omnichannel guests on average maintained the same number of transactions in the online channel even as they increased their in-store transactions, reinforcing that e-commerce transactions are incremental and help drive greater overall member engagement in spend. From a category perspective, we increased market share across all major prestige beauty categories based on dollar sales for the 13 weeks ended July 31, 2021, compared to the same time period last year. We also saw sales strength across all of our major mass categories. Compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2020, all major categories delivered robust double-digit comps, as we anniversary-ed last year's phased reopening process and introduced more newness. Compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2019, fragrance, bath, skincare, and haircare all delivered strong double-digit comp growth. Makeup was only slightly lower than 2019. While comp sales in the makeup category are not yet positive compared to 2019, momentum is building with both mass and prestige category improving from the first-quarter trend. Reductions in mask-wearing requirements combined with an increase in makeup wearing occasions helped drive strong growth in face and lip, while engagement with eye continued to be healthy. During the quarter, we launched three new makeup brands, Bobbi Brown, [Inaudible], a prestige brand founded by well-known Brazilian influencer and makeup artist, and Undone Beauty. These new brands combined with new product launches from a wide range of brands, including MAC, Clinique, NICs, e.l.f, Maybelline drove improved sales performance in the quarter. Skincare delivered another quarter of strong double-digit sales growth compared to 2019. Reflecting the strong connection between beauty and self-care, guests are maintaining their skincare regimens even as they increase makeup purchases. Moisturizer, serums, and cleansers continue to drive category growth. We also saw robust growth in sun protection and self-tanning as consumers reengaged with travel and vacation activities. New brands including fresh, good molecules, which is exclusive to Ulta Beauty, and b.tan, as well as new products from Tula, Shiseido, CeraVe, La Roche-Posa, and the Creme shop drove solid guest engagement. Haircare continued to deliver double-digit growth, driven by newness and strong guest engagement with our strategic tent-pole events. We began the quarter with our semi-annual gorgeous hair event, an event strategically designed to convert members who do not currently shop the haircare category or engage with our salon services. This year, we streamlined offers and invested in dedicated social and digital marketing campaigns to expand our reach. As a result, the event attracted new members to the category and delivered stronger than expected sales and profitability. We ended the quarter with our Jumbo Love Event, a basket-building event focused on larger product sizes. We continued the narrow brand participation and simplify our presentation to guests. These improvements resulted in stronger sales and profitability. In addition to strong strategic events, we also launched a number of new haircare brands throughout the quarter, including Rizos Curls, Verb and Curls, a well-established Black-owned brand. These new brands combined with the recently launched Briogeo, Kristin Ess contributed to the strong category growth this quarter, as consumers focus on building and maintaining hair health. Finally, fragrance and bath delivered exceptionally strong growth, driven by Mother's Day and Father's Day sales, as well as our Fragrance Crush events. Newness and fragrance from Marc Jacobs and Carolina Herrera, as well as engagement with the base business from favorites like Dolce & Gabbana and Chanel, drove meaningful market share growth. Body scrubs and moisturizers from brands like Truly and Tree Hut continued to drive outstanding sales growth, reflecting guests' continued commitment to self-care. Our Conscious Beauty platform continues to expand and resonate with guests. At the end of the second quarter, more than 270 brands were certified in at least one of the five Conscious Beauty pillars, and now include Fresh, Kylie Cosmetics, Happy Dance, and Good Molecules among others. To promote guest discovery and trial this quarter, we will offer guests the new Conscious Beauty sampler kit, which includes hero brands like Beekman 1802, Kinship, Tarte, and Tula. We will also refresh our in-cap in stores, adding products from Dermalogica, Sunday Riley, Florence, and Truly. As we work to scale Conscious Beauty further, we are enhancing our search capabilities on ulta.com and in the mobile app to make it easier for guests to find certified products that reflect their personal values. Through the pandemic, the lines between health and beauty have blurred. Based on our proprietary research, we know that 65% of beauty enthusiasts believe beauty is significantly connected to wellness. Reflecting these consumer insights, this quarter, we launched the wellness shop in select stores and on ulta.com to help our guests navigate their personal wellness journey. With the guest category focus on self-care for the mind, body, and spirit, the wellness shop features a curated selection of products across five key segments, including supplements and ingestibles and Spa at Home. From daily rituals to relaxation and sleep regimens, the shop addresses a variety of wellness needs in an accessible easy to navigate presentation. Our guests are responding well to the platform, and we'll continue to increase awareness of the offering and expand its presence over time. Our services business is also gaining momentum. Sales from hair and brow services increased more than 60% compared to 2020. Despite capacity limitations due to mandates from the CDC and state and local authorities, we are increasing member engagement and driving retail attachment, especially through our salon back bar takeovers. Services play an important role in driving guest engagement, loyalty, frequency, and spend. I'm excited to share that we plan to relaunch skin services in select stores in the third quarter. We plan to offer new services that target specific concern such as hydration, anti-aging, as well as acne facials that cater to our Gen-Z guest, and we will test micro channeling, dermaplaning, and hydro facials in select stores. Turning now to our loyalty program. We are seeing faster recovery in active member growth than initially expected. We ended the second quarter with a record 34.6 million active members, 8% above last year and 4% above 2019. Spend per member also increased driven by higher average ticket, surpassing both 2020 and 2019 levels. The majority of new member acquisition happens in stores and our talented store associates continue to convert new members at higher rates than in 2019. We are also improving our conversion rates online, reflecting improvements we had made in the online customer journey. In addition to growth in new members, we are accelerating reactivation of lapsed members and increasing retention rates of existing members as we continue to advance and imply our data and analytics capabilities.From a channel perspective, in-store-only members totaled 73% this quarter, increasing from 67% in the first quarter. As expected, the mix of omnichannel members moderated from the first quarter to 18% of total members but remained well above 2019 levels. Importantly, omnichannel members continue to increase their spend across both store and digital channels. As we progress through the rest of the year, we expect the penetration of omnichannel guests will continue to moderate as in-store shopping increases but remain above 2019 levels. Discovery and trial are critical parts of the beauty experience, and we offer a variety of physical and digital ways to discover new products, new trends, and new applications. This quarter, we launched a new functionality in our mobile app that allows guests greater access to select product scanning for content and reviews, loyalty information, and virtual try-on while shopping in stores. In addition, we reintroduced testers in stores with expanded stations of testing and sanitation supplies. We continue to deliver hyper-relevant content to drive discovery and build stronger connections with our guests. This quarter, we introduced Beauty School live virtual masterclasses focused on brand launches, demonstrations, and beauty tutorials. BeautyBio founder, Jamie O'Banion, hosted a Megawatt Glow Masterclass, showcasing skin care tools and products. And in honor of national lipstick day, we partnered with a NYX Professional makeup pro artist to walk viewers through a long-wear lip look. In July, we launched a partnership with Supergreat, a hyper-relevant app-based Gen Z-centric live stream platform that is 100% focused on beauty, from shoppable live videos to editorial content and exclusive product drops, the Supergreat community is an ideal partnership for experiential immersive Beauty. While we are early in our pilot, we've already seen encouraging results with engagement tracking ahead of other live platforms. As part of our holistic marketing efforts to reinforce Ulta Beauty's authority in the skincare category, we launched hashtag Ulta skin tuck, our first multi-branded TikTok hashtag challenge. To drive increased awareness of our category breadth and depth, we asked audiences to post their favorite skincare products from Ulta Beauty. The hashtag has amassed more than 8 billion views to date with 1.6 million videos created. We want Ulta Beauty, to be the most loved beauty destination and the most inclusive. Building on our focus as a diversity-forward company, we announced a number of commitments at the beginning of this fiscal year to further our efforts to champion diversity and inclusion. This quarter, we joined the 15% pledge, committing to dedicated 15% of our total assortment, the Black-owned, Black-founded, and Black-led brands. To date this year, we have welcomed eight new Black-owned brands to the Ulta Beauty family, including Homebody, CAMILLE ROSE, and Mented, and we are on track to double the number of black-owned brands in our assortment this year. As part of our cross-functional approach to integrate diversity and inclusion into all that we do, our teams launched a textured hair training series for all stylists to better enable more inclusive experiences in our salons. We also launched mandatory inclusion in action training in stores to understand what diversity, equity, and inclusion means to Ulta Beauty. We strive to make a positive difference in the communities where we live and work. The Ulta Beauty Charitable Foundation focuses on improving the lives of women and families. This quarter, with the generosity of our guests, our teams raised more than $2 million for Save the Children to support mothers and children in need. We also partnered with LinkedIn, for the hashtag Back to Work campaign, highlighting the pandemic's impact on women and providing resources to aid economic recovery. And as part of our ongoing efforts to reduce waste and minimize our impact on the environment, we recently launched the consortium to reinvent the retail bag, a multi-year collaboration across retail sectors that aims to identify, test, and implement innovative new design solutions that serve the functions of today's single-use plastic retail bag. Finally, I am very excited to share that Ulta Beauty at Target has launched in 58 stores and online with plans to open about 100 stores by the end of the quarter. Over the last nine months, the Ulta Beauty and Target teams have collaborated closely to create a unique way for guests to experience beauty, and we are excited to see it come to life. As guests come to Ulta Beauty at Target, they will be welcomed into a 1,000-square-foot co-design space with bold new fixtures and lighting that celebrate premium beauty with a modern look. Each aspect of the shop was thoughtfully designed to make the space feel authentic to Ulta Beauty, Target, and the featured brands within the assortment. From the unmistakable Ulta Beauty orange pop canopies and vivid graphics that weave into the existing Target store. Everything was designed to create an inspiring and unique beauty experience for guests. With compelling product displays and unique discovery zones, the shop offers a curated selection of more than 50 prestige and emerging brands, including MAC, Unique, Morphe, Tula, The Ordinary, Pattern, Madison Reed, Urban Decay, and the Ulta Beauty collection. The assortment is a compelling mix of best-selling items, as well as limited-edition collaborations and minis to drive discovery and trial. We're making the experience as seamless as possible, both in-store and online. Guests shopping Ulta Beauty at Target on target.com and the Target app will enjoy free shipping for qualifying orders and all of Target same-day fulfillment services, and guests will benefit from rewards across both Ultimate Rewards and Target Circle. While it's only been 10 days since the first half was open, guest response has been overwhelmingly positive with enthusiasm about two of their favorite retailers coming together and excitement about the ability to earn points in both loyalty programs. We're thrilled about this partnership and how together we can change the way the world experiences beauty. Before I turn the call over to Scott, I want to announce that we will host an Analyst Day here in Chicago on October 19th to share how our strategic priorities are evolving and how we plan to continue to position Ulta Beauty to deliver sustainable profitable growth. Given the ongoing uncertainty around the Delta variant, we are planning the event to accommodate both in-person and virtual participation. Our teams will continue to assess guidance from the CDC, and we will adapt our plans as necessary to ensure the safety of our team and attendees.And now, I will turn the call over to Scott for a discussion of the financial results. Scott?Scott Settersten -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Dave, and good afternoon, everyone. Starting with the income statement. Q2 sales increased 60.2% as we anniversary-ed the disruption in stores last year due to COVID-19. We opened seven new stores during the quarter and closed one store. We also remodeled five stores and relocated one store. Total company comp increased 56.3%, driven by a 52.5% increase in transactions and a 2.5% growth in average ticket. As Dave mentioned, the resurgence of traffic in stores drove the strong comp performance. Compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2019, total sales increased 18% and comp sales increased 13.1%. From a mix perspective, cosmetics was 43% of sales, compared to 45% last year, skincare was 17% of sales, compared to 18% last year, the fragrance and bath category increased 300 basis points to 12% of sales, and haircare products and styling tools was flat with last year at 21% of sales. The services category increased to 4% of sales, compared to 3% last year. Q2 gross profit margin increased to 40.6% of sales, compared to 26.8% last year. The increase was primarily due to the leverage of fixed costs, higher merchandise margin, more favorable channel mix, and leverage of salon expenses. Strong topline growth drove significant leverage of fixed costs. The improvement in merchandise margin was primarily the result of anniversary-ing higher inventory reserves in the second quarter last year, as well as higher sales, lower promotional activity, and ongoing benefits from our cost optimization efforts. Recall that we increased inventory reserves by $16.5 million in the second quarter last year, primarily to adjust for slow turning and discontinued makeup SKUs and permanently closed stores. As a percentage of sales, salon expenses were lower compared to last year, reflecting strong topline sales and the elimination of the salon manager role. As a reminder, we will anniversary this change in Q4. Comparing this year's performance to the second quarter of fiscal 2019, gross margin improved by 420 basis points. Higher merchandise margin, fixed cost leverage, and leverage of salon expenses were partially offset by adverse channel mix. As a percentage of sales, SG&A increased to 23.6%, compared to 22.1% last year. Higher store payroll and benefits and higher marketing expense was partially offset by leverage of corporate overhead and variable store expenses. Store payroll and benefits deleveraged in the quarter primarily due to the anniversary-ing of the $48.22 million in employee retention credits made available last year under the CARES Act. In addition, reflecting the strong operational performance, we elected to grant discretionary appreciation bonuses to our nonexempt store and DC teams in recognition of their efforts. Marketing expense also deleverage during the quarter, primarily reflecting increased spend on print marketing. Recall that last year, we significantly reduced our spend on print material while our stores were closed due to the pandemic. We are also expanding our investment in digital marketing to support key events and reengage lapsed members. In addition, we are leveraging our CRM capabilities and working more closely with our brand partners to create more targeted digital marketing campaigns across multiple touchpoints. Strong topline growth resulted nice leverage of corporate overhead and store expenses. Compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2019, SG&A as a percentage of sales was flat. As a percentage of sales, lower store expenses were offset by higher store payroll and corporate overhead. Compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2019, advertising in the second quarter of 2021 was flat as a percentage of sales. Operating margin was 16.9% of sales, compared to 1.1% in the second-quarter fiscal 2020 on a GAAP basis and 4.5% on an adjusted basis. Strong topline growth driven by brick-and-mortar combined with the impact of our cost optimization efforts, including promotional optimization delivered record operating margin results. The tax rate increased to 24.4%, compared to 20.6% last year due to a decrease in state tax credits as a result of an increase in pre-tax income. Diluted GAAP earnings per share were $4.56, which included $0.04 per share of tax benefit related to share-based compensation, compared to $0.14 last year. Adjusted diluted earnings per share in the second quarter of last year was $0.73. Moving on to the balance sheet and cash flow. Total inventory increased 5.5% compared to last year, reflecting the impact of 32 additional stores, the opening of our Jacksonville fast fulfillment center in Q3 of fiscal 2020, and increased inventory purchases to support higher demand. Capital expenditures were $22.7 million for the quarter, driven by our new store opening program, investments in IT systems and store remodels and relocations. Depreciation was $69 million compared with $77.4 million last year, primarily reflecting the impact of last year's store impairments in the 19 stores which were permanently closed. We ended the quarter with $770.1 million in cash and cash equivalents. In the second quarter, we repurchased 746,000 shares at a cost of $243.5 million. At the end of the quarter, we had $886.2 million remaining under our current $1.6 billion repurchase authorization. We continue to expect to repurchase approximately 850 million of shares in fiscal 2021, but as always, have the flexibility to modify the cadence of repurchases in response to market conditions. Turning now to our updated outlook for 2021. We are encouraged by our first-half results and the trends we've experienced so far in the third quarter. While the operating environment continues to be dynamic and our near-term visibility remains limited, especially as it relates to the spread of COVID variance, we have increased our financial expectations for the year. We now expect net sales for the year to be between $8.1 billion and $8.3 billion, with comp sales growth planned to be in the 30% to 32% range. We continue to expect comp results will moderate to the low double-digit range as we move through the second half. We expect to open approximately 44 net new stores and remodel or relocate 18 stores. We now expect operating margin rate for the year will be approximately 13% of sales. We continue to believe the largest driver of operating margin expansion will come from gross margin, driven by leverage of fixed costs, less headwind from channel shift, improving merchandise margin, and leverage of salon costs. Based on the higher topline growth, we now expect to leverage SG&A more than previously expected as compared to fiscal 2020. These assumptions result in an expectation for diluted earnings per share in the range of $14.50 to $14.70 per share, including the impact of approximately $850 million in share repurchases. Like others, we are managing global supply chain constraints, port congestion, and other headwinds, including the resurgence of COVID-19. Our teams are working diligently to mitigate risk and where appropriate, we are proactively working with our brand partners to prioritize receipts to ensure we have adequate inventory for the holiday season. As a result, we expect that our inventory levels at the end of the third quarter will likely be elevated above expected sales growth. We plan to spend between $225 million and $250 million in capex in fiscal 2021, including approximately $100 million for new stores, remodels, and merchandise fixtures, $105 million for supply chain and IT, and about $33 million for store maintenance and other. As a reminder, our guidance for 2021 assumes a consistent federal tax rate and no material increases in the federal minimum wage. It does not include assumptions for any impact related to a resurgence of COVID-19.And now, I'll turn the call back over to our operator to moderate the Q&A session. 