  OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Labcorp's first quarter 2022 earnings conference call. Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. I would now hand the conference over to your speaker today, Chas Cook, vice president, investor relations. Please go ahead.Chas Cook -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you, operator. Good morning, and welcome to Labcorp's first quarter 2022 conference call. As detailed in today's press release, there will be a replay of this conference call available via telephone and Internet. With me today are Adam Schechter, chairman and chief executive officer; and Glenn Eisenberg, executive vice president and chief financial officer. This morning, in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.labcorp.com, we posted both our press release and an Investor Relations presentation with additional information on our businesses and operations, which include a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the GAAP financial measures discussed during today's call. Additionally, we are making forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements with respect to the estimated 2022 guidance and the related assumptions, the impact of various factors on the company's businesses, operating and financial results, cash flows and/or financial condition, including the COVID-19 pandemic and the general economic and market conditions, our response to the COVID-19 pandemic, future business strategies, expected savings and synergies and opportunities for future growth. Each of the forward-looking statements is subject to the change based upon various factors, many of which are beyond our control.More information is included in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and in the company's filings with the SEC. We have no obligation to provide any updates to these forward-looking statements even if our expectations change. Now I'll turn the call over to Adam Schechter. Adam Schechter -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Chas, and good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining us today. In the first quarter, we continued to advance our strategy through science, innovation, and technology. We delivered a solid first quarter despite omicron, which had a significant impact across both businesses in January and continue to impact drug development outside the U.S. throughout the quarter. We remain focused on growth opportunities while continuing to take actions to mitigate inflation. In the base business, each month of the quarter was progressively better than the previous one. This positions us well for continued success throughout the year. In the quarter, revenue totaled $3.9 billion, adjusted earnings per share reached $6.11, and free cash flow was $239 million. Diagnostics base business volume increased 4.4% versus last year as both routine and esoteric testing saw a significant uptick after an initial slowdown in January. In drug development, our book-to-bill remains strong at 1.23 on a trailing 12-month basis. Our backlog increased to $15.2 billion, an increase of 8.7% compared to last year. COVID-related vaccine work was lower versus a year ago across the segment, with the largest impact in clinical trial testing Solutions, or CTTS, which primarily consists of our central laboratories operations. While we continue to see some impact from omicron and the conflict in Ukraine throughout the quarter, overall drug development recovered nicely in March, giving us confidence in our 2022 performance and guidance. Turning now to COVID-19. Our PCR volume was approximately 70,000 per day for the quarter. Testing rates have since declined, and we expect the decline to continue for the remainder of the year. Time to results for COVID PCR tests is currently one day on average. We are maintaining our ability to process 300,000 PCR tests per day, pending supplies and labor, to help the country remain prepared for potential new waves of infections or new variants as a public health emergency persists. I'll now highlight examples of progress on our strategy. In oncology, we are fortifying our leadership position by harnessing the scope and the scale of our comprehensive capabilities. During the quarter, we closed the acquisition of PGDx, and the integration is going smoothly. PGDx' portfolio of liquid biopsy and tissue-based products enhances our leading oncology capabilities and puts us at the forefront of helping to drive better outcomes for people with cancer. We believe that PGDx' kitted solutions will allow laptop to expand genomic profiling globally and help our pharmaceutical clients identify more personalized treatments for patients. In addition, we recently announced a new collaboration with Xcell Biosciences to advance the development of cell and gene therapy research. This follows our previous investment in company and is designed to help clients more effectively bring innovative cell and gene therapies to market. Next, Labcorp continues to intensify its customer focus and embed data and digitalization throughout the business. In February, we launched our innovative Labcorp on-demand digital health platform. We have a pipeline of tests focused on preventive wellness and health monitoring, women's health and family planning and men's health, and we plan to add to those throughout the year. Separately, we introduced a new risk scoring task this quarter for people with advanced liver fibrosis due to NASH. This test helps go out an assessment of the risk of liver disease progression and allows for earlier intervention that can support better patient outcomes. And we became the first U.S. commercial laboratory to offer quantitative tests for detecting and measuring unintentional gluten consumption, which can help with the management of celiac disease. Labcorp continues to be committed to pursuing short- and long-term high-growth opportunities. During the quarter, we entered into and expanded several strategic relationships with hospitals and health systems. Last month, we announced our strategic relationship with Prisma Health, the largest health system in South Carolina. As a part of the arrangement, Labcorp agreed to acquire select outreach business assets and provide ongoing technical support to their hospital laboratories. This allows us to offer business, patients, and providers the benefit of enhanced care across multiple pinnacle areas. We also expanded our relationship with AtlantiCare in New Jersey in the quarter by agreeing to acquire select assets of the organization's clinical outreach business. In addition, we've agreed to purchase the outreach business of St. Dominic Hospital in Jackson, Mississippi. This builds on our 2020 acquisition of the outreach program of Franciscan Missionaries of Our Lady Health System. As I previously reported in February, we entered into a comprehensive laboratory relationship with Ascension, one of the U.S. healthcare's largest systems. The long-term relationship will include our management of hospital labs in 10 states as well as the purchase of select outreach laboratory business assets, and we continue to make progress on planning efforts for this collaboration. As expected, these transactions are scheduled to close later this year. Our pipeline of acquisition and investment targets remains robust, and that should result in a very active 2022. We're committed to investing in our employees and continuing to operate responsibly so that we can provide the highest quality services to patients and to customers. We recently issued our 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report, which offers insight into the following: our practices and processes to manage our company with integrity; our sustainability journey, including our pursuit of a science-based target to reduce carbon emissions; our commitment to provide employees with an environment in which they can thrive; and our efforts to help address the world's most pressing healthcare challenges in the communities where we live and work. The report is available through our Investor Relations website, and I'd encourage you to read it to better understand Labcorp's progress and commitments in these important areas. In addition, we continue to take other actions designed to enhance shareholder value. This quarter, we are providing additional information about the quarterly revenue contribution of each drug development business unit. And earlier this month, Labcorp initiated a quarterly dividend and announced a cash dividend of $0.72 per share of common stock payable in the second quarter of this year. To sum up, our base business continued its recovery across diagnostics and drug development progressively in the quarter despite some headwinds. We continue to execute well against our strategic priorities, and our current momentum in the base business combined with our recent hospital systems, business development announcements sets us up well for success throughout the year. So with that, Glenn will take you through the details of our first-quarter results.Glenn Eisenberg -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Adam. I'm going to start my comments with a review of our first-quarter results, followed by a discussion of our performance in each segment and conclude with an update on our full-year guidance. For reference, we've also included additional business information that can be found in our supplemental deck on our Investor Relations website. Revenue for the quarter was $3.9 billion, a decrease of 6.3% compared to last year due to lower organic revenue as the negative impact from foreign currency translation was offset by acquisitions. COVID testing revenue was down 43% compared to COVID testing last year, while the base business grew 4.5% compared to the base business last year. Operating income for the quarter was $688 million or 17.6% of revenue. During the quarter, we had $67 million of amortization and $39 million of restructuring charges and special items. Excluding these items, adjusted operating income in the quarter was $794 million or 20.4% of revenue compared to $1.2 billion or 28.4% last year. The decrease in adjusted operating income and margin was primarily due to a reduction in COVID testing, higher personnel expense, and other inflationary costs, partially offset by organic base business growth and LaunchPad savings. The tax rate for the quarter was 23.1%. The adjusted tax rate, excluding restructuring charges, special items, and amortization, was 23.4% compared to 24.5% last year. The lower adjusted rate was primarily due to the geographic mix of earnings and stock compensation. We continue to expect the adjusted tax rate for the full year to be comparable with last year at approximately 25%, excluding any impact from potential tax reform. Net earnings for the quarter were $492 million or $5.23 per diluted share. Adjusted EPS, which exclude amortization, restructuring charges, and special items, were $6.11 in the quarter, compared to $8.79 last year. Operating cash flow was $356 million in the quarter, compared to $1.2 billion a year ago. The decrease in operating cash flow was due to lower cash earnings, primarily impacted by COVID testing, and higher working capital requirements, which were mostly timing-related. Capital expenditures totaled $117 million, compared to $95 million last year. As a result, free cash flow was $239 million in the quarter. We continue to expect to generate between $1.7 billion and $1.9 billion of free cash flow for the full year. During the quarter, we invested $455 million on acquisitions. We were also in the market repurchasing approximately 600,000 shares as part of our $1 billion accelerated share repurchase program, which was completed April 1. At the end of the quarter, we had $1.5 billion of share repurchase authorization remaining. Now I'll review our segment performance. Given the enterprisewide strategic focus on oncology, we are reclassifying our oncology investments in R&D spending. These investments that are not supporting current revenue are being reclassified from our segments to corporate unallocated. This represented $4 million of corporate unallocated expense in the quarter. In our supplemental deck, we have also included additional business information for both segments. For diagnostics, we provided a breakout of base business esoteric versus routine testing revenue as well as payer mix. For drug development, we included revenues for its three businesses: early development, or ED; clinical trial testing solutions, or CTTS; and clinical development and commercialization services, or CDCS. In addition, we've provided quarterly book-to-bill, quarterly net orders and pass-throughs. I'll begin the segment review with diagnostics. Revenue for the quarter was $2.5 billion, a decrease of 11%, compared to last year due to organic revenue being down 11.5%, partially offset by acquisitions of 0.5%. COVID testing revenue was down 43% compared to COVID testing last year, while the base business grew 5.6% compared to the base business last year. Relative to the first quarter of 2019, the compound annual growth rate for base business revenue was 3.7%, primarily due to organic growth. Total volume decreased 5% compared to last year as organic volume decreased by 5.3%, partially offset by acquisition volume of 0.3%. COVID testing volume was down 38% compared to COVID testing last year, while base business volume grew 4.4% compared to the base business last year. Compared to the first quarter of 2019, base business volume levels were relatively flat as the decline we experienced in January due to omicron rebounded in February and in March. Price/mix decreased 6% versus last year due to lower COVID testing of 6.3%, partially offset by acquisitions of 0.2% and organic base business growth of 0.1%. base business price/mix was up 1.2% compared to the base business last year, benefiting from an increase in test per session, esoteric testing growing faster than routine testing and acquisitions. Diagnostics adjusted operating income for the quarter was $683 million or 27.8% of revenue, compared to $992 million or 36% last year. The decrease in adjusted operating income and margin was primarily due to a reduction in COVID testing. COVID testing margins were down compared to last year due to lower testing demand while the company continued to maintain capacity. base business margins were down slightly due to higher personnel expenses and other inflationary costs, partially offset by organic growth and LaunchPad savings. Now a review the performance of drug development. Revenue for the quarter was $1.5 billion, an increase of 1.5% compared to last year due to organic base business growth of 4.3% and acquisitions net of divestitures of 0.1%, partially offset by lower COVID testing of 1.7% and foreign currency translation of 1.2%. base business revenue compared to base business last year grew 3.3% or 4.5% on a constant currency basis. The growth was led by ED. We also experienced good growth in CDCS, although constrained by omicron and the conflict in Ukraine. CTTS was relatively flat as traditional base business growth was offset by lower COVID-19 vaccine and therapeutic work as well as the conflict in Ukraine. Relative to the first quarter of 2019, the compound annual growth rate for drug development, base business revenue was 10.7%, primarily driven by organic growth. Adjusted operating income for the segment was $169 million or 11.6% of revenue, compared to $234 million or 16.3% last year. The decrease in adjusted operating income and margin was due to lower COVID testing, reduced COVID vaccine and therapeutic work, the impact from the conflict in Ukraine, higher personnel expense, and other inflationary costs, which were partially offset by organic base business growth and LaunchPad savings. While margins were down in the quarter, we continue to expect margins to be up for the full year compared to 2021 as the segment benefits from top-line growth, targeted price increases, and LaunchPad savings. We ended the quarter with backlog of $15.2 billion, and we expect approximately $4.9 billion of this backlog to convert into revenue over the next 12 months. Now I'll discuss our updated 2022 full-year guidance, which reflects our solid first-quarter performance and outlook and assumes foreign exchange rates effective as of March 31, 2022, for the remainder of the year. The enterprise guidance also includes the impact from currently anticipated capital allocation, with free cash flow targeted to acquisitions, share repurchases, and dividends. We expect enterprise revenue to decline 1.5% to 5.5% compared to 2021. This is a narrowing of the prior range, with the midpoint growth rate increasing 50 basis points. This guidance range includes the expectation that the base business will grow 8% to 10%, while COVID testing is expected to decline 60% to 70%. We expect diagnostics revenue to decline 11.5% to 15.5% compared to 2021. This is a narrowing of the prior range and an increase at the midpoint by 100 basis points. This guidance range includes the expectation that the base business will grow 4% to 6%, while COVID testing is expected to decline 60% to 70%. At the midpoint of our base business guidance range, the compound annual growth rate compared to 2019 would be 4.5%, primarily driven by organic growth. We expect drug development revenue to grow 6% to 8.5% compared to 2021. This is a reduction at the midpoint of 100 basis points, primarily due to the 70 basis point change in foreign currency translation from the prior guidance. In addition, the guidance change reflects the conflict in Ukraine, which was partially offset by the benefit of the acquisition of PGDx. This guidance range of 6% to 8.5% growth over last year includes the negative impact from foreign currency translation of 110 basis points compared to last year. This guidance range also includes the expectation that the base business will grow 6.5% to 9% compared to 2021. We expect to benefit from growth in all 3 businesses, led by ED and CDCS. At the midpoint of our base business guidance range, the compound annual growth rate compared to 2019 would be 11%, primarily driven by organic growth. For adjusted EPS, we are narrowing our guidance range and increasing the midpoint by $0.38 compared to the prior guidance. Our guidance range is now $18.25 to $21. Free cash flow guidance remains unchanged at $1.7 billion to $1.9 billion. For additional comparison purposes, we've also included in the supplemental deck on our Investor Relations website a view of our 2022 first-quarter results and full-year guidance compared to our 2019 results. In summary, the company had another quarter of solid performance. We expect to drive continued profitable growth in our base business for the remainder of the year, while COVID testing volumes are expected to decline. We expect to continue to use our free cash flow generation for acquisitions that supplement our organic growth while also returning capital to shareholders through our share repurchase program and our newly initiated dividend. Operator, we will now take questions. Operator? 