  OperatorGood morning and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the AbbVie first-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] I would now like to introduce Ms. Liz Shea, vice president of investor relations. You may begin. Liz Shea -- Vice President of Investor Relations

 



 Good morning and thanks for joining us. Also on the call with me today are Rick Gonzalez, chairman of the board and chief executive officer; Michael Severino, vice chairman and president; Rob Michael, executive vice president and chief financial officer; and Jeff Stewart, executive vice president, commercial operations. Joining us for the Q&A portion of the call is Laura Schumacher, vice chairman, external affairs, chief legal officer, and corporate secretary. Before we get started, I remind you that some statements we make today may be considered forward-looking statements for purposes of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. AbbVie cautions that these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. Additional information about these risks and uncertainties is included in our SEC filings. AbbVie undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements, except as required by law. On today's conference call, non-GAAP financial measures will be used to help investors understand AbbVie's business performance.These non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled with comparable GAAP financial measures in our earnings release and regulatory filings from today which can be found on our website. Unless otherwise noted, our commentary on sales growth is on a comparable basis, which includes full current year and historical results for Allergan. For this comparison of underlying performance, all historically reported Allergan revenues have been recast to conform to AbbVie's revenue recognition accounting policies and exclude the divestitures of Zenpep and Viokace. References to operational growth further excludes the impact of exchange. Following our prepared remarks, we'll take your questions. So with that, I'll now turn the call over to Rick. 

 



Rick Gonzalez -- Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Liz. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. I'll discuss our first-quarter performance and outlook. And then Jeff, Mike, and Rob will review our business highlights, pipeline progress, and financial results in more detail. We're off to an excellent start this year, delivering strong top and bottom-line first-quarter performance. We reported adjusted earnings per share of $2.95, exceeding the midpoint of our guidance by $0.14. Total adjusted net revenues of $12.9 billion, was up 5.2% on a comparable operational basis, nearly $250 million ahead of our expectations. These results include strong performance across each of our core therapeutic areas, including double-digit comparable operational revenue growth from immunology, neuroscience, and aesthetics, as well as high single-digit operational growth from hematological oncology. Additionally, we continue to see robust sales from our key and newly launched products. Skyrizi and Rinvoq contributed nearly $900 million in combined revenues this quarter, more than double the sales versus the prior year as both products continue to ramp in their initial indications. Imbruvica and Venclexta delivered combined sales of approximately $1.7 billion, reflecting continued leadership in CLL and other hematological malignancies. Vraylar, which remains one of the fastest-growing medicines in psychiatry, delivered more than 20% comparable operational growth.

 



 Ubrelvy, the leading oral CGRP for acute migraines, generated revenue growth of approximately 25% on a sequential basis. And within our leading aesthetics portfolio, which is performing well above pre-COVID levels, Botox Cosmetics and Juvederm are demonstrating robust performance. Both of these -- both of these brands grew more than 40% on a comparable operational basis. The integration of Allergan also continues to go very well. As illustrated by our balanced results this quarter, we are clearly demonstrating that we have created a stronger and much more diverse company with the scale and flexibility to fully invest in the business for long-term growth. While the pandemic has categorically impacted our day-to-day lives, we are encouraged by the latest recovery trends. We see market growth and new patient activity increasing overall, especially in March. Although certain markets continue to remain below pre-COVID levels, including CLL and HCV, in particular. We expect the increasing vaccinations globally will continue to support a full recovery across our therapeutic areas as we progress through the remainder of this year. Based on a robust performance this quarter and the continued strong outlook for our business, we are raising our full-year 2021 EPS guidance, and we now expect adjusted earnings per share between $12.37 and $12.57, reflecting growth of more than 18% at the midpoint. I'm also extremely pleased with our R&D prospects, including the number and potential of the opportunities, especially within our late-stage pipeline. We're on the cusp of the potential commercial approval of more than a dozen new products or indications over the next two years, including five total expected approvals in 2021. This includes atogepant, a novel oral CGRP for episodic migraines, adding to our already attractive migration portfolio. A new eyedrop for the treatment of presbyopia. As well as expanded indications for Rinvoq in psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, and atopic dermatitis. And we expect more than a half a dozen new product or indication launches in 2022, including navitoclax for myelofibrosis, ABBV-951 for advanced Parkinson's disease, Skyrizi for psoriatic arthritis and Crohn's disease, Rinvoq for ulcerative colitis, Vraylar for major depressive disorder, and initial indications for Imbruvica and Venclexta. With these collectively growth opportunities and the continued momentum of our underlying portfolio, our long-term outlook -- our long-term outlook remains very strong. In closing, our focus remains on strong commercial and operational execution, as well as pipeline advancement. I'm pleased with the financial results for the quarter and the overall pace of the recovery across our portfolio. We're off to another excellent start in 2021. With that, I'll turn the call over to Jeff for additional comments on our commercial highlights. Jeff?Jeff Stewart -- Executive Vice President, Commercial Operations Thank you, Rick. We demonstrated strong and balanced growth across our therapeutic portfolio this quarter, a testament to our differentiated product profiles and commercial execution. Our immunology portfolio delivered global revenues of more than $5.7 billion, reflecting growth of nearly 12% on an operational basis. Humira sales were approximately $4.9 billion, up 2.6% on an operational basis with continued high single-digit growth in the U.S., offset by biosimilar competition across our international markets where the unfavorable impact was more moderate than expected in the quarter. Our new immunology agents, Skyrizi and Rinvoq, are both demonstrating robust prescription growth well above all comparable launches. Skyrizi sales were $574 million, reflecting 34% in-play patient share, which includes new and switching patients. This is more than double the share capture of the next nearest biologic competitor. Skyrizi total prescriptions share in the U.S. psoriasis biologic market is now approximately 15%, second only to Humira. Additionally, we recently received approval for a single-dose pre-filled pen for Skyrizi, which will reduce the number of injections per treatment. Skyrizi is now the only quarterly dosed psoriasis treatment available in an auto-injector, further improving the patient experience. Rinvoq sales were $303 million with strong in-play patient share of approximately 15% in the U.S. RA market. Physician and patient feedback remain very positive on Rinvoq's level of efficacy, speed of response, and strong benefit-risk profile. Internationally, both of these new assets delivered strong double-digit sequential growth with ramping access in share. Skyrizi has now also achieved in-play patient share leadership in the EU5 psoriasis markets, exceeding Tremfya and Cosentyx, and at parity with Taltz. As Mike will discuss momentarily, we are also making considerable progress to expand the uses of Skyrizi and Rinvoq in several immune-mediated diseases with half a dozen additional indication approvals expected later this year and in 2022. In hematologic oncology, sales were approximately $1.7 billion, up 7.3% on an operational basis. Imbruvica continues to perform well across multiple indications, including CLL, where it remains the clear market share leader across all lines of therapy. Imbruvica sales increased 2.9% on an operational basis this quarter with performance impacted by lower new patient starts within CLL where the market remains below pre-COVID levels. Imbruvica growth was also unfavorably impacted by the COVID-relating stocking benefit that we saw in the first quarter of 2020. Venclexta sales were $405 million, up 24.5% on an operational basis, with increasing share in frontline CLL and continued strong performance in AML. In neuroscience, revenues were more than $1.2 billion, up 10.9% on a comparable operational basis. Vraylar once again delivered strong growth. Sales of $346 million were up 21.2% on a comparable operational basis, reflecting a nearly 2.5% total prescription share of the U.S. atypical antipsychotic market. Within migraines, the launch of Ubrelvy is exceeding our expectations with $81 million of revenue in the quarter. Feedback from physicians has been very positive, highlighting Ubrelvy's efficacy, safety, convenient dosing profile, and overall commercial access. Ubrelvy is the No. 1 branded acute treatment for migraines based on both new patient share and prescription growth. The oral CGRP therapies, including our leading Ubrelvy, now represent roughly 16% of new prescriptions in the large acute migraine market. We believe there is substantial room for long-term growth in this rapidly expanding segment based on unmet need and strong patient demand. We also look forward to the expected commercial approval of atogepant, our oral CGRP for episodic migraine, later this year. Botox therapeutic, you're seeing a very nice recovery in chronic migraine, as well as its other indications, with total sales of $532 million, up 7% on a comparable operational basis. Lastly, in our other key therapeutic areas, we saw significant contribution from eye care, which had revenues of $817 million. Mavyret sales were $415 million, down 28.4% on an operational basis as treated patient volumes have remained below pre-COVID levels. And we also saw double-digit comparable growth from Linzess, the leading branded prescription medicine in the U.S. for the treatment of adults with IBS-C or chronic idiopathic constipation. Overall, I'm extremely pleased with our execution across the therapeutic portfolio, including the progress we're making with recent new product launches. We remain on track to deliver a very strong revenue growth in 2021. And with that, I'll turn the call over to Mike for additional comments on our R&D progress. Mike? Mike Severino -- Vice Chairman and President Thank you, Jeff. I'll start with immunology where we continue to make good progress with Rinvoq and Skyrizi in new disease areas, as well as in our early and mid-stage immunology programs. We recently reported positive top-line results from the second induction study for Rinvoq in ulcerative colitis. Similar to results from the first induction study, in this phase 3 trial, Rinvoq demonstrated a very strong impact on disease activity as measured by clinical remission, clinical response, and endoscopic improvement. The 45-milligram induction dose was well-tolerated, and the safety profile was consistent with previous Rinvoq studies. In these induction trials, we saw no DVT, PE, MACE events, or malignancies in the Rinvoq groups. And the rates of serious adverse events were numerically lower than placebo. We believe these induction data compare very favorably to other UC treatments on the market or in development. And based on the data generated to date, Rinvoq has the potential to become one of the most highly effective therapies for patients with moderate to severe ulcerative colitis. We expect to see results from the UC maintenance study this summer, with regulatory submissions anticipated in the second half of the year. The Rinvoq program in Crohn's disease is also progressing very well, and we expect to see induction data from the first of two phase 3 trials in the fourth quarter, followed by induction data from a second phase 3 trial and maintenance data in the first half of 2022. We're also nearing completion of our pivotal program for Skyrizi in Crohn's disease. Earlier this year, we reported positive results from the two Crohn's induction studies, and we expect to see maintenance data this summer. Our regulatory submissions for Skyrizi in Crohn's disease remain on track for the second half of 2021. Following completion of our registrational program for Skyrizi in psoriatic arthritis, we recently submitted our regulatory applications in the U.S. and Europe, with approval decisions expected in the first half of 2022. We're very pleased with the level of activity we saw with Skyrizi on both joint disease and skin clearance in our phase 3 program and look forward to providing this new treatment to patients suffering from psoriatic arthritis. Our regulatory submissions are currently under review for Rinvoq in three new indications in the U.S., ankylosing spondylitis, psoriatic arthritis, and atopic dermatitis. As we previously announced, the FDA recently extended the review periods for Rinvoq in psoriatic arthritis and atopic dermatitis following a request for an updated assessment of the benefit-risk profile for Rinvoq in these indications. In response to the FDA request, we provided updated data from across Rinvoq programs in RA, psoriatic arthritis, and atopic dermatitis. Based on the review extensions, we now expect approval decisions for psoriatic arthritis in June and for atopic dermatitis in July. The regulatory action date for Rinvoq in ankylosing spondylitis is unchanged and remains on track for June. We remain confident in the benefit-risk profile of Rinvoq across all indications and we'll work with the FDA to bring Rinvoq to market in these new disease areas. Earlier this year, we received European approval for Rinvoq in psoriatic arthritis and AS. Our European regulatory application for Rinvoq in atopic dermatitis is under review and we remain on track for a CHMP opinion this summer, with an approval decision anticipated in the third quarter. We also recently saw results from a four-week phase 1b study, evaluating our novel small molecule, RoR gamma T, inverse agonist ABBV-157 in patients with psoriasis. By targeting RoR gamma T with an inverse agonist rather than an antagonist, we believe we can more effectively inhibit IL-17 production, thus resulting in a greater impact on skin inflammation. In our phase 1b study, 157 showed promising activity as an oral psoriasis agent, and we plan to move the asset forward to a larger phase 2b dose-ranging study in the second half of this year. Moving now to our oncology portfolio. We continue to make very good progress with our late-stage programs for Imbruvica, Venclexta, and Venetoclax, as well as with our early stage oncology assets. We remain on track for several key regulatory submissions, data presentations, and phase transitions this year. At the upcoming ASCO and EHA meetings, we will be presenting more than 40 abstracts, including results from the Imbruvica plus Venclexta captivate trial fixed-duration cohort in treatment-naive CLL patients. The Imbruvica-Venclexta combination is an important element of our hemo strategy to provide a differentiated fixed-duration treatment that offers deeper levels of response. Data from our Imbruvica-Venclexta combination studies will support regulatory submissions in frontline CLL later this year. We will also be presenting four-year follow-up data from Venclexta's CLL14 trial in frontline CLL, as well as updated efficacy and safety data from a phase 1b study evaluating Venclexta plus azacitidine in treatment-naive high-risk MDS patients. We expect this MDS study to complete in the second half of this year. And if positive, it could support a submission in the first half of 2022 to seek accelerated approval. In the area of solid tumors, at the recent AACR meeting, we presented phase 2 results for Teliso-V in non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer. In this study, Teliso-V demonstrated a promising response rate in heavily pre-treated patients, particularly in patients with highly expressed c-Met where we saw a 54% objective response rate. c-Met is an attractive target across multiple tumor types, particularly in non-small cell lung cancer where approximately 30% of patients have to overexpress c-Met. Approaches in this area have historically focused on small molecule kinase inhibitors, an anti-c-Met antibodies, both of which have shown only limited efficacy in this patient population that has not been sufficient for approval. In contrast, our c-Met antibody-drug conjugate is a novel approach that we believe will have broader applicability and will provide enhanced efficacy compared to previous approaches. We recently began the second stage of our phase 2 study, which has the potential to support accelerated approval in second-line plus metastatic non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer. We also plan to evaluate Teliso-V in the frontline setting including in combination with other agents as well as in other c-Met positive tumor types. We also have a next-generation c-Met ADC program that will be entering the clinic later this year. Our new c-Met ADC, ABBV-400, utilizes a topoisomerase inhibitor payload, which we believe will provide greater anti-tumor efficacy against both amplified Met and overexpressed c-Met subtypes. Thus, providing deeper responses with broader applicability than other anti-c-Met targeting agents. In neuroscience. We recently presented data from several key programs at the American Academy of Neurology Annual Meeting. A total of 33 abstracts were presented including data from the phase 3 advanced study in episodic migraines prevention, showing that atogepant has the potential to be a highly effective safe and well-tolerated all treatment option with a rapid onset of action. The FDA recently accepted our NDA for atogepant for the prevention of episodic migraines and an approval decision is expected in September of this year. We also presented results from an open-label phase 3 study evaluating Ubrelvy in pre-menstrual migraines, which showed that Ubrelvy has potential as a safe and efficacious treatment for migraine attacks that occurred during or near menstruation. Menstrual-related migraine attacks can be more difficult to treat because they are often longer in duration, more severe, and often resistant to treatment. And we presented data from a phase 1 study demonstrating that ABBV-951 subcutaneous infusions maintain an equivalent libido exposure to do over in advanced Parkinson's patients. Results from the pivotal program for ABBV-951 are expected this summer with the regulatory submissions anticipated in the second half of this year. We also remain on track for readouts in the fourth quarter from two phase 3 studies for Vraylar in adjunctive major depressive disorder. And if successful, we would anticipate regulatory submissions in the first half of 2022. In eye care, we submitted our regulatory application in the U.S. for AGN-190584 for the treatment of symptoms associated with presbyopia. 584 is a once-daily eye drop being developed to help address symptoms that are often corrected through reading glasses. This new technology represents a complementary product to reading glasses and would be a convenient on-demand solution for patients with mild to moderate presbyopia. An approval decision is expected in the fourth quarter of this year. And in aesthetics, we are investing to accelerate key next-generation toxins and filler programs. By combining the aesthetic team's deep expertise with AbbVie's breadth and scale of resources, we'll be able to bring novel products to market significantly faster. Looking across our portfolio, we've identified a number of programs to accelerate including our short-acting and long-acting toxins as well as our next-generation biostimulatory triple elastin and collagen and fillers. Acceleration of these programs is expected to drive significant long-term growth for the aesthetics franchise. So in summary, we continue to make significant progress with our pipeline to start the year and we look forward to many more data readouts, regulatory submissions, and approvals throughout the remainder of 2021. With that, I'll turn the call over to Rob for additional comments on our first-quarter performance and financial outlook. Rob?Rob Michael -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Mike. Starting with first-quarter results. We reported adjusted earnings per share of $2.95, up 21.9% compared to the prior year and above our guidance midpoint. Total adjusted net revenues were $12.9 billion, up 5.2% on a comparable operational basis, excluding a 1.1% favorable impact from foreign exchange. The adjusted operating margin ratio was 51% of sales, an improvement of 120 basis points versus the prior year. This includes an adjusted gross margin of 83.9% of sales, adjusted R&D investment of 11.6% of sales, and adjusted SG&A expense of 21.2% and sales. Net interest expense was $622 million, and the adjusted tax rate was 12.3%. As Rick previously mentioned, we are raising our full-year adjusted earnings per share guidance to between $12.37 and $12.57, reflecting growth of 18.1% at the midpoint. Excluded from this guidance is $5.10 of known intangible memorization and specified items. This guidance now contemplates full-year revenue growth of 9.8% on a comparable operational basis. At current rates, we continue to expect foreign exchange to have a 1% favorable impact on full-year comparable sales growth. This implies a full-year revenue forecast of approximately $55.9 billion. Included in this guidance are the following updated full-year assumptions. We now expect international Humira revenue of approximately $3.1 billion. And we now expect Botox cosmetic sales of approximately $1.9 billion. All other full-year assumptions remain unchanged. As we look ahead to the second quarter, we anticipate net revenue approaching $13.6 billion. At current rates, we expect foreign exchange to have a 1.6% favorable impact on comparable sales growth. We expect adjusted earnings per share between $3.05 and $3.09, excluding approximately $1.78 of known intangible amortization and specified items. Finally, we continue to make great progress on our Allergan transaction commitments. We realize over $360 million expense synergies in the first quarter and are on track to deliver synergies of approximately $1.7 billion in 2021 and greater than $2 billion in 2022. We have already paid down $10.4 billion of combined company debt. We continue to expect cumulative debt pay down of $17 billion by the end of 2021 with further deleveraging through 2023. This will bring our net leverage ratio to 2.4 times by the end of 2021 and approximately two times by the end of 2022. In closing, we are off to an excellent start to the year with strong performance across the portfolio and financial results ahead of our expectations. With that, I'll turn the call back over to Liz.Liz Shea -- Vice President of Investor Relations Thanks, Rob. We will now open the call for questions. In the interest of hearing from as many analysts as possible over the remainder of the call, we ask that you please limit your questions to one or two. Operator, first question, please. 