
OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Comerica Quarterly Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] After the speaker presentation there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to hand the conference over to Darlene Persons, Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Darlene Persons -- Director of Investor Relations

 



Thanks, Regina. Good morning, and welcome to Comerica's Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. Participating on this call will be our President, Chairman and CEO, Curt Farmer; Chief Financial Officer, Jim Herzog; Chief Credit Officer, Melinda Chausse; and Executive Director of our Commercial Bank, Peter Sefzik.During this presentation, we will be referring to slides, which provide additional details. The presentation slide and our press release are available on the SEC's website, as well as in the Investor Relations section of our website, comerica.com.This conference call contains forward-looking statements. In that regard, you should be mindful of the risks and uncertainties that can cause actual results to materially vary from expectations. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this presentation, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. Please refer to the Safe Harbor statement in today's earnings release and Slide two, which I incorporate into this call, as well as our SEC filings for factors that can cause actual results to differ.Now, I'll turn the call over to Curt, who will begin on Slide three.

 



Curtis C. Farmer -- Chairman, President and Chief Executive OfficerGood morning, everyone, and thank you for joining our call. Our second quarter results showed continuation of several favorable trends, including strong deposit growth, robust fee income, and excellent credit quality. Revenue increased quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year, despite the low rate environment. We remain focused on expense control, while supporting our revenue-generating activities. Also, we repurchased nearly 6 million shares, reducing our share count by over 4%. We generated earnings of $2.32 per share and an ROE of over 17% and an ROA of 1.5%, remained above our historic norm.We continue to demonstrate our unwavering dedication to providing a high level of service and support for our customers, communities, and each other. During the quarter, we committed $5 billion to small business lending over a three year period. Also, we appointed a National Asian American Business Development manager, who joined our Hispanic and African American development managers to support and strengthen relationships in our communities. In conjunction with this announcement, we made a deposit into an Asian American minority depository institution.In regard to sustainability, our ESG Council recently defined the most significant ESG issues for our company. Specifically, those that are most impactful for our customers and colleagues and in which we feel we can make a meaningful difference. We call this our ESG commitment as outlined on the slide. I look forward to sharing with you our continued progress in these critically important areas.

 



Turning to our second quarter financial performance on Slide four. We saw a solid loan growth in several business lines led by General Middle Market. This was more than offset by a large decline in auto dealer floor plan, due to supply constraints, as well as Mortgage Banker, due to lower refi volumes. Our pipeline, again, increased as companies ramped up with the economy reopening.Deposit growth continue to be very strong. Average balances increased 6% or over $4 billion to another all-time high. The full quarter benefit of federal stimulus payments, along with seasonality, contributed to a $1.7 billion increase in consumer deposits. Commercial deposit growth mostly reflects our customers' solid profitability and capital markets activity.Net interest income increased $22 million. You may recall that first quarter was impacted by a $17 million in lease residual adjustments. We continue to carefully manage loan and deposit pricing, as well as the securities portfolio in this ultra-low rate environment.Credit improved from already strong levels. We had net recoveries of $11 million, the highest level of net recoveries in at least 20-years. Criticized and non-accrual loans declined, a true reflection of our disciplined credit culture, diverse portfolio and expertise in the industries we serve.Our credit reserve continued to decrease and resulted in a negative provision of $135 million as the portfolio continues to perform better-than-expected going into the pandemic. The reserve ratio remains healthy at 1.44%, excluding PPP loans.Fee-generating activity was again robust. Non-interest income grew 5% with increases in card, commercial lending, and fiduciary income. Also, expenses were well controlled and our efficiency ratio improved. As I previously mentioned, we repurchased nearly 6 million shares during the second quarter. We expect to continue to make strides toward our 10% CET1 target, keeping a close eye on loan growth trends and capital generation.Using our capital to support our customers and drive growth remains our top priority, while providing an attractive return to our shareholders. Our customers and colleagues across our markets remain optimistic about the future. We expect economic metrics to remain strong in the back half of the year, despite labor and supply chain constraints. We believe that these issues will fade with sustained economic momentum.And now I'll turn the call over to Jim.James J. Herzog -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Curt, and good morning, everyone. Turning to Slide five, average loans decreased $761 million. As Curt mentioned, the biggest driver was an $870 million decrease in National Dealer Services, as auto inventory levels are very low due to supply chain challenges. Looking back two years, floor plan loans were down over $3 billion. We believe that we are close to the bottom and over the next few months, inventory should start to slowly rebuild and return to normal levels sometime next year.Mortgage Banker declined approximately $300 million, coming off of the record levels reached at the end of last year. Seasonally higher purchase volume was more than offset by lower refi volume, which is expected to continue. Of note, our purchase-related volume was 67% in the quarter, compared to the industry at 44%.On the other hand, activity in several other businesses has begun to pick up, including General Middle Market, Environmental Services, Commercial Real Estate, Entertainment, Equity Fund Services and Corporate Banking.As far as PPP, average loans decreased a little over $100 million during the quarter. However, on a period-end basis, PPP loans declined nearly $1 billion as the forgiveness process accelerated at the end of the quarter. Excluding the decline in PPP loans, period end loans were up $613 million, due to increases in General Middle Market, Environmental Services and Commercial Real Estate, partly offset by a decrease in dealer.Total loan commitments increased $1.5 billion, with growth in most business lines led by General Middle Market. Usage also grew, resulting in line utilization holding steady at 47%. Our pipeline increased despite the strong level of commitments closed during the quarter and the portion in the last stage of the pipeline again grew significantly. This bodes well for future loan growth.Loan yields increased 16 basis points, including the 14 basis points impact from the lease residual adjustment in the first quarter and 2 basis points from fees, including accelerated fees on PPP loan forgiveness. All other factors offset each other.Average deposits increased $4.1 billion, climbing to a new record as shown on Slide six. Non-interest-bearing deposits accounted for almost 75% of the growth. The full quarter benefit of recent fiscal stimulus, along with strong cash generation drove the increase. With strong deposit growth, our loan-to-deposit ratio decreased 66%. The average cost of interest-bearing deposits reached an all-time low of 6 basis points, a decrease of 2 basis points from the first quarter and our total funding costs fell to only 7 basis points.Slide seven, provides details on our securities portfolio. During the quarter, we purchased approximately $2 billion of MBS to replace about $1 billion in MBS prepayments and $750 million in treasury maturities, as well as continued to deploy some of our excess liquidity. The net result was about a $250 million increase in the portfolio at period end and a slightly higher proportion of MBS. By increasing the size of the MBS portfolio by over $1.5 billion since year-end, we have been able to mitigate the rate headwind and maintain approximately the same level of securities income.MBS purchases in the second quarter had average durations of six to seven years and yields of about 185 basis points. This compared to securities rolling off at 230 basis points to 250 basis points, which resulted in a decline in the portfolio yield of 1.82%. Our goal is to continue offsetting the pressure from lower reinvestment yields by gradually and opportunistically increasing the portfolio size.Turning to Slide eight, net interest income increased $22 million, including the $17 million in lease residual adjustments recorded in the first quarter. The net interest margin was stable as the impact from the lease residual adjustments was offset by the large increase in excess liquidity.As far as the details, interest income on loans increased $18 million and added 8 basis points to the net interest margin. This was primarily due to the lease residual adjustments. One additional day in the quarter added $4 million and fees, primarily PPP related, added $2 million and 1 basis point to the margin. Lower loan balances had a $3 million impact and lower LIBOR and non-accrual interest recoveries, which had a $1 million impact.The benefit from a modestly larger securities portfolio was mostly offset by the lower securities yields. Average balances of the Fed increased over $3 billion, which added $1 million and had an 8 basis point negative impact on the margin. Fed deposits remained extraordinarily high at nearly $16 billion and weighed heavily on the margin, with the gross impact of approximately 50 basis points. Continued prudent management of deposit pricing added $2 million and 1 basis point to the margin.Credit quality was very strong as shown on Slide nine. Net recoveries of $11 million were comprised of a decrease in gross charge-offs to only $8 million, combined with a relatively high level of recoveries of $19 million. Non-performing assets decreased slightly and remained low at 64 basis points of loans. Also, criticized loans declined in nearly every business line and are now close to pre-pandemic levels. Strong credit metrics, combined with our growing confidence in sustainable economic growth, resulted in a decrease in our allowance for credit losses.Of note, the social distancing related segments continued to perform better than we expected. Also, with help from an increase in oil prices, the energy portfolio had significant decreases in non-accrual and criticized loans, as well as net recoveries of $12 million. However, we continue to apply a more severe economic forecast to both of these areas. Our total reserve ratio is very healthy at 1.36% or 1.44% excluding PPP loans.Non-interest income increased $14 million or 5% as outlined on Slide 10, continuing the positive trend we've seen over the last five quarters. Card fees increased $13 million and are 23% higher than a year ago, primarily due to government card and to a lesser extent also merchant consumer and commercial card activity. These have all been spurred by economic stimulus, changes in customer behavior, as well as new and expanded customer relationships.Commercial lending fees increased $9 million to the highest level we've seen in over five years, primarily driven by an increase in syndication fees. Fiduciary income set a record with a $7 million increase, mainly due to annual tax service fees, a full quarter benefit of the trust advisory business we acquired in March, as well as equity market performance.Deferred comp asset returns were $6 million or $3 million increase over the first quarter and are offsetting non-interest expenses. Partly offsetting these increases, derivative income decreased $8 million as there was a $1 million benefit from a change in the credit valuation adjustment, compared to the $10 million benefit in the first quarter.Aside from this change, underlying derivative activity remains robust. Following strong performance in the first quarter, warrant income decreased $4 million and BOLi declined $2 million. In summary, we are pleased with another strong quarter for fee income.As shown on Slide 11, expenses were up $16 million in the quarter. The primary drivers were a $7 million increase in outside processing in line with higher revenue and elevated litigation cost related to pending resolution of certain legal matters. Also, we had a seasonal increase in advertising and higher operational losses, which returned to a more normal level.Salaries and benefits decreased $5 million mainly due to annual stock compensation and payroll taxes resetting in the first quarter. Providing a partial offset was an increase in performance-based incentives, annual merit, tech-related labor, as well as deferred comp. We continue to demonstrate that we are committed to maintaining our strong expense discipline as we invest for the future.Slide 12 provides details on capital management. With our CET1 sitting well above our target, we entered into an accelerated share repurchase program for $400 million at the end of April. We also repurchased an additional $50 million of shares in June. Our CET1 ratio decreased to an estimated 10.39% and our goal is to continue to make strides toward our CET1 target of 10%, while carefully watching loan growth trends and capital generation. In addition, we have maintained a very competitive dividend yield, which is currently yielding above 4%.Slide 13 provides our outlook for the expected trends for the second half of the year relative to the second quarter. Excluding PPP loans, we expect loan growth in most businesses, led by middle market as a result of increasing working capital and capex needs. This is supported by our robust pipeline and expectations that the economy will continue to grow. Of note, we believe Mortgage Banker will decline modestly, due to lower refi volumes and seasonality. In addition, we believe National Dealer is close to a bottom as auto inventory levels are expected to start to rebound as we get closer to year-end. As far as PPP loans, it is difficult to predict. However, we expect loan forgiveness will continue to pick up and the bulk should be repaid by year-end.We expect average deposits to remain strong. Customers continue to maintain excess balances. However, at some point, we believe they will start to put the cash to work. We expect net interest income to benefit from loan growth, excluding PPP and additional days. However, we believe this will be more than offset by the anticipated decrease in PPP loans. Credit quality is expected to remain strong. Assuming the economy remains in the current path, we believe the allowance should continue to move toward pre-pandemic levels.We expect customer-driven fee categories to continue to benefit from strong economic conditions, along with our focus on attracting and enhancing customer relationships. However, card fees are expected to decrease as the benefit from growing merchant and corporate volumes could be more than offset by lower government card activity as truck stimulus payments wane. In addition, in the second quarter, there were categories that were also somewhat elevated such as fiduciary, due to the second quarter tax preparation fees and deferred comp, which is difficult to predict.On a year-over-year basis, we expect to see solid growth in the second half. We expect expenses to decrease. Certain line items should be seasonally higher such as occupancy, advertising and travel and entertainment. In addition, as we continue to invest for the future, technology investments are expected to rise modestly as they typically do in the second half of the year. However, more than offsetting these factors, we expect second quarter levels of litigation-related expense and deferred comp will not repeat. Finally, as I indicated on the previous slide, we plan to continue share repurchases.Now I'll turn the call back to Curt.Curtis C. Farmer -- Chairman, President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Jim. As I mentioned at the beginning of the call, we are seeing many favorable trends, including some loan growth momentum in certain business lines, including General Middle Market. With strong ISM services and manufacturing indices and a record number of job openings, business and consumer confidence remains positive and is supportive of continued growth in the back half of the year.As we continue to navigate this ultra-low interest rate environment, we are focused on delivering a more diversified and balanced revenue base with an emphasis on fee generation. And our progress is demonstrated in the consistent increase in non-interest income over the past five quarters. We are investing for the future to ensure we can provide high-caliber products such as our treasury management services. In the second quarter, Comerica became one of the first banks to offer commercial banking customers the ability to send real-time payments. In addition, business deposit capture now includes the ability to scan images of checks for deposit with [Technical Issues] device.Finally, utilizing intelligent automation, we improved our integrated receivables offering. Our expertise and experience continues to help us build and solidify our long-term relationships, particularly in extraordinary times like these. We are uniquely positioned with our nimble asset size, large customer deposit funding base, and commercial bank weighting complemented by a robust retail and wealth management capabilities.Finally, we are committed to maintaining our conservative credit culture, strong capital base, and expense discipline. These key strengths provide the foundation for creating long-term shareholder value.Thank you for your time and now we'd be happy to take your questions.