
OperatorGood morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Thermo Fisher Scientific 2021 First Quarter Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions]I would now like to introduce our moderator for the call, Mr. Rafael Tejada, Vice President, Investor Relations. Mr. Tejada, you may begin the call.Rafael Tejada -- Vice President, of Investor Relations.

 



Good morning, and thank you for joining us. On the call with me today is Marc Casper, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Stephen Williamson, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Please note this call is being webcast live and will be archived on the Investors section of our website, thermofisher.com, under the heading Webcast and Presentations until May 14, 2021. A copy of the press release of our first quarter 2021 earnings is available in the Investors section of our website under the heading Financial Results. So before we begin, let me briefly cover our safe harbor statement. Various remarks that we may make about the company's future expectations, plans and prospects constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the safe harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors, including those discussed in the company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K, which is on file with the SEC and available in the Investors section of our website under the heading SEC Filings. While we may like to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimates change. Therefore, you should not rely on these forward-looking statements as representing our views as of any date subsequent to today. Also during this call, we will be referring to certain financial measures not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles or GAAP. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is available in the press release of our first quarter 2021 earnings and also in the Investors section of our website under the heading Financial Information.So with that, I'll now turn the call over to Marc.Marc N. Casper -- Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

 



Thanks, Raf. Good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us for our Q1 call. As you saw in our press release, we had a very strong start to the year. We delivered another quarter of outstanding financial performance with excellent growth on both the top and bottom line. As you know, we're playing a significant role in enabling society's response to the pandemic, including a rapidly expanding role in supporting vaccine production. In our base business, we meaningfully accelerated growth across all our businesses in the first quarter. We had very strong execution of our growth strategy, including launching a number of innovative new products, capitalizing on our leadership in the high-growth and emerging markets, strengthening our unique customer value proposition. And we're already starting to see the benefits of the accelerated investments we initiated in 2020. We continue to execute our capital deployment strategy, completing our acquisition of a European viral vector business and Mesa Biotech, a rapid point-of-care molecular diagnostics company. We also returned capital to our shareholders through stock buybacks and dividends. As I'm sure you saw shortly after the quarter closed, we announced our agreement to acquire PPD, a leading provider of clinical research services serving pharma and biotech customers, our fastest-growing end market. So another great quarter of delivering for our stakeholders in the near term, while investing organically and inorganically for a great future. I'll cover each of these topics in more depth in my remarks, but first, let me recap the financials. Our revenue in Q1 grew 59% year-over-year to $9.91 billion. Our adjusted operating income for the first quarter increased 155% to $3.51 billion. And our adjusted operating margin expanded 13 percentage points in Q1 to 35.4%. Finally, we delivered another quarter of strong adjusted EPS performance, achieving 145% increase to $7.21 per share.Turning to our end markets. Conditions were very robust driven by three factors the strong fundamentals in life sciences, ramping of economic activity globally and the role our industry is playing in the pandemic response. Our unique competitive position has allowed us to deliver another fantastic quarter. So starting with pharma and biotech. We had outstanding performance with growth of approximately 35% driven by strong underlying market dynamics, the benefits of our unique customer value proposition and our leading role in supporting our customers across a wide range of exciting therapeutic areas, including our significant role in supporting COVID-19 vaccines and therapies. We saw excellent growth across all businesses serving these customers, including bioproduction, pharma services, biosciences, chromatography and mass spectrometry and in our research and safety market channel. We're clearly benefiting from our trusted partner status that we've earned over many years with these customers. In academic and government, we had very strong performance and grew 20% driven by robust customer activity globally. In Q1, we saw strong growth across a number of our businesses supporting this customer base, particularly in biosciences, chromatography and mass spectrometry and electron microscopy.Turning to industrial and applied. We grew in the low double digits in the first quarter. The team continues to execute at a very high level to capture opportunities as more customers increase their activity level. During the quarter, it was good to see strong growth across all of our instruments businesses. And finally, diagnostics and healthcare. We had another outstanding quarter, delivering approximately 150% growth. Demand for our COVID-19 testing solutions was very strong. In our base business, while demand is still below pre-pandemic levels, it was encouraging to see our immunodiagnostics business returned to strong growth in the quarter. To summarize our performance, our teams capitalized on improving conditions in our end markets, and we continue to gain market share. Now let me give you an update on our role in supporting the pandemic response. Once again, this quarter, Thermo Fisher played a very meaningful role in fighting COVID-19 globally. We generated $2.9 billion of COVID-19 response revenue in Q1. Demand for our PCR testing solutions was strong. And our role in the development and production of vaccines and therapies continues to ramp even faster than we expected. Coming into the year, we expected our role in supporting vaccines and therapies to represent $1 billion in revenue. Based on our orders and at the speed at which our capacity expansions are coming online, we now expect to deliver $1.5 billion in vaccine and therapy revenue in 2021. We also continue to leverage our expertise to bring new solutions to the fight against COVID. One example in the quarter was our launch of the Thermo Scientific AerosolSense Sampler, a new air monitoring system to help facilities such as hospitals, schools and businesses identify the presence of in-air pathogens, including the virus that causes COVID-19. As more people return to public spaces, the AerosolSense Sampler will complement other safety protocols. We also acquired Mesa Biotech, which adds simple and rapid PCR testing to decentralized testing -- to decentralized settings, including doctors' offices, pharmacies and to support a number of back-to-life applications.Customer interest is very high, and we're using our PPI Business System to scale the manufacturing of the rapid diagnostic cartridges used by Mesa. We expect to generate $200 million this year from these capabilities and are very excited about the potential for this molecular diagnostic technology post-pandemic. The other point I would like to make is that because of our leading role that we played in the pandemic response during 2020 and our outstanding financial performance, we were able to significantly accelerate our investment programs last year in R&D, commercial enablement as well as capability and capacity expansions. These accelerated investments are really positioning Thermo Fisher for an even brighter future. For a glimpse into the early momentum building from these investments, let me turn to the great progress we made in Q1 on our growth strategy, which is based on three pillars: launching high-impact, innovative new products; leveraging our scale in high growth and emerging markets; and delivering a unique value proposition for our customers.

 



I'll now share a few examples that demonstrate how we use this strategy to continue to build on our success and create value for our customers. Starting with innovation. During the quarter, we launched a number of new products across our businesses to strengthen our leading position and to enable our customers to break new ground and achieve their goals. Let me highlight just a few. In chromatography and mass spectrometry, we launched two new Thermo Scientific Orbitrap Exploris GC-Mass Spectrometers, which further extend the impact of our industry-leading Orbitrap franchise to bring high-resolution analysis to a range of applications, including toxicology and metabolomics. In materials and structural analysis, we launched the Thermo Scientific Spectra Ultra, a new-generation scanning transmission electron microscope for material science applications, which provides insights at atomic scale resolution to accelerate research and improve manufacturing productivity. And in our biosciences business, we launched the Kingfisher Apex Purification System for high throughput sample preparation. Turning to the second pillar of our growth strategy. We're leveraging our scale to create an outstanding experience for our customers in the high-growth and emerging markets. We're seeing excellent growth, particularly in China, where customer activity has returned to pre-pandemic levels, and we grew more than 60%. And we continue to strengthen our capabilities serving these markets.As an example, in the quarter, we started shipping product from our new single-use facility in Suzhou, which localized the bioproduction manufacturing for biotech customers in China. And our investment in our bioproduction capabilities in Singapore had single-use capacity for pharma and biotech customers globally. So we have strong momentum in high-growth and emerging markets, and we continue to strengthen our position. Turning to the third pillar of our growth strategy, our customer value proposition. We continue to increase our capabilities and capacity to be an even better partner for our customers and help them achieve their goals. Let me update you on our progress in serving our pharma and biotech customers. Our upcoming acquisition of PPD, a leader in clinical trial management services, is a great complement to the role we play in supporting research and development, clinical trials and production. These combined capabilities, along with a complementary reputation for excellent quality and service, will further enhance Thermo Fisher's value proposition for pharma and biotech customers. Importantly, our customers will be able to more efficiently access these services, which are key enablers of their success. I've interacted with a number of our customers since the announcement, and we're excited about the new capabilities that PPD will bring to Thermo Fisher Scientific. By adding these highly complementary services to our portfolio, we'll be able to further advance our strategic partnership as our customers work to bring a scientific idea to an improved medicine. It will also provide terrific career opportunities for our colleagues and will create significant shareholder value.Our organic investments are also building capability and capacity for our pharma and biotech customers. One lens which highlights this is the support of a scale-up of mRNA vaccines, which are in high demand globally for COVID-19 today, but also for many other diseases going forward. As you know, we're an important supplier in this area and we have continued to invest to scale our capacity, including in our biosciences business, we're building additional capacity for our central raw materials in different regions of the world. We're also expanding our bioproduction purification resin capacity, which is used in the mRNA manufacturing process. And finally, we're ensuring expanded and regionally available sterile fill finish capacity to produce final drug product. As always, our PPI Business System helped to drive our success during the quarter, enabling us to find solutions and better ways to serve our customers, work more efficiently and effectively and create even greater value for all of our stakeholders. Now I'll give you a quick summary of our capital deployment activities so far this year. We've had a very active start, closing $1.4 billion in acquisitions in the quarter, and as I just mentioned, entering into an agreement to acquire PPD for $17.4 billion plus the assumption of approximately $3.5 billion of net debt. We also returned significant capital to our shareholders during the quarter, repurchasing $2 billion of our shares and increasing our dividend by 18%. So we've had a great start to the year on capital deployment front, and our M&A pipeline remains very active. Turning to a brief update on the progress of our ESG initiatives. Our mission to enable our customers to make the world healthier, cleaner and safer has never been more relevant. And in addition, we want to make a very positive impact on the communities in which we live and work. I'm very proud that over the past year, we've significantly increased our social impact. And in the first quarter, we committed to an impact investment of $25 million to support financial institutions serving black and minority communities and businesses.Just like the Just Project and our Foundation for Science, which we launched last year, this more recent investment is meant to help create opportunities for all. Turning to our guidance for 2021. Driven by our very strong start to the year and our confidence in the full year outlook, we're raising both our revenue and earnings guidance for the full year. Stephen will get into the assumptions behind our guidance, and I'll cover the highlights. We're raising our revenue guidance by $550 million to $35.6 billion, which represents 10% reported growth over 2020. In terms of adjusted EPS, we're raising our guidance by $0.35 to $21.97, which will represent 12% growth over 2020. Before I turn the call over to Stephen, let me summarize our key takeaways from Q1. We delivered another excellent quarter of financial performance on both the top and bottom line. The end markets are strong. We committed to execute -- we'll continue to execute our proven growth strategy to be an even stronger partner for our customers. We effectively deployed capital to create significant value for our customers and our shareholders. And we couldn't be more excited about our plans to acquire PPD. I'm very much looking forward to welcoming PPD's 27,000 colleagues to Thermo Fisher, which we expect to do later this year. Finally, I'd like to thank my 80,000 colleagues at Thermo Fisher for their dedication to our company, our customers and for once again delivering another fantastic quarter.And now, I'll turn the call over to our CFO, Stephen Williamson. Stephen?Stephen Williamson -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Marc, and good morning, everyone. I'll begin with a high-level summary of our Q1 performance. As Marc mentioned, we had another exceptional quarter and grew our revenue 59%, including 53% organic growth. We delivered $2.9 billion of COVID-19 response revenue and accelerated the growth of our base business 13%. So a great start to the year on the top line. We also had an excellent start to the year on adjusted EPS growing 145% in Q1 to $7.21. This was $0.70 higher than our expectations for Q1 at the time of our last earnings call driven by great operational execution, the timing of expenses within the year and a higher tailwind from FX. Overall, exceptional financial results in Q1, continuing our momentum from 2020. Let me now provide you with some additional details on our Q1 performance. GAAP EPS in the quarter was $5.88, up 198% from Q1 last year. On the top line, our Q1 reported revenue grew 59% year-over-year. The components of our Q1 reported revenue increase included 53% organic growth, a 4% tailwind from foreign exchange and 2% from acquisitions. As a reminder, we had three extra selling days in Q1, which represents a tailwind of approximately 3%. Looking ahead, we have four fewer days in Q4. Turning to our performance by geography during the quarter. All regions delivered very strong growth. North America, Europe and Asia Pacific all grew approximately 50%. China grew 60%, and the rest of the world grew over 80%. Turning to our operational performance. Q1 adjusted operating income increased 155%, and adjusted operating margin was 35.4%, 13 percentage points higher than Q1 last year. In the quarter, our PPI Business System enabled us to drive exceptional volume leverage and strong productivity. We also had favorable business mix and a tailwind from FX. This was partially offset by strategic investments across our businesses to support our near- and long-term growth. Moving on to the details of the P&L. Total company adjusted gross margin in the quarter came in at 54.1%, up 810 basis points from Q1 of the prior year. The increase in gross margin had very similar drivers as those of our adjusted operating margins. Adjusted SG&A in the quarter was 15.4% of revenue, a decrease of 460 basis points versus Q1 2020, reflecting strong volume leverage. Total R&D expense was $320 million, representing growth of 31% over Q1 2020, reflecting our increased investments in high-impact innovation to fuel future growth. Looking at our results below the line for the quarter, our net interest expense was $113 million, $23 million higher than Q1 last year. Adjusted other income and expense was a net income in the quarter of approximately $14 million, $11 million lower than Q1 2020, mainly due to changes in nonoperating FX. In line with our expectations, our adjusted tax rate in the quarter was 16%, up 550 basis points versus Q1 last year due to the substantial increase in pre-tax profit. Average diluted shares were 397 million in Q1, about 2.5 million lower year-over-year, driven by share repurchases net of option dilution.Turning to cash flow and the balance sheet. Cash flow was another strong highlight for the quarter. Our PPI Business System enabled us to deliver significant cash flow from the very strong top line performance. The cash flow from continuing operations was $2 billion and free cash flow was $1.4 billion. Our capacity and capability investments are proceeding very well. And this quarter, net capital expenditures were $620 million. In the quarter, we returned $2 billion of capital to shareholders through buybacks, $1.5 billion in January and a further $500 million in March. During the quarter, we also increased our dividend by 18%. We deployed $1.4 billion in acquisitions in Q1, including Mesa Biotech and the acquisition of a European-based viral vector business. Shortly after the quarter end, we also announced an agreement to acquire PPD. Early in the quarter, we completed the redemption of $2.6 billion of senior notes, and we ended Q1 with approximately $5.6 billion in cash and $18.6 billion of total debt. Our leverage ratio at the end of the quarter was 1.5 times gross debt to adjusted EBITDA and 1.1 times on a net debt basis. And concluding my comments on our total company performance, adjusted ROIC was 21.4%, up 960 basis points from Q1 last year as we continue to generate exceptional returns. Now I'll provide some color on the performance of our four business segments. Similar to the last few quarters, I'll start with some framing thoughts on the impact of the COVID-19 response on our segment results. From a revenue standpoint, as was the case in the last two quarters, the majority of the COVID-19 response revenue is recognized in Life Science Solutions, with the remainder recognized in Specialty Diagnostics and the Laboratory Products and Services segment. From a margin standpoint, the impact of COVID-19 differed across the segments based on the scale of the response revenue and the different levels of profitability on that revenue. In addition, during the quarter, we continued to make strategic investments across all of our businesses. That included investments in commercial, R&D and production capacity. The size of those investments does not necessarily align with the COVID-19 response revenue in each segment and so that does skew some of the reported segment margins. So a lot of moving parts from a segment margin standpoint, but it reflects a very active management of the company successfully navigating the current environment and position the company for an even brighter future. So moving on to the segment details, starting with Life Sciences Solutions. In Q1, reported revenue in this segment increased 137% and organic growth was 129%. In the quarter, we saw exceptionally strong growth in our genetic sciences, biosciences and bioproduction businesses.Q1 adjusted operating income in Life Sciences Solutions increased 238%, and adjusted operating margin was 54.2%, up 16 percentage points year-over-year. In the quarter, we drove very strong volume pull-through and positive business mix. And we continue to make strategic investments across all businesses in this segment. We also had a tailwind on margin from FX in this segment in Q1. In the Analytical Instruments segment, reported revenue increased 26% in Q1 and organic growth was 22%. During the quarter, we saw a strong growth in both the chromatography and mass spectrometry and the materials and structural analysis businesses. And it was good to see chemical analysis return to growth. Q1 adjusted operating income in Analytical Instruments increased 59% and adjusted operating margin was 19.6%, up 410 basis points year-over-year. In the quarter, we drove very strong volume leverage and productivity, which more than offset strategic investments. Turning to the Specialty Diagnostics segment. In Q1, reported revenue increased by 69%. Organic revenue growth was 65%. Our COVID-19 response enabled us to deliver very strong growth in our microbiology, healthcare market channel and clinical diagnostics businesses. In addition, it was good to see our immunodiagnostics business return to growth in Q1. Adjusted operating income increased 81% in the quarter, and adjusted operating margin was 26.5%, up 180 basis points from the prior year. And in Q1, we drove very strong volume leverage, which was partially offset by unfavorable business mix and strategic investments. Lastly, in the Laboratory Products and Services segment, Q1 reported revenue increased 32%. Organic growth was 26%. In the quarter, we saw very strong growth in all of our businesses in this segment. Adjusted operating income in the segment increased 80%, and adjusted operating margin was 14.8%, which is 400 basis points higher than the prior year. In the quarter, we delivered strong volume pull-through and productivity, partially offset by strategic investments. With that, let me now turn to our updated 2021 guidance. Consistent with the approach we took with our initial guidance, we're providing a point outlook rather than a range. We think this is the most helpful approach, given a multitude of different potential customer demand outcomes for the year. As Marc mentioned, we're raising both our revenue and adjusted EPS guidance. Let me walk you through the details. I'll begin with revenue. We're raising our revenue guidance by $550 million to $35.6 billion, which represents 10% reported growth over 2020, including 8% organic growth. This increase was driven by three factors. $250 million of the increase is due to an improved organic growth outlook for the base business, a strong start to the year, enabling us to increase base business organic growth from 7% to 8% for the full year. $225 million of the increase comes from the higher impact of acquisitions, reflecting the acquisition of Mesa Biotech, which was not included in our initial guidance and a good start to the year for our European viral vector business. And the final element is an increase of $75 million for the higher FX tailwind. Turning to adjusted earnings per share.We're increasing our annual adjusted EPS guidance by $0.35 to $21.97, which would result in 12% growth over 2020. The increase reflects $0.20 from improved operational outlook for the year, $0.10 for FX and $0.05 from capital deployment. To break down the $0.05 increase and the impact of capital deployment versus our initial guide, I'm now including $0.10 of additional interest cost in Q4 as a placeholder for prefinancing for the PPD acquisition. And this is more than offset by $0.06 benefit from a $500 million stock buyback undertaken in March and a $0.09 benefit from acquisitions. So after a great start in Q1, we're able to increase our outlook for the full year. Let me now provide you with some additional assumptions behind our updated guidance. We're now assuming that we'll deliver $7.3 billion of COVID-19 response revenue in 2021. This is $200 million higher than the initial guidance, reflecting the acquisition of Mesa Biotech. Within the $7.3 billion, we're now assuming vaccine and therapy-related revenue of approximately $1.5 billion for the year. This is $500 million higher than our initial guidance assumptions, reflecting strong customer demand and progress with our capacity expansion projects. There still remains a large range of outcomes for testing demand, and we remain well positioned to support our customers. With regard to FX, we're now assuming a year-over-year tailwind of $475 million or 1.5% of revenue and $0.24 or 1.2% of adjusted EPS. We're assuming that completed acquisitions contribute $350 million to our reported revenue growth in 2021 or 1.1%. The guidance does not include any operational benefit in 2021 from the acquisition of PPD. When we get more clarity on the actual close date, we'll provide an estimate of the likely 2021 impact. As mentioned earlier, I've included $40 million or $0.10 of adjusted EPS impact of higher interest costs in the guide as a placeholder for the prefinancing of the PPD transaction. We now expect net interest expense in 2021 to be approximately $510 million. We continue to expect the adjusted income tax rate to be 14% in 2021, no change from prior guidance. We're assuming net capital expenditures of approximately $2.5 billion to $2.7 billion. This is $300 million higher than the initial guidance for the year as we continue to identify opportunities to support future customer demand with our capacity and capability expansions in our pharma services, bioproduction, biosciences and laboratory products businesses. Free cash flow is expected to be approximately $7 billion in 2021, no change from prior guidance. Our guidance now includes $3.8 billion of capital deployment; $2 billion of share buybacks, which were completed in Q1; $1.4 billion for completed M&A and $400 million of capital returned to shareholders through dividends. We estimate that the full year average diluted share count will be 397 million shares. And finally, I wanted to touch on quarterly phasing for the year and give a reminder of the factors that I outlined when I gave the initial guidance. First, as mentioned earlier, we had three extra selling days in Q1 and we'll have four fewer days in Q4. The COVID-19 response revenue in the guidance is more significantly weighted to the first half of the year, and the 2020 comparisons are significantly easier at the beginning of the year.That sets up for very strong growth in the first half of the year. And given the revenue phasing, the adjusted EPS is weighted more to the first half of the year. In summary, we started the year with an excellent Q1 and are in great position to achieve our goals for the year.With that, I'll turn the call back over to Raf.Rafael Tejada -- Vice President, of Investor Relations.Thank you. Operator, we're ready to take questions.