
OperatorGood day and welcome to the Republic Services' First Quarter 2021 Investor Conference Call. Republic Services is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol RSG. All participants in today's call will be in listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] Please not, this event is being recorded.I would now like to turn the conference over to Stacey Mathews, Vice President of Investor Relations.Stacey Mathews -- Vice President of Investor Relations

 



I would like to welcome everyone to Republic Services' first quarter 2021 conference call. Don Slager, our CEO; Jon Vander Ark, our President and Incoming CEO; and Brian DelGhiaccio, our CFO are joining me as we discuss our performance.I would like to take a moment to remind everyone that some of the information we discuss on today's call contains forward-looking statements, which involve risks and uncertainties and may be materially different from actual results. Our SEC filings discuss factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations.The material that we discuss today is time-sensitive. If in the future, you listen to a rebroadcast or recording of this conference call, you should be sensitive to the date of the original call, which is May 5th, 2021. Please note that this call is the property of Republic Services, Inc. Any redistribution, retransmission, or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the expressed written consent of Republic Services is strictly prohibited.I want to point out that our SEC filings, our earnings press release, which includes GAAP reconciliation tables and a discussion of business activities, along with the recording of this call are all available on Republic's website at republicservices.com. I want to remind you that Republic's management team routinely participates in investor conferences. When events are scheduled, the dates, times, and presentations are posted on our website.With that, I would like to turn the call over to Don.

 



Don Slager -- Chief Executive OfficerThanks Stacey. Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us. We are very pleased with our strong start to 2021. The momentum in our business is undeniable. Our strong foundation and consistent execution have allowed us to turn that momentum into meaningful sustainable results in shareholder value.In the first quarter, we delivered adjusted earnings per share of $0.93, which represents a 24% increase over the prior year, generated $464 million of adjusted free cash flow, and expanded EBITDA margin 270 basis points to 30.7%.As you know, next month will be my last as CEO at Republic Services. So, this will be my final quarterly earnings call with the company. Having said that, I expect the bulk of the questions on today's call to be taken by Jon and Del, as they tell you about the solid results in Q1. But also, they'll share a glimpse of the future and the exciting trajectory of Republic. I am more than proud of what this team has accomplished over the last decade and I'm extremely confident in how we are positioned to go forward from here.Now, I could give you a long list of accomplishments and important milestones that we have achieved and frankly, surpassed. I could go on and on about the foundation we have built. More importantly, let me tell you this, the team we have in place is the strongest team in the history of the company. Not only did they establish this foundation we are standing on, but they have the energy and the capability to build it from here.

 



Republic has been tested many times. 2020 was no different. The stability of our business, the power of the portfolio, the capability and dedication of our people. Were all once again to find improvement, the resiliency and predictability of our operating model and the strength of our culture and the spirit of our people shine brightlyI have a poster that hangs in my home gym. It's been there for 20 years. It is a simple photograph of an old brick wall with a pair of well worn boxing gloves hanging on a hook. It displays one of my all time favorite quotes. The fight is won or lost far away from the witnesses, behind the lights in the gym, and out there on the road long before I dance under those lights.Those words were attributed to the great and one and only, Muhammad Ali. This team, this Republic team also knows how to prepare for and how to win the fight, and you are seeing that in these results.Now the five most enjoyable things for me as a leader are these. First, casting and collaborating toward a shared vision; second, assembling a purpose-built team; third, creating an effective work environment; fourth, ushering in the future, along with necessary change, new energy and next-gen leaders; fifth and finally, keeping a promise. And so appropriately, this is where I leave you.Republic is on solid ground and operating from a position of strength, Republic has plenty of traction, horsepower and motivation. Republic's leadership is proven, aligned and invigorated. Republic's workforce is professional, well equipped and highly engaged. Republic looks pretty darn good under those lights. I am so very grateful for the opportunity I've had to serve and to lead here at Republic. To all my teammates and trusted advisors, thank you for your perseverance, passion and your friendship over the years. And to those of you on the phone with us today, the analysts and our investors, I appreciate you putting your faith in us and thank you for constructively challenging us along the way. It makes us better.As I have said before, at Republic, we all have the same job. We may have different roles, but we all have the same job. All 35,000 of us are united in support of each other every day, as we safely and reliably serve our customers and our communities and as we responsibly steward our resources. I know John feels the same way. John has a clear vision for the road ahead. He also has the strong character and relentless focus to do the hard work that ultimately delivers to victory, which means my role at Republic is concluded, and my purpose here is complete. John and his team are well on their way to write a wonderful and rewarding new chapter of the Republic story.With that, I'll turn things over to John.Jon Ark -- President of Republic ServicesThanks, Don. I appreciate the kind words, and I'm honored to have this opportunity to be Republic's next CEO. Now turning to the first quarter results. We continue to see improvement in the business and reported positive revenue growth for the first time since the beginning of the pandemic. The pricing environment remains strong, which allowed us to deliver double-digit earnings growth and margin expansion. Total core price was 4.3% and average yield was 2.3%. The core price included open market pricing of 5.2% and restricted pricing of 2.8%. As discussed in our last earnings call, average yield was expected to be relatively lower in the first quarter. We remain confident in our ability to achieve average yield of at least 2.5% for the full year.During the first quarter, volume decreased 80 basis points versus the prior year. This is a 100 basis point improvement from the fourth quarter with nearly all lines of business showing improvement. We expect volume to turn positive in the second quarter and remain positive for the remainder of the year.We continue to drive profitable growth and believe that investing in acquisitions with attractive returns is the best use of free cash flow to increase long-term shareholder value. Earlier today, we closed the acquisition of Santek. We welcome these new employees to the Republic team, and we look forward to integrating these high-quality assets into our business. Our pipeline of acquisition opportunities is strong, and we remain on track to invest at least $600 million in acquisitions for the full year.Now turning to our Environmental Solutions business. First quarter Environmental Solutions revenue decreased $17 million from the prior year. This resulted in a 70 basis point headwind to total revenue growth. We continue to focus on the downstream portion of this business where customers are looking for integrated solutions, and we can leverage our broad capabilities and sustainability platform.Moving on to recycling. Recycled commodity prices increased 75% to $133 per ton in the first quarter. This compared to $76 per ton in the prior year. Next, turning to margin. Our adjusted EBITDA margin in the first quarter was 30.7% and increased 270 basis points versus the prior year. We continue to successfully manage our costs for changes in underlying demand and leverage our new, more efficient ways of working.This includes utilizing our RISE platform and accelerating the use of technology to drive efficiencies and improve the customer and employee experience. In the first quarter, we continued our high-performing safety record, reducing safety incidents 18% versus the prior year. We continue to see the positive contribution from our maniacal focus on the customer experience.In the first quarter, our NPS increased four points over the prior year, and we achieved a record set in customer retention at 94%. During the first quarter, we made further progress toward our long-term sustainability goals. As part of our sustainability platform, we recognize the importance of identifying and managing opportunities and risks related to climate change.We remain committed to transparency on metrics that are important to all our stakeholders. We are proud to be the first in the industry to disclose our climate-related opportunities and risks through a comprehensive TCFD report. We were also recently named to Fortune's 2021 most Admired companies list. This is an award recognizing our team focused management, innovation and socially responsible business practices.Looking ahead, we expect to outperform our original guidance due to our strong start and outlook for the remainder of the year. As a result, we are raising our full year financial guidance as follows: adjusted EPS is now expected to be in the range of $3.74 to $3.79, and adjusted free cash flow is now expected to be in the range of $1.35 to $1.4 billion.I will now turn the call over to Brian.Brian Bales -- Executive Vice President and Chief Development OfficerThanks, Jon. First quarter volume decreased 80 basis points. Additionally, there was one less workday, which reduced revenue by 50 basis points compared to the prior year.The components of volume included a decrease in small container volume of 2.8%. This represents a 70 basis point improvement from the fourth quarter, a decrease in large container volume of 2.1%.This represents a 130 basis point improvement from the fourth quarter and an increase in landfill volume of 2.5%. And the increase in landfill volume includes a 3.5% increase in MSW volume and a 1.9% increase in special waste.Within the quarter, volume performance was negative in January and February and turned positive in March. We expect volume will remain positive, for the remainder of the year.Adjusted EBITDA margin for the first quarter was 30.7% and increased 270 basis points versus the prior year. This included, underlying margin expansion of 210 basis points, a 20 basis point benefit from net fuel and recycled commodity prices and a 40 basis point benefit from one less workday.The outsized margin expansion is a direct result of pricing in excess of our cost inflation and effective cost management. SG&A expense for the first quarter was 10.2% of revenue, an improvement of 70 basis points over the prior year.While SG&A costs have decreased, expressed in both dollars and as a percentage of revenue, we continue to make investments to drive growth and generate efficiencies in future periods. Adjusted free cash flow for the quarter was $464 million and increased $178 million, compared to the prior year. This increase is the result of EBITDA growth, positive contribution from working capital and the timing of capital expenditures.Working capital included a one-day improvement in DSO and a two-day improvement in DPO. Capital expenditures of approximately $200 million during the first quarter, represents 17% of our projected full year spend.The timing benefit of capital expenditures will flip, over the remainder of the year. During the quarter, total debt was $8.9 billion and total liquidity was $3 billion. Interest expense decreased $18 million, as a result of our refinancing activities completed last year. And our leverage ratio decreased to 2.9 times. With respect to taxes, our first quarter adjusted effective tax rate was 26%. When you further consider, non-cash charges from solar investments, we had an equivalent tax impact of 28.4%.I will now turn the call back over to Jon.Jon Ark -- President of Republic ServicesThanks, Brian. I'm excited about the company's future. However, we can't go forward without looking back. It is impossible to overstate Don's impact, on Republic Services. He is the architect and champion of the Republic way. Don will always be known as a visionary, who successfully integrated the several hundred acquisitions. And have formed the current Day Republic. He strengthened Republic foundation, while investing in the capabilities that allow us to drive profitable growth and shareholder value. During the last 10 years, Don has led the company to more than triple our stock price and market capitalization, which now approaches $35 billion. Among everything that has accomplished, as big as achievement is the culture he created.He made Republic Service as a place, where the best people come to work. He professionalized our company and motivated our talent along the way by modeling a purpose-driven approach to the business. He took care of the team, and in turn, they are taking care of one another. We should all be so lucky to have a career like this, 35 years of service to a company that has created tremendous value for all. No one has driven value creation for their employees, customers, communities and shareholders like Don. So on behalf of our 35,000 team members across the country as well as our industry, thank you, Don, for your leadership, your perseverance and your vision.With that, operator, I would like to open the call to questions.