  OperatorGood afternoon, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to Western Digital's fiscal third quarter 2022 conference call. Presently, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this call is being recorded. Now I will turn the call over to Mr. Peter Andrew, vice president, financial planning and analysis and investor relations. You may begin.Peter Andrew -- Vice President, Financial Planning and Analysis and Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, and good afternoon, everyone. Joining me today are David Goeckeler, chief executive officer; and Wissam Jabre, chief financial officer. Before we begin, let me remind everyone that today's discussion contains forward-looking statements, including product portfolio expectations, business plans and performance, demand and market trends, and financial outlook based on management's current assumptions and expectations, and as such, does include risks and uncertainties. We assume no obligation to update these statements. Please refer to our most recent financial report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC for more information on the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. We will also make references to non-GAAP financial measures today. Reconciliations between the non-GAAP and comparable GAAP financial measures are included in the press release and other materials that are being posted in the Investor Relations section of our website. With that, I will now turn the call over to David for introductory remarks.David Goeckeler -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Peter. Good afternoon, everyone, and thanks for joining the call to discuss our fiscal 2022 third quarter results. We delivered excellent performance in the quarter, with revenue of $4.4 billion and non-GAAP gross margin of 31.7%, both of which are at the higher end of our updated guidance ranges we provided in early March. Additionally, we reported non-GAAP earnings per share of $1.65, which exceeded our revised guidance.

 



 I am proud of the team's execution as we navigated dynamic geopolitical and macroeconomic environment, as well as ongoing supply challenges. On top of that, we successfully managed through a fab contamination event that is now fully resolved. Overall, the Western Digital team did an amazing job of meeting our customers' growing and evolving storage needs. This has all been made possible by the operational and technological improvements we have made over the last couple of years that enable us to unlock the true earnings power of the Western Digital model. Looking ahead, we are optimistic about the business outlook for calendar year 2022. We believe the secular demand for storage in our new product ramps in HDD and flash, combined with the seasonally stronger second half of the calendar year, will drive growth across our end markets. With 40% of the world's data stored on Western Digital products, our innovation powers the global technology ecosystem from consumer devices to the edge to the heart of the cloud. Our vision is to create breakthrough innovation inspired by the convergence of human potential and digital transformation that enables the world to actualize its aspirations. At Western Digital, we have established an admirable position in the large and growing storage markets. Our proven ability to develop a diversified portfolio of industry-leading products, coupled with our broad routes to market, puts Western Digital in a unique position to capitalize on the promising growth opportunities ahead of us. I'll now turn to an update on our HDD and flash businesses. Our HDD revenue was as forecast and in line with typical March quarter seasonality, led by growth in capacity enterprise drives. Robust demand in the cloud end market for 18- and 20-terabyte drives generated a nearly 40% increase in nearline revenue from the same period last year. Of note, our 20-terabyte drive exabyte shipments approached high single-digit percentage of total capacity enterprise shipments. During the quarter, qualification of OptiNAND-based hard drives progressed as planned across multiple cloud and OEM customers. Combining OptiNAND with our SMR leadership uniquely positions Western Digital in the marketplace.

 



 Putting it all together, we have positioned our innovations in OptiNAND and SMR to drive business results in our capacity enterprise business for the rest of this calendar year and into the future. Our largest cloud customers are aligned with this strategy and are accelerating adoption of SMR products within data centers later this year. We are laser-focused on bringing new cutting-edge features and functions to our products for cloud storage. We will provide more details around these exciting innovations at our Investor Day on May 10. Turning to flash. Our overall business was impacted by our ability to ship product due to the fab excursion. In light of this event, coupled with the supply chain challenges facing all companies across the industry, I would like to thank our customers and the Western Digital teams for working together diligently to mitigate the impact of supply chain disruptions. From a product perspective, client SSD demand improved in the quarter as our PC OEM customers successfully worked through their own supply chain issues. Gaming is another growth market for us, where we continue to have success, with exabyte shipment nearly doubling year over year. We have a leading position in the marketplace with our brands, including WD_BLACK, SanDisk, and SanDisk Professional, recognized globally for cutting-edge innovation, performance, and quality. An example of this is our WD_BLACK SN-770 SSD product, which leverages our cutting-edge BiCS5 technology and in-house DRAM-less controller architecture. This SSD product is one of the fastest and best drives available in the market. We have received excellent reviews from tech journalists, which is a great testament to the company's strength in both our BiCS technology leadership and our ability to develop innovative solutions, enabling our customers to unlock the potential of their PCs. Qualifications of BiCS5-based products for clients and consumer end markets were largely completed, and we are making great progress in qualifying our next-generation BiCS5 enterprise SSD products. We expect these products to drive revenue growth and mix improvements into the future. Lastly, BiCS5 represented nearly half of the flash revenue, up from 41% in the previous quarter. Let me now offer a few observations on the demand environment. In cloud, we see continued strength in calendar year 2022. The increase in cloud capital investment for data center build-outs is expected to propel growth for our HDD and flash products in this growing end market. In client, PC end demand growth has been solid for the last two years, and we are starting to see some normalization in the PC market. We expect PC unit demand to remain significantly above pre-pandemic levels, with the return-to-site trend driving a mix shift toward commercial and enterprise PCs with richer client SSD content versus consumer-oriented PCs. In mobile, we have a strong position in 5G phones and we see demand for the latest 5G flagship phones remaining solid, with NAND content doubling from prior generation smartphones. In other emerging applications, demand from gaming and VR/AR devices remains robust. Industry analysts expect VR headset sales to grow at a 47% CAGR over the next couple of years. In consumer, we are experiencing short-term demand weakness outside the U.S. tied to the geopolitical events in Europe, as well as COVID-related lockdowns in China. However, we are confident in the strength of the business as we are entering a seasonally stronger second half of the calendar year with a number of new innovative products. We feel good about the overall demand in calendar year 2022. We are continuing to navigate the macroeconomic and geopolitical factors I mentioned earlier. While these transitory issues are affecting both revenue and gross margin in the near term, we expect them to subside over time. We are confident that the growth and profitability opportunities in front of us have not changed. In closing, I want to acknowledge the hard work and unrelenting spirit of our employees that goes into creating our game-changing products. In particular, I want to thank our employees in China for their efforts to work through all the supply chain and logistics challenges during the lockdowns. Before turning the call over to Wissam, I wanted to make a quick announcement that Western Digital and the IRS have reached a tentative agreement to resolve a long-running tax matter, covering the fiscal years 2008 through 2015. With offsetting tax benefits, we expect the ultimate net amount will be in the range of $500 million to $600 million. While this settlement will result in a previously unforecasted cash payment in fiscal year 2023, it does highlight the work that I and the rest of the Western Digital team have undertaken in the last two years to instill strong financial discipline and provide greater financial flexibility upon which we are building a foundation for future growth for the company. Wissam will go into more detail in a minute. Let me now turn the call over to Wissam, who will discuss our fiscal third quarter results and provide a more detailed outlook for the fiscal fourth quarter. Wissam?Wissam Jabre -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, David, and good afternoon, everyone. As David mentioned, overall results for the fiscal third quarter were better than our revised expectations. Despite the incredibly dynamic macro environment that David discussed, our results reflected the resilience of our business and our ability to continually deliver solid financial performance. In addition, we completed a debt restructuring with our lenders in the March quarter, marking continued success in paying down debt and providing increased financial flexibility and stability. Total revenue for the quarter was $4.4 billion, down 9% sequentially and up 6% year over year. Non-GAAP earnings per share was $1.65, above the revised guidance range of $1.30 to $1.60 we provided in early March. We are pleased to have delivered such strong results in the face of the challenging environment. Turning to our end markets. Cloud represented 40% of total revenue at $1.8 billion, down 8% sequentially and up 25% from a year ago. Within cloud, Western Digital's leadership position at the 18-terabyte capacity point and ramp of 20-terabyte drives drove a nearly 40% year-over-year increase in nearline revenue. This growth was partially offset by lower enterprise SSD and smart video hard drive revenues. The client end market represented 40% of total revenue at $1.7 billion, down 7% sequentially and 2% year over year. The sequential decrease was primarily due to typical seasonality in both flash for mobile and client hard drives. On a year-over-year basis, growth in flash was offset by a decline in hard drive. Lastly, consumer represented 20% of revenue at $0.9 billion, down 17% sequentially and 8% year over year. On a sequential basis, the decline was primarily due to lower retail flash shipments. The year-over-year decrease was roughly evenly split between hard drive and flash products. Turning now to revenue by segment. We reported flash revenue of $2.2 billion, down 14% sequentially and up 3% year over year. On a blended basis, flash ASPs were down 1% sequentially. On a like-for-like basis, flash ASPs were down 2% sequentially. Flash bit shipments decreased 14% sequentially and increased 9% year over year. During the quarter, we recognized the majority of the bit supply impact caused by the fab contamination. Hard drive revenue was $2.1 billion, down 3% sequentially and up 9% year over year. Sequentially, total hard drive exabyte shipments increased 1%, while the average price per hard drive increased by 4% to $101. On a year-over-year basis, total hard drive exabyte shipments and average price per hard drive increased by 20% and 22%, respectively. As we move to costs and expenses, my comments will be related to non-GAAP results unless stated otherwise. In the March quarter, total fab contamination charges of $203 million were excluded from our non-GAAP results. Gross margin for the third quarter was 31.7%, down 190 basis points sequentially and up 400 basis points year over year, including approximately $59 million in COVID-related expenses. Our flash gross margin was 35.6%, down 50 basis points sequentially and up 560 basis points year over year. Our hard drive gross margin was 27.7%, down 290 basis points sequentially and up 270 basis points year over year. Hard drive gross margin included coverage-related impact of approximately $51 million or 240 basis points. Operating expenses of $740 million were below our guidance range as we tightly managed our expenses. Operating income was $650 million, representing a 26% decrease from the prior quarter and a 58% increase year over year. Earnings per share was $1.65, up from $1.02 in the year-ago quarter. Operating cash flow for the third quarter was $398 million, and free cash flow was $148 million. Cash and capital expenditures, which include the purchase of property, plant, and equipment, and activity related to our flash joint ventures on our cash flow statement represented a cash outflow of $250 million. We remain disciplined in investing in manufacturing capacity and expect gross capex for the current fiscal year to be around $2.9 billion. We expect cash capex to be around $1.3 billion as we actively manage our overall spending. In the fiscal third quarter, we made a discretionary debt repayment of $150 million. Our gross debt outstanding was $7.25 billion at the end of the fiscal quarter. We ended the quarter with $2.51 billion of total cash and cash equivalents. Our trailing 12-month adjusted EBITDA at the end of the third quarter, as defined in our credit agreement, was $5 billion, resulting in a gross leverage ratio of 1.4 times compared to 2.6 times a year ago. As a reminder, our credit agreement includes $1 billion in depreciation add-back associated with the flash ventures. This is not reflected in our cash flow statement. Please refer to our earnings presentation on the Investor Relations website for further details. Before discussing our outlook, I wanted to provide some more details on the settlement with the IRS that David mentioned. As previously disclosed in our quarterly SEC filings, the company has been in a significant long-running situation with the IRS regarding taxes owed for fiscal years 2008 through 2015. As you can see in our GAAP statements, we took a tax charge in the fiscal third quarter, primarily based on our latest assessment of the situation. In the last few days, we reached a tentative agreement to settle the transfer pricing issues in dispute. The actual amount to Western Digital will have to pay and exact timing of the payments have not been determined yet. However, we currently expect to make a cash payment in the range of $600 million to $700 million some time in the first half of fiscal 2023. Please note that this is the cashout number. We currently expect that the ultimate net amount will be in the range of $500 million to $600 million after accounting for certain offsetting tax benefits expected to be recouped over the next three years. Finally, in the fourth quarter, we will make a GAAP-only adjustment to the reserve associated with this settlement. You will find additional details in our 10-Q, which we plan to file next week. I'll now provide our view of both hard drive and flash businesses for the fiscal fourth quarter. As we indicated on our last earnings call, we continue to expect hard drive revenue to increase driven by growth in nearline hard drives. We also expect flash revenue to increase sequentially in the fourth fiscal quarter as our flash supply improves. For our fiscal fourth quarter, our non-GAAP guidance is as follows: We expect revenue to be in the range of $4.5 billion to $4.7 billion with sequential revenue growth for both hard drive and flash businesses; we expect gross margin to be between 31% and 33%; we expect operating expenses to be between $770 million and $790 million; interest and other expenses are expected to be approximately $70 million; our tax rate is expected to be approximately 11% in the fourth quarter; we expect earnings per share to be between $1.60 and $1.90 in the fourth quarter, assuming approximately 317 million fully diluted shares outstanding. I'll now turn the call back over to David.David Goeckeler -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Wissam. Looking ahead, we remain optimistic about our business outlook for the calendar year as customer demand across our end markets continues to be generally strong. Despite the supply chain challenges and macroeconomic factors we discussed earlier, it is evident that we have the right foundation for long-term growth, the right technology portfolio in place to meet evolving customer needs, and the broad routes to market necessary to scale our business. Over the last couple of years, we have planned and executed significant changes to improve our focus, sharpen execution and set strategic goals to place Western Digital in a position of greater strength. And I'm excited that we are witnessing the positive impacts of those changes. Before I wrap up, I want to remind everyone, we have an Investor Day coming up on May 10, and I look forward to seeing you all there. Let's start the Q&A.  