  OperatorHello, and welcome to Citi's first quarter 2022 earnings review with Chief Executive Officer Jane Fraser and Chief Financial Officer Mark Mason. Today's call will be hosted by Jen Landis, head of Citi investor relations. [Operator instructions] Ms. Landis, you may begin.Jen Landis -- Head of Investor Relations Thank you, operator. Good morning, and thank you, all, for joining us. I'd like to remind you that today's presentation, which is available for download on our website, citigroup.com, may contain forward-looking statements, which are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may differ materially from these statements due to a variety of factors, including those described in our SEC filings.

 



 With that, I'll turn it over to Jane. Jane Fraser -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Jen. And I'd like to start by reiterating my appreciation to those of you who participated in our investor day last month. We greatly valued the opportunity to walk you through our refreshed strategy and our plans for the next few years. Given how much time we spent on our strategy that day, today, we'll be focusing on the quarter. Nonetheless, as we committed, we will keep you updated on our progress. And you can see the latest report card on Slide 2. Today is also the first time we're reporting quarterly results under our new segmentation, which will help you track our efforts. I've got to say, it feels like an understatement to say that a lot has happened since investor day.

 



 So, I'm going to talk about the macroenvironment first. And then after I talk about the quarter, I'll discuss how we're handling Russia. And Mark is also going to go through it in more detail. We've been on the front foot since the potential for war first emerged, and we intend to remain so. The Russian invasion of Ukraine and the sanctions it triggered unleashed an enormous supply shock on the world, further fueling inflation and placing global growth under considerable pressure. Back recently from seeing clients in Europe and the Middle East, it is security, yet energy, food, defense, cyber, or operational resilience that has risen to the top of their strategic dialogue. The macro outlook for the rest of the year can only be described as complex and uncertain. And while my job is to prepare for all outcomes, our view is that strong nominal income growth and continuing momentum in the labor market will help support near-term growth in the U.S. economy in the face of inflationary pressures. But we expect material regional differences in the impact with economic growth and the individual consumer and businesses in Europe hit hardest. With central banks responding to inflation, we're entering a period of higher rates and a flatter U.S. yield curve. Energy and commodities are at the center of the storm globally, but we don't believe we're at the start of a new long supercycle. And we do expect prices to fall to more normal levels So, if that is the backdrop, I think the firm performed reasonably well this quarter. Earlier today, we reported net income of $4.3 billion, EPS of $2.02, and an ROTCE of 10.5%. These numbers include impacts related to the divestitures.

 



 So the underlying business performance was stronger to the tune of about 150 basis points of ROTCE. Now, let's turn to the performance of our five main reporting units. Well, given our emphasis on services, I'm particularly pleased with our performance in treasury and trade solutions. Fee growth, trade loans, and cross-border transactions buoyed by higher rates led to year-over-year revenue growth of 18%. Security services also performed well despite the impact of markets, with revenues up 6%. In our markets business, our traders navigated a volatile environment quite well, aided by our mix, with notable performance among corporate clients and strong gains in FX and commodities. This led to revenues almost equal to the very active first quarter of 2021. As you might expect, investment banking is a different story. While our performance on the advisory side was respectable, I think we can perform a bit better in equity and debt capital markets going forward, even if the wallet remains smaller. Our pipelines are healthy, and loan demand is on the rise. Having said that, we don't expect robust activity in the capital markets to resume in the industry until the geopolitical situation and client sentiment improve. In U.S. personal banking, we continue to see signs of how healthy and resilient the consumer is through our cost of credit and their payment rates. We see good engagement through key drivers, such as card loans and spend volume growth. So, we like where this business is headed. Geopolitics dampened performance in global wealth management this quarter. While revenues improved in the U.S., our clients in Asia pulled back on new investments and something we saw in our markets franchise as well. As you know, we're hiring bankers and enhancing our client offerings, such as Citi Alliance, which we launched last month as a unique platform to support independent advisors. As a result of these efforts, we continue to add clients in both the private bank and in Citi Gold. Turning to capital, we returned $4 billion to our shareholders through stock buybacks and dividends during the first quarter. We now have about 6% fewer common shares outstanding than we did a year ago. At the same time, a sharp increase in interest rates negatively impacted our capital through OCI and largely caused our common equity Tier 1 capital ratio to come in at 11.4% this quarter. I want to be upfront with you about the fact that the macro and geopolitical environment, which I spoke about, combined with the impacts of our divestitures, create both headwinds and tailwinds for our capital ratios this year. Now, while this will impact the level of our stock buybacks this year, we have a path to a year-end target of 12%. And Mark is going to walk you through these details. And let me be clear. We remain committed to continuing to return excess capital to our shareholders. As you heard at investor day, we're focused on our transformation. And we're making the investments in our infrastructure risk and controls, and also in our talent and our culture to modernize our bank and to make Citi a winning firm. I recognize that these investments impact our expenses and our returns in the short run, but I firmly believe that success here will not only lead to satisfying our regulatory obligations but also to improving our competitiveness and our returns in the medium term. So far this year, we've announced new agreements to sell a further seven consumer businesses in Asia and EMEA. The most recent of which were India and Bahrain. We are beginning the sales process in Mexico, and there is significant interest in this iconic franchise. As you've heard me say, this is not an uncomplicated transaction, given we will be separating our operations in order to retain our institutional presence. We will take the time necessary to do this the right way and decide which transaction is in the best interest of our shareholders. And we will keep you posted on any developments concerning the three remaining markets China, Poland, and, of course, Russia. We started to carefully reduce our operations then and our exposures to Russia in January, and we benefited from being on the front foot here. We've been managing down our financial exposures both in level and composition. And they're at a reasonable level, especially given the additional reserves we took during the quarter. We've also increased reserves for the second and third order impact of the war beyond Russia and Ukraine. And our intention to sell significant portions of our local business in Russia remains. We are in continuous communication with the U.S. government and we continue to do our part to enforce the sanctions regime. But I've run out of words to describe the tragic consequences of the war in Ukraine. I remain incredibly proud of how our people have risen to the occasion from every corner of our firm. Our people in Ukraine have kept our bank operating in the country where they can help NGOs deliver aid on the ground and help society function as best as possible. And many of our colleagues have opened their homes to refugees, and we will continue to help in any way we can. So, with all that is going on in the world, we remain laser-focused on the execution of our strategy and our transformation. I expect the macroenvironment to remain unpredictable, to say the least, in the backdrop of a war, which is equally tragic and unnecessary, and the persistent pandemic. And I can speak to the last one personally. Having just recovered from a brief encounter with COVID, as much as I would like to, I can't blame Paco for it. Now, I'd like to turn it over to Mark, and then we would be delighted to take your questions.Mark Mason -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Jane, and good morning, everyone. I'm going to start with the firmwide financial results focusing on year-over-year comparisons for the first quarter, unless I indicate otherwise, then spend a little more time on expenses and Russia, and end with the results of each segment. On Slide 4, we show financial results for the full firm. As Jane mentioned earlier, in the first quarter, we reported net income of $4.3 billion and an EPS of $2.02 with an ROTCE of 10.5% on $19.2 billion of revenues. Embedded in these results are Asia consumer divestiture-related impacts that are detailed in the appendix of the presentation. In the quarter, total revenues decreased 2% as strength in net interest income driven by services and PBWM was more than offset by lower noninterest revenue across businesses. That said, we continue to see strong performance in the key business drivers we shared on investor day, which I will walk you through in detail shortly. Total expenses of $13.2 billion increased 15%, or 10% excluding the Asia divestiture-related impacts I just mentioned. Cost of credit was $755 million, as net credit losses of $872 million were partially offset by a net ACL release. Embedded in the net ACL release is a Russia-related bill of approximately $1.9 billion. This includes $1 billion related to exposure to Russia and about $900 million to account for the broader impact on the macroenvironment. This was more than offset by a release related to a COVID-19 uncertainty reserve, primarily in U.S. personal banking, given the continued resilience of the underlying portfolio, specifically in the U.S. As of today, we have about $17.9 billion in total reserves with a reserve-to-funded-loan ratio of 2.35%. On Slide 5, we show an expense walk for the first quarter with the key underlying drivers. As I mentioned earlier, we encouraged some divestiture-related costs this quarter. These costs are largely related to a goodwill write-down that we incurred in legacy franchises as part of our resegmentation and divestitures. It is important to note the goodwill impact is capital-neutral. Excluding the divestiture-related costs, expenses increased by approximately 10%. Three percent of the increase was driven by transformation investments, with about two-thirds related to the risk, controls, data, and finance programs. And approximately 30% of that is related to technology investments. About 2% of the increase was driven by business-led investments as we continue to hire commercial and investment bankers, as well as client advisors. In addition, we are investing in technology across services, wealth, and cards. One percent was due to higher revenue and volume-related expenses, largely in markets and cards. And approximately 4% was driven by inflation and other risk and control investments, partially offset by productivity savings. Across all of these buckets, we continue to invest in technology, which is up 12% for the quarter. On Slide 6, we provide an update on our exposure to Russia. As Jane mentioned, as of the end of the quarter, our remaining exposure to Russia stood at about $7.8 billion, down from $9.8 billion at yearend. And importantly, the mix of the remaining exposure has changed and shifted in a positive way. We have reduced our direct Russia country risk exposure from $5.4 billion to about $3.7 billion, which consists of loans, AFS, derivatives, and off balance sheet exposure. The remaining exposure, which previously total $4.4 billion now totals $4.1 billion and consists of deposits in cash with the central bank, reverse repos, and cross-border exposure. Additionally, our net investment in our Russian entity is now approximately $700 million, down from about a billion dollars at yearend. And the currency translation adjustment, or CTA, related to our net investment stands at a billion dollars. And as I mentioned previously, we took credit reserves of about $1.9 billion, with about $1 billion for direct exposures to Russia and another approximately $900 million for broader impacts given the macroenvironment. So, we feel we have reserved prudently at this point. In the normal course of our planning and risk management, we run a range of stress scenarios, and we've taken the same approach with our exposure to Russia. And as a result of the actions that we've taken to reduce our risk, we now believe that under a range of severe stress scenarios, our potential risk of loss is now estimated at approximately $2.5 billion to $3 billion, down meaningfully from what I described at our investor day. On Slide 7, we show net interest income, loans, and deposits. In the first quarter, net interest income increased by approximately $50 million on a sequential basis, as interest income from loans, as well as higher deposit spreads, were partially offset by day count. Excluding day count, net interest income increased by approximately $290 million. Sequentially, net interest margin increased by seven basis points as lower average deposits in services and higher interest income from loans were partially offset by balance sheet growth in the markets. On a year-over-year basis, net interest income increased by approximately $370 million, driven by cards, deposits volumes, and spreads, as well as income from the investment portfolio, partially offset by lower net interest income in markets. And we grew average loans by approximately 3% in both ICG and PBWM. On Slide 8, we share our summary balance sheet and key capital and liquidity metrics. We maintained a very strong balance sheet. Of our $2.4 trillion balance sheet, about 23%, or $551 billion, are high-quality liquid assets or HQLA. And we maintain total liquidity resources of approximately $960 billion. From a capital perspective, we ended the quarter with a CET1 capital ratio of approximately 11.4% under both standardized and advanced approaches, with standardized remaining the binding ratio, down from 12.2% at yearend. During the quarter, we adopted SA-CCR and absorbed a significant impact from the sharp move in interest rates. We will go into more detail shortly on the drivers of capital in the quarter. However, it is important to note that despite these impacts, we continue to expect to manage to a CET1 ratio of 12% by the end of the year due to the expected G-SIB surcharge increase to 3.5% at the beginning of 2023. We expect the combination of net income generation, DTA utilization, and capital generated by the closing of several of the consumer exits in Asia to be sufficient to reach the 12% CET1 ratio by the end of the year. As we said in investor day, we're committed to returning excess capital to our shareholders. And as we see a pull to par in the investment portfolio, reversing that $4 billion interest rate-driven impact, we would expect to be able to deploy that capital over time. And as you know, under the SCB framework and given the uncertain macroenvironment, we assess on a quarter-by-quarter basis the right level of buybacks, and we will continue to do so throughout the year. For the second quarter, we expect only a modest amount of buybacks, and we'll evaluate that level throughout the quarter, taking into account market conditions. On Slide 9, we show a sequential CET1 capital ratio walk to provide more detail on the drivers this quarter. As I just mentioned, our CET1 capital ratio ended the year at 12.2%, as we build capital to absorb the impact of SA-CCR on our RWA. Post SA-CCR adoption, our ratio stood at 11.8% as of January 1, 2022. Given the sizable impact of some of the drivers, I wanted to spend a minute to walk through the puts and takes this quarter and how we ended the quarter with a CET1 ratio of about 11.4%. First, we generated net income, which added 35 basis points. Second, over $4 billion of dividends and buybacks drove a reduction of about 36 basis points. Third, the interest rate impact on AOCI through our investment portfolio drove a 35-basis-point reduction. Fourth, the increase in disallowed DTA, largely driven by the reduction in CET1 due to the interest rate impact I just mentioned, drove another 15-basis-point reduction. Finally, the remainder was driven by a combination of other factors, including a reduction in RWA. With all of that said, as I just mentioned, we have a path to a 12% CET1 capital ratio by yearend and remain committed to returning excess capital to shareholders. On Slide 10, we show the results for our Institutional Clients Group. Revenues decreased 2%, largely driven by investment banking, partially offset by an increase in services revenue. And markets declined slightly against a strong quarter last year. Expenses increased 13%, driven by transformation investments, business-led investments, and volume-related expenses, partially offset by productivity savings. Cost of credit was nearly a billion dollars, largely driven by a $1.5 billion build related to our exposures in Russia, as well as the broader impact on the microenvironment. And outside of Russia, we continue to see strong credit performance across our portfolio, as clients' balance sheets remain healthy. This resulted in net income of $2.6 billion, down approximately 51%, largely driven by the higher expenses and an ACL build versus a release in the prior year. We grew average loans by 3%, largely driven by trade finance. Average deposits grew 2% as we continue to see good momentum and deepening of existing client relationships and new client acquisitions. And ICG delivered an ROTCE of 11.2%. On Slide 11, we show revenue performance by business and the key drivers we laid out at investor day, which we will continue to show you each quarter. In services, we continue to see a very strong new client pipeline and a deepening with our existing clients. And we expect that momentum to continue. In treasury and trade solutions, revenues were up 18%, driven by growth in net interest income, as well as strong fee growth, with both commercial and large corporate clients. And we continue to see strong underlying drivers in TTS that indicate continued strong client activity, with U.S. dollar clearing volumes up 2%, cross-border flows up 17%, and commercial card volumes up 54%. Again, these metrics are indicators of client activity and fees, and, on a combined basis, drive approximately 50% of total TTS fee revenue. Security services revenues grew 6%, as net interest income grew 17%, driven by higher interest rates across currencies. And fee revenues grew 2% due to higher assets under custody. Overall markets revenues were down 2% versus a strong quarter last year. In the quarter, activity levels benefited from client repositioning and strong risk management in light of Fed actions and overall geopolitical uncertainty. Fixed income markets revenues were down 1%. We saw a strong client engagement, particularly with our corporate clients in FX and commodities, with our rates business also benefiting from higher volatility. Spread products were negatively impacted by less client activity. Equity markets revenues were down 4% compared to a very strong prior-year period. In the quarter, we saw strong equity derivatives performance and grew prime finance balances. Banking revenues, excluding gains or losses on loan hedges, were down 32% as heightened geopolitical uncertainty and the overall macro backdrop impacted activity in debt and equity capital markets. Investment banking revenues were down 43%, driven by the contraction in capital markets activity, partially offset by growth in M&A. Corporate lending revenues were down 6%, largely driven by lower-average loans. Now, turning to Slide 12, we show the results for our personal banking and wealth management business. Revenues declined 1% as net interest income was more than offset by lower noninterest revenue. Expenses were up 14%, driven by transformation investments, business-led investments, and higher volume-driven expenses, partially offset by productivity savings. Cost of credit was a $376 million benefit as an ACL release more than offset net credit losses. We had a net release of over a billion dollars of ACL related to COVID-19 uncertainty reserves. I would note that even after this release, we maintain over $9.8 billion in credit reserves against our U.S. card portfolio, or approximately 7.6% of total loans. This resulted in a net income decline of 23% and an ROTCE of just over 23%. Adjusting for the ACL release, ROTCE would have been approximately 13%. On Slide 13, we show PBWM revenues by product, as well as key business drivers and metrics. Branded cards revenues declined 1% on higher-average payment rates and higher acquisition and rewards costs, as we continue to see attractive investment opportunities and strong customer engagement. We are seeing encouraging underlying drivers with new accounts up 24%, card spend volumes also up 24%, and average loans up 7%. Retail services revenues were flat, as higher net interest income was offset by higher partner payments, driven by improved credit performance. And we are seeing positive underlying drivers with spend up 14% and average loans up 1%. While payment rates remain elevated, we believe we have finally begun to see some normalization. As a result, interest-earning balances in branded cars were relatively flat on a sequential basis, while retail services grew interest-earning balances by 3% sequentially, despite seasonally lower card spending volumes. Retail banking revenues declined 6%, largely driven by lower mortgage originations. Wealth revenues declined 1%, driven by less client activity and investments, partially offset by higher deposits. Investment revenues declined as geopolitical tensions impacted the capital markets, which resulted in clients pulling back their trading activity, particularly in Asia. However, underlying drivers remain strong, with average deposits up 14, average loans up 5%, client assets up 4%, and client advisors up 6%. On Slide 14, we show results for the legacy franchise. Revenues declined 14%, driven by lower revenue across the exit markets, largely driven by the Korea wind down, as well as the muted investment activity in Asia. Expenses were up 31%, largely driven by the goodwill impairment I mentioned earlier. But again, this is neutral to capital. Cost of credit was $160 million in the quarter, driven by net credit losses. And as a result, net income declined significantly. On Slide 15, we show results for corporate other. Revenues increased significantly, largely driven by higher net revenue from the investment portfolio. Expenses are down, largely on lower compensation expenses. And to briefly touched on the full year 2022 outlook, at this point, we still expect to see low single-digit revenue growth and mid single-digit expense growth, both excluding divestiture-related impacts this year. And with that, Jane and I would be happy to take your questions. 