  OperatorHello and welcome to Citi's first-quarter 2021 earnings review with Chief Executive Officer Jane Fraser; and Chief Financial Officer Mark Mason. Today's call will be hosted by Elizabeth Lynn, head of Citi investor relations. [Operator instructions] Also as a reminder, this conference is being recorded today. If you have any objections, please disconnect at this time. Ms. Lynn, you may begin.Liz Lynn -- Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Operator. Good morning and thank you, all, for joining us. Before we get started, I'd like to remind you that today's presentation, which is available for download on our website citigroup.com, may contain forward-looking statements which are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results, capital, and other financial conditions may differ materially from these statements due to a variety of factors including the precautionary statements referenced in our discussions today and those included in our SEC filings including without limitation the Risk Factors section of our 2020 Form 10-K. With that said, let me turn it over to Jane.Jane Fraser -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Liz, and good morning to everyone. I am delighted to join you for my first earnings call as the Citi's CEO. Mark and I have a lot to cover today so let's get cracking. Earlier today, we announced our earnings for the first quarter, as well as the initial strategic actions we're taking in our global consumer bank to focus on our competitive advantages and to improve our returns to our shareholders.

 



 I'll start with some observations therefore in the first quarter, and then I'll update you on the ongoing work on our strategy. It's been a much better-than-expected start of the year and we are optimistic about the recovery ahead of us, and we're positioning the bank for a period of sustained growth. For the quarter, we reported earnings of $3.62 per share on net income of $7.9 billion. This was a record quarter in net income, driven by good performance in our institutional business and a release of $3.9 billion from our allowance for credit losses as a result of the improving economic outlook. In the Institutional Clients Group, our markets businesses benefited yet again from an active environment. We saw solid performance in fixed income after a very strong first quarter last year and a record quarter in equities. We also had a record quarter in investment banking, reflecting high levels of activity in equity underwriting. Treasury and freight solutions, which are the backbone of our global network grew deposits even though revenues continued to be impacted by low interest rates. Global consumer banking revenues were down quarter over quarter as a result of the pandemic. However, we clearly see a recovery taking root in Asia, as well as the U.S. and that was reflected in our ACL release. And I'd note, this is the healthiest we have seen the consumer emerge from a crisis in recent history, driven in large part by the U.S. government's stimulus package. Now, while loan demand was down, we did see strong growth in wealth management and in digital engagement, both of which are central to the consumer franchise we are building. And our capital levels remain strong and stable, allowing us to respond to the needs of our clients and to return capital to our shareholders. At 11.7%, our common equity Tier 1 ratio is unchanged from the fourth quarter and we resumed the repurchase of common stocks which we voluntarily paused at the onset of the pandemic.

 



 Our tangible book value increased to $75.50, up 5% from a year ago. Now, turning to our strategy. When we spoke in January, I appointed the four principles which we're using to guide the refresh of our strategy. First, we said we will be clinical in assessing which businesses we can retain or secure leading market positions in. Next, we're going to be focused by directing resources to higher-returning businesses and away from the others. Third, we're going to be connected so we ensure our businesses fit well together and that they generate synergies. And last, we're going to be simpler to better serve our clients, fulfill our obligations to our regulators, and unlock value for our shareholders. We also committed to take the strategic decisions needed to best position Citi to win and to close the gap in returns with our competitors. And we committed to share these decisions with you as we meet them. And that's what we're doing again today. When I spoke in January about our new focus on wealth, we believe we're very well positioned to capture strong growth and attractive returns in this business, particularly in Asia and the U.S. Today, wealth at Citi represents roughly $6.5 billion in revenues with three-quarters of a trillion dollars of client assets. And there's many synergies with our markets, CCMA, and commercial banking franchises across our global network. Yesterday, we announced the management team for Citi Global Wealth and the work in investments are well under way on the business strategy and growth plans. And today, we announced our decision to focus our consumer banking franchise in Asia and EMEA, solely on four wealth centers, namely Singapore, Hong Kong, UAE, and London. This positions us to capture the full spectrum of the wealth opportunities through these important hubs, where we can serve on-shore and off-shore clients. And in Asia, this will allow us to continue operating our leading consumer businesses in Singapore and Hong Kong, which have both scaled and very high-returning. We will therefore pursue exits of our consumer businesses in the remaining 13 markets in Asia and EMEA. Now, while these are excellent franchises, we don't have the scale we need to compete and we decided we simply aren't the best owners of them over the long term. So, consistent with the principles we outlined for the strategy refresh, we believe our capital, our investment dollars, and other resources are better redeployed against higher-returning opportunities elsewhere. What does this mean? This means that global consumer banking will consist of two scout franchises in the U.S. and Mexico and these four hubs serving 100 million customers in total. Let me be very clear on one very important point. Citi will continue to invest behind and serve our institutional clients in these 13 new markets. We have a high-returning and leading institutional franchise in Asia and it is an absolutely central part of our success going forward. And we see important opportunities to invest and gain share with our institutional clients regionwide. Indeed, I saw from my own experience in Latin America how the institutional businesses in each market really benefited from the increased focus once we have exited our sub-scale consumer franchises and simplified the operating model in the region. I fully expect the same will be true in Asia. And in the meantime, the comprehensive work on our strategy refresh continues and we will continue to share the decisions we make with you as we work to close the gap and returns with our peers. In parallel, we are, of course, hard at work on our transformation. We're making our next submission to the SEC this quarter. It's a massive body of work. We continue to work closely with our regulators to meet their expectations and we expect to submit our complete plan to both regulators no later than the third quarter. We've identified the end states, performed the gap analyses, and are currently working through the detailed resourcing and program plans and interdependencies, and we've begun execution on several fronts. The investments required go hand-in-hand with our strategy work. So, for example, when we talk about simplification, we're pursuing it through changes to our operating model but also by removing manual processes and controls. And make no mistake about it, we want to achieve nothing less than a fundamental transformation by delivering excellence in our risk and controlled environment, in our operations, and in our service to clients. So, I am excited about the road ahead and I have no doubt that these investments and others that we're going to make in talent and technology are all going to help us modernize the bank and position Citi to win. And finally, I want to update you on some of the commitments we're making in terms of ESG. Now, we've prided ourselves in being a leader in many dimensions of ESG over the years. I see it as embedded in what we offer to our clients and the communities we serve around the world. And as you may know on my first day as CEO in the beginning of March, I committed that Citi would reach net-zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 and we will deliver our plan on how we will do so within the next 12 months. Critical to helping our clients transition to a low-carbon economy is the support we provide them through our environmental finance activities. So, to that end, we're going to extend our current environmental finance target from $250 billion by 2025 to $500 billion by 2030. And in addition, we finance other activities and supported the UN's Sustainable Development Goals outside of environmental finance. And these include our important investments in affordable housing, in healthcare, and workforce development. We are committing an additional $500 billion to these activities by 2030 making our total Sustainable Development Goal commitment $1 trillion dollars by 2030. And with that, I am going to turn over to Mark and then we will both be delighted to take your questions. Mark?Mark Mason -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Jane, and good morning, everyone. Let me briefly review the results for the quarter and then I'll go into more detail on the strategic refresh and specific actions we announced earlier today. Overall, we had a stronger-than-expected start to the year driven by a constructive capital markets backdrop, as well as a benefit from the cost of credit for the quarter. For the quarter, Citigroup reported net income of $7.9 billion. Revenues declined 7% from the prior year, while we saw continued strength in investment banking and a solid mortgage performance that was more than offset by the impact of lower interest rates along with lower card loans in consumer and the absence of the prior-year mark-to-market gains on loan hedges. Expenses were up 4% year over year, reflecting continued investments in our transformation, including infrastructure supporting our risk and control environment, as well as other strategic investments, partially offset by efficiency savings. Credit performance remains strong with net credit losses of $1.7 billion, more than offset by an ACL release of $3.9 billion, driven primarily by an improvement in our macroeconomic outlook, as well as lower loan balances. EPS was $3.62 and ROTCE was just over 20%. In constant dollars, end-of-period loans declined 10% year over year, reflecting lower spending activity in consumer, as well as higher repayments across institutional and consumer. Deposits grew 7%, reflecting consistent client engagement with both corporate and consumer clients continuing to hold higher levels of liquidity. Before I go into more detail on each business, on Slide 4, I'd like to cover the strategic refresh that Jane discussed earlier. Last quarter, we spoke about the significant opportunity wealth represents for Citi going forward and announced the formation of Citi Global Wealth in order to better connect assets and capabilities across the consumer and institutional franchises, and to transform the way we serve clients across the wealth spectrum. We've continued the build-out of Citi Global Wealth this quarter and have provided some details on the scope of the business on this slide, with additional information on key drivers in the appendix. Citi Global Wealth represented roughly $6.6 billion in allocated annual revenues and it delivered 15% growth in investment revenues last year, driven by higher client activity and growth in client investment assets. As we continue to integrate the component businesses into a single wealth platform, we will finalize how best to implement this strategy from an organizational standpoint over the coming quarters and update you accordingly. Turning next to the actions we announced today. Given our strategic focus on global wealth management, we announced the decision to focus our global consumer banking presence in Asia and EMEA on four wealth centers. As Jane mentioned, this strategic shift will allow us to simplify our operating model, while directing investments and resources to the businesses where we have competitive advantages and the scale necessary to drive higher returns over the long run. Let me describe the 13 markets where we will pursue an exit shown on the slide with added details in the appendix. Last year, these businesses contributed roughly $4 billion of revenues. And while historically profitable, like other consumer businesses, the impact of CECL weighed on full-year results given the pandemic with cost of credit nearly doubling in these markets year over year. Total assets were $82 billion as of the end of 2020 and the businesses are supported by roughly $7 billion of allocated TCE. We have a good track record of reducing expenses in similar situations. However, as noted on the slide, we are including fully allocated expenses to these markets which could differ somewhat from the ultimate expense reductions. We will continue to manage these markets as part of the GCB franchise where we already have relevant actions well under way. We plan to share more information with you as we make progress against these and other actions as part of our ongoing strategy refresh. Finally, I want to emphasize a point that Jane made earlier. We will continue to serve ICG clients, including our commercial banking clients in all of these markets. And more broadly, the strategic shift will allow us to focus more investments on ICG and Asia. Turning now to each business. Slide 5 shows the results for the Institutional Clients Group. We delivered a solid performance in the quarter, driven by strong execution and the constructive operating environment. For the quarter, ICG delivered EBIT of $7.7 billion, up 65% from last year. Revenues decreased 2%, reflecting the absence of mark-to-market gains on loan hedges seen last year. Excluding this, revenues were up 5% with 9% growth in banking and 2% growth in markets and security services. Expenses increased 8%, reflecting investments in infrastructure and controls, along with other strategic investments, higher compensation costs, and volume-driven growth. Credit costs were down considerably, given a $1.9 billion ACL release. The release this quarter primarily reflected improvements in the outlook for global GDP, as well as modest improvements in portfolio credit quality. As of quarter-end, our overall funding reserve ratio was 1.1%, including 3.6% on the non-investment-grade portion. Total net credit losses were $186 million and ICG delivered 5.7% return on allocated capital. Slide 6 shows revenues for the Institutional Clients Group in more detail. Product revenues were up 5%, driven by record revenues in both equity underwriting and equity trading. Looking at these strong results across our overarching equities franchise, we feel good about the strategic investments we've been making which enabled us to leverage our full-service model to better monetize the current market. On the banking side, revenues increased 9%. Treasury and trade solutions revenues were down 10% in constant dollars as good client engagement and solid growth in deposits were more than offset by the impact of lower interest rates and lower commercial cards revenues. Despite these headwinds, we continued to see strength in our underlying business drivers, including 14% growth in average deposits in constant dollars, this quarter. And over the past year, we've seen significant increases in digital adoption and penetration, as well as 7% growth in cross-border flows and 6% growth in clearing volumes. Investment banking experienced its best quarter ever with revenues up 46%, driven by equity underwriting given our leading position in the SPAC market. Private bank revenues grew 8%, also its best quarter ever, driven by higher lending volumes and managed investments revenues. Corporate lending revenues were also up 8%, reflecting the absence of prior-year marks, partially offset by lower volumes. Total markets and securities services revenues increased 2% from last year. Fixed income revenues decreased 5%, reflecting a strong performance in rates and currencies last year. However, spread products revenues were up from the prior year as clients search for yield in this low-rate environment, with steady demand across flow and structured products. Equities revenues were up 26% versus last year, driven by cash equities, derivatives, and prime finance, reflecting solid client activity and favorable market conditions. And finally, in securities services, revenues were up 1% on a reported basis and roughly flat in constant dollars. Here, we saw good growth in fee revenues with both new and existing clients, driven by growth in deposits, assets under custody, and settlement volumes, offset by lower spreads. Turning now to the results for global consumer banking in constant dollars on Slide 7. While we are still seeing the impact of the pandemic and high payment rates on revenues, consumer spending continues to improve and credit remains healthy, pointing to a recovery as we move through the year. For the quarter, GCB delivered EBIT of $2.8 billion, up significantly from last year, primarily driven by improved credit costs. Revenues declined 15% as lower card balances and lower interest rates across all three regions were partially offset by continued strong deposit growth and momentum in wealth management. Expenses decreased 1% as efficiency savings and lower volume-related costs were partially offset by investments. Credit costs decreased significantly, driven by an ACL reserve release in all three regions and lower net credit losses. The release this quarter primarily reflected lower volumes, as well as improvements in the macro outlook. And GCB delivered a 25% return on allocated capital. Slide 8 shows the results for North America consumer in more detail. First-quarter revenues were down 15% from last year, primarily driven by lower cards revenues. Branded cards revenues were down 11%, reflecting a 15% decline in average loans as clients are using the liquidity from stimulus and other relief programs to pay down debt. Retail services revenues were down 26%, reflecting higher partner payments, as well as lower average loans. Net interest revenues were down 18% as average loans declined by 13% on higher payment rates. Higher partner payments drove the remainder of the revenue decline versus last year, reflecting the impact of lower forecasted losses and, therefore, higher income sharing. Looking more broadly on our cards businesses, we're continuing to see a recovery in sales activity. In branded cards, total purchase sales were unchanged year over year, but essential spend was up 12%, and we are starting to see the recovery in areas like travel and dining. And in retail services, purchase sales grew 4%. So purchase sales are improving slightly faster than our prior expectations, and with the vaccine rollout, this should support a further recovery in discretionary spend. The bigger impact on loans is from the high payment rates. This is creating revenue pressure, but it's also benefiting our delinquency and loss trends. So the good news is that we're seeing the recovery in spend, which should continue, and our credit portfolio is proving to be quite resilient. We are now focused on loan and revenue recovery through driving spend activity, reentering the market for new account acquisitions, and investing in lending capabilities and new value propositions. Turning to retail banking, revenues were down 8% year over year, reflecting pressure from lower deposit spreads. That said, we are continuing to see good momentum as we grow and deepen retail bank relationships, as well as improve the quality and stickiness of these relationships. Average deposits were up 22%, including 30% growth in checking, and AUMs were up 32%. We're also continuing to broaden our digital capabilities to expand from deposits to wealth management to mortgage lending. As Jane mentioned, we're committed to the franchise, and all of this gives us confidence in our ability to scale our U.S. retail bank with a digitally led, client-centric approach supported by light physical expansion in new markets over time. On Slide 9, we show the results for international consumer banking in constant dollars. In Asia, revenues declined 12% year over year in the first quarter. We continued to see good momentum in wealth management as investment revenues grew 22% with a 14% increase in Citigold clients and 13% growth in net new money. And the numbers are meaningfully higher if you look specifically at the four global wealth hubs. Average deposit growth remained strong at 13%, albeit at lower deposit spreads. Card revenues remained under pressure year over year, with purchase sales down 5% and average loans down 13% given a continued significant impact on travel in the region. However, we are seeing some signs of a recovery with the pickup in new card acquisitions and purchase sales year over year in the month of March. Turning to Latin America, total consumer revenues declined 16% year over year. Similar to other regions, we saw good growth in deposits and assets under management in Mexico this quarter, with average balances up 9% and AUMs up 17%. However, deposit spreads remained under pressure, and lending volumes continued to decline given the macro environment. Slide 10 provides additional detail on global consumer credit trends. In the U.S., both NCL and delinquency rates remained favorable, driven by the significant amount of customer liquidity due to stimulus and other relief programs. Given the delinquency trends we're seeing today, we do not expect credit deterioration in the U.S. portfolio in 2021. And so peak losses may not occur until late 2022, depending on whether or not the stimulus results in a permanent benefit. By contrast, in both Mexico and Asia, we saw a peak in credit losses in the first quarter of 2021. This was expected, driven by the impact of customer accounts rolling off relief programs. The impact was pronounced in Mexico, with a peak NCL rate of over 10%, as we saw most customers roll off the relief programs at the end of the third quarter of last year. Excluding those accounts that participated in relief programs, our credit trends in both Mexico and Asia remain stable, and you can see improvement this quarter in delinquency rates. Slide 11 shows the results for corporate/other. Revenues were roughly flat in dollar terms as the impact of lower rates was offset by the absence of marks versus the prior year, as well as some episodic gains this quarter. Expenses were down 1% as investments in infrastructure, risk, and controls were roughly offset by the allocation of certain costs to the businesses. This change had no impact to EBIT at the Citi level, and given it was immaterial, we have not reflected the change retrospectively. Credit costs declined year over year, driven by a release this quarter compared to a build in the prior year. Finally, the pre-tax loss was $231 million this quarter. Looking ahead, we would expect a quarterly pre-tax loss in the range of $500 million for the remainder of 2021, although with some variation quarter to quarter. Slide 12 shows our net interest revenue and margin trends. In constant dollars, total net interest revenue of $10.2 billion this quarter declined $1.4 billion year over year, reflecting the impact of lower rates and lower loan balances, as well as the impact of one fewer day versus last year, partially offset by slightly higher trading-related NIR. Sequentially, net interest revenue continued to stabilize and, excluding the impact of two fewer days in the quarter, was roughly flat to the fourth quarter. And net interest margin declined 5 basis points, reflecting lower net interest revenues, partially offset by treasury actions and balance sheet optimization. Turning to noninterest revenues. In the first quarter, non-NIR declined slightly to just over $9 billion, predominantly driven by the mark-to-market on loan hedges offsetting strong investment banking revenues. On Slide 13, we show our key capital metrics, which, as Jane mentioned, remained strong and stable again this quarter, allowing us to support clients and return capital to shareholders. Our CET1 capital ratio remained 11.7% as net income was roughly offset by buybacks and dividends, along with the impact of OCI and an increase in risk-weighted assets. During the quarter, Citi returned a total of $2.7 billion to common shareholders in the form of $1.1 billion in dividends and share repurchases of $1.6 billion. Our supplementary leverage ratio was 7%, and our tangible book value per share grew by 5% to $75.50, driven by net income. Before we move to Q&A, let me spend a few minutes on our outlook for 2021. First, our full-year top-line outlook has improved since last quarter. At that time, coming off the performance of 2020, we had expected industry wallets to return closer to the 2019 levels this year. Given the strong start to the year, as well as the increasingly positive signs of a recovery ahead, we now believe wallets will be somewhat higher relative to 2019. Meanwhile, our outlook for net interest revenues is unchanged, and we continue to expect a decline in net interest revenues of somewhere between $1 billion to $2 billion, with stabilization continuing into the second quarter and an improvement in the back half. Taken together, this suggests revenues down in the mid-single-digit range, better than our prior guidance for a mid- to high single-digit range decline. Second, on the expense side, we continue to expect full-year expenses to increase in the range of 2% to 3%, mostly driven by investments related to our transformation agenda. In addition, we could also see some episodic impacts this year related to the market exits we are pursuing. And as I mentioned earlier, we'll be very transparent about the impact of these actions on our financials. Finally, on cost of credit, we continue to have an overall favorable outlook with regard to credit performance. And depending on the macroeconomic outlook, we could see further reserve releases. Although given the size of the reserve release this quarter, we would not expect to see the same magnitude of ACL release going forward. With that, Jane and I are happy to take any questions. 