  OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the Intuitive Q1 2022 earnings release. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator instructions] And as a reminder, your conference is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Brian King, Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Brian King -- Treasurer and Head of Investor Relations

 



 Good afternoon, and welcome to Intuitive's first-quarter earnings conference call. With me today, we have Gary Guthart, our CEO; and Jamie Samath, CFO. Before we begin, I would like to inform you that comments mentioned on today's call may be deemed to contain forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied as a result of certain risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties are described in detail in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including our most recent Form 10-K filed on February 3, 2022. Our SEC filings can be found through our website or at the SEC's website. Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. Please note that this conference call will be available for audio replay on our website at intuitive.com on the Events section under our Investor Relations page.Today's press release and supplementary financial data tables have been posted to our website. Today's format will consist of providing you with highlights of our first-quarter results, as described in our press release announced earlier today, followed by a question-and-answer session. Gary will present the quarter's business and operational highlights. Jamie will provide a review of our financial results, then I will discuss procedure and clinical highlights and provide our updated financial outlook for 2022. And finally, we will host a question-and-answer session. With that, I will turn it over to Gary. 

 



Gary Guthart -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you for joining us today. In the first quarter, procedure demand for our products was healthy, recovering where COVID receded. Drivers of procedure performance included general surgery in the U.S. and non-urology procedures outside of the U.S., which are our areas of focus. Regardless of the health of procedure demand, we are challenged by environmental stresses, including regional waves of COVID, staffing pressure at hospitals, component and raw material availability, and logistic delays. While it's difficult to forecast how long these headwinds will persist, our teams are working hard to meet the challenge. In the quarter, da Vinci procedures grew 19% compared to the first quarter of 2021. The use of da Vinci in general surgery in the United States grew nicely, led by bariatric procedures, cholecystectomy, hernia repair, and rectal surgery. Lobectomy growth was also healthy. Outside the United States, the U.K., China, Japan, Germany, and Italy grew above our quarterly average growth rate. But I will note that some countries saw the beginnings of COVID slowdowns later in the quarter, in particular, China and Korea. International use of da Vinci is diversifying beyond urology in several countries with growth in oncologic procedures in thoracic surgery, gynecology, and general surgery.

 



 In Japan, MHLW increased reimbursement for robotically assisted gastrectomy and added another eight procedures to reimbursement coverage in April, bringing the total number of covered daVinci procedure types to over 25 in Japan. In our flexible robotics program, Ion procedures grew approximately 350% in Q1 compared with Q1 2021, reflecting continued strength in adoption and utilization of the platform. Turning to capital. Our team installed 311 da Vinci systems in the quarter, compared with 298 systems in Q1 2021, bringing our total clinical installed base to 6,920 da Vinci systems. Placements varied by region, with the U.K. standing out with a strong placement quarter. Capital placements have been historically lumpy. And after several quarters of capital strength, we're seeing some near-term softening of our capital placement pipeline in the U.S. Contributing factors may include a pull-forward of Q1 2022 demand into Q4 2021 due to customer budget utilization at year-end, a reduction in the number of third-generation da Vinci systems available for trade-ins, and an overall tightening of hospital finances. With a three-year CAGR and procedures of 15% from Q1 of '19 to Q1 of '22, and installed base growth of 11% over the same period, utilization of installed systems continued to climb through the pandemic and in the first quarter. This is increasing the value derived from the existing installed base for our customers and for us. Over the midterm, capital demand in mature robotic-assisted surgery segments is a function of procedure demand moderated by utilization growth. Jamie will give regional capital trends and Brian will give a more detailed procedure review later in the call. As we exit the first quarter, we continued to invest in global expansion, innovation initiatives, and our business infrastructure. Our spending in the quarter was roughly in line with our target. In instruments and accessories, we received Chinese NMPA clearance for our 45-millimeter and 60-millimeter SureForm staplers, our Vessel Sealer Extend, and our Endoscope Plus. These products support the utility of our Xi systems for several procedures, particularly general and thoracic surgeries. Turning to ION. We submitted our EU medical device regulation application for the platform to allow the entry of Ion into Europe. Our teams are also building production capability and -- capacity, pardon me, and making improvements to customer workflow, planning software, and reprocessing efficiency. In digital products, the My Intuitive app community tripled year over year and is now available in the U.S., Japan, Germany, France, United Kingdom and Ireland, and Switzerland, with launches set for Italy, Spain, and India in Q2. Building on our Orpheus technology, our teams in Israel and the U.S. have created Intuitive Hub, a unified hardware and software solution for the operating room. Intuitive Hub enables OR teams to capture, edit, and share video clips from clinical procedures and collaborate virtually using existing workflows and intuitive systems. In the quarter, we launched an upgraded interface to da Vinci systems that allow for automated video capture with integrated procedure annotation for key events, creating convenient video storage and review for event cases. Customer feedback for this integration has been encouraging. Across the installed base, the number of procedures in which Intuitive Hub was used grew approximately 60% year over year. To our goal of adding Iris anatomical models, we are in conversations with the FDA on how best to characterize some of its core AI technology, which will require a resubmission of our 510(k) for the next set of segmented organ models. Finally, the installed base of our virtual reality training simulator SimNow grew 33% in the quarter compared with a year ago. For our single-port program da Vinci SP, we began the launch of our next-generation SP Endoscope, which includes our Firefly Fluorescence imaging technology and has 65% longer life. We also launched our next-generation core SP instruments that can apply higher forces during surgery and are more durable. Feedback on both has been encouraging. In Japan, we submitted our da Vinci SP for clearance to PMDA seeking broad indications. We continue to pursue additional indications for SP in the U.S., which is important for broader adoption, with an ongoing IDE trial in colorectal surgery and an approved IDE for thoracic surgery. COVID and some site-specific delays have slowed our progress in our colorectal trial. We're working hard to expand the number of participating sites to accelerate its completion. Stepping back, for 2022, our top priority is to support, supply and train our customers as they navigate a challenging environment. We are also focused on helping general surgeons in the United States adopt our technologies in diversifying our business outside the United States beyond urology and in executing on our new platforms and digital tools. I'll now turn the time over to Jamie Samath, who will take you through financial matters in greater detail.Jamie Samath -- Chief Financial Officer Good afternoon. I will describe the highlights of our performance on a non-GAAP or pro forma basis. I will also summarize our GAAP performance later in my prepared remarks. A reconciliation between our pro forma and GAAP results is posted on our website. Overall, Q1 results reflected approximately 19% procedure growth as compared to the first quarter of 2021 and system placements of 311 systems, resulting in an expansion of the installed base of da Vinci systems of approximately 13%. As a result of our procedure and capital performance, Q1 revenue increased by 15% year over year. Key business metrics for the first quarter of 2022 were as follows. Within the 19% procedure growth, procedures in the U.S. increased 16%, and OUS procedures grew by 25%. Procedures in the U.S. were impacted in January by the significant number of hospitalizations related to the Omicron variant. As rates of COVID-related hospitalizations declined in February and March, da Vinci procedures recovered quickly. On a three-year compound annual growth rate basis, first-quarter procedures grew approximately 15%. First-quarter system placements of 311 increased 4% from the 298 systems placed last year. The number of systems placed in conjunction with the trade-in of an older generation system declined by 18% from the first quarter of 2021. That decline was entirely driven by the U.S. Utilization of clinical systems in the field, measured by procedures per system, increased approximately 6% compared to last year. Using a three-year CAGR, first-quarter utilization grew 4%. During the quarter, the supply chain environment continued to be challenging and remains dynamic. In Q1, we continued to experience constraints in our ability to meet customer demand. And as a result, on-time delivery performance to our customers was lower than we have experienced so far during the pandemic. In Europe, recently, we have experienced some geographically limited delays in fulfilling orders for some da Vinci instruments and accessories. These delays were due to a combination of the global supply chain and logistics issues, including our freight forwarders' unanticipated shutdown of its computer system. While these constraints did not have a material impact on our Q1 financial results, risks associated with potential disruption to our manufacturing operations and our ability to supply certain products to our customers remain significant. During the quarter, we also experienced higher logistics costs and manufacturing inefficiencies that impacted our gross margin. U.S. procedure growth was 16% over Q1 of 2021, reflecting continued relative strength in bariatrics, cholecystectomy, and hernia repair. In Europe, we experienced strong growth in the U.K., reflecting, in part, the significant adverse impact of COVID in Q1 of 2021. Procedure growth in the U.K. also reflected strong early stage growth in hysterectomy, colorectal and thoracic procedures. Procedure growth in Germany and Italy was also strong, while procedure growth in France was adversely impacted by COVID mitigation measures in the first part of the quarter. Overall procedure growth in Asia was solid, with growth across a broad set of procedure categories Q1 procedures in China and Korea were slightly lower than our expectations, given the impact of the Omicron variant later in the quarter. Procedure growth in Japan was strong, reflecting some recovery in neurologic procedures and strong growth in rectal, hysterectomy, and thoracic, key procedures that were granted da Vinci reimbursement in April of 2020. The impact of the Delta variant in Q3 of last year and the impact of the Omicron variant in this past quarter highlight the continued risk of future COVID waves and the associated significant risks to the number of da Vinci procedures that may be performed. Brian will provide additional procedure commentary later in this call. As Gary indicated, during the quarter, we experienced a softening in our U.S. capital pipeline, which we expect to impact system placements in the near term. In the U.S., we placed 186 systems in the first quarter, lower than 190 in Q1 of 2021, reflecting a decline of 28 systems associated with trade-in transactions, partially offset by increased placements to greenfield customers. The remaining installed base of SI systems in the U.S. is approximately 268 systems. Outside the U.S., we placed 125 systems in the first quarter compared with 108 in the first quarter of 2021. Current core assistant placements included 78 into Europe, 19 into Japan, and 9 into China, compared with 59 into Europe, 8 into Japan, and 23 into China in the first quarter of 2021. We placed 30 systems in the U.K. in Q1, driven in part by the timing of government budget cycles. We do not expect to place similar levels of systems in the remainder of 2022 in the U.K. Capital performance in Japan was driven primarily by greenfield accounts and some existing customers adding capacity in anticipation of the eight additional procedure reimbursements taking effect on April 1. System placements in China were moderately impacted by longer logistics cycle times as a result of lockdowns in response to increased COVID cases. As of the end of Q1 2022, there were 55 systems remaining under the current quota in China, which may also be available to competitors that have received local regulatory clearance. Globally, trade and transactions represented 35% of placements in the quarter compared to 38% for the full year of 2021 and 48% for the full year of 2020. Given the lower number of older generation systems in the field, we expect the volume of trade-ins to be significantly lower in 2022 as compared to 2021. Hospitals continue to experience financial and operational pressures as a result of staffing shortages, the supply chain environment, and resulting inflation. Since the start of the pandemic in 2020, the impact of COVID has placed a significant burden on hospitals. The financial pressures our customers have faced have been partially mitigated by government funding, such as the approximately $178 billion of CARES Act and other relief made available to hospitals in the U.S. The rising interest rate environment increases debt servicing costs and may make access to new debt more challenging. To the extent that hospitals continue to face financial pressures, reductions in government funding, and higher interest rates, hospital capital spending may be adversely impacted. In addition, as competition progresses in various markets, we will likely experience longer selling cycles and price pressure. Additional revenue statistics and trends are as follows. Total first-quarter revenue was $1.49 billion, an increase of 15% from last year. Leasing represented 35% of Q1 placements, compared with 37% last year -- last quarter, rather. The slightly lower first-quarter lease mix primarily reflected the mix of customers who prefer to purchase systems. While leasing will fluctuate from quarter to quarter, we continue to expect that the proportion of placements under operating leases will increase over time. First-quarter system average selling prices were $1.54 million, higher than the $1.45 million last quarter. The sequential increase was primarily driven by a lower mix of bulk by transactions with large customers and a favorable product mix, in particular, a higher proportion of Xi dual system placements in the quarter. We recognized $16 million of lease buyout revenue in Q1, compared with $26 million last quarter and $19 million last year. Lease buyout revenue has varied significantly quarter to quarter and will likely continue to do so. Instrument and accessory revenue per procedure was approximately $1,870 per procedure, compared with $1,940 per procedure in the fourth quarter of 2021, and down 4% from the $1,950 realized in the first quarter of last year. The year-over-year decrease primarily reflects the benefit of stocking orders in Q1 of 2021 associated with the launch of our extended use instruments program in the U.S. and Europe and an unfavorable FX impact from the stronger U.S. dollar. The sequential decline primarily reflects lower stocking orders associated with lower system placements, hospital ordering patterns, and a small unfavorable impact from FX. We placed 34 Ion systems in the quarter as compared to 14 Ion placements in the first quarter of last year. The installed base of Ion systems is now 163 systems, of which 70 are under operating lease arrangements. First-quarter Ion procedures of just over 3,900 are up over 4x compared to the first quarter of 2021. Several of the systems placed in the first quarter were SP systems, including 3 systems placed at customers in Korea. Our installed base of SP systems is now 106. First-quarter SP procedures grew approximately 36% year over year, with approximately 50% growth in transoral procedures small but high-value segment. Growth of the SP platform will continue to be gated by additional clinical indications and clearances in markets beyond the U.S. and Korea. Moving on to gross margin and operating expenses. Pro forma gross margin for the first quarter of 2022 was 69.8%, compared with 71.8% for the first quarter of 2021 and 70.1% last quarter. Pro forma gross margin was lower than last quarter, primarily as a result of higher logistics costs and increased fixed costs relative to revenue as we invest in our infrastructure and manufacturing capacity to serve our long-term needs. While net inventory grew approximately $66 million quarter over quarter, there are still a number of components and products that are below our targeted levels. Pro forma operating expenses increased 26% compared with the first quarter of 2021. The increase in first-quarter operating expenses from a year ago reflected an increase in headcount, increased variable compensation and higher customer-facing costs, customer training, travel costs, and marketing programs. As of the end of Q1, we had just over 10,500 employees, an increase of 26% from the first quarter of 2021 or an increase of 20% on a three-year CAGR basis. Of the approximately 2,100 employees we have added over the last year, approximately 900 are manufacturing employees. Capital expenditures in Q1 were $95 million, primarily comprised of infrastructure investments to expand our facilities footprint, increased manufacturing capacity, and automation of certain product lines. Our pro forma effective tax rate for the first quarter was 23.3%, slightly above our expectations, primarily due to certain discrete tax items. Our pro forma tax rate was above 22.2% for 2021, primarily due to a previous change in U.S. tax law that became effective on January 1, 2022. Our first-quarter 2022 pro forma net income was $413 million or $1.13 per share compared with $427 million or $1.17 per share for the first quarter of 2021. I will now summarize our GAAP results. GAAP net income was $366 million or $1 per share for the first quarter of 2022 compared with GAAP net income of $426 million or $1.17 per share for the first quarter of 2021. The adjustments between pro forma and GAAP net income are outlined and quantified on our website and include excess tax benefits associated with employee stock awards, employee stock-based compensation, amortization of intangibles, and gains and losses on strategic investments. We ended the quarter with cash and investments of $8.4 billion, compared with $8.6 billion as of December 31, 2021. The sequential reduction in cash and investments in the first quarter primarily reflected share repurchases, capital expenditures, and unrealized losses on interest-bearing investments classified as available for sale, partially offset by cash from operating activities and proceeds from employee stock plans. During the quarter, we repurchased 398,000 shares at an average price of $268 per share for a total expenditure of $107 million. And with that, I would like to turn it over to Brian, who will discuss clinical highlights and provide our updated outlook for 2022.Brian King -- Treasurer and Head of Investor Relations Thank you, Jamie. Our overall first-quarter 2022 procedure growth was 19% compared to 16% for the first quarter of 2021. The three-year compound annual growth rate was 15% between the first quarter of 2019 and the first quarter of 2022. First-quarter 2022 procedure growth benefited by 140 basis points from one additional workday in the quarter. In the U.S., first-quarter 2022 procedure growth was 16% year over year, compared to 14% for the first quarter of 2021 and 16% last quarter. On a three-year compound annual growth basis, U.S. procedure growth was 13%. In the U.S., first-quarter growth was again driven by growth in procedures within general surgery. Bariatrics, cholecystectomy, and hernia repair were the largest contributors to procedure growth, while growth in colon and rectal resection were also strong contributors. Outside of the U.S., first quarter procedure volume grew approximately 25%, compared with 23% for the first quarter of 2021 and 28% last quarter. On a three-year compound annual growth basis, procedure growth was 20%. In Europe, we experienced strong growth in the U.K., Italy, and Germany, partially reflecting the disruption caused by COVID in the first quarter of 2021. In the U.K., procedure growth was strong in general surgery and gynecology categories, supported by early stage growth in hysterectomy, colorectal and thoracic procedures. Procedure growth in Germany and Italy was also driven by procedures outside of urology, with growth driven by colorectal, hysterectomy, and thoracic procedures. Capital placements were also strong in the U.K. with the placement of 30 systems, the highest number of systems placed in the U.K. in a single quarter, driven in part by government funding and the trade-ins of older generation systems. In Japan, growth in general surgery, gynecology, and thoracic continued to be strong with robust growth, specifically in benign hysterectomy, gastrectomy, and lobectomy. In addition, urologic procedures, specifically prostatectomy and partial nephrectomy, both experienced solid double-digit growth, reflecting a recovery when compared to the prior year, which was constrained by COVID. In China and Korea, first-quarter procedure growth was solid but slightly below expectations as we saw a resurgence in March of COVID infections, regional lockdowns, and hospitalizations, which negatively impacted procedure volumes. In China, growth in urology was solid, in particular, with growth in prostatectomy, nephrectomy, and partial nephrectomy. We continue to see broad-based growth in general surgery, thoracic, and gynecology as well. As we enter the second quarter of this year, we are seeing a negative impact on procedure volume as a result of continued regional lockdowns. Now turning to Ion, our robotic-assisted endoluminal platform focused today on minimally invasive lung biopsy procedures. First-quarter 2022 Ion procedures totaled just over 3,900 in Q1 2022, an approximately 350% increase over the prior year and 34% over the prior quarter. Ion system placements were also strong, ending Q1 '22 with 163 installed systems, growing approximately 225% over the prior year. Now turning to the clinical side of our business. Each quarter on these calls, we highlight certain recently published studies that we deemed to be notable. However, to gain a more complete understanding of the body of evidence, we encourage all stakeholders to thoroughly review the extensive detail of scientific studies that have been published over the years. During the quarter, Dr. Paresh Shah, along with colleagues from the Robert I. Grossman School of Medicine at New York University and in collaboration with Intuitive, published a real-world body of evidence assessing open conversion rates during minimally invasive surgery using laparoscopic, thoracoscopic, or da Vinci robotic surgery across 10 common procedures for benign or malignant conditions. Utilizing the Premier Healthcare Database, this study included over 275,000 adult patients who, between January 2013 and September 2015, underwent a minimally invasive procedure, including hysterectomy, sigmoidectomy, right colectomy, ventral or inguinal hernia repair, partial nephrectomy, lobectomy or low anterior resection. Overall, a 5% conversion to open rate for the MIS approach was observed across all procedures with a range of 1% to 24%. Converted to open patients were associated with a 1.8 day longer length of stay, 1.7 times greater risk of readmission within 30 days of the procedure, and a significantly higher in-hospital or perioperative 30-day total cost, adding approximately $2,900 to the in-hospital cost and $3,400 to the total 30-day cost. The researchers also compared differences in conversions between the laparoscopic, the rotoscopic, and da Vinci cohorts. After performing propensity score matching, conversion rates for da Vinci procedures were significantly lower than lap or VATS across all procedures. The volume-weighted conversion rate for da Vinci was approximately 2.8%, corresponding to a total relative conversion reduction for all study procedures of 58.5% compared to the laparoscopic or the thoracoscopic procedures. The researchers concluded in part "from the standpoint of population health or a hospital system, these high-level data indicated that a cumulative effect of conversions can be a significant burden and that reduction of conversion has major benefits and leads to increased value for the patient, the hospital and society at large. The use of robotic-assisted surgery is associated with a significant decrease in the conversion rate for all 10 operations studied and a multidisciplinary robotic program encompassing several specialties could result in significantly decreased conversion rates with an improved ability to deliver successful minimally invasive surgery to its patients." I will now turn to our financial outlook for 2022. Starting with procedures. On our last call, we forecast full-year 2022 procedure growth within a range of 11% to 15%. We are now increasing our forecast and expect full-year 2022 procedure growth of 12% to 16%. This range continues to reflect the uncertainty associated with the course of the pandemic. The low end of the range assumes ongoing COVID and staffing pressure at hospitals and assumes some continued choppiness with COVID throughout the year. At the high end of the range, we assume COVID-19-related hospitalizations around the world decline throughout the remainder of 2022, and there are no additional significant impacts from further resurgences. As noted last quarter, the range does not reflect significant supply chain disruptions. The steep increase in infections and subsequent recovery in the quarter from the Omicron variant in the U.S. and the trend in procedure volumes we have seen exiting the quarter in China highlight the risk to the number of procedures that may be performed. In the second quarter of 2022, our year-over-year procedure growth rate will likely be lower than in recent quarters as Q2 2021 results reflected a strong recovery in procedures as COVID began to subside. Turning to gross profit. On our last call, we forecast our 2022 full-year pro forma gross profit margin to be within 69.5% and 70.5%. We are now slightly expanding the range of our pro forma gross profit margin to be within 69% and 70.5% of net revenue. The lower end of the range was updated to reflect the impact on input costs related to supply chain inflation and some impact from a stronger U.S. dollar. Our actual gross profit margin will vary quarter to quarter depending largely on product, regional, and trade-in mix and the impact of new product introductions. With respect to operating expenses, on our last call, we forecast pro forma operating expense growth to be between 21% and 27%. We are refining our estimate and now expect our full-year pro forma operating expense growth to be between 23% and 27%. We continue to expect our non-cash stock compensation expense to range between $510 million and $550 million in 2022. We expect other income, which is comprised mostly of interest income to total between $50 million and $60 million in 2022. On last quarter's call, we forecast 2022 capital expenditures within a range of $700 million to $1 billion. We are now refining estimated capital expenditures for 2022 to be in the range of $700 million to $900 million based primarily on the current timing of planned facility construction activities. With regard to income tax, we continue to estimate our 2022 pro forma tax rate to be between 22% and 24% of pre-tax income. That concludes our prepared comments. We will now open the call to your questions. 