
OperatorGood day, and welcome, everyone, to the Lockheed Martin First Quarter 2021 Earnings Results Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Greg Gardner, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.Greg Gardner -- Vice President, Investor RelationsThank you, John, and good morning. I'd like to welcome everyone to our first quarter 2021 earnings conference call. Joining me today on the call are Jim Taiclet, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Ken Possenriede, our Chief Financial Officer.

 



Statements made in today's call that are not historical facts are considered forward-looking statements and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of federal securities law. Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Please see today's press release and our SEC filings for a description of some of the factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements.We have posted charts on our website today that we plan to address during the call to supplement our comments. These charts also include information regarding non-GAAP measures that may be used in today's call. Please access our website at www.lockheedmartin.com, and click on the Investor Relations link to view and follow the charts.With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Jim.James D. Taiclet -- Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer

 



Thanks, Greg. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today on our first quarter 2021 earnings call. As today's release illustrates, we had a strong financial results this quarter, and continue to perform at a high level strategically and operationally. Our achievements reflect the quality of our workforce, the breadth of our products and services and the focus we all have on delivering value to our customers and stockholders.We continue to deliver these results in spite of the ongoing difficulties presented by the COVID-19 pandemic. And my thanks go to the men and women of Lockheed Martin for their outstanding contributions during these challenging times.I'll begin today with a quick update on the strategic acquisition of Aerojet Rocketdyne that we announced in December, a transaction we believe will enhance Lockheed Martin's ability to develop and supply advanced products and support of national security and our civil space objectives. We also plan to strengthen Aerojet Rocketdyne's capabilities as a merchant supplier with improved offerings for all of its industry and government customer, which is a critical component of closing our acquisition business case.Last month, Aerojet stockholders approved the merger agreement with over 99% of votes cast being in favor of the transaction. Also, this quarter, as expected, both companies received a request for additional information or a second request from the Federal Trade Commission as part of the regulatory review process. The second request extends the waiting period pursuant to the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act. We're working cooperatively with the FTC and continue to expect resolution of the regulatory review process by the latter part of 2021.

 



Moving to our financial and operational results. Lockheed Martin got off to a strong start for the year. Ken will discuss our financial results in more detail and provide an update to our 2021 financial outlook, which increases key financial metrics across the board. But I'd like to continue by providing a few highlights right up front.First quarter sales increased 4% over the year-earlier period, with Rotary and Mission Systems growing 10% due to the delivery of an international pilot training system and ramping production of Sikorsky aircraft. Segment operating profit increased as a result of our sales performance, and earnings per share also saw strong growth.Our EPS benefited from gains in our Lockheed Martin Ventures Fund. LM Ventures make strategic investments in early stage companies developing disruptive cutting-edge technologies, and it supports our technology road maps and growth strategies. Ken will give a little more color on this in a few moments.Our cash generation remains outstanding, driving over $1.7 billion of cash from operations this quarter, which includes the nearly $1.4 billion downward impact of accelerating payments to our suppliers, including thousands of small and vulnerable companies that are especially stressed due to COVID-19 impacts.Altogether, these results reflect the high level of execution being achieved across the company. Our outstanding cash generation and strong balance sheet also provide us the flexibility to complete a $1 billion accelerated share repurchase agreement this quarter to opportunistically buy back stock.We expect our cash generation to remain strong, and we plan to continue our balanced cash deployment actions by investing in innovative technologies, executing our 21st century warfare strategy, providing our customers with enhanced capabilities and returning cash to stockholders.Turning to federal budgets. As a reminder, the fiscal year 2021 budget cycle marked the final year of the Budget Control Act that was originally enacted in 2011. The Department of Defense appropriations approved as part of the FY 2021 omnibus funding bill resulted in a fully funded national defense budget of approximately $740 billion. The White House recently released their preliminary budget proposal for fiscal 2022, targeting approximate $11 billion top line increase for the Department of Defense, an indication of the desire for continued stability in national security funding, and in line with our expectations.Similarly, the President issued an interim national security strategic guidance document, which incorporates key elements such as diplomacy, economic development, innovation, and modernizing our military capabilities into a broad framework for addressing accelerating global challenges. This guidance document places emphasis on deterrence, investments in emerging technologies such as artificial intelligence, and secure next gen 5G infrastructure as well as the need for having strong defense and intelligence capabilities.We believe this vision is well aligned with our 21st century warfare strategy and plays to the strength of our broad portfolio and our culture of innovation at Lockheed Martin.Also in the quarter, the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 stimulus package was enacted into legislation. This bill extended the CARES Act Section 3610 provision until September 30, 2021, enabling federal agencies to continue to reimburse contractors for the cost of keeping employees and subcontractors in a ready state as a result of the global pandemic. Importantly, this legislation also contained cash funding relief provisions affecting single employer pension plans, the primary reason for our increase in our cash outlook. Ken will discuss this further during his remarks.Turning to our business areas. I'd like to touch on several notable achievements demonstrating our focus on operational performance, strategic growth initiatives, and the strength of our portfolio.I'll begin with Aeronautics, where our team participated in this year's Orange Flag exercise. That's the U.S. Air Force's annual event to assess integration maturity of their war fighting platform. This year's Orange Flag featured a broad network-centric demonstration, showcasing the integration of the F-35 and other legacy air class, including the F-22 and U2, with long -- land-based long-range fires, naval fires and space-based sensors. This exercise demonstrated a fully functional Internet of Things or IoT architecture, integrating a number of our nation's most advanced weapons. Our team was on the vanguard of this effort, enabling F-35s and F-22 to pass data to a U2, all Lockheed Martin aircraft, with the U2 then relaying the information to a ground-based control center. Targeting data was then transferred using machine-to-machine data sharing with an army engagement operations center as well as to navy ships.By providing data via fifth-generation aircraft to multiple command and control nodes, that information can be used for real-time targeting. This exercise demonstrated Lockheed Martin's readiness to provide unmatched situational awareness and to rapidly field capabilities today in support of our customers' joint all-domain operations concept.In Rotary and Mission Systems, The CH-53K King Stallion was selected by the Israeli Ministry of Defense as the winner in their heavy lift helicopter competition. Upon contract award, our Sikorsky line of business will provide new CH-53K to replace the Israeli Air Force's current fleet of legacy Sikorsky 53-D aircraft. Israel will become the first international customer for our new 53-K variant, and we look forward to working with the Israeli Defense Force and the U.S. government to finalize the agreement.In our Missiles and Fire Control business area, the U.S. Army awarded our Precision Fires team a $2.8 billion contract for additional guided multiple launch rocket systems, or GMLRS, products and services that continue our relationships that's lasted for over 40 years. This quarter, MFC also delivered the 50,000 GMLR systems, another sign of the enduring demand of our signature programs.Moving to our space business area. The Missile Defense Agency down selected our space team for the next-generation interceptor program, awarding a $3.7 billion, five-year contract for technology development and risk reduction activities. This award leverages our internal investments and experience from our THAAD and other programs to deliver the capability to respond to multiple threats with a single interceptor. NGI will be a key element of homeland defense of our country against ballistic nuclear missiles, and we're extremely proud to be selected to pursue this opportunity.Our Space team also announced a strategic interest agreement with telecommunications firm omni space to explore collaborating on a hybrid communications network using both satellites and ground-based wireless technology.Tying together space and terrestrial systems into a seamless 5G network, has the potential to greatly enhance military applications and help manage complex information-centric warfare and all the operational domains. We continue to explore opportunities like this one with the goal of accelerating the benefits of commercial telecommunications technology into our 5G.mil initiative to rapidly increase the capabilities of our soldiers, sailors and airmen in the 21st century.I'll close by again highlighting Our space team and their contribution to the recent successful Mars Perseverance landing. Lockheed Martin Space designed and built the Mars 2020 Aero Shell, which encapsulated both the Perseverance Rover and the innovative Ingenuity drone helicopter, protecting them during entry and decent through the Martian atmosphere.Lockheed Martin also designed and built the Mars helicopter delivery system, which transported Ingenuity on the Rover and successfully deployed the helicopter for its historic first flights on Mars. We've built aeroshell systems for every one of NASA's Mars Rovers and Landers, and we've been part of every NASA Mars mission, beginning with the Viking program in the 1970s.We continue to incorporate innovative technologies and decades of experience into each new spacecraft, and we're excited to continue our Mars heritage with the Perseverance Program.These many achievements highlight the breadth of our portfolio, our focus on innovation and next gen technologies and our commitment to providing the United States and its allies with 21st century capabilities to support crucial, national security missions.And with that, I'll turn the call over to Ken.Kenneth R. Possenriede -- Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Jim, and good morning, everyone. As I highlight our accomplishments, please follow along with the web charts that we've included with our earnings release today.Let's begin with Chart 3 and an overview of our results for the quarter. We saw strong results in sales, segment operating profit, cash from operations and earnings per share this quarter while maintaining our backlog of $147 billion. We generated $1.7 billion of cash from operations, and we continued our balanced cash deployment actions, including the execution of our $1 billion accelerated share repurchase program this quarter, returning a total of $1.7 billion to our stockholders, including our quarterly dividend payments.With these results and strong performance from our Rotary and Mission Systems segment, we are able to increase our outlook for the year for all key financial metrics.And turning to Chart 4, we compare our sales and segment operating profit this year with last year's results. Sales grew 4% compared with last year to $16.3 billion, continuing our expected growth of the business, while segment operating profit was $1.7 billion. We had the segment operating margin of 10.8%, consistent with our expectations as we did not record any equity earnings this quarter due to no-launch events in our ULA joint venture at Space.Chart 5 shows our earnings per share for first quarter 2021. Our earnings per share of $6.56 was $0.48 above our results last year, driven by volume and, as Jim mentioned, includes $0.18 of a gain from investments in our ventures fund. And I'll discuss this a little more in a subsequent slide. This was partially offset by $0.10 in severance charges from previously announced actions taken to improve efficiency and lower total cost for our business.On Chart 6, we will discuss in more detail the cash return to our stockholders this quarter. Subtracting our capital expenditures from approximately $1.7 billion of cash from operations, our free cash flow was nearly $1.5 billion. By executing our planned share repurchases of $1 billion in the first quarter as well as providing our dividend of $2.60 per share, we were able to return 119% of free cash flow to our stockholders quarter.And moving on to Chart 7. As we noted, we are increasing our outlook for the current years for sales, segment operating profit, earnings per share and cash from operations.On Chart 8, we showed the increase to our sales guidance range of $200 million, and reflected in our estimated sales range for Rotary and Mission Systems. This increase reaffirms our growth for 2021 projected to increase year-over-year by 4%.On Chart 9, we show our outlook for segment operating profit by business area. And consistent with sales, we have increased our RMS in our outlook by $25 million.On Chart 10, we take a closer look at our increased guidance for 2021 earnings per share. As I noted a moment ago, we recorded a $68 million gain on strategic investments we hold in our Lockheed Martin Ventures fund, which translates to approximately $0.18 in earnings per share. As Jim noted previously, these investments are part of our growth strategy, focused on innovative technology and early stage companies and their valuations may fluctuate over time.Moving on, reduced tax expense as a result of the American Rescue Plan Act and the timing and execution of our share repurchases have also favorably impacted our outlook for EPS, as has the increased earnings we noted from Rotary and Mission Systems. There is an offset to incorporate the nonrecurring severance charge we discussed earlier. In total, our full year earnings per share outlook has increased by $0.40 at the midpoint of the range.On Chart 11, we will look at our increased cash flow forecast for 2021, and with increases also estimated for 2022 and 2023. With the passage of the American Rescue Plan Act, we are no longer planning to make a $1 billion discretionary pension contribution in 2021. This benefit is partially offset by reduced pension tax deductions with the net increase to cash estimated to be about $600 million. The net impact also improves our anticipated cash flow in '22 and '23. This change allows us to recover the entire $8.3 billion of existing CAS prefunding credits by 2026. And based upon this change in law and our current estimates and assumptions for future pension asset performance, we do not believe there will be a required pension cash contribution before the year 2026 and minimal contributions thereafter.In total, this change in legislation increases our three-year cash flow estimate by $1 billion, and combined with reduced future CAS expenses, will improve our cost competitiveness and our affordability to customers going forward. I should note, as I did on our last call that this outlook and trends are prior to an R&D tax deduction impact from the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act that's effective in 2022.And to conclude, on Chart 12, we have our summary. We believe that the first quarter of 2021 has laid the foundation for a strong year. Our backlog remains robust, and our key programs continue to deliver growth and sustained performance. We have increased our full year outlook for sales, operating profit, earnings per share and cash from operations. And as a result of a change in legislation, our three-year cash flow expectations have grown by $1 billion.And with that, John, we're ready to begin the Q&A.