
OperatorGreetings. Welcome to CBRE's Q1 2021 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] Please note this conference is being recorded. I will now turn the conference over to your host, Kristyn Farahmand. Ms. Farahmand, you may begin.Kristyn Farahmand -- Vice President of Investor Relation & Corporate FinanceGood morning, everyone, and welcome to CBRE's First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. Earlier today, we issued a press release announcing our financial results, which is posted on the Investor Relations page of our website, cbre.com, along with a presentation slide deck that you can use to follow along with our prepared remarks as well as an Excel file that contains additional supplemental materials. Our agenda for this morning's call will be as follows: first, I'll provide an overview of our financial results for the quarter. Next, Bob Sulentic, our President and CEO; and Leo sterns, our CFO, will discuss our quarterly results and updated 2021 qualitative outlook. After their comments, we'll open up the call for questions. Before I begin, I'll remind you that this presentation contains forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties.

 



Examples of these statements include our expectations regarding CBRE's future growth prospects including 2021 qualitative outlook and multiyear growth framework, operations, market share, capital deployment strategy and share repurchases, M&A and investment activity, financial performance, including profitability, expenses, margins, adjusted EPS and the effects of both cost savings initiatives and the COVID-19 pandemic and the integration and performance of acquisitions and any other statements regarding matters that are not historical fact. We urge you to consider these factors and remind you that we undertake no obligation to update the information contained on this call to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. You should be aware that these statements should be considered estimates only and certain factors may affect us in the future and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.For a full discussion of the risks and other factors that may impact these forward-looking statements, please refer to this morning's earnings release and our most recent annual and quarterly reports filed on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q, respectively. We have provided reconciliations of adjusted EPS, adjusted EBITDA, net revenue and certain other non-GAAP financial measures included in our remarks to the most directly comparable GAAP measures together with explanations of these measures in the appendix of the presentation slide deck.Before we discuss the quarter, I'll briefly outline a few changes to our financial reporting, which are summarized in our earnings release as well. First, we now report all project management revenue in our GWS segment. Previously, a portion of our project management revenue was reported in the advisory segment. Next, all sales and leasing revenue is now reported in the advisory segment. We will no longer report sales and leasing revenue from GWS clients in the GWS segment. Including all sales and leasing revenue in the advisory segment [Indecipherable] a more complete picture of transactional trends in our business. We have also established a fourth business segment where we will report corporate overhead expense and other financial impacts that are not specific to one of our three existing operational segments. This will provide greater transparency into our cost structure. Due to this change, we will be utilizing segment operating profit to evaluate the profitability of our operating segments, which excludes the impact of corporate overhead. Additionally, we will replace our fee revenue metric with net revenue to account for the impact of pass-through reimbursement revenue.Net revenue will only exclude reimbursement revenue that does not generate a margin for CBRE. We believe this will provide a clear view of our profitability profile, particularly in our GWS business. For this quarter, we have provided a bridge for our legacy and revised financial metrics and our quarterly supplemental posted to the Investor Relations section of our website. Going forward, we will only be reporting these updated financial metrics. Now please turn to Slide 4, which highlights our first quarter 2021 results. Total revenue grew about 1% to a new first quarter record of over $5.9 billion while net revenue fell 2%, reflecting continued constrained transaction activity in advisory services. The quarter saw a tangible benefit from both last year's transformation initiatives, which has improved our cost structure and operational agility and higher OMSR gains.

 



In total, our adjusted EBITDA margin expanded about 200 basis points rising to 14.6%, in line with our first quarter 2019 margin. Overall, adjusted EPS grew 15% to $0.86, while GAAP EPS grew 55% to $0.78. And importantly, GAAP EPS in the prior year first quarter included a $0.17 headwind from an asset impairment, which was in part related to the onset of the pandemic. The impairment was not included in adjusted EPS last year. Additionally, this quarter includes an $0.11 benefit from venture fund investment gains and an accounting methodology change within our investment management business. Excluding unusual items in both periods, EPS is roughly flat with first quarter 2020 on an adjusted and GAAP basis. Now for deeper insights, please turn to Slide six as I turn the call over to Bob.Bob Sulentic -- President, Chief Executive Officer & DirectorThanks, Kristyn, and good morning, everyone. CBRE is off to a strong start in 2021. Our performance is being propelled by our long-standing efforts to diversify our business across four key dimensions: property types, lines of business, geographic markets and client types. Last quarter, we described in detail how this diversification has enhanced the resiliency of our business. This played out in several ways during the first quarter. Geographically, while activity in some markets, notably the Americas remained muted, we saw solid growth in the United Kingdom, parts of Continental Europe, Australia, Southeast Asia and Greater China. Among business lines, mortgage origination and loan servicing, valuations, investment management and facilities management logged solid growth, offsetting a continued tepid sales and leasing environment. Industrial and data centers remain preferred property types. Our work in both property types grew robustly in the quarter, fueled by booming demand for e-commerce and cloud based services.Growth in these resilient property types helped to compensate for continued pressure on other property types, particularly office. Our client base is well diversified across the economy. In a quarter when activity with clients in some industries was down from a year ago, we saw particular strength in our work for life sciences and industrial and logistics companies, among others. The broad diversification of our business, coupled with decisive actions in 2020 to reset our cost structure, underpinned our earnings growth for the quarter, and we expect to see continued benefits in the quarters and years ahead. For full year 2021, we now expect adjusted earnings per share to meaningfully surpass 2019's peak level with potential upside from discretionary capital deployment. Notably, our outlook for 2021 and beyond envisions strong growth even with continued pressure on the office market. Clearly, that pressure remains very acute right now, particularly in densely populated gateway cities and will remain challenging for some time to come. However, we strongly believe the pressures on office were received from today's extreme levels as vaccine rollouts continue and companies settle into new normal work regimes.

 



We expect our growth to be enhanced by capital deployment that is focused on sectors and business lines that are positioned to benefit significantly from secular growth trends. You saw evidence of this with our investment in Industrious in the first quarter, which positions us to participate in the rising demand for flexible space solutions. And you can expect to see more evidence of that in future partnerships, sponsorships and M&A activity. Now Leah will tell you more about the quarter, our outlook and our capital deployment strategy. Leah?Leah Stearns -- Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Bob. Turning to Slide 8. Segment operating profit for Advisory Services was nearly flat despite a 5% net revenue decline. The revenue shortfall reflects continued pressure in high-margin sales and leasing businesses, which we offset with disciplined cost management, strong GSE servicing activity and elevated OMSR gains as well as growth in the other advisory lines of business. Overall, our advisory segment operating profit margin expanded about 100 basis points compared with a year ago. Excluding the OMSR gains in both years, the margin improved 20 basis points to about 17.2%. The as expected, global leasing revenue remained under pressure declining 17%, due primarily to weak office leasing in the Americas. We did see modest sequential improvement in Americas office leasing, as revenue fell 47% versus the 58% decline we experienced in the fourth quarter.Activity was stronger in other geographies and property types. For example, APAC leasing rose a healthy 11% as retail and industrial jumped 25% and 38%, respectively, while office was flat with a year ago. EMEA leasing grew 4%, reflecting surging industrial demand, which outweighed moderate office and retail declines. Notably, China and Australia, where the pandemic remains well in check have seen office occupancy return to pre-COVID levels, which has coincided with improving leasing trends in these markets. Advisory sales continued to improve sequentially declining just 9% versus the 16% decline in the fourth quarter. This improvement was paced by APAC, where sales dipped just 2%, reflecting particularly robust retail and industrial activity. Americas and EMEA sales fell around 10% and 13%, respectively, due primarily to sharply lower office sales. Excluding the sales and leasing business lines, net revenue rose 7% and comprised nearly half of the advisory segment's total net revenue.Commercial mortgage origination revenue rose nearly 14% in the quarter, reflecting strong GSE lending, including for affordable housing. This activity also reflects the benefit of continued strong refinancing and a pickup in construction activity. As a result of the strong pace of loan originations, our loan servicing portfolio increased 19% to nearly $285 billion, while servicing revenue rose over 21%. Valuation revenue was up 8%. Activity was particularly strong in the Pacific region, where valuation revenue increased over 35%. And finally, property management net revenue grew over 2%, primarily driven by expanded and new client relationships in APAC. This offset a modest decline in the U.S. as we exited a low-margin contract and transferred a few accounts to our local facilities management business in GWS. Moving to Slide 9. Global Workplace Solutions revenue and net revenue edged up 4% and 1%, respectively. On a net revenue basis, facilities management rose 4%, while project management decreased 7%.The decline in project management was driven by the legacy advisory project management business. Project work for these clients tends to be tied to space fit out, resulting from new leases. And thus should improve as leasing markets recover. Revenue associated with GWS contractual clients was up moderately in the quarter. Modest top line growth, coupled with continued discipline in cost management and the benefit of transformation initiatives undertaken in 2020 led to segment operating profit growth of 42%. As we mentioned last year, Q1 did include an $11 million drag from the reduced scope of a client accounts. Adjusting for this unique item, segment operating profit was still up 29%. Importantly, we have seen a meaningful ramp in our facilities management new business pipeline, and it now exceeds the year-end 2019 level. The acceleration since year-end has been broad-based and diversified across geographies, industry sectors, notably life sciences, manufacturing and logistics, professional services and technology clients and among property types, including data centers, retail, office and manufacturing facilities. Turning to Slide 10. Our Real Estate Investments segment generated $61 million of segment operating profit, an $18 million increase from Q1 2020. Investment Management revenue grew 9% to $132 million.This revenue growth was fueled by a 16% increase in asset management fees generated by our strong growth in assets under management, which reached a new record level of over $124 billion as well as stronger incentives and development fees as well as co-investment gains. In addition, we recorded a $24 million benefit from an accounting change related to the valuation of unlisted assets, which should help reduce earnings volatility going forward. This partially offset lower carried interest, which declined $14 million to about $5 million in the quarter. Operating profit for this business line rose to $69 million, an increase of over 200%. Development operating profit fell to $9 million. This decrease was primarily due to the timing of certain asset sales, which were particularly strong in the prior year first quarter. On a trailing 12-month basis, development operating profit has grown about 36%. Our in-process development portfolio reached a new record at $15 billion, importantly, three asset types that remain in strong demand, multifamily, industrial and healthcare, plus office buildings that are at least 90% leased, comprise more than 80% of this portfolio. Our development pipeline also grew 11% from year-end to $6.8 billion. Lastly, Hana's higher operating loss primarily reflects certain deal costs and software writedowns associated with the Industrious transaction.We remain on course to close on the increase in our Industrial stake from 35% to 40% during the second quarter. Turning to Slide 11. Let's now take a look at our new qualitative outlook for the year. Transaction activity is improving more quickly than we initially anticipated. This is especially true for global property sales and leasing outside the Americas. As a result, we have raised our outlook for 2021 transaction revenue growth to the low double-digit range. Earlier, we had expected growth in the mid- to high single digits. We expect the rebound in transaction revenue to be most pronounced in the second quarter, since we will be comparing against the most depressed levels of the pandemic. Across the rest of our advisory businesses, we continue to expect high single-digit growth. We expect improved profitability as well given the revival of transaction revenue. For 2021, we anticipate our advisory segment operating profit margin on net revenue will slightly surpass the 19.7%, pre pandemic peak achieved in 2019. Moving to GWS. We are raising our expectations for segment operating profit, while maintaining our revenue forecast in the high single-digit range.We are benefiting from exceptional cost discipline, which we believe will allow us to reverse certain temporary expense cuts more slowly than originally anticipated. As a result, we now expect GWS segment operating profit to grow in the mid- to high teens range this year. Looking at REI, we expect this segment to build on its record profitability contribution in 2020 with both investment management and development poised for sharply improved performance. In Investment management, we expect revenue to slightly surpass 2020's $475 million with continued increases in recurring revenue being offset by lower carried interest. We expect this business line's profitability, which totaled $140 million in 2020, to rise from that level at a mid- to high teens pace. We project U.S. development profit to rise by more than 30% compared with last year's $150 million level. Our improved outlook reflects a strong pace of monetization and higher property valuations than we originally projected. Our in process portfolio continues to grow with an emphasis on warehouse and distribution space. For our U.K. multifamily development business, we expect the pace of construction to pick up as COVID restrictions lift and reiterate our earlier expectation for this business. Profitability is expected to be about $15 million higher than the $3 million generated in 2020.Due to our improved revenue outlook and the benefit of transformation initiatives completed last year, we expect our adjusted EBITDA margin on net revenue to modestly exceed the 14% level achieved in 2019. This includes an expected uptick in corporate expenses, primarily related to higher performance-based stock compensation and certain OpEx investments for growth initiatives. All in, as Bob indicated, we now expect our 2021 adjusted EPS to meaningfully surpass our pre-pandemic peak of $3.71 achieved in 2019, with potential upside from capital allocation activities. The anticipated growth for this year is likely to be significantly above the trend line we provided in our long-term aspirational outlook last quarter. Flipping to Slide 12. We retain significant financial capacity to accelerate long-term growth while also returning cash to our shareholders. We believe that we have significantly reduced the volatility of our financial results and enhanced free cash flow potential.The record free cash flow we generated in 2020, combined with the prudent way we managed our balance sheet ahead of the crisis, positions us to deploy capital as economic conditions improve. Our efforts have already begun. So far this year, we've invested about $200 million on capital expenditures, M&A and partnership investments while buying back approximately $88 million of shares, including $64 million in the first quarter. We have a strong M&A pipeline and expect to continue programmatic share repurchases. However, given our strong balance sheet and free cash flow generation, it is highly unlikely we will approach the high end of our target leverage range within our current long-term planning period, absent a transformational investment. In closing, we are optimistic about our outlook for 2021 and beyond. We have a strong industry leadership position and management team, well diversified business, loyal client base and the capital structure to fund future growth and optimize shareholder returns. And with that, operator, we'll take questions.