  OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Lilly Q4 2021 earnings call. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, today's conference is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to vice president of investor relations, Kevin Hern. Please go ahead.Kevin Hern -- Vice President of Investor Relations Good morning. Thank you for joining us for Eli Lilly and Company's Q4 2021 earnings call. I'm Kevin Hern, vice president of investor relations. And joining me on today's call are Dave Ricks, Lilly's chair and CEO; Anat Ashkenazi, chief financial officer; Dr.

 



 Dan Skovronsky, chief scientific and medical officer; Anne White, president of Lilly Neuroscience; Ilya Yuffa, president of Lilly International; Jake Van Naarden, CEO of Loxo Oncology at Lilly and president of Lilly Oncology; Mike Mason, president of Lilly Diabetes; and Patrik Jonsson, president of Lilly Immunology and Lilly USA. We're also joined by Lauren Zierke, Kento Ueha and Sara Smith of the investor relations team. During this conference call, we anticipate making projections and forward-looking statements based on our current expectations. Our actual results could differ materially due to a number of factors, including those listed on Slide 3.Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially is contained in our latest Form 10-K and subsequent Forms 10-Q and 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information we provide about our products and pipeline is for the benefit of the investment community. It is not intended to be promotional and is not sufficient for prescribing decisions. As we transition to our prepared remarks, please note that our commentary will focus on non-GAAP financial measures. Now I'll turn the call over to Dave. Dave Ricks -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thanks, Kevin. 2021 was another outstanding year for Lilly as we delivered strong top and bottom-line growth and positive pivotal readouts for five important assets with the potential to launch in the next two years. As we move into 2022, we continue to build on this foundation and are determined to deliver on our long-term outlook to drive top-tier revenue growth, expand operating margins and innovate to develop and launch new medicines for patients that address significant unmet needs. Unpacking our 2021 performance on Slide 4. You can see the progress we've made on our strategic deliverables. Q4 revenue growth was 8% and was driven by volume growth of 11% while when excluding revenue from COVID-19 antibodies, revenue grew 6% for the quarter and 10% for the full year. This volume-driven performance is attributable to our key growth products, which grew by 28% and now account for 61% of our core business in Q4. On our non-GAAP, gross margin was 76.1% in Q4, a decrease of approximately 250 basis points, driven by increased sales of COVID-19 antibodies, which have a lower gross margin profile. Our non-GAAP operating margin was 31.7%, representing a decrease of approximately 130 basis points as a result of the lower gross margin percent just mentioned. For pipeline milestones, we have shared several important updates since our Q3 earnings call, including additional positive Phase 3 readouts for mirikizumab in ulcerative colitis and lebrikizumab in atopic dermatitis, the initiation of a rolling submission in the U.S. for pirtobrutinib in mantle cell lymphoma and our submission of bebtelovimab to the FDA for emergency use authorization for the treatment of mild to moderate COVID-19. We also continue to put our cash flow to work to create long-term value and recently announced our plans to make significant investments in new manufacturing sites in both North Carolina and Ireland. These investments will bolster the resilience and capacity of our supply chain as we launch new products to drive meaningful long-term growth. In addition, this quarter, we announced strategic research collaborations with a focus on new modalities as we continue to augment internal discovery capabilities. Finally, on financials, we announced a 15% increase to the dividend for the fourth consecutive year. And in Q4, we distributed nearly $800 million to shareholders via the dividend and completed another $750 million in share repurchases.

 



 Moving to Slides 5 and 6. You'll see a list of key events since our Q3 earnings call, including several important regulatory, clinical, business development and COVID-19 therapy updates we are discussing today or that were part of the discussion during our December 15 investment community meeting. So now, I'll turn the call over to Anat to review our Q4 and full year 2021 results.Anat Ashkenazi -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Dave. Slides 7 and 8 summarize financial performance in the fourth quarter and full year 2021. I'll focus my comments on non-GAAP performance. In Q4, revenue grew 8% and revenue excluding COVID-19 antibodies increased 6%, highlighting solid momentum for our core business. Full year revenue growth was 10% on that latter basis. Gross margin as a percent of revenue declined 250 basis points to 76.1% in Q4. The decrease in gross margin percent was driven by higher sales of COVID-19 antibodies with shipments this quarter of bamlanivimab and etesevimab also having lower gross margin profile compared to bamlanivimab sales in the base period. Total operating expenses grew 5% this quarter. Marketing, selling and administrative expenses increased 2% while R&D expenses increased 7%, driven by higher development expenses for late-stage pipeline opportunities, including donanemab, pirtobrutinib and tirzepatide, which were partially offset by lower development expenses for COVID-19 therapies. We invested approximately $40 million in research and development for COVID-19 therapies in Q4, bringing our total COVID-19 R&D investment to approximately $400 million for the full year. Operating income increased 3% compared to Q4 2020, and operating income as a percent of revenue was 31.7% for the quarter, a decrease of 130 basis points. This decrease was driven by lower gross margin percent partially offset by lower marketing, selling and administrative expenses as a percent of revenue. Full year operating margin was 29.9%, in line with our expectations. Other income and expense was an expense of approximately $7 million this quarter compared to an expense of $31 million in Q4 2020. Our Q4 effective tax rate was 10.3%, a decrease of 280 basis points, driven primarily by net discrete tax benefits. At the bottom line, we delivered solid growth as earnings per share increased 8% in Q4 and 20% for the full year. On Slide 9, we quantify the effect of price, rate and volume on revenue growth, and we continue to be encouraged by the growth seen across key geographies. This quarter, U.S. revenue grew 13%. Excluding revenue from COVID-19 antibodies, revenue grew 11% in the U.S. This growth driven by volume was led by Trulicity, Taltz, Jardiance, Verzenio and Olumiant. The net price decline of 2% in the U.S. this quarter was driven by lower realized prices for insulins, primarily due to changes to estimates for rebates and discounts. For the full year, our U.S. net price decrease of 1% was in line with our expectations. Moving to Europe. Revenue in Q4 declined 3% in constant currency. Excluding the impact of the loss of exclusivity for Alimta, revenue grew 11% in constant currency, driven primarily by volume growth for Trulicity, Olumiant, Taltz and Verzenio. We are encouraged with the momentum of our business in Europe and expect continued growth excluding Alimta. In Japan, revenue in Q4 decreased 14% in constant currency. Revenue in Japan continues to be negatively impacted by decreased demand for several products that have lost market exclusivity, including Cymbalta and Alimta, as well as by the COVID pandemic. With key growth products now representing 56% of total Japan revenue, we expect to return to growth beginning in 2023. In China, revenue grew 13% in constant currency, primarily driven by volume from our continued uptake of Tyvyt and Trulicity, as well as the timing of supply for Cialis to the third-party selling the product. Q4 revenue growth was negatively affected by the updated 2022 NRDL price reductions on inventory already in the channel, especially for Tyvyt. In 2022, we expect the NRDL price reduction headwind to largely offset volume growth in Q1, but we also expect volume growth to accelerate throughout the year and exceed the impact of these price reductions. Moving forward, we're excited about the significant growth we're seeing in China, over 40% in constant currency in 2021, with improved access expected to continue to drive future growth. Revenue in the rest of the world increased 16% in constant currency this quarter, driven primarily by sales of neuro medicine. We continue to expect a mid-single-digit net price decline in 2022 for the U.S., Europe and Japan. In China, the expanded NRDL access for our products should lead to significant volume increase but also high double-digit decline in price. As a result, we expect total company net price decline in the high single digit in 2022. At the bottom of the slide is the price, rate and volume effect on revenue for all 2021, which shows strong double-digit volume-driven revenue growth across most major geographies. As shown on Slide 10, our key growth products continue to drive robust worldwide volume growth. These products drove 14 percentage points of growth this quarter and continue to bolster our overall performance and outlook. Slide 11 further highlights the contribution of our key growth products. This quarter, these brands generated over $4.2 billion in revenue and made up 61% of our core business revenue. In Q4, these newer medicines grew by 28%, and Trulicity, Jardiance, Taltz and Verzenio all continued to outgrow their respective classes. We are particularly pleased with the continued market growth of both the GLP-1 and the SGLT2 classes where Trulicity and Jardiance are market leaders. We are also encouraged by the strong uptake of Verzenio we saw in Q4, driven by the approval and launch of the adjuvant indication, which has led to an inflection in both new and total prescriptions. On Slide 12, we provide an update on capital allocation. In 2021, we invested $9.3 billion to drive our future growth through a combination of R&D expenditures, business development outlays and capital investments. In addition, we returned approximately $3.1 billion to shareholders in dividends and repurchased approximately $1.3 billion in stock. Our capital allocation priorities remain unchanged as we continue to fund our marketed products and expected launches, invest in our pipeline, evaluate opportunities for external innovation to augment our future growth prospects and return excess capital to shareholders. On Slide 13 is our 2022 financial guidance we issued in December. As I shared then, the financial impact from the loss of exclusivity of Alimta in Europe and Japan will continue in the first half of 2022 while the impact from Alimta's U.S. patent expiry will start with the limited launch from a single generic company in Q1 before the full launch of additional generic entrants starting in Q2. We expect roughly $375 million of revenue from COVID-19 antibodies in Q1 from the shipment of the remaining doses attributable to last November's U.S. government purchase agreement. We continue to invest in our bright future, advancing promising R&D opportunities and preparing for exciting potential launches from our late-stage pipeline, which we believe will help drive top-tier revenue growth through at least 2030. Now I'll turn the call over to Dan to provide an update on our pipeline.Dan Skovronsky -- Chief Scientific and Medical Officer Thank you, Anat. 2021 was a remarkable year for Lilly's pipeline. We delivered positive data on five molecules: tirzepatide, donanemab, pirtobrutinib, mirikizumab and lebrikizumab, all of which have the potential to launch in the next two years. And we're excited about the potential these molecules hold for patients. In addition, we launched and submitted several key new indications for in-market products, including important new indications for Verzenio and Jardiance. And also, we advanced our early stage pipeline. Just a few weeks ago, we provided an extensive R&D update across our therapeutic areas and shared our excitement about the next wave of innovation coming from Lilly. As a result, today's R&D update will be brief and focus on the progress we've made since our last earnings call. Slide 14 shows select pipeline opportunities as of January 31, and Slides 15 and 16 show a recap of 2021 key events and potential key events for 2022. In diabetes, with the recent submission in Japan, we've now submitted tirzepatide across all major geographies for the treatment of Type 2 diabetes. We look forward to potential approvals for this important medicine this year. We anticipate U.S. regulatory action in Type 2 diabetes, as well as the top-line readout from SURMOUNT-1, both by midyear. In Japan, we submitted Jardiance for heart failure with preserved ejection fraction and received approval for Jardiance for treatment of heart failure with reduced ejection fraction. Moving to oncology. We shared encouraging updated data at ASH for pirtobrutinib for both chronic lymphocytic leukemia and mantle cell lymphoma. We continue to progress this molecule and initiated another Phase 3 study in first-line CLL comparing pirtobrutinib to chemoimmunotherapy. During our December meeting, we also announced the initiation of a rolling submission for pirtobrutinib for MCL in the U.S. We plan to complete this submission this year with anticipated regulatory action in early 2023, and we're excited to potentially bring this important medicine to patients on this accelerated time line. For Verzenio, we received approval for high-risk early breast cancer in Japan for the Cohort 1 population study to monarchE and are pleased that this approval represents 90% of the intent-to-treat population. We've also made the difficult decision to terminate further enrollment in the Phase 3 study of Verzenio for HR+/HER2+ early breast cancer in response to the changing treatment landscape and global enrollment challenges. Importantly, this decision does not change our commitment to and investment in breast cancer. In addition, we began a Phase 3 study for selpercatinib for the treatment of adjuvant RET-positive non-small cell lung cancer, and we also dosed the first patient in the U.S. trial of our BCL-2 inhibitor. In immunology, we announced positive top-line data for our Phase 3 maintenance study of mirikizumab in ulcerative colitis. We're pleased that the study met all primary and key secondary endpoints, and we look forward to submissions in the first half of this year. We also announced positive top-line Phase 3 results for lebrikizumab in combination with topical corticosteroids, and we're encouraged that data to date has demonstrated a competitive profile for treatment of atopic dermatitis. We await maintenance data for lebrikizumab in the first half of this year in advance of global submissions which are expected by the end of 2022. Moving to baricitinib. We announced last week that based on top-line efficacy results from two Phase 3 trials, we've decided to discontinue the Phase 3 development program for lupus. For atopic dermatitis in the U.S., we're in ongoing discussions with the FDA but do not have alignment with the agency on the indicated population, which could possibly lead to a complete response letter. We expect regulatory action for this indication very soon. Finally, we have submitted baricitinib for alopecia areata in the U.S. and hope it will become the first medicine approved for patients living with this disease later this year. In our early phase immunology portfolio, we started a new Phase 1 study for a CD19 antibody and we've discontinued our oral IL-17 inhibitor. Moving to neurodegeneration. In our early phase pipeline, we announced that we've received Breakthrough Therapy Designation for N3pG4, an additional amyloid-lowering agent for which we intend to initiate pivotal trials by the end of this year. We have evidence that this therapy has completely and rapidly cleared amyloid plaque, and we're exploring flexible dosing regimens, including subcutaneous dosing. For the treatment of Alzheimer's disease, we also began a Phase 2 trial for our O-GlcNAcase inhibitor, an oral small molecule targeting tau. While donanemab has been a primary focus for investors, we're pleased with the continued clinical advancement of the rest of our neurodegeneration pipeline. Now turning to donanemab. In December, we initiated two additional Phase 3 studies: TRAILBLAZER-ALZ 3, our prevention study for asymptomatic Alzheimer's disease; and TRAILBLAZER-ALZ 4, our head-to-head plaque clearance study compared to Aduhelm. It's been less than one year since we published the positive randomized controlled TRAILBLAZER-ALZ study, which demonstrated clinically meaningful benefits on endpoints of cognition and function. Since then, we have focused investors on the need for replication from our well-designed expanded Phase 3 study, TRAILBLAZER-ALZ 2, which is now fully enrolled and expected to read out in mid-2023. While a lot has happened in this space during this last year and more events are likely before we get top-line results next year, what hasn't changed for us is the importance of the TRAILBLAZER-ALZ 2 readout and our confidence in both donanemab and the unique study design. Given the impact of this devastating disease, we believe that if TRAILBLAZER-ALZ 2 provides positive confirmatory data, we can't see a scenario where there's not global reimbursement, patient access and broad use of donanemab. We noted last year that we had low expectations for the use of donanemab during the period between potential accelerated approval and the availability of confirmatory Phase 3 data in mid-2023. We're disappointed with the position that Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services has taken in its draft national coverage determination decision, and those low expectations could now extend for some months beyond the TRAILBLAZER-ALZ 2 readout if reconsideration of CMS coverage determination is required, given historical time lines for this process. While the accelerated approval pathway was instituted by the FDA to allow for earlier approval of drugs that treat serious conditions and fill an unmet medical need, hence providing valuable access to more patients faster than what is available under clinical trials, the NCD as currently written essentially negates that patient benefit in Alzheimer's disease. Still, we intend to complete our application for accelerated approval for donanemab yet this year, but we now move completion of the accelerated approval submission out of Q1. We expect further volatility and expectations as competitor Alzheimer's disease trials read out prior to our definitive data. We remain confident in the differentiation of donanemab and in our uniquely designed TRAILBLAZER-ALZ 2 study. And importantly, the long-term opportunity to help patients with donanemab remains unchanged. Lastly, with respect to our progress with COVID-19 therapies, earlier this year, we submitted a request to the FDA for Emergency Use Authorization for bebtelovimab for treatment of mild to moderate COVID-19 for patients at high risk for progression to severe COVID-19, including hospitalization or death. This is the third antibody we have developed for the treatment of COVID-19, and authentic virus and pseudovirus assays demonstrate that bebtelovimab retains neutralization activity against Omicron, as well as all other known variants of concern. We've produced several hundred thousand doses of bebtelovimab and stand ready to supply as needed if this antibody receives EUA from the FDA. In addition, we've also submitted a supplemental NDA for baricitinib for treatment of hospitalized patients with COVID-19 and expect regulatory action by the middle of this year. Baricitinib currently has an EUA for this indication. We're proud of the therapies we've delivered to help combat the COVID-19 pandemic, and we'll continue to do our part as public health needs emerge. In summary, Q4 was another productive quarter for R&D at Lilly, capping what was an outstanding year of pipeline progress on behalf of patients. Now I'll turn the call back to Dave.Dave Ricks -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Dan. Before we move to Q&A, let me summarize the progress we made during 2021. We delivered strong revenue growth in our core business, propelled by our key growth products. We continue to invest heavily in our pipeline and made significant progress in 2021 generating positive Phase 3 data for five new potential medicines, tirzepatide, donanemab, pirtobrutinib, mirikizumab and lebrikizumab, that we expect we will launch in the next two years. We also delivered positive data and launched important new indications for Jardiance and Verzenio while we continue to bolster our pipeline through business development with a focus on new modalities. Finally, we returned $4.35 billion to shareholders via the dividend and share repurchases and for the fourth consecutive year, announced a 15% dividend increase. As we move into 2022, we are excited to continue the progress of turning pipeline value into cash flow, starting with the potential launch of tirzepatide and the submissions of donanemab, pirtobrutinib, mirikizumab and lebrikizumab. These opportunities remind us that our purpose has never been more relevant and highlight the promise of turning science into treatments or cures for some of the most challenging human diseases like diabetes, obesity, Alzheimer's, cancers and autoimmune disorders. We are steadfast in our commitment to improve the lives of millions of patients who rely on us and are confident in our business outlook. So now, I'll turn the call over to Kevin to moderate the Q&A session.Kevin Hern -- Vice President of Investor Relations Thanks, Dave. We would like to take questions from as many callers as possible. [Operator instructions] Lois, please provide the instructions for the Q&A session, and then we're ready for the first caller. 