
OperatorGood morning, and welcome to the Citrix Q1 2021 Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms. Traci Tsuchiguchi, Vice President of Investor Relations.Traci Tsuchiguchi -- Vice President, Investor RelationsThank you, Ryan.OperatorPlease go ahead.Traci Tsuchiguchi -- Vice President, Investor RelationsGreat. Thank you, Ryan. Good morning, and thank you for joining us today for today's first quarter 2021 earnings call. Participating on the call will be David Henshall, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Arlen Shenkman, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Please note that we have posted our first quarter earnings letter to our Investor Relations website.I'd like to remind you that today's conversation will contain forward-looking statements made under the safe harbor provision of the U.S. Securities Law. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated. Additional information concerning these and other factors is highlighted in today's earnings letter and in the company's filings with the SEC. Copies are available from the SEC or on our Investor Relations website.On this call, we will discuss various non-GAAP financial measures as defined by SEC's Regulation G. The reconciliation of the differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures discussed on today's call can be found at the end of our earnings letter found on the Investor Relations page of our website.Now, I'd like to turn the call over to David, our President and Chief Executive Officer. David?David J. Henshall -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Tracy. Good morning, everybody, and welcome. Thanks for joining us today. I'm pleased with the momentum in the business, especially around our cloud adoption and the migration of our installed base. Our transition to the cloud is progressing well and we expect our first quarter results to mark the trough in terms of the impact on the business model, the income statement. So beginning the second quarter and then continuing throughout the year, we expect to see top line acceleration of in our income statement metrics as these headwinds that we've been dealing with on the model transition turn and become a tailwind.To provide insight into the transitioning business model, we've been reporting ARR metrics for subscription in SaaS, and then beginning today we're also disclosing total ARR, which includes perpetual license maintenance contracts. In Q1, the organic performance of these metrics, excluding any contribution from the Wrike acquisition showed continuing strength. In fact, SaaS ARR accelerated to 43% year-on-year growth and total ARR was up 15% from last year. So overall, the fundamentals in Q1 were actually quite strong. I'd like to note that this quarter involved, really included three unique items that impacted recognized revenue and I want to cover those briefly here in detail before we open up the call for Q&A.The first is the Wrike acquisition, which closed at the end of February. Second item, as we experienced supply chain constraints in our hardware business impacting over $10 million worth of product. So, we expect these issues may persist for several quarters. So, we're adjusting our full year expectations accordingly. And the third issue was the duration on-premise term-based subscriptions, really influenced by the limited use licenses that we sold to customers at the beginning of the COVID pandemic. So, as a reminder, in Q1 2020 it benefited by $47 million related to this license type. So far, we've either converted to cloud subscriptions or issued new term-based licenses for about $50 million of total bookings value against this group. We have ongoing conversations with many more about Citrix Cloud migration.So the limited use business continuity licences really generally fell into three categories. First one, project specific use cases, like a U.S. government agency that planned on building field hospitals to treat COVID patients. Obviously, those licenses would have no use beyond the project. Second group would be companies that are adopting a hybrid work style post pandemic. Many of these customers are either evaluating or they are already beginning to migrate these licenses and their overall Citrix infrastructure to Citrix Cloud. And then the third group are employers that are supporting temporary work from home and they're really still assessing their long-term work and their real estate plans. The customers in this third cohort tended to opt for shorter duration on-prem term contracts versus multi-year subscriptions in Q1.Now, let me just give you a little context here. We estimate that recognized revenue in the quarter would be about $25 million higher if it wasn't for the shorter on-prem term license duration. In hindsight, of course, these dynamics are really not surprising, but they are different than what our guidance recalls. In the aggregate, business continuity licences expand our installed base and of course subsequent opportunity for these to move to the cloud over time through migration. Going forward, we continue to encourage investors to focus on annualized recognized revenue, of course, which we believe provides the most accurate measure of the underlying business performance.So, operator, with that, let's go ahead and open up the call for questions now.