  OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Q1 2021 Fifth Third Bancorp earning conference call. [Operator instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Chris Doll, director of investor relations.Chris Doll -- Director of Investor Relations Thank you. Good morning and thank you, everyone for joining us. Today, we'll be discussing Fifth Third's financial results for the first quarter of 2021. Please review the cautionary statements in our materials, which can be found in our earnings release and presentation.

 



 These materials contain reconciliations to non-GAAP measures, along with information pertaining to the use of non-GAAP measures, as well as forward-looking statements about Fifth Third's performance. We undertake no obligation to, and would not expect to, update any such forward-looking statements after the date of this call. This morning, I'm joined by our CEO, Greg Carmichael; CFO, Jamie Leonard; president, Tim Spence; and Chief Credit Officer, Richard Stein. Following prepared remarks by Greg and Jamie, we'll open the call for questions.Let me turn the call over to Greg now for his comments. Greg Carmichael -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Chris and thank all of you for joining us this morning. Hope you're all well and staying healthy. Earlier today, we reported first quarter net income of $694 million or $0.93 per share. We continued our positive momentum from the past several quarters and once again delivered strong financial results in the first quarter.

 



 These strong results reflect record commercial banking fee revenue, continued success generating consumer household growth and a strong underlying net interest margin. Our performance reflects focused execution on our key strategic priorities. We continue to benefit from the diversification and resilience of our fee-based businesses in retail, mortgage, commercial and wealth and asset management, which are generating strong results and helping to cushion the impact of lower short-term rates. We have maintained our disciplined client selection and conservative underwriting, which are evident in our credit metrics. During the quarter, we recorded a benefit in our provision for credit losses, reflecting a stronger economic outlook as well as historically low net charge-offs, which included improvements in both our commercial and consumer loan portfolios. In addition to muted credit losses, our criticized assets and NPLs also improved sequentially. Non-performing loans decreased 11% from the prior quarter, with NPL inflows at the lowest level since the third quarter of 2019. Our balance sheet and earnings power remain very strong. As a result, our robust CET1 ratio further improved to 10.5% this quarter. Our CET1 target remains at 9.5%. As we have stated many times before, we are focused on deploying capital for organic growth opportunities, evaluating nonbank opportunities where it fits our strategy and share repurchases. Based on our current dividend, trailing 4 quarters of net income, we have the capacity to repurchase shares up to $347 million in the second quarter. After that, we have more flexibility in terms of how and when we return capital to shareholders under the SCB framework. Jamie will provide more details on our capital plan. The improved macroeconomic data and outlook are aligned with our strongest overall commercial loan production since before the pandemic. Furthermore, we have seen our pipeline strengthen considerably over the past 90 days, with significant strength in manufacturing, renewables, healthcare and technology, partially offset by new demand in leisure and hospitality and CRE.

 



 Production was offset by elevated payoffs and paydowns, combined with another 1% decline in line utilization. We have retained the customer and their core banking relationship as virtually none of our commercial payoffs during the quarter were the result of client attrition. Additionally, paydowns in our corporate bank largely reflected clients tapping the capital markets, where we benefited significantly from additional capital market fees. Given the strong production trends, firming pipeline and retention of the client relationship, we remain well positioned to take advantage of a more favorable economic backdrop so clients execute their growth plans in the second half of 2021. We will continue to assess the implications of client supply chain constraints as we progress through the year. Consumer employment, savings and spending trends also remain favorable, given the fiscal stimulus-pumped demand and a gradual reopening of the economy throughout our footprint. Despite the overall economic recovery over the past several quarters, I recognize that not everyone in our society has benefited equally. This is why I'm very proud that, in addition to producing strong financial results, we have also continued to take deliberate actions to improve the lives of our customers and the well-being of our communities. I am particularly pleased that we exceeded our five year $32 billion commitment to invest in low and moderate-income communities by more than $9 billion. We also recently announced a $2.8 billion commitment in support of racial equality, focused on lending, investing and financial accessibility. We also announced a new banking product this quarter called momentum banking, which competes with the fintechs and is now our flagship mass market banking offering. Momentum banking provides customers with liquidity solutions in our newly enhanced mobile app to help them avoid unnecessary fees, including immediate access to funds from digital deposits, short-term, on-demand borrowing options, simple goal-based savings targets, free customer access to their paycheck to 2 days earlier with a qualifying direct deposit starting in June and no monthly service fees. In addition, we were honored to once again be named one of the World's Most Ethical Companies by Ethisphere, also reflecting our strong corporate culture, compliance program and ESG actions. We are one of just 5 banks globally to receive this accolade this year. We believe our balance sheet strength, diversified revenues and continued focus on disciplined expense management will serve us well in 2021 and beyond. We remain committed to generating sustainable long-term value for shareholders and anticipate that we will continue improving our relative performance as a top regional bank. I would like to once again thank all our employees. I am very proud of the way you have continually risen to the occasion to support our customers and each other over the past year. You have enabled Fifth Third to continue to be a source of strength for our customers and our communities. With that, I'll turn it over to Jamie to discuss our first-quarter results and our current outlook.Jamie Leonard -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Greg and thank all of you for joining us today. We generated strong returns this quarter, reflecting our solid operating performance and continued improvement in credit quality. We produced an adjusted ROA of 1.4% and an ROTCE, excluding AOCI, of 19.8%. PPNR results were also strong, driven by strength in both NII and fees. Consequently, expenses were elevated relative to our previous guidance due to performance and market-linked compensation expenses. We recorded a $244 million release to our credit reserves this quarter, which lowered our ACL ratio from 2.41% to 2.19%. Our historically low charge-offs, which came in better than expected, combined with an improving economic outlook versus previous expectations, resulted in a $173 million net benefit to the provision for credit losses. Continuing with the income statement performance. Net interest income declined just 1% sequentially due to the lower day count and a reduction in prepayment penalties received in the securities portfolio compared to the fourth quarter. This was partially offset by the impact of $2.1 billion in government-guaranteed residential mortgage forbearance loans purchased from a third-party servicer in December and another $600 million in March. We have continued to take action to prudently deploy excess liquidity in order to improve our NII trajectory for 2021, and these loans provided a more attractive risk-adjusted return relative to other alternatives. Our first-quarter NII results also included approximately $12 million in incremental PPP fees, reflecting loan forgiveness compared to the fourth quarter. Additionally, as we discussed previously, our prior-quarter NII results included prepayment penalty income for our investment portfolio, which declined $10 million sequentially. From a liability management perspective, we reduced our interest-bearing core deposit costs another 2 basis points this quarter, resulting in a cost of only 6 basis points. Reported NIM increased 4 basis points sequentially, reflecting a decline in excess cash, incremental PPP forgiveness fees and day count, partially offset by the aforementioned securities prepayment penalty income decline. Underlying NIM, excluding PPP and excess cash, decreased just 4 basis points to 310 basis points. With a top-quartile margin relative to peers, an asset-sensitive balance sheet and over $30 billion in excess liquidity, we believe that we remain well positioned for a higher rate environment, while also benefiting from structural protection against lower rates, given our securities and hedge portfolios. Additionally, we have updated our interest rate risk disclosures to reflect a 38% deposit beta to better align with our future expectations based on the last rate hike cycle experience. In a plus-100-basis-point scenario, where we invest about one-third of our excess liquidity over a 12-month period, we would expect annual NII to be about 15% higher compared to a static rate environment. Total reported non-interest income decreased 5%. Adjusted non-interest income, excluding the TRA impact, increased 3% compared to the prior quarter. Our fee performance reflected strength throughout our lines of business, including record commercial banking fees, led by robust debt capital markets revenue, mortgage banking revenue, driven by strong production and strong leasing business revenue. Top-line mortgage banking revenue increased $42 million sequentially, reflecting improved execution and strong production in both retail and correspondent, which was partially offset by incremental margin pressure. Also, as we discussed in January, our fourth-quarter results included a $12 million headwind from our decision to retain a portion of our retail production. Mortgage servicing fees of $59 million and MSR net valuation gains of $18 million were more than offset by asset decay of $81 million. If primary mortgage rates were to move higher, we would expect to see some servicing revenue improvement, which would likely be more than offset by production and margin pressures in that environment. As a result, we currently expect full-year mortgage revenue to decline low to mid-single digits, given our rate outlook. Reported noninterest expenses decreased 2% relative to the fourth quarter. Adjusted expenses were up 3%, driven by seasonal items in the first quarter in addition to elevated compensation-related expenses linked to strong fee performance, as well as the mark-to-market impact on nonqualified deferred comp plans. Current quarter expenses included $10 million in servicing expenses from our purchased loan portfolios. For the full year, we expect to incur $50 million to $55 million in servicing expenses for purchased loans, including the impact of an additional $1 billion in forbearance pool purchases in April. Moving to the balance sheet. Total average loans and leases were flat sequentially. C&I results continue to reflect stronger production levels, offset by paydowns. Additionally, revolver utilization rates decreased another 1% this quarter to a record-low 31% due to the extraordinary levels of market liquidity and robust capital markets. The sequential decline in utilization came primarily from COVID high-impact industries and our energy vertical. Also, our leveraged loan outstandings declined more than 10% sequentially. As Greg mentioned, we are encouraged by the fact that we are retaining customer relationships throughout this environment and are benefiting from the fee opportunities. Average CRE loans were flat sequentially, with end-of-period balances up 2%, reflecting drawdowns on prior commitments, which were paused during the pandemic. Average total consumer loans were flat sequentially as continued strength in the auto portfolio was offset by declines in home equity, credit card and residential mortgage balances. Auto production in the quarter was strong at $2.2 billion, with an average FICO score around 780, with lower advance rates, higher internal credit scores and better spreads compared to last year. Our securities portfolio increased approximately 1% this quarter as we opportunistically preinvested expected second-quarter cash flows of approximately $1 billion during March. With respect to broader securities portfolio positioning, we remain patient, but we will continue to be opportunistic as the environment evolves. Assuming no meaningful changes to our economic outlook, we would expect to increase our cash deployment when investment yields move north of the 200-basis-point range. We are optimistic that strong economic growth in the second half of 2021 will present more attractive risk return opportunities. We continue to feel very good about our investment portfolio positioning, with 57% of the investment portfolio invested in bullet and locked-out cash flows at quarter end. Our securities portfolio had $2 million of net discount accretion in the first quarter, and our unrealized securities and cash flow hedge gains at the end of the quarter remain strong at $2.4 billion pre-tax. Average other short-term investments, which includes interest-bearing cash, decreased $2 billion sequentially and increased $30 billion compared to the year-ago quarter. The unprecedented excess cash levels are the result of record deposit growth over the past year. Core deposits were flat compared to the fourth quarter as growth in consumer transaction deposits impacted by the fiscal stimulus was offset by seasonal declines in commercial transaction deposits and a reduction in consumer CD balances. We are experiencing strong deposit growth so far in April and expect low single-digit growth in the second quarter from both consumer and commercial customers. Moving to credit. Our overall credit quality continues to reflect our disciplined approach to client selection and underwriting, prudent management of our balance sheet exposures and the continued improvement of the macroeconomic environment. The first-quarter net charge-off ratio of 27 basis points improved 16 basis points sequentially. Non-performing assets declined $81 million or 9%, with the resulting NPA ratio of 72 basis points declining 7 basis points sequentially. Also, our criticized assets declined 8%, with considerable improvements in casinos, restaurants and leisure travel as well as in our energy and leveraged loan portfolios, partially offset by continued pressure in commercial real estate, particularly central business district hotels. Our base case macroeconomic scenario assumes the labor market continues to improve, with unemployment reaching 5% by the middle of next year and ending our three-year R&S period in this low 4% range. As a result, this scenario assumes most of the labor market disruption created by the pandemic and resulting government programs is resolved by 2024, but still leaves a persistent employment gap of a few million jobs compared to pre-COVID expectation. Additionally, our base estimate incorporates favorable impacts from the administration's recent fiscal stimulus and assumes an infrastructure package over $1 trillion this past -- this year. We did not change our scenario weights of 60% to the base and 20% to the upside and downside scenarios. Applying a 100% probability weighting to the base scenario would result in a $169 million release to our reserve. Conversely, applying 100% to the downside scenario would result in a $788 million bill. Inclusive of the impact of approximately $109 million in remaining discount associated with the MB loan portfolio, our ACL ratio was 2.29%. Additionally, excluding the $5 billion in PPP loans with virtually no associated credit reserve, the ACL ratio would be approximately 2.4%. With the recent economic recovery, and our base case expectations point to further improvement, there are several key risks factored into our downside scenario, which could play out, given the uncertain environment. Like all of you, we continue to closely watch COVID case and vaccination trends, which could impact the timing of reopening of local economies and reverse the strengthening consumer confidence trends. Our March 31 allowance incorporates our best estimate of the impact of improving economic growth, lower unemployment and improving credit quality, including the expected benefits of government programs. Moving to capital. Our capital remained strong during the quarter. Our CET1 ratio grew during the quarter, ending at 10.5%, above our stated target of 9.5%, which amounts to approximately $1.4 billion of excess capital. Our tangible book value per share, excluding AOCI, is up 8% since the year-ago quarter. During the quarter, we completed $180 million in buybacks, which reduced our share count by approximately 5 million shares compared to the fourth quarter. As Greg mentioned, we have the capacity to repurchase up to $347 million in the second quarter based on our current dividend and the Federal Reserve's average trailing 4 quarters of net income framework. As a category 4 bank, we expect to have additional flexibility with respect to capital distribution starting in the third quarter. As prudent stewards of capital, we expect to get closer to our CET1 target by mid-2022. While we did not participate in CCAR 2021, we are required to submit our board approved capital plan to the Fed. Those plans support the potential to raise our dividend in the third quarter and repurchase over $800 million in the second half of 2021. Moving to our current outlook. For the full year, we expect average total loan balances to be stable to up a bit compared to last year, reflecting relative stability in commercial, combined with low single-digit growth in consumer, which includes the additional $1 billion in Ginnie Mae forbearance loan purchases in April. We continue to expect CRE to remain stable in this environment. Our loan outlook assumes commercial revolver utilization rates migrate closer to 33% by year-end. It also includes the impact of $2 billion in loan balances we expect to add from the latest round of PPP, including the $1.7 billion we have generated to date, which will continue to be offset by forgiveness throughout the year. We expect our underlying NIM to be in the 3.05% area for the full year. Combined with our loan outlook, we expect NII to decline just 1% this year, assuming stable securities balances. On a sequential basis, we expect NII to be stable to up 1%. Within our NII guidance, we assume we generate approximately $150 million in PPP-related interest income in 2021, of which $53 million was realized in the first quarter compared to $100 million in the full year of 2020. We expect full-year fees to increase 4% to 5% compared to 2020 or 5% to 6%, excluding the impact of the TRA. Improvement from our previous guide reflects a more robust economic rebound as well as our continued success taking market share as a result of our investments in talent and capabilities, resulting in stronger processing revenue, capital markets fees and wealth and asset management revenue, which will be partially offset by mortgage. We expect second-quarter fees to decline 3% to 5%, reflecting lower mortgage and leasing revenues, partially offset by low single-digit growth in card and processing and treasury management revenue. We expect relatively stable commercial banking revenues sequentially. Given both our stronger fee and NII outlook, combined with the servicing costs from the loan portfolio purchases, we expect full-year expenses to be up 1%, driven by volume-based compensation and other expenses. On a sequential basis, we expect expenses to decline 5% to 7%. We expect to generate positive operating leverage in the second half of 2021, reflecting our expense actions, our continued success growing our fee-based businesses and our proactive balance sheet management. We expect total net charge-offs in 2021 to be in the 30 to 40-basis-point range, given the strong first-quarter performance and assuming our base case scenario continues to play out. Second-quarter losses are likely to be in the 25 to 35-basis-point range. In summary, our first-quarter results were strong and continue to demonstrate the progress we have made over the past few years toward achieving our goal of outperformance through the cycle. We will continue to rely on the same principles of disciplined client selection, conservative underwriting and a focus on a long-term performance horizon, which has served us very well during this environment. With that, let me turn it over to Chris to open the call up for Q&A.Chris Doll -- Director of Investor Relations Before we start Q&A, as a courtesy to others, we ask that you limit yourself to 1 question and a follow-up and then return to the queue if you have additional questions. We will do our best to answer as many questions as possible in the time we have this morning. Operator, please open the call for questions. 