  OperatorGood day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Honeywell's second-quarter earnings release. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference, Reena Vaidya, director of investor relations. Please go ahead, ma'am.Reena Vaidya -- Director, Investor Relations Thank you, Jake. Good morning, and welcome to Honeywell's second-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. On the call with me today are chairman and CEO, Darius Adamczyk; and senior vice president and chief financial officer, Greg Lewis. This call and webcast, including any non-GAAP reconciliations, are available on our webcast -- our website at www.honeywell.com/investor.

 



 Note that elements of this presentation contain forward-looking statements that are based on our best view of the world and of our businesses as we see them today. Those elements can change based on many factors, including changing economic and business conditions, and we ask that you interpret them in that light. We identify the principal risks and uncertainties that may affect our performance in our annual report on Form 10-K and other SEC filings. This morning, we will review our financial results for the second quarter of 2021, share our guidance for the third quarter and provide an update to our full-year 2021 outlook.As always, we'll time for your questions at the end. With that, I'll turn the call over to chairman and CEO, Darius Adamczyk. Darius Adamczyk -- Chairman & Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Reena, and good morning, everyone. Let's begin on Slide 2. We delivered another outstanding quarter that exceeded the high end of our second-quarter organic sales growth, segment margin and adjusted earnings per share guidance range, with top line growth and margin expansion in all four segments. We delivered organic sales growth of 15%, led by double-digit growth in safety and productivity solutions, Honeywell building technologies and advanced materials and performance materials and technologies.

 



 We also returned to growth in the commercial aerospace aftermarket and UOP amid promising signs of recovery in the oil and gas and aerospace markets. Segment margin expanded 190 basis points to 20.4%, driven by the impact of higher sales volumes. Adjusted earnings per share was $2.02, up 60% year over year and $0.06 above the high end of our guidance range. We delivered a strong second quarter in the first half of the year. I'm pleased with our performance and confident it will continue to execute and deliver through the ongoing recovery in our end markets. We are driving near-term growth in several areas of the portfolio, including warehouse automation, productivity solutions, building products, and advanced materials, while the industries most affected by the pandemic will continue improving throughout the year and into 2022., Orders were up over 20% year over year organically driven by strength in aerospace, PMT, HBT, and productivity solutions, creating a strong setup for growth. As always, we continue to execute on our rigorous and proven operating system that drives outstanding shareholder value. Now, let's turn to Slide 3 to discuss our recent leadership announcements. Last week, we announced changes to our senior leadership team that will take place over the coming weeks and months. Honeywell's consistent success is driven by our highly talented and committed workforce, which is guided by our world class leadership team. We have a deep bench of high-quality capable leaders as demonstrated by the recent announcements. First, Vimal Kapur will succeed Rajeev Gautam as president and CEO of performance materials and technologies. Rajeev will retire in August after 43 years of Honeywell and will serve as president emeritus of Honeywell PMT until the end of January to ensure a smooth transition. Rajeev has led PMT for the past five years and guided the business through a deep industry downturn in 2020 with an unwavering focus on taking care of employees and customers. We greatly appreciate Rajeev's exemplary leadership over the past four decades. Vimal will transition to PMT from his prior role as President and CEO of Honeywell building technologies.

 



 He has been with Honeywell for 32 years and brings outstanding leadership capabilities and a deep knowledge of our end markets to the PMT CEO role. This will mark Vimal's return to PMT, where he was previously president of process solutions business. Doug Wright will succeed Vimal as president and CEO of HBT. Doug joined Honeywell in July 2020 as President of HBT's fire and security business. Bringing deep industry experience, he has quickly made a significant impact. Prior to joining Honeywell, Doug was president and CEO of source photonics, a global provider of optical communications products used in telecommunication systems and data communication networks. Prior to that, Doug spent six years at United Technologies, which served as president of Asia for the company's fire and security business based in Shanghai and president of the company's $2.5 billion automation and control solutions business. Finally, Ben Driggs has been named chief operating officer of global high growth regions, and will succeed Shane Tedjarati as president, global high growth regions when Shane retires at the end of 2021, after 17 years with Honeywell. Shane has played an essential role in establishing and aggressively growing Honeywell's presence in high-growth regions, and we appreciate everything he has done to make Honeywell a truly global company. Shane will remain in an advisory capacity over the next three years. Ben has been with Honeywell for more than 16 years and brings a wealth of global experience to his new role as COO of global high growth regions. Most recently, Ben was vice president of global strategic accounts, where he was responsible for all aspects of our relationships with key customers at a global level. Prior to this role, Ben served in a variety of positions with Honeywell, including president of Americas aerospace, president of Honeywell Latin America, and vice president of aerospace, Asia Pacific. I'd like to thank Rajeev and Shane for the numerous contributions they made to Honeywell over their highly productive careers. I'd also like to congratulate Vimal, Doug, and Ben under new roles. Let's turn to Slide 4 and talk about another exciting recent announcement. The combination of Honeywell quantum solutions and Cambridge quantum computing, or CQC, forms the largest, most advanced stand-alone quantum computing company in the world. Honeywell's H-Series quantum computer offers the world's highest demonstrated quanta volume of 1,024 and CQC has the first and most advanced quantum operating system. Together, they create a unique full stack quantum player in a league of its own. Quantum computing will absolutely remain a key breakthrough initiative for Honeywell. We will own a majority of the stake in the new company with commensurate governance rights, and we'll have a long-term agreement to help manufacture the critical ion traps needed to power the company's quantum hardware. Honeywell's business will also continue serving as a proving ground for the company's quantum offerings. The combination of Honeywell quantum solutions and CQC is essential to advancing the value that quantum solutions provide to customers. To advance this value, the new company will co-develop integrated quantum hardware and software solutions to enable a one-stop shop for quantum customers. Additionally, the focus will be on developing hardware-agnostic software solutions and a unique quantum operating system, which is optimized for the quantum hardware on which it is used. These technologies will support customer needs for improved computation in diverse areas, including cybersecurity, drug discovery and delivery, material science, finance and optimization across all major industrial markets. We're already working with global customers to deliver solutions for markets with massive scalable commercialization opportunity, including JPMorgan, BMW, Samsung, Google, DHL, and many others. The combined company holds over 150 technical patents and will have a staff of approximately 330 people, which is the largest pool of quantum talent in the world, more than 120 of whom hold doctorates, and over 200 of whom are scientists, including some of the world's leading quantum computing experts. The long-term financial prospects of the new companies are substantial. The combination is expected to significantly accelerate the path to commercial scale, creating the potential for approximately $1 billion in sales within tow to five years. We are excited about the new company's prospects, and we expect to continue to be a global quantum computing leader, shaping the future of what is projected to become a $1 trillion industry over the next 30 years. Now, let me turn it over to Greg on Slide 5 to discuss our second-quarter results in more detail and to provide an update on our 2021 outlook.Greg Lewis -- Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President Thank you, Darius, and good morning, everyone. As Darius highlighted, we had a very strong second quarter with sales up 15% organically to $8.8 billion, segment margin expansion of 190 basis points to 20.4% and free cash flow of $1.5 billion. We over-delivered on our commitments again, building on the strong start we had in Q1. Let's take a minute to discuss how each of the segments contributed to that. Starting with aerospace, second-quarter sales were up 7% organically as flight hours continued to improve, resulting in double-digit commercial aerospace aftermarket growth. That was partially offset by lower commercial original equipment and software defense volumes. Business aviation continues to be very robust, where flight hours have already returned to 2019 levels as a portion of customers that previously traveled commercially have transitioned to business jets for health and safety reasons. We continue to expect the recovery in business travel to lag the leisure travel recovery, however, we do expect to pick up as we enter the second half of the year. As expected, air transport flight hours are recovering led by narrow-body flight hours, while wide-bodies remain soft as domestic travel recovers faster than international travel. As a result, our business aviation aftermarket sales were up 90% organically year over year, while our air transport aftermarket sales were up 32% year over year organically. Sequentially, overall commercial aftermarket sales were up 12% from 1Q '21, a promising sign that the recovery is gaining traction. Aerospace segment margin expanded 490 basis points to 25.7%. Turning to building technologies. Sales were up 13% organically driven by robust demand for building products and solutions. We are seeing broad-based strength across the building technologies portfolio and around the world as people return to schools, offices and transportation hubs. Building product sales and orders were both up double digits year over year, driven by demand for fire, security and electrical products, as well as building management systems. Orders for building solutions projects and services were up over 25% year over year, and the services backlog is up more than 30%, positioning the business for future growth. In addition, our portfolio of healthy building solutions maintained strong customer momentum with approximately $90 million of orders booked in the second quarter for a total of approximately $150 million in the first half. HBT segment margins expanded 120 basis points to 22.4%. On to PMT, where sales were up 10% organically, driven by 30% organic growth in advanced materials and a return to growth in UOP. PMT had a strong quarter with total orders up 20% year over year organically and backlog up mid-single digits. These are encouraging signs for the future of this business. The 30% year-over-year growth in advanced materials was broad-based, particularly in automotive refrigerants, foam products and specialty additives. In UOP, sales were up 8% organically driven by higher petrochemical catalyst shipments, licensing and equipment volumes. UOP orders were up over 25%, which should drive growth in the second half and into 2022. Finally, process solutions, down 1% organically, but up 6% sequentially from the first quarter as the recovery gains traction in the oil and gas industry. The year-over-year decline was driven by fewer global mega projects, partially offset by short-cycle strength in the products and thermal solutions businesses, as well as demand for our life cycle solutions and services. HPS orders were up high single digits, providing confidence in the oncoming recovery. PMT segment margins expanded 190 basis points to 20.8% in the quarter. Finally, in safety and productivity solutions, despite battling some supply shortages, sales were up 35% organically, driven by continued strength across the portfolio, including another quarter of high double-digit organic growth in the warehouse and workflow solutions and productivity solutions and services businesses, which grew 57% and 38%, respectively. Personal protective equipment was also up double digits organically as we delivered from our strong backlog. In addition, demand accelerated in the short-cycle gas detection and advanced sensing businesses, driving high single-digit sequential sales growth from the first quarter. Orders in productivity solutions and services were up triple digits year over year, exhibiting strong ongoing demand, which we expect to fuel second half growth in this business. SPS segment margins expanded 20 basis points in the quarter to 14%. Growth across our portfolio was underpinned by progress in the Honeywell connected enterprise. Second-quarter recurring revenue growth was up double digits, and orders for connected solutions were up over 20% year over year as we continue to drive SaaS growth. Our connected buildings and cyber solutions, which have been very strong in the past year, continued to grow double digits organically, and our connected industrial solutions business was up double digits year over year as the industrial markets begin to recover. So in total for Honeywell, our robust sales growth, coupled with strong pricing and cost management, drove 190 basis points of improvement in segment margins, 10 basis points above the high end of our 2Q guidance despite the mix headwind from much stronger sales in SPS, our lowest margin segment. For the quarter, we delivered adjusted earnings per share of $2.02, up 76% -- or excuse me, up $0.76 or 60% year over year, $0.06 above the high end of our guidance, $0.04 of which was due to overdelivery on sales and segment profit. The majority of our year-over-year earnings growth, $0.43, was driven by our strong segment profit improvement. Below the line items were a $0.25 tailwind driven by lower repositioning and higher pension income, a lower effective tax rate of 23% and lower weighted average share count of 703 million shares drove a $0.06 and $0.02 benefit, respectively. A bridge from 2Q '20 adjusted earnings per share to 2Q '21 adjusted earnings per share can be found in the appendix of this presentation. On free cash flow, we generated $1.5 billion in the quarter or 17% of sales, resulting in 103% adjusted conversion. Free cash flow was up 17% year over year. Free cash flow this quarter includes the $375 million cash received from Garrett as we resolved our contractual claims under the plan of reorganization signed last quarter. As a reminder, we will continue to include cash receipts from Garrett going forward within free cash flow in order to be comparable to prior periods where the cash proceeds from the indemnification and reimbursement agreement were recognized. Finally, we strategically deployed $1.9 billion to share repurchases, dividends and capex in the second quarter, which significantly exceeded operating cash flow. We paid $664 million in dividends, deployed $185 million in capital expenditures and repurchased more than $1 billion of Honeywell shares, reducing our share count to 703 million. In all, this was a very strong quarter and caps a successful first half of 2021. We're prudently managing through the multispeed recovery across the portfolio, continuing to make disciplined investments for the future, while meeting or exceeding our financial commitments. With that, let's turn to Slide 6 to discuss our expectations for the third quarter and the remainder of the year. We entered the third quarter well-positioned to manage the multispeed economic recovery, which will be influenced by unique end market and regional dynamics as vaccination rates expand and the global pandemic subsides. At a high level, we expect ongoing strength across the portfolio in the second half. We should see acceleration in businesses that were most affected by the downturn, particularly the commercial aerospace aftermarket and the oil and gas exposed HPS and UOP businesses. We do expect some deceleration in respiratory masks, warehouse and workflow solutions to come down sequentially as large Intelligrated projects complete and lower year-over-year volumes in U.S. and international defense in the back half of the year, though it will grow sequentially from the second quarter. With that as a backdrop, we expect third-quarter sales to be in the range of $8.5 billion to $8.8 billion, up 7% to 11% on an organic basis. And we now expect full-year sales of $34.6 billion to $35.2 billion, up $400 million from the high end of our previous guidance. This represents overall organic sales growth in the range of 4% to 6%, an increase of one point on both ends compared to our previous guidance. We will talk more about our expectations by segment momentarily. An update on our 2021 end market outlook can be found in the appendix of this presentation. One area to keep in mind is that we have been facing supply chain constraints as the sourcing environment for direct materials and components such as semiconductors and resin has been very tight. As we mentioned last quarter, we proactively partnered with distributors and alternative suppliers to mitigate these impacts and have had success, but the situation remains very fluid as global supply chains ramp up. We continue to work through this issue, but it will continue to be a constraint on our growth potential, particularly in SPS and HBT and, to a lesser degree, in aerospace. Now, let's take a moment to walk through the third quarter and full-year expectations by segment. In aerospace, our commercial aerospace business will continue to improve gradually throughout the year. We expect business aviation aftermarket to continue to lead in the recovery and track 2019 levels or better for the balance of the year. We expect air transport flight hours to continue improving in the third and the fourth quarter, driving sequential and year-over-year growth in commercial aftermarket sales. The pace of the air transport acceleration will vary regionally in the second half, with domestic travel recovering faster than international and was difficult to predict country-by-country dynamics tied to vaccinations. We expect narrow-body and wide-body flight hours to fully recover to 2019 levels by 2024. Commercial original equipment build rates are progressing gradually as we expected. Second half defense and sales -- defense and space sales will be pressured by lower demand from U.S. DoD programs driven by moderating U.S. defense spend, as well as by slower-than-expected international defense volumes. As a result of these defense and space dynamics, we now expect full-year organic sales growth to be down low single digits for the year in aerospace. In building technologies, we expect ongoing demand in the second half for products, services and projects as business conditions continue to improve as the world reopens. We anticipate broad-based order strength in the third and the fourth quarters, particularly for building solutions projects, which we expect will ramp up as energy projects in the government and education verticals gain traction. We will continue to execute on our strong projects and services backlog, driving strength in the back half. In addition, we will benefit from continued customer demand for our portfolio of healthy building solutions. Overall, we now expect full-year organic sales growth to be up mid-single digits for the full year, trending better than expected. In PMT, we were encouraged by the signs of recovery in process solutions and UOP in the second quarter, and we expect to see this trend continue in the third quarter and beyond. While we expect the pace of recovery to be gradual, end market dynamics in energy are creating a strong setup for 2022 and beyond. We anticipate that HPS will return to growth in 3Q, driven by the short-cycle products and service businesses, which should deliver on strong first half orders. We also expect sequential improvement in automation projects driven by backlog execution. Orders for global mega projects increased in the second quarter, which is an encouraging sign for the business, though these orders will have a larger impact on 2022. Overall, HPS should grow sequentially quarter over quarter for the remainder of the year. For UOP, we're pleased with the 2Q outcome, which included strong catalysts and project orders that should drive growth in the second half. Last, we expect continued strength in advanced materials in the third quarter, driven by demand for a wide range of the business' products. In April, we said that we were trending toward the low end of our plus or minus low single-digit full-year growth expectations for PMT. Since then, our outlook has improved, and we now expect full-year organic sales to be up low single digits for the year. Finally, we anticipate continued strength in SPS driven by another quarter of robust double-digit organic growth in warehouse and workflow solutions and productivity solutions and services. Though we expect year-over-year growth rates to remain strong in warehouse and workflow solutions, 2Q represented the high watermark for sales in that business this year as we had previously said. We will see sequential declines in 3Q and 4Q due to normal project timing as customers enter the busy holiday season. Our productivity solutions and services backlog is up triple digits, which will drive growth in the third quarter for this business. Distributor demand continues to be strong, and we expect this to continue throughout the second half. So as I mentioned, we will be managing some supply constraints. We will continue to execute our backlog of personal protective equipment in the third quarter. However, respiratory demand is decelerating as various regions of the world recover from the pandemic. This deceleration will be partially offset by stronger demand in other areas of our PPE portfolio, including gloves and head and hearing protection, which we expect to ramp-up in the second half. Finally, we expect continued short-cycle acceleration in our gas analysis and advanced sensing business. Overall, we expect strong double-digit sales growth in SPS for the full year. Now, let me turn to our expectations for the other core guided metrics. For third-quarter segment margins, we expect to be in the range of 20.3% to 20.6%, resulting in 40 to 70 basis points of year-over-year margin expansion. Margins will continue to show strong expansion despite the headwinds of the temporary cost actions from 2020 and our investments in growth of the businesses. Third quarter net below-the-line impact, which is the difference between segment profit and income before tax, is expected to be in the range of negative $5 million to positive $55 million with a range of repositioning between $50 million and $100 million as we continue to fund ongoing restructuring projects. We expect the effective tax rate to be in the range of 22% to 23% and the average share count to be approximately 703 million shares. As a result, we expect adjusted third-quarter earnings per share between $1.97 and $2.02, up 26% to 29% year over year. Given these third-quarter expectations, our strong outperformance in the first half and our continued confidence in our businesses, in addition to raising our full-year sales expectations, we are also raising our other full-year guided metrics, including segment margins, adjusted earnings per share and free cash flow. We are raising the low end of our segment margin guidance by 10 basis points for a new range of 20.8% to 21.1%, representing an expansion of 40 to 70 basis points. We expect margin expansion in all our segments as we carefully invest back into the business, while managing the multispeed recovery across the portfolio. Our fixed cost management remains a focus, and we are on track to a net increase of $500 million for the year, cementing the permanent reduction of $1 billion of fixed costs from our 2020 cost actions. We expect our net below-the-line impact to be in the range of negative $110 million to positive $40 million, including capacity for $400 million to $525 million of repositioning. We continue to expect a full-year effective tax rate of approximately 21% to 22%, and we now expect a weighted average share count of approximately 703 million for the year, achieving our minimum 1% reduction in shares. As a result, we are raising our full-year adjusted earnings per share guidance. We now expect a range of $7.95 to $8.10, up 12% to 14% year over year. This represents an increase of $0.10 on the high end and $0.15 at the midpoint, reflecting our confidence in the recovery across the portfolio. Finally, we are raising our free cash flow guidance by $100 million on both ends for a range of $5.3 billion to $5.6 billion. So in total, we delivered a great second quarter and anticipate a strong second half and have significantly upgraded our full-year view for sales, segment margin, adjusted EPS and free cash flow as we manage through this recovery. Let's turn to Page 7 for a quick look at our guidance progression through the year. At the beginning of '21, there was a lot of uncertainty about the virus case rates, the pace of vaccinations and the recovery around the world. We're committed to providing guidance that is commensurate with our level of visibility and the environment we are in at the time. In January, with the unknown pace of recovery in mind, we took a pragmatic approach to our outlook. After the first quarter, with a little more visibility into the full year and confidence in our first-quarter results, we raised several key guidance metrics. Now, halfway through the year, we have raised them again. Our full-year sales guidance is now $800 million higher than our original guidance on the high end. We've also raised the midpoint of our earnings per share guidance by approximately 23% -- $0.23, and our free cash flow guidance has been raised by $100 million in the high end. As always, you can count on us to provide an outlook that is consistent with our level of visibility. With that, I will turn the call back to Darius to talk about the end market tailwinds that we are creating -- excuse me, that are creating a strong setup for 2022 and beyond.Darius Adamczyk -- Chairman & Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Greg. Current end market macro dynamics are creating the best set of circumstances that I have seen in the last 10-plus years that I've been with Honeywell. With the commercial aerospace recovery in view, upcoming capital reinvestment in the energy sector, nonresidential construction spending returning to 2019 levels and the exponential growth we continue to see in e-commerce, we are setting up for an incredibly strong runway for medium-term growth. This macro setup, coupled with the strategies we have in place that are focused on driving uniquely innovative and differentiated technologies to address the world's increasing demand for digital transformation, process technology and sustainable solutions, gives me great confidence in our outlook for 2022 and beyond. Let me start by talking about the medium-term dynamics of some of our key end markets. In commercial aerospace, pent-up demand for leisure and business travel is expected to drive approximately 20% growth in flight hours over the next two to three years. Business and general aviation flight hours have already recovered to 2019 levels, and we expect air transport narrow-body and wide-body flight hours to recover by 2024. We're seeing a slower defense business. We are absorbing that in our strong 2021 outlook, and our growth trajectory for the next two years should remain robust. The energy markets are gaining traction, and stabilizing oil prices, support an oncoming wave of capital reinvestment in this sector, with downstream customer capex expected to grow at a 6.5% compound annual growth rate over the next three years. As I said before, the investment cycle post downturn is a consistent theme, and we'll be well positioned to capture our unfair share of it. Acceleration in refining and petrochemical volumes will drive demand for our high-margin catalysts in new greenfield, and brownfield projects over the medium term will drive demand for licensing, engineering and equipment, as well as our software and automation solutions. Our building technologies portfolio will continue to benefit from the ongoing global macro trends of sustainability, digitization and public safety. Building owners are looking for healthy building solutions to create safe public spaces while optimizing energy consumption and productivity. Nonresidential construction is expected to grow by $230 billion to $2.5 trillion by 2024, with refurbishments for healthy building is growing at a high single-digit compound annual growth rate over the next three years. We also expect tailwinds from sizable U.S. stimulus programs targeting airports, education and healthcare, as well as potential government infrastructure plans, which will provide a favorable setup for our building technologies business. We remain very well-positioned to address the rapid evolution that we see in the click-and-collect consumer buying behavior, which is creating complex fulfillment and delivery needs. In fact, e-commerce is expected to make up approximately 30% of total retail sales by 2024. To meet this growing demand, as well as to prepare for intensifying labor shortages, retail -- retailers are meaningfully stepping up investments and workflow technologies and automation, amplifying our already strong trajectory in this market, with a growing installed base and ample runway for high-margin aftermarket opportunities. So you see our macro setup is a strong as it has been in a very long time. Now, let's turn to the next page. I want to highlight a few of our strategic vectors and how they'll play into our growth algorithm. Let's start with urban air mobility or UAM, one space where we see significant growth opportunity. The total available market will be around $120 billion annually in 2030, of which we are positioned to address $30 billion. We have leading flyby wire systems for urban air mobility, avionics and vehicle management systems in addition to highly differentiated, high assurance detect and avoid systems. We have already won $3.4 billion of content and another $1.8 billion of wins pending, and we have $7 billion in projected cumulative pipeline over the next five years growing to $55 billion in cumulative pipeline out to 2030. So this is a really exciting business where we are already generating substantial wins with significant future potential. We're also generating growth of the Honeywell Connected Enterprise, which is underpinned by Honeywell Forge, our suite of SaaS applications, to drive operational excellence and are essential to day-to-day management of the company's complex operations. Honeywell connected enterprise delivered double-digit recurring revenue growth, and orders were up over 20% in the second quarter, which serves as an excellent proof point as we continue to focus on driving software growth. We are -- also recently launched a cloud-based connected building solutions jointly developed through our SAP partnership. Our portfolio of connected solutions is demonstrating great momentum with 1 million instances of Tridium's Niagara deployed worldwide and over 5,000 Honeywell Forge OT cybersecurity projects delivered, to name a few examples. One of the newest additions to our portfolio, Sparta Systems, is also contributing to Honeywell's software growth with orders up over 30% in the first half of 2021. Sparta's SaaS customer base has grown double digits since year-end 2020, and Sparta ended the second quarter with a backlog of over $100 million. Sparta Systems recently announced that a leading European specialty pharmaceutical company implemented TrackWise Digital's solution suite that includes car QMS processes in addition to complaints handling, supplier quality management, document management and training management to seamlessly integrate quality processes and data across its manufacturing operations and suppliers. So the Sparta integration is progressing smoothly, and I'm pleased with the results thus far. Finally, we continue to see strong demand for our portfolio of healthy building solutions, which I mentioned earlier. We booked around $150 million of healthy building orders in the first half and have a global pipeline of over $2 billion. A few examples of our customer wins across major verticals include the Pittsburgh and San Diego International airports, Syracuse University and Wuhan Changfu Hospital. We anticipate the demand for healthy buildings will remain strong for the foreseeable future as building managers seek to support occupant safety and comfort for returning workers, students, travelers and visitors. All four of the technologies on this page are proof points for our strategy of focusing R&D and breakthrough initiatives around disruptive trends that will shape the global economy for years to come. We have many other equally exciting breakthroughs, including quantum, sustainable technology solutions and smart cities for as an example. These provide numerous growth vectors, which will be accretive to the recovery in our major end markets, which underpins my confidence in what is to come. Now, let's wrap up on Slide 10. So overall, we are encouraged by the performance of the first half of 2021. Our second-quarter results exceeded our expectations. And given our confidence in our businesses, we have meaningfully raised our full-year sales segment margin, adjusted EPS and free cash flow guidance. The Honeywell value creation framework continues to set us apart and will continue to deliver for all of our shareholders. With that Reena, let's move to Q&A.Reena Vaidya -- Director, Investor Relations Thank you, Darius. Darius and Greg are now available to answer your questions. We ask that you please be mindful of others in the queue by only asking one question. Jake, please open the line for Q&A. 