  OperatorGood morning, and welcome to the IDEXX Laboratories fourth quarter 2021 earnings conference call. As a reminder, today's conference is being recorded. Participating in the call this morning are Jay Mazelsky, president and chief executive officer; Brian McKeon, chief financial officer; and John Ravis, vice president, investor relations. IDEXX would like to preface the discussion today with a caution regarding forward-looking statements. Listeners are reminded that our discussion during the call will include forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed today. Additional information regarding these risks and uncertainties is available under the forward-looking statements notice in our press release issued this morning as well as in our periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which can be obtained from the SEC or by visiting the Investor Relations section of our website, idexx.com. During this call, we will be discussing certain financial measures not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles or GAAP. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is provided in our earnings release, which may also be found by visiting the Investor Relations section of our website. In reviewing our fourth quarter 2021 results, please note, all references to growth, organic growth and comparable growth refer to growth compared to the equivalent period in 2020, unless otherwise noted. [Operator instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Brian McKeon.

 



Brian McKeon -- Chief Financial Officer Good morning, everyone. I'm pleased to take you through our fourth quarter and full year 2021 results and to provide an overview of our financial outlook for 2022. In terms of highlights, IDEXX delivered excellent financial performance in Q4, driven by double-digit top line gains compared to very strong prior-year results. Revenue increased 11% as reported and 10.5% organically supported by 13% organic growth in CAG Diagnostics recurring revenues. Two-year average annual organic growth for CAG diagnostic recurring revenues was approximately 17% across U.S. and international regions, consistent with the accelerated two-year growth trends seen throughout 2021. We achieved record premium instrument placements in Q4, with strong gains across our major platforms, supporting a 14% year-on-year expansion of our global premium instrument base. Strong revenue growth enabled delivery of $1.89 in EPS, up 12% on a comparable basis as we advance planned investments in our commercial and innovation capability.Flow-through benefits from high organic revenue growth in 2021 drove outstanding full year financial performance above our long-term goals. IDEXX achieved 16% overall organic revenue growth for the full year, driven by 18% gains in CAG Diagnostics recurring revenues. Full year operating margins reached 29%, an increase of 220 basis points on a comparable basis. And we delivered full year EPS of $8.60 per share, up 29% on a comparable basis.

 



 We're well positioned to build on this strong financial performance in 2022. We're targeting revenue gains at the higher end of our long-term goals, reflected in our outlook for 10% to 12% overall organic revenue growth and 12% to 14% organic growth in CAG Diagnostics recurring revenues. We're also targeting 50 to 100 basis point improvement in operating margins on a comparable basis, building on the strong profit gains through the pandemic as we continue to invest toward the long-term development of companion animal healthcare globally. Our EPS outlook of $9.27 to $9.59 per share reflects 12% to 16% comparable EPS growth, including an estimated $0.15 per share or 2% EPS growth impact related to higher projected international tax rates. We'll discuss our 2022 financial outlook later in my comments. Let's begin with a review of our fourth quarter and full year results. Fourth quarter organic revenue growth of 10.5% was driven by 13% overall CAG gains and 13% growth in our Water business. These gains were moderated as expected by a 19% organic decline in LPD revenues, reflecting comparisons to high prior-year results that benefited from the ramping of African swine fever testing in China, as well as by a $5 million year-on-year decline in human COVID PCR testing revenues. Strong CAG Diagnostic recurring revenue growth reflected 13% organic gains across U.S. and international regions compared to 21% organic growth levels in the fourth quarter of 2020. Strong Q4 and CAG results were also supported by 21% gains in IDEXX VetLab instrument revenues and 13% organic growth in veterinary software and diagnostic imaging revenues in addition to benefits from our recent ezyVet acquisition. For the full year 2021, overall CAG revenues increased 19% organically, driven by 18% organic growth in CAG Diagnostic recurring revenues, reflecting high gains across our major modalities and regions. Strong U.S. CAG Diagnostics recurring revenue growth in the fourth quarter was aided by solid year-on-year gains in clinical visits and continued positive demand trends, which are supporting high levels of clinical revenue growth at the practice level. Same-store U.S. clinical visit growth was 2.2% in Q4 compared to high prior-year growth levels.

 



 On a two-year basis, U.S. same-store clinical business increased at 5.5%, with solid gains across wellness and non-wellness categories. An increased focus on healthcare services, including diagnostics, supported an 8% same-store increase in overall veterinary clinic revenues in Q4 and nearly 10% gains in clinical diagnostic revenues, which increased 14% on an average two-year basis. Expanding demand for clinical services and benefits from IDEXX innovation and commercial engagement, supported a 1,050 basis point premium of IDEXX U.S. CAG Diagnostic recurring revenue growth to U.S. clinical visit growth in the quarter. In terms of practice level trends, we did see some modest impact from the recent omicron wave on clinical testing volumes in international regions in Q4, which has continued in early 2022. We've also seen some moderation in clinic visit growth in January in the U.S., including near-term impacts from higher COVID cases on practice level staffing. We're monitoring these dynamics, which we don't see as indicative of changes in strong underlying demand trends. Globally, IDEXX achieved strong organic gains across our major testing modalities in Q4, resulting in exceptional full year growth results. IDEXX global reference lab revenues increased 12% organically in Q4, reflecting double-digit gains in the U.S. and high single-digit organic growth in international regions compared to strong prior-year growth levels. Reference Lab gains continue to be driven by solid same-store volume growth, including benefits from the expansion of IDEXX 360 program agreements. For the full year 2021, Global Lab revenues increased 70% organically, reflecting consistent high gains across U.S. and international regions. IDEXX VetLab consumable revenues increased 15% on an organic basis in Q4, reflecting double-digit gains across U.S. and international regions. Strong consumable growth reflects increases in testing utilization, sustained high customer retention levels and expansion of our global premium instrument installed base. These dynamics supported 20% full year organic growth at IDEXX VetLab consumable revenues in 2021. IDEXX had another quarter of outstanding instrument placements building on this momentum. We achieved 5,258 premium instrument placements in Q4, up 29% from prior-year levels, reflecting robust gains across U.S. and international regions. We achieved strong global placement growth across our major platforms year on year, with Catalyst up 8%; SediVue up 20%; and premium hematology up 72%, supported by the continued global rollout of ProCyte One. The breadth and quality of CAG instrument placements supported strong gains in our economic value metric. New instrument placements and continued very high customer retention levels drove a 14% increase in our global premium instrument installed base in 2021, setting a foundation for continued strong consumable growth as we move forward. Rapid Assay revenue increased 10% organically in Q4, reflecting continued solid gains in the U.S., aligned with broader increases in demand for diagnostic testing and high growth in international regions. For the full year 2021, Rapid Assay organic revenue growth was 17%, supported by high volume gains for canine 4Dx feline and specialty testing. CAG Diagnostic recurring revenue growth remains primarily volume-driven, augmented by moderate net price improvement of approximately 3% in key regions like the U.S. Looking ahead to 2022, we're planning for a net price improvement in the range of 3% to 4%, reflecting higher list price increases to reflect higher service costs and continued investment in service quality and product innovation. In other areas of our CAG business, our veterinary software and diagnostic imaging revenues increased 13% organically and 30% as reported in Q4, including benefits from the ezyVet acquisition. Continued strong gains in recurring software and diagnostic imaging services and high comparable growth in PIMS placements were moderated to a degree by tough compares related to strong prior year diagnostic imaging placements. For the full year 2021, veterinary software and diagnostic imaging revenues expanded to over $200 million, up 15% organically and 27% as reported, as we continue to advance the integration of information technology and insight as a key feature of our diagnostic solutions. Turning to other business segments. Water revenues increased 13% organically in Q4 compared to flat organic growth in last year's fourth quarter as this business continues to track back toward pre-COVID growth levels. Business growth was supported by solid gains across compliance and noncompliance testing categories. For the full year 2021, Water revenues increased 12% organically compared to a 2% organic decline in 2020. Livestock, Poultry and Dairy revenues decreased 90% organically in Q4 compared to 13% organic growth levels in Q4 of 2020. As expected, dynamics in our China LPD business, including the lapping of high prior-year demand for African swine fever testing offset growth in other global regions. For the full year 2021, LPD revenues declined 9% organically compared to 11% gains in 2020. We're planning for continued challenging year-on-year comparison in LPD revenues in the first half of 2022, which is factored into our overall revenue outlook. Turning to the P&L. Sustained high revenue growth drove solid operating profit gains compared to strong prior-year levels as we advance planned investments aligned with our growth strategy. Operating profits increased 8% as reported and 9% on a comparable basis in Q4, driven by continued solid gross profit gains. Gross profit increased 12% in the quarter, reflecting strong revenue growth and a modest overall increase in gross margins. We benefited from continued high CAG Diagnostic recurring revenue growth, moderate net price improvement and higher veterinary software margins, including positive impacts from our expanding SaaS customer base. These factors were moderated by business mix impacts from high CAG instrument revenue growth and lower LPD and human PCR revenues. Operating expenses increased 15% on a reported and comparable basis in Q4. As planned, we saw relatively higher levels of operating expense growth as we advanced investments in R&D, enhanced our global CAG sales and marketing capability, and integrated the ezyVet acquisition. We anticipate sustaining a relatively higher rate of opex growth in 2022, aligned with our strong global growth momentum. Operating expense investments drove a 70 basis point contraction in comparable operating margins in Q4. For the full year 2021, our operating margins reached 29%, up 220 basis points on a comparable basis for the year and up approximately 560 basis points on a comparable basis from pre-pandemic levels in 2019. We're targeting to build on the strong performance in 2022 as we invest toward the high return long-term growth potential in our business. Q4 EPS was $1.89 per share, including $0.08 per share in tax benefit related to share-based compensation activity. For the full year 2021, EPS was $8.60, up 29% on a comparable basis. Full year EPS results included $32 million or $0.38 per share in tax benefit related to share-based compensation activity, which provided 360 basis points of effective tax rate benefit. Foreign exchange effects reduced revenue growth by approximately 1% in Q4, resulting in a $0.02 per share profit impact, net of a hedge loss of approximately $500,000. For the full year 2021, foreign exchange rate changes increased EPS by $0.16 per share, net of foreign exchange hedge losses of $7 million. Given the recent strengthening of the U.S. dollar, we're planning for 1.5% FX revenue growth headwind in 2022, with approximately 2% to 2.5% year-on-year growth headwinds in the first half. While previously established hedge positions will mitigate these impacts on profits, our initial 2022 outlook incorporates an estimated $0.08 net unfavorable EPS impact from FX at the rates noted in our press release. Free cash flow was $636 million for 2021 or approximately 85% of net income, reflecting $120 million in capital spending, including $18 million in real estate purchases. We've maintained a strong balance sheet. We ended 2021 with leverage ratios of 0.9 times gross and 0.7 times net of cash, with $144 million in cash at the end of the year. In Q4, we established a new five-year $1 billion revolving credit facility, which provides relatively improved borrowing rates. Our 2022 interest expense outlook incorporates these benefits, current forward interest rates, and expectations for a net leverage ratio of one time next year. In Q4, we allocated $245 million to repurchase 391,000 shares in the quarter. We plan to continue to allocate capital to share repurchases as part of our financial approach, which is reflected in the projected 1% to 1.5% reduction in our diluted shares outstanding for the full year 2022. Turning to our 2022 outlook. We're providing initial guidance for reported revenues of $3.5 billion to $3.565 billion. This outlook reflects a targeted organic revenue growth range of 10% to 12%, carryover benefits of approximately 0.5% from 2021 acquisitions, and an estimated 1.5% revenue growth headwind from FX. Our organic growth outlook reflects an estimated growth range of 12% to 14% for CAG Diagnostic recurring revenues. The higher end of this range aligns with sustaining the strong year-on-year growth trends we achieved exiting 2021 and incorporates additional targeted benefits from a moderately higher net price realization and investments in global CAG sector development. Our overall organic growth outlook also factors in continued benefits from expansion of our premium instrument installed base and solid growth in our Water business. These positive factors are partially offset by expectations for continued year-on-year pressure on LPD revenues in the first half of 2022 and a projected contraction in human PCR testing revenues, reflecting our overall strategic growth focus on our core businesses. Our reported operating margin outlook for full year 2022 was 29.7% to 30.2%, reflecting a targeted 50 to 100 basis points of annual comparable operating margin improvement, building on our strong operating margin gains in recent years. We expect operating margin improvement will be supported by solid gross margin gains as we advance investments in our global commercial and innovation capability and ensure high levels of operational business continuity as a priority. We've incorporated anticipated inflationary cost impacts as well as benefits from relatively higher net price gains in our overall operating margin outlook. Given exit rates in our opex spending and year-on-year operating profit comparison dynamics, we're planning for operating margin improvements to be primarily driven by gains in the second half of 2022. Our preliminary EPS outlook for 2022 is $9.27 to $9.59 per share, an increase of 8% to 11% as reported. Our EPS outlook factors in an increase in our overall effective tax rate from 17.5% to an estimated 21.5% to 22% in 2022. Approximately 100 to 150 basis points of this increase relates to projected impacts from international tax changes. We're also projecting lower tax benefits from share-based tax compensation activity. Our EPS outlook reflects projected 2022 stock-based compensation tax benefits of $10 million or approximately $0.12 per share compared to high realized 2021 tax benefits of $32 million or $0.38 per share. As noted, we've also incorporated an estimated year-on-year negative impact of $0.08 per share from FX, net of established hedge positions. Adjusting for these factors, our outlook is for EPS growth of 12% to 16% on a comparable basis including an estimated $0.15 per share or approximately 2% EPS growth impact from international tax rate changes. Our 2022 free cash flow outlook is for a net income to free cash flow conversion ratio of 75% to 80%. This reflects estimated capital spending of $180 million or approximately 5% of revenues including $50 million related to a new warehouse and manufacturing site expansion aligned to support our high growth. Adjusting for this major project, our normalized net income to free cash flow conversion ratio is aligned with our longer-term 80% to 90% targets. That concludes our financial review. I'll now turn the call over to Jay for his comments. Jay Mazelsky -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Brian, and good morning. IDEXX sustained its strong performance in Q4, capping an exceptional year for the company. For the full year, we delivered 16% organic revenue growth, 29% comparable EPS growth, supported by solid operating margin gains and 59% ROIC. These results reflect the attractiveness of our businesses, including our core CAG business, which is sustaining very strong growth trends benefiting from our commercial expansion and an expanding innovation portfolio. We're well positioned to build on this momentum in 2022 as reflected in our financial outlook. This morning, I'll recap our recent performance and highlight key areas of business focus moving forward, including advancement of new innovations and the ongoing expansion of our global commercial capabilities. Both of these are strategic elements of our plan to develop the substantial long-term market opportunity still before us. Let me begin with a brief update on sector trends. Overall, global companion animal healthcare trends remained strong, driven by ongoing robust demand and veterinary clinics for healthcare services, including Diagnostics. As Brian highlighted, U.S. same-store clinical revenues increased 8% in Q4, supported by 2% growth in same-store clinical visits compared to very strong prior-year growth levels. Diagnostic same-store growth continues to expand at a higher pace of nearly 10%. IDEXX U.S. CAG Diagnostics recurring revenue growth is leading this expansion, reflected in 13% organic gains in Q4, building a 21% gains in Q4 of 2020 as we provide highly desired Diagnostics and information management platforms that support our customers' care mission. We're seeing sustained strong demand trends for clinical service globally, building on the step-up achieved through the pandemic. As highlighted in data shared in our earnings snapshot, this includes sustained approximately 2% acceleration in U.S. Diagnostics revenue per clinical visit in 2021, building on higher 2020 gains. This solid momentum gives us confidence in investing toward accelerated global CAG sector development and is reflected in our outlook of 12% to 14% global CAG Diagnostics recurring revenue gains in 2022 at the high end of our long-term goals. Like many sectors of the global economy, veterinary clinics continue to work through the challenging dynamic of increased clinical demand in the face of staffing challenges, including near-term management impacts from the search of the omicron variant. It's clear that strong clinical service demand will be a priority for clinics moving forward. IDEXX remains committed and extremely well positioned to support the growth of our customers through our focus on high customer service levels and solutions that enhance clinic productivity. As we look forward, we're expanding our global commercial capability aligned with these strong demand trends. Our investments in Germany, France and South Korea in the first half of 2021 continue to pay off as expanded commercial footprints in each country enable significant increases in customer contact and reach to revenue, critical elements of our high-touch account management philosophy. We're tracking toward completion in early 2022 of the already communicated second wave of expansions in three additional countries with more to come. These are holistic initiatives that only involve the addition of customer-facing professionals across multiple job types such as account managers, professional service veterinarians and field service representatives but also include the extension of marketing programs and new field tools such as IDEXX 360 and the addition of more expensive reference of carrier routes and expanded service levels. Increasing our international commercial footprint while maturing our approach will continue to be a key priority beyond Wave 2 countries currently nearing completion. To that end, I'm pleased to share that we are also augmenting our commercial leadership team with an experienced commercial executive in Asia-Pacific CAG, who will join IDEXX this quarter. As we expand, our commercial team continues to deliver the day, reflecting in over 5,000 premium instrument placements in Q4. By far, our largest quarterly placements ever achieved. Premium instrument placement growth of 29% includes comparable growth across U.S. and international regions and resulted in 14% growth in our global premium installed base with strong performance across each of our instrument platforms. These exceptional results were delivered despite excess challenges. They demonstrate strong commercial execution as well as the fact that customers are increasingly choosing IDEXX innovations to support increased clinical demand today while investing for future business needs. ProCyte One is a great example of this. Our ProCyte One launch has gone exceptionally well. ProCyte One's performance and reliability as use of the demanding environment of a practice has met or exceeded all goals and feedback remains highly positive as customers love its easy use and how it fits into the veterinary clinic workflow. We see mid-90% global attach rates with chemistry analyzers and this trend demonstrate ProCyte One's importance in building a full diagnostic work. Furthermore, the ProCyte One launch benefits from programs like IDEXX 360, which not only provides veterinarians with a flexible customer-friendly way to add this innovative analyzer to their clinics, but also benefits growth across IDEXX testing modalities. Our global ProCyte One regional route is now nearly complete, and we have delivered over 2,500 instruments globally since launching in late Q1 of 2021. A growing installed base of premium instruments supports a robust stream of future consumables usage, which gives us confidence in guided ranges for CAG recurring revenue growth. In addition to driving placements and adoption, our commercial team continues to educate our customers on the benefits of preventive medicine. The Preventive Care initiative remains our primary vehicle for driving a preventive agenda in the clinic and provide sales professionals an opportunity to engage in thorough conversations with broad participation from practice staff. Despite restricted access to clinics, we drove approximately 125 new U.S. enrollments in the quarter, while also developing plans to simplify the enrollment process for busy customers, and we look forward to deploying this and continuing to support this broader preventive care effort in 2022. We also see continued momentum in software expansion as our innovative products are helping customers improve clinic efficiency and pet owner communication. The onboarding of ezyVet has gone very smoothly and subscriptions are tracking favorably to our high expectations. Customers appreciate the advanced capabilities and intuitive workflow ezyVet provides. 81% of PIMS placements were cloud-based in the quarter, demonstrating that we are well positioned to support customers in their shift to the cloud. This trend provides a significant growth opportunity and excellent profit flow. It puts a robust and easy-to-use information management products at the hands of our customers that enable them to focus on providing the highest levels of patient care enabled by diagnostics to improve health outcomes. Our software portfolio is a strategic area of investment and focus for IDEXX. Veterinarians have never been busier and have a deep need and appreciation for software solutions that are easy to use and built on contemporary technology stacks. They look to these solutions to support patient care, staff productivity, and internal as well as pet owner communications. Our strategy is to bring enterprise PIMS software solutions to our customers that work seamlessly with a broader set of business and clinical applications, our own or third-parties that veterinarians use to run their practices. VetConnect PLUS, our Diagnostics results, clinical decision support and ordering portal is a great example of this. VetConnect PLUS was launched almost 10 years ago. It's integrated from a workflow standpoint in IDEXX and third-party PIMS. It is now being used in over 30,000 practices globally. Customers who use our software and diagnostic solutions together correlate with higher growth profiles, supporting workflow optimization for our diagnostics testing platforms. Our Diagnostic Imaging business, which includes our industry-leading web pack software solution also experienced an excellent quarter, demonstrating the preference customers have for our premier low-dose imaging solutions. Solid placements in the quarter supported full year placement growth of 35% and double-digit year-over-year gains in recurring revenue. We also had strong growth in Web PACS subscriptions for Q4, up 18% versus the prior year and with continued customer retention rates in the high 90% range. Growth in the installed base, a profitable revenue stream and increased utilization of services have helped IDEXX Web PACS become an important part of our enterprise software ecosystem. In addition to ensuring the successful rollout and adoption of these recent innovations, we were thrilled to launch a series of new product and service enhancements at VMX last month. Each of these innovations highlight IDEXX' commitment to continually invest in our service and product offerings, with a particular focus on providing insights and decision-making aids to help customers deliver a higher standard of patient care. These enhancements include an expanded oncology testing platform with additional test and aids for veterinarians to better identify, stage, treat and monitor several prevalent cancer types, an updated 4Dx Plus test with improved parameter performance for anaplasma and the addition of clinical decision support for 4Dx Plus and Neural Network 6.0 for SediVue, which has now been trained on 800 million urine sediment images. Improving the performance of our products is central to our strategy. And we're also supporting greater efficiency which helps drive higher adoption and customer satisfaction. Some examples. The new catalyst SDMA, brings reagents on board the test, reducing the number of steps to run the test and time to results, while also reducing storage space and waste due to the removal of separate reagent comps. The improved VetConnect PLUS mobile app provides an enhanced user experience, improved mobile capability and easier pit on our communication. And finally, coming later in 2022, our 4Dx Plus test will allow for extended room temperature storage. The addition of these time-saving technologies demonstrates our technology for life approach to product and services designs. Notably, the improved 4Dx Plus product represents our fifth update to the heartworm SNAP product first launched in 1992. While this test already represents the gold standard for vector-borne disease rapid testing, we remain focused on continuous improvement to support our customers in delivering improved Pet Health outcomes. Underpinning our strong business performance is a prioritized focus on providing continued high-level service to our customers. A key element to achieving these service levels is consistent strong execution across our supply chain, which we saw again in Q4 through high product availability and strong order turnaround times. In order to build this capability and support growth in the future, we plan to invest in 2022 in the expansion of our manufacturing footprint and lab capacity, while also maintaining strong frontline measures to support high service levels. And while we anticipate some inflationary dynamics and supply chain headwinds going forward, we have captured these impacts in our outlook and believe we are well positioned to build upon our year-end margins. Overall, we're very pleased with the momentum and execution in our business and excited about our plans to build on our progress in 2022. Before we open the line for Q&A, I'd like to say thanks to our employees for another top-notch year in pursuit of our purpose and its service to our customers. The IDEXX organization remained highly focused on our customers' needs and continue to perform at a very high level during another dynamic and demanding year. The team's perseverance is seen both in the results highlighted this morning as well as our high levels of engagement as a team. And I'm proud to be able to share today's excellent results on behalf of the whole team's hard work. That concludes my opening remarks. We now have time for some questions. 