  OperatorGood afternoon, and welcome to Occidental's first quarter 2022 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] Please note this event is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to Jeff Alvarez, vice president of investor relations. Please go ahead.Jeff Alvarez -- Vice President of Investor Relations Thank you, Drew. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for participating in Occidental's first quarter 2022 conference call. On the call with us today are Vicki Hollub, president and chief executive officer; Rob Peterson, senior vice president and chief financial officer; and Richard Jackson, president of operations, U.S. onshore resources, and carbon management.

 



 This afternoon, we will refer to slides available on the Investors section of our website. The presentation includes a cautionary statement on Slide 2 regarding forward-looking statements that will be made on the call this afternoon. I will now turn the call over to Vicki. Vicki, please go ahead.Vicki Hollub -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Jeff, and good afternoon, everyone. We're especially proud of our results this quarter as our strong operational and financial performance enabled us to generate our highest reported and adjusted earnings in over a decade, resulting in an annualized return on capital employed of 21% when calculated with adjusted earnings. We also reported a record level of free cash flow for the fifth consecutive quarter. The increase in free cash flow compared to last quarter was achieved as we began executing on our 2022 capital plan to support our cash flow longevity. As we will detail in a few minutes, we made meaningful progress toward our near-term goal of retiring $5 billion of debt. We remain focused on reducing debt this year as we advance our shareholder return framework. We repaid over $3.6 billion of debt as a part of the near-term goals we announced last quarter to repay an additional $5 billion of principal and lower net debt to $20 billion. Once the $5 billion target has been achieved, we -- our focus will expand to the $3 billion share repurchase program.

 



 When this first phase of our shareholder return framework is complete, we will continue to focus on debt reduction until we have achieved the face value of our debt to the high teens. When we have line of sight on reaching this milestone, we will detail the next phase of our shareholder return framework. During our most recent earnings call, we spoke about the importance of lowering our interest expense to support a dividend that can sustainably grow throughout the cycle. Continuing to lower debt, combined with managing the number of shares outstanding, will enhance the sustainability of our dividend while positioning us to increase it at the appropriate time. This morning, I will cover our first quarter operational performance and Rob will cover our financial results, as well as our updated guidance, which includes an increase in guidance for OxyChem and midstream's 2022 earnings. Our first quarter results are a great example of how Oxy's operational excellence and asset portfolio position our shareholders to benefit from a high commodity price environment. In the first quarter, we generated $3.3 billion of free cash flow. This is more than twice what we generated in the first quarter of 2021, which at that time was our highest level of free cash flow in over a decade. Our strong financial results were driven by our business delivering exceptional performance while practicing disciplined capital allocation and cost control, combined with the benefits of an improved financial position and higher commodity prices. Switching to operational performance. We delivered first quarter production from continuing operations of approximately 1.1 million BOE per day, in line with the midpoint of our guidance and with total companywide spending -- capital spending of $858 million. Our international operations successfully completed their scheduled turnarounds in the quarter and production has returned to normalized levels. Compared to the first quarter, we expect international production to increase accordingly in the second quarter. While higher prices are expected to lower our full year international guidance under our production sharing contracts, we expect the impact to be fully offset by outperformance in our Rockies and Gulf of Mexico businesses. As I mentioned during our last call, we expect companywide production to grow from the second quarter through the end of the year as our targeted capital investments sustain 2022 average production in line with the previous year. OxyChem's performance continued to exceed expectations as the business benefited from robust pricing in the caustic, chlorine, and PVC markets.

 



 OxyChem delivered record earnings this quarter, which we expect to contribute to 2022 being another record year for the business. Following several consecutive record quarters, we see the potential for market conditions to dampen slightly in the second half of the year, though the long-term fundamentals continue to remain supportive. I'm very proud of OxyChem's workforce who recently received 13 Responsible Care and 15 facility safety awards from the American Chemistry Council for their 2021 performance. Midstream and marketing's outperformance compared to guidance in the first quarter was primarily driven by higher margins from gas processing and sulfur sales and our ability to optimize gas transportation in the Permian and Rockies and the timing of export sales. While short-term opportunities in the commodity markets are difficult to predict, our midstream team excels at finding and taking full advantage of such opportunities when they arise. I'm pleased to say that our first quarter results continue to demonstrate how the quality of the assets, the talent of our teams, and our improved financial position serve as catalysts for strong financial results and provide a solid foundation for free cash flow generation. Our teams did an excellent job of managing the planned turnarounds and maintenance projects this quarter. We completed turnarounds in Algeria, Al Hosn, and Dolphin and a series of maintenance projects in the Gulf of Mexico. Completing these planned projects increase the reliability and efficiency of our assets. The Al Hosn turnaround involved the first full plant shutdown, during which time we safely completed over 500 tie-ins related to the expansion project. The expansion is progressing as planned with the capacity increase expected to be online toward the middle of next year. Our Rockies team brought online their largest pad ever with 23 wells and drilled their longest lateral to date at over 15,000 feet. That business continues to perform well, with strong well productivity and higher-than-expected NGL yields driving first quarter performance. Our team in the Midland Basin had similar success bringing online the 12-well 15,000-foot development we mentioned on our most recent earnings call. And in Algeria, we drilled and completed Oxy's first development well in 2022 with time to market for the completion and hookup significantly exceeding prior performance. These are just a few of the many operational achievements our teams continue to deliver each quarter. In addition to focusing on operational improvements, we continue to pursue new and resourceful ways to reduce emissions. For example, in the DJ and Permian Basins, we successfully trialed a new in-house methane detection system that will help us on our net-zero pathway. We also plan to build on the success of our water recycling partnership by developing similar systems and additional locations this year. I'll now turn the call over to Rob, who will walk you through our first quarter results and guidance.Rob Peterson -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Vicki, and good afternoon. Our cash flow priorities continue to direct free cash flow allocation in the first quarter as we repaid an additional debt in April and paid the first distribution of our increased common dividend. On our last call, we detailed our near-term debt reduction targets, including repaying $5 billion of debt and reducing net debt to $20 billion. Our progress toward meeting these targets advanced significantly in the first quarter. We repaid approximately $3.3 billion of debt and ended the quarter with net debt of $23.3 billion, reflecting the face value of our debt of $25.2 billion and the unrestricted cash balance of $1.9 billion. Repaying $3.3 billion of debt in the first quarter was accomplished through a combination of a $2.9 billion tender offer, exercising the call provision on a note, and open-market repurchases. Following quarter end, we retired approximately $300 million in additional debt using open-market repurchases, lowering gross debt to approximately $24.9 billion, which is the balance today. It is reasonable to expect that we could meet our near-term debt targets and then initiate our share repurchase program during the second quarter. Once we complete our near-term debt reduction target and repurchased $3 billion of shares, we will continue to allocate free cash flow to repaying debt as we lower gross debt to the high teens in billions. We believe reducing debt to this level will speed our return to investment grade and better position us to sustain a greater dividend at lower prices. When we reach this stage, we intend to transition from proactively reducing debt to primarily addressing maturities as they come due. Our debt reduction efforts continue to receive positive recognition. Since our last earnings call, Moody's upgraded our credit rating to Ba1 with a positive outlook. All three of the major credit rating agencies now rate our debt as one notch below investment grade, which we view as recognition of the pronounced and ongoing improvement in our credit profile. Our consistently strong operational results in combination with the current commodity price environment are driving improved profitability on top of our already robust free cash flow generation. In the first quarter, we announced an adjusted profit of $2.12 per diluted share, our highest adjusted core EPS in over a decade; and reported profit of $4.65 per diluted share. The difference between our adjusted and reported profit for the quarter was mainly driven by the legal entity reorganization described in our most recent 10-K and 10-Q filings. Following the completion of our large-scale post-acquisition divestiture program, a portion of the existing tax basis was reallocated to operating assets, thus reducing our deferred tax liabilities by approximately $2.6 billion, which was recognized in our reported earnings for the quarter. We resumed paying U.S. federal cash taxes in the quarter, ahead of our earlier expectation. This was due in part to the strong earnings generated in the first quarter, combined with our expectations for commodity prices and earnings over the remainder of the year. Given current commodity price expectations, we now expect to exhaust our U.S. net operating losses and most of our general business credit carryforwards this year. However, the NOLs and credits that we currently have remaining are expected to limit the amount of cash taxes paid this year. For example, we would expect to pay approximately $600 million in U.S. federal cash taxes if WTI averaged $90 per barrel in 2022. The increase in commodity prices certainly benefited us during the quarter, as demonstrated by our strong earnings and free cash flow generation. The commodity price environment improvement compared to the previous quarter also resulted in higher accounts receivable balances, which contributed to a negative working capital change. Negative working capital change was also driven by typical first quarter payments such as semi-annual interest payments, annual property tax payments, and payments on our compensation plan. As was the case in 2021, we see the potential for the working capital change to partially reverse over the remainder of the year if commodity prices are stable and due to payments accrued during the year being made in subsequent first quarter. We are pleased to be able to update our full year guidance for midstream and OxyChem, reflecting strong first quarter performance and improved market conditions. Our revised full year guidance for OxyChem now includes the expectation of a fourth consecutive record for quarterly earnings in the second quarter. We recognize the possibility of softer product prices later in the year but still expect the third and fourth quarters to be exceptionally strong by historical standards. As Vicki mentioned, our Rockies business continues to perform well. Our expectation of continued strong well performance over the remainder of the year provides us with confidence to raise full year guidance for the Rockies by 5,000 BOE per day. On previous calls, we've discussed how we've been working closely with Colorado communities and regulators in implementing the state's new permitting process. Our drilling permits we have in hand are sufficient to run a single rig for the remainder of 2022. It is no longer feasible for us to run a multi-rig program for Colorado this year given the current pace of state approvals. As a result, we plan to reallocate activity from the Rockies to the Permian in the second half of the year. This activity change will not impact our 2022 production and is included in domestic onshore activity slide in the appendix to our earnings presentation. We plan to submit development plans in the coming months that will cover over 1,100 rig days. We are hopeful that as Colorado's new permitting process matures, it will continue to become more efficient. Regulatory certainty early on in the process would provide us with the option to add activity back in the Rockies in future years given oil and gas development plans we expect to submit for this year. While our companywide full year guidance is unchanged, as Vicki mentioned, we have included a 6,000 BOE per day downward adjustment to our full year international guidance, reflecting the impact of higher oil prices in our production sharing contracts. Our original budget included a forecast of $73 for Brent while our revised guidance reflects a Brent average price of $95 for 2022. Inclusive of these activity changes, our 2022 capital guidance remains at $3.9 billion to $4.3 billion. We mentioned on our last call that our 2022 capital guidance incorporates approximately $250 million of inflation compared to 2021. Cost of materials and services necessary for operations, especially onshore in the United States, has continued to increase. We are working to offset inflationary pressures through additional efficiency. But if price increases continue, we may spin near the top end of our capital guidance this year. Certain pricing pressures such as labor and our WTI index CO2 purchase contracts in the EOR business have become pressing, leading to a slight upward adjustment in our full year guidance for domestic opex. We are pleased with our strong start to 2022. With one full quarter behind us, we have completed scheduled turnarounds, continued to pay down debt, established a shareholder return framework, provided a comprehensive update on our low-carbon strategy, and set new quarterly records for earnings and cash flow. We will continue to focus on delivering value for shareholders this year and beyond. I will now turn the call back over to Vicki.Vicki Hollub -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Rob. I would like to thank our shareholders for voting with the board at our recent annual meeting and defeating a proposal that if approved, would have been counterproductive as we work toward achieving our net-zero ambition. Our quantitative short-, medium- and long-term goals for Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions are directly aligned with the goals of the Paris Agreement, our competitive strengths as a carbon management leader, and our strategy to achieve net zero before 2050. With our journey toward net-zero fully underway, we presented a market update in March on our low-carbon business strategy. We provided details of the market opportunity and our plans to deliver climate and business solutions that leverage our assets and capabilities in carbon management, including CCUS. We are advancing the technological solutions that can deliver large-scale and rapid emission reduction throughout our value chain. Additionally, our low-carbon strategy creates value for our existing businesses while, at the same time, helping to accelerate the path to net-zero for ourselves and other leading companies in multiple industries. We'll now open the call for your questions. 