  OperatorGood morning. My name is Jerome, and I will be your conference facilitator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the BlackRock, Inc. first-quarter 2021 earnings teleconference.  Our host for today's call will be chairman and chief executive officer, Laurence D. Fink; chief financial officer, Gary S. Shedlin; president, Robert S. Kapito; and general counsel, Christopher J. Meade [Operator instructions] Thank you.  Mr. Meade, you may begin your conference.

 



Chris Meade -- General Counsel Thank you. Good morning, everyone. I'm Chris Meade, the general counsel of BlackRock.  Before we begin, I'd like to remind you that during the course of this call, we may make a number of forward-looking statements. We call your attention to the fact that BlackRock's actual results may, of course, differ from these statements.  As you know, BlackRock has filed reports with the SEC, which lists some of the factors that may cause the results of BlackRock to differ materially from what we say today. BlackRock assumes no duty and does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements.  So with that, I'll turn it over to Gary.Gary Shedlin -- Chief Financial Officer

 



 Thanks, Chris, and good morning, everyone. I hope everyone and their families are remaining safe and healthy. It's my pleasure to present results for the first quarter of 2021.  Before I turn it over to Larry to offer his comments, I'll review our financial performance and business results. While our earnings release discloses both GAAP and as-adjusted financial results, I'll be focusing primarily on our as-adjusted results.  BlackRock's platform has been built over time to help clients meet their objectives, regardless of market environment or risk appetite. We've invested for years to develop industry-leading franchises in high-growth areas, such as ETFs, private markets, technology and, more recently, sustainable investing, so we can help clients construct resilient hold portfolios that leverage both active and index capabilities.  While few of us could have predicted that we would still be confronting the human and economic challenges of the COVID-19 pandemic a year later, the events of the past year have only strengthened our resolve to continue to invest for future growth in order to evolve our business, live our purpose and meet the needs of all of our stakeholders, including clients, employees, shareholders and the communities in which we operate.  The investments BlackRock has consistently made to build a best-in-class investment and technology platform centered around a fiduciary mindset, where clients always come first in a collaborative and unifying one BlackRock culture that encourages emotional ownership, are driving incredible momentum across our entire business.  BlackRock generated record net inflows of $172 billion in the first quarter, our fourth consecutive quarter with over $100 billion in quarterly inflows, representing 8% annualized organic asset growth and 14% annualized organic base fee growth. Strong performance from our entire active franchise once again contributed to this quarter's robust organic fee growth.  Over the last 12 months, our broad-based platform, pairing diverse investment capabilities with best-in-class technology and rigorous risk management, has now generated over $525 billion of total net inflows, representing 14% organic base fee growth, well in excess of our 5% long-term target.  First-quarter revenue of $4.4 billion increased 19% year over year, while operating income of $1.5 billion rose 21% and reflected the impact of approximately $180 million of costs associated with the launch of the nearly $5 billion BlackRock innovation and growth trust, our largest closed-end fund ever in late March.  Earnings per share of $7.77 was up 18% compared to a year ago, also reflecting lower nonoperating income and a higher effective tax rate, partially offset by a lower diluted share count in the current quarter.  Non-operating results for the quarter included $8 million of net investment income, as gains in our co-investment portfolio were largely offset by the mark-to-market impact of our minority stake in Envestnet.  Our as-adjusted tax rate for the first quarter was approximately 21% and included $39 million of discrete tax benefits related to stock based compensation awards that vest in the first quarter of each year. We continue to estimate that 23% is a reasonable projected tax run rate for the remainder of 2021, though the actual effective tax rate may differ as a consequence of nonrecurring or discrete items or potential changes in tax legislation during the year.  First-quarter base fee and securities lending revenue of $3.6 billion was up 18% year over year, primarily driven by strong organic base fee growth and the positive impact of market beta and foreign exchange movements on average AUM, partially offset by higher discretionary money market fee waivers, lower securities lending revenue and the effect of one less day in the current quarter and strategic pricing investments over the last year.  Sequentially, base fee and securities lending revenue was up 6%. On an equivalent day count basis, our effective fee rate was essentially flat compared to the fourth quarter, as strong organic base fee growth driven by our higher fee active businesses more than offset higher discretionary money market fee waivers and lower securities lending revenue in the current quarter.  Performance fees of $129 million were up significantly from a year ago, reflecting strong performance in our liquid alternative and long-only investment platforms and the impact of COVID-related market volatility a year ago. Quarterly technology services revenue increased 12% from a year ago.  Annual contract value, or ACV, increased 16% year over year, reflecting particularly strong growth from the first quarter of 2020, which was impacted by slower sales and contracting disruption in the early days of the pandemic. We remain committed to low- to mid-teens growth in ACV over the long term.  Aladdin's resilience has been a key differentiator throughout the COVID crisis, and client demand remains strong. As Larry will discuss in more detail, we see tremendous opportunity to continue building out Aladdin's climate and sustainability risk analytics and data capabilities, making it central to constructing sustainable portfolios of the future.  Advisory and other revenue was down $33 million year over year, primarily reflecting the absence of PennyMac equity method earnings following the charitable contribution of our remaining equity stake in the first quarter of 2020, as well as lower transition management revenue in the current quarter.  Total expense increased 17% versus the year-ago quarter driven primarily by higher compensation, direct fund and non-core G&A expense. Employee compensation and benefit expense was up 24%, primarily reflecting higher incentive compensation driven by higher operating income and performance fees and higher deferred compensation, reflecting additional grants and the mark-to-market impact of certain deferred compensation programs relative to depressed levels a year ago. Approximately 80% of the increase in our compensation-to-revenue ratio year over year was attributable to this mark-to-market impact on certain deferred compensation programs.  Direct fund expense increased 16% year over year, primarily reflecting higher average index AUM.  G&A expense was up $32 million year over year and $111 million sequentially, reflecting approximately $180 million of previously disclosed closed-end fund launch costs. Recall that we exclude the impact of these product launch costs when reporting our as-adjusted operating margin.  Year-over-year G&A comparisons were also impacted by approximately $155 million of non-core G&A expense in the first quarter of 2020, which included closed-end fund launch costs, contingent consideration fair value adjustments and costs related to certain legal matters.  On a core basis, quarterly G&A expense was essentially flat year over year, as higher portfolio services and technology expense was offset by lower T&E, marketing spend and professional fees. Quarterly G&A expense also benefited from a delay in planned spending in a number of areas, which we expect to incur over the remainder of the year.  Intangible amortization expense increased $9 million year over year as a result of the acquisition of Aperio, which closed on February 1.  Our first quarter as-adjusted operating margin of 44.4% was up 270 basis points from a year ago, benefiting in part from significantly lower level of non-core G&A expense versus a year ago and the delayed timing of certain investment spend in the current quarter.  As we stated in January, our business has never been better positioned to take advantage of the opportunities before us, and we remain committed to optimizing organic growth in the most efficient way possible. We continue to see numerous opportunities to invest for growth, including sustainable investing, private markets, technology and China and intend to pursue these opportunities responsibly.  Our capital management strategy remains, first, to invest in our business and then to return excess cash to shareholders through a combination of dividends and share repurchases.

 



 We continue to invest through prudent use of our balance sheet to best position BlackRock for continued success through seed and co-investments to support organic growth and through tactical M&A and strategic minority investments to accelerate our growth ambitions.  During the first quarter, we closed our acquisition of Aperio, and as Larry will discuss in more detail, announced the partnership with Temasek to co-invest in innovative decarbonization technology.  We previously announced a 14% increase in our quarterly dividend to $4.13 per share of common stock and also repurchased $300 million worth of common shares in the first quarter. While we will remain opportunistic with respect to additional share repurchases during the year, there is no change to the minimum repurchase guidance we provided to you earlier this year.  As you'll also hear from Larry, BlackRock has never been better positioned to deliver for clients as we leverage our unique insights, guidance and solutions to help them meet their long-term investment needs. Record net inflows of $172 billion in the first quarter, including $133 billion of long-term flows, reflect the strength of our broad-based franchise, with positive flows across every asset class, investment style, client channel and region.  Our iShares and BlackRock ETFs generated net inflows of $68 billion, representing 10% annualized organic asset and base fee growth. Results highlight the diversity of the product segments within our ETF franchise, with growth led by continued strength in core equity and sustainable ETFs.  We also saw strong closing to our higher-fee liquid markets-driven precision exposures, as clients continue to rerisk, particularly in international equities, and tactically position their portfolios for the reopening of economies worldwide. First-quarter fixed income ETF flows of $1.6 billion reflected demand for shorter-term and floating rate bond exposures, which was largely offset by outflows from longer-duration ETFs, especially LQD, as investors reacted to the most significant steepening in the yield curve since 2013. These inflows, even with the drag from longer-duration products, speak to the diversity of our fixed income ETF franchise, which will continue to benefit from strong, long-term secular growth.  Record retail net inflows of $37 billion, representing 17% annualized organic asset growth and 25% annualized organic base fee growth, were positive in both the U.S. and internationally and across all major asset classes, including fixed income. Inflows reflected broad-based strength across the entirety of our top-performing active platform, which is well positioned to capture resurging demand for active equities and investor appetite for yield, where our diversified fixed income range, including unconstrained, high yield, international and broad market strategies, are positioned to meet client demand in any rate environment.  BlackRock's institutional active franchise generated $17 billion of net inflows led by continued growth into our LifePath target date and alternatives platforms. Institutional index net inflows of $11 billion once again reflected equity net outflows, which were more than offset by fixed income net inflows, as clients rebalance portfolios after significant equity market gains or sought to immunize portfolios through LDI strategies.  As previously discussed in January, we expect a large U.S. public pension client to transition approximately $55 billion of low-fee index assets to another investment manager. This transition is likely to occur during the second quarter of 2021 and will have a de minimis impact on our organic base fee growth for the year.  Across our retail and institutional client businesses, we generated a record $21 billion of active equity net inflows, representing our eighth consecutive quarter of positive flows in this category. Flows were led by top-performing franchises in technology and mid-cap growth, which benefited from the previously mentioned launch of the BlackRock innovation and growth closed-end fund.  We remain well positioned for future growth in our active businesses, with over 80% of fundamental active equity, scientific active equity and taxable fixed income assets performing above their respective benchmarks or peer medians for the trailing five-year period.  Demand for alternatives also continued, with nearly $9 billion of net inflows into liquid and illiquid alternative strategies during the quarter driven by infrastructure, private equity solutions and liquid alternatives funds. Fundraising momentum remains strong, and we have approximately $27 billion of committed capital to deploy for institutional clients in a variety of alternative strategies, representing a significant source of future base and performance fees.  Finally, BlackRock's cash management platform continued to grow and outperform peers, generating almost $40 billion of net inflows in the first quarter and topping $700 billion in assets under management for the first time.  During the first quarter, we incurred approximately $78 million of gross discretionary yield support waivers and expect such discretionary fee waivers to persist for the near term, especially in light of the recent growth in our U.S. government fund franchise and the supply demand dynamics in the short-dated U.S. treasury and repo markets. Future levels of discretionary fee waivers will be impacted by several factors, including the level of AUM and funds with existing waivers, gross yields and competitive positioning.  Our strong performance over the last 12 months is testament to our purpose, the strong execution of our strategy, the confidence our clients place in us and the hard work, commitment and resilience of our employees. Our relationships with clients have never been deeper, and we will continue to invest responsibly from a position of strength to meet the needs of all of our stakeholders over the coming years.  With that, I'll turn it over to Larry.Larry Fink -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Gary. Good morning to everyone, and I want to thank all of you for joining the call. I hope you and your loved ones are continuing to stay healthy and safe.  We are reporting earnings today from our headquarters in New York City, and I'm incredibly energized by being all together as a group, as a team, as partners. I'm cautiously optimistic for a return to normalcy in the coming months as vaccinations roll out, and I'm looking forward to seeing all of our stakeholders in person again.  The strong results BlackRock saw this quarter are the outcome of a multiyear investments we've made in our asset management and technology platform to better serve our clients worldwide. More than ever before, we are seeing the benefits of these long-term investments resonating. We have stronger results and deeper relationships with clients across their entire portfolios.  We generated $527 billion of net inflows and a record 14% organic base fee growth over the last 12 months, including a very strong 2021.  Over a decade ago, we acquired iShares based on our conviction in the value proposition of ETFs. Our continuous investments in our platform since then to help more clients use ETFs to build better portfolios have fueled iShares growth of $385 billion during the acquisition to more than $2.8 trillion today.  We began expanding our alternative platform more than five years ago. And today, we manage nearly $200 billion in these strategies for all our clients. Our leadership in alternatives has only just begun, and we're seeing momentum accelerate as we scale our offerings, as we source our capabilities and our integration of data and technology into the management of private market assets.  We've been investing in all aspects of our Aladdin technology to better serve our clients' needs. We saw demand for a unified whole portfolio technology, and we enhanced Aladdin with eFront to offer portfolio construction and risk analytics capability in one view across all public and all private markets.  We created an end-to-end platform that enables straight-through processing between the asset owners, the asset managers, the custodians through Aladdin provider. We created Aladdin Wealth to help financial advisors build better portfolios for millions of clients around the world.  We recognize the growing impact of sustainability risks and the opportunities on our clients' portfolios, and as I will discuss in more detail later on, we are investing to systematically integrate climate and broader sustainable factors across all our investment offerings and risk management processes.  We manage over $200 billion in long-term sustainable assets today. And more recently, as wealth clients increasingly focus on the importance of after-tax returns in their investment, we acquired Aperio to enhance BlackRock's ability to meet these clients' needs.  The investments we made and continue to make in our platform enables BlackRock to have a holistic perspective and a voice that resonates with our stakeholders. More clients than ever before are turning to BlackRock for insights and for guidance. They want to hear from us on topics such as how to position their portfolio for rising interest rates and inflation, how should they think about the U.S. deficits, how to think about the potential opportunities from new infrastructure policies and how to invest for a net zero world.  We're vocal on issues that are important to our stakeholders, like cultural issues that impact our employees, that policies that impact our communities. We speak loudly and work for all our stakeholders.  The benefits of BlackRock's differentiating approach are clear in the strength and consistency of our results. As Gary told you, our total net inflows of $172 billion in the first quarter were diversified across all client types, asset classes, investment styles and regions, and represented an 8% annualized organic asset growth and a record 14% annualized organic base fee growth.  As the COVID-19 vaccine rollout continues and restrictions are eased, a significant acceleration of economic activity is anticipated, despite the consistently high numbers of cases around the world and now the introduction of many new variants. Investors are navigating their portfolio through uncertainty, such as the strength of the reopening, structural changes to the economies and fiscal policy and consequences for growth and inflation when activity is more fully restored.  Interest rates coming off historically lower levels have put pressure on fixed income assets and led to a rotation within equity from growth to value. Unlike the taper tantrum of 2013, however, the recent rise in rates have been gradual as investors look for greater compensation for holding longer-duration bonds, and investor appetite for risk assets remain very strong.  There's a lot of money in motion today. The level of fiscal support we have seen over the past year is four times that of a global financial crisis, but many investors continue to keep significant amounts of cash to utilize. To reach their investment goals, we will need to deploy that money in solutions that provide yield and preservation of their assets. BlackRock has deliberately built our industry-leading fixed income business to meet clients' needs, regardless of the rate environment. Changing rates that manifest and rotating within fixed income and BlackRock's diversified platform and strong active performance, with 84% of our taxable fixed income assets above benchmark or peer median for a three-year period, was well positioned for the demand. We saw $17 billion of net inflows in active fixed income driven by unconstrained, total return, municipals, international and high-yield bond funds.  Client demand for active strategies continued to accelerate at BlackRock. BlackRock generated $59 billion of active net inflows across asset classes in the first quarter, including another record quarter for active equities. Strong active flows included the nearly $5 billion launch of the BlackRock innovation and growth trust, the second largest ever closed-end fund launch in the United States.  By innovating in product structure, generating strong investment performance and offering strategies aligned with the needs of our clients, we are leading the turnaround of the closed-end fund IPO market.  BlackRock's strong active performance in flows are a direct result of these investments that I spoke about to build a platform with collaborative intelligence, advanced data and technologies in a whole portfolio approach. We have never ever been better positioned to deliver durable alpha for our clients, and I am confident we will continue to capture more demand for active strategies as we further strengthen our platform and invest in our platform.  In illiquid alternatives, we are seeing the magnitude of client flows increase every year. In the first quarter, we generated a record $11 billion of inflows and commitments, results spanning from private credit to infrastructure to private equity solutions, including the final close of our inaugural $3 billion private equity secondary fund.  Infrastructure investments will be a key component of long-term returns in client portfolios, as governments launch long overdue infrastructure products and projects to restart their economies and build for a more resilient future. The $2 trillion infrastructure plan in the United States will create significant opportunities for putting capital to work in this asset class.  Within infrastructure, renewables represent more than 50% of the transactions globally, and BlackRock is well positioned with one of the industry's largest renewable power franchises. We recently closed the third vintage of our global renewable power fund, raising nearly $5 billion, which is more than the first and second vintage combined.   iShares and BlackRock ETFs generated $68 billion of net inflows in the first quarter, the strongest start to a year in our history. Importantly, flows reflect the diversity of our ETF platform and the benefits of strategic investments we made over time to support the adaptation of ETFs, the evolution of new uses, the reduction in barriers like commissions and growth in areas such as model portfolios.  The work we are doing to expand our sustainable iShares business is a great example of how we continue to innovate ahead of our clients' needs. We generated $17 billion of net inflows in the quarter across the sustainable iShares spectrum from screens to thematic strategies. We recently crossed $100 billion of AUM in this category, up from $26 billion just a year ago.  The global transition to a net zero economy will impact every company's growth prospects, and BlackRock believes these -- believes that they are adapting and pivoting their strategies and business models ahead of this tectonic shift that will outperform over the long term. Every investor will need to position their portfolios accordingly, and BlackRock is investing to provide clients with more choice as we become a leader in sustainable and climate-aware investing.  We launched two low-carbon transition readiness ETFs last week, raising a total of nearly $2 billion, representing the largest ETF launch in U.S. history. Traditionally, climate products have been backward-looking, really focused on reported greenhouse gas emissions. Using advanced data and analytics and research driven by insights, BlackRock developed a forward-looking active climate investment strategy in a transparent active ETF vehicle.  These active ETFs are the first of their kind and a great example of how BlackRock is innovating to expand access to sustainable strategies for more investors worldwide.  In total, BlackRock manages $353 billion in sustainable investments, including cash, and we believe this category will grow to more than $1 trillion by 2030. Sustainable investing presents opportunities for BlackRock, not only in terms of AUM growth, but in the demand for industry-leading technology and data. As sustainability becomes a critical building block in portfolios, investors need a clear understanding of how sustainable-related risk and opportunities impact their portfolio.  One of the newest opportunities for BlackRock is powering portfolios to a new sustainable standard with Aladdin because climate risk is investment risk. Our ambition to make Aladdin climb as the standard for assessing this risk with investors' portfolio and helping clients navigate and capture investment opportunity presented by the transition to a net zero economy.  Investments we have made in Aladdin over the years is to serve more clients with better risk analytics, end-to-end operating systems, and the benefit of scale drove a 12% year-over-year growth in technology services revenues.  We consistently hear from clients that poor quality or availability of ESG data and analytics is the biggest barrier to deeper and broader implementation of sustainable investing. That is why we're evolving Aladdin's sustainability to help clients better assess their exposures and their positions across all our portfolios.  Our minority investment in Clarity AI will integrate analytics and data covering 30,000 companies and nearly 200 companies within Aladdin. And our partnership with RepRisk will give clients the ability to identify ESG risk exposures in private investments and create a holistic view of risk across their portfolios.  Advancing toward a net zero economy by 2050 will require more than better data and analytics. It will require transformational innovation in carbon reduction and elimination -- eliminating technologies. BlackRock has partnered with Temasek to establish decarbonization partners to invest in innovative decarbonization solutions to help accelerate global efforts. This initiative will provide clients with an opportunity to participate in a net zero transition by complementing BlackRock's existing renewable power and energy infrastructure investment platform.  In line with our strategic focus on technology and sustainability, we nominated Hans Vestberg, chairman and CEO of Verizon, to our board of directors for his deep experience in international markets, technology and sustainability.  At the same time, I want to thank Mathis Cabiallavetta for his passion and his dedication to BlackRock and its shareholders over the last 13 years. He will not stand for reelection at BlackRock's annual meeting next month, and he will be missed by our entire board and by me and the entire leadership team at BlackRock.  Our results and the speed of our forward momentum underscores the importance of BlackRock's fiduciary approach and culture. I truly believe our culture is what sets BlackRock apart. It drives our performance. It pushes us to innovate. It pushes us to stay ahead of our clients' needs. And it guides our decisions, and it guides our behaviors.  Critical to our culture is building an environment of inclusivity, belonging, trust and creating a safe environment. More than ever before, BlackRock's leadership team and I are focused on instilling this culture with all of our 16,700 employees around the world and evolving it to ensure that every employee, I want to underscore every employee, feels the sense of belonging.  The strength of our first-quarter results across iShares, private markets, technology and active and sustainable strategies is more broad based today than any point in our history, but our global scale and our unique client interactions give us greater ability to invest in our clients' future and, ultimately, for the benefit of our shareholders.  I see tremendous opportunities ahead for BlackRock's focus remaining on embracing change, investing for the long term so we could best serve all our stakeholders, and I look forward to executing on our ambitious plans in the years ahead.  With that, operator, let's please open it up for questions. 