
OperatorGood morning, and welcome to the Principal Financial Group First Quarter 2021 financial results conference call. There will be a question and answer period after the speakers have completed their prepared remarks. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to John Egan, Vice President of Investor Relations.John Egan -- Vice President-Investor RelationsThank you, and good morning. Welcome to Principal Financial Group's First Quarter 2021 conference call. As always, materials related to today's call are available on our website at principal.com/investor. Following the reading of the Safe Harbor provision, CEO, Dan Houston; and CFO, Deanna Strable, will deliver some prepared remarks. Then, we'll open up the call for questions. Others available for the Q&A session include Renee Schaaf, Retirement Income Solutions; Pat Halter, Global Asset Management; and Amy Friedrich, US Insurance Solutions. Some of the comments made during this conference call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. The company does not revise or update them to reflect new information, subsequent events, or changes in strategy. Risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied are discussed in the Company's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K filed by the company with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.

 



Additionally, some of the comments made during this conference call may refer to non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable US GAAP financial measures may be found in our earnings release, financial supplement, and slide presentation. We're looking forward to connecting with many of you at our 2021 Investor Day, which will now be held on June 29. The event will be virtual and we'll share more details in the near future. Additionally, our 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility report was recently released and we launched a new sustainability subsection on principal.com. Our 2020 CSR report highlights several achievements from the year and new commitments we've made. View the report and learn more about our ESG strategy at principal.com/sustainability.Dan?Daniel J. Houston -- Chairman, President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, John, and welcome to everyone on the call. This morning, I will discuss key performance highlights for the first quarter and the growing momentum we're seeing across our diversified business. Deanna will follow with additional details of our first-quarter results and our current financial position. 2021 is off to a strong start. Beginning on Slide 4, we reported non-GAAP operating earnings of $424 million. Excluding significant variances, non-GAAP operating earnings increased 18% over the first quarter of 2020, driven by solid execution and improved macroeconomic conditions. We're very optimistic about the opportunities that lie ahead as momentum has returned in many of our businesses and we continue to see resiliency in small to medium-sized businesses. In the first quarter, we had strong in-group growth from positive employment trends and group benefits. And we had record sales in our Retirement business, while participant deferrals and company matches increased and returned to pre-pandemic levels. We continue to be in a very strong financial position with $2.8 billion of excess and available capital. We deployed over $250 million of capital in the first quarter through share repurchases and common stock dividends. Last night, we announced a $0.61 common stock dividend payable in the second quarter, a $0.05 increase over the first quarter dividend. This increase helps us stay on track with our targeted 40% dividend payout ratio. We're confident that our businesses will continue to generate strong earnings and create long-term value for shareholders. We closed the first quarter with record total company AUM of $820 billion, an increase of nearly $190 billion or 30% over a pressured first quarter of 2020. This includes $19 billion of positive net cash flow and we achieved record PGI managed and PGI sourced AUM of $508 billion and $250 billion, respectively. Our diversified suite of products and solutions are in demand in the current market and continue to be relevant to institutional retail investors as well as our affiliated businesses. Investment performance remained strong, as 57% of Principal Mutual Funds, ETFs, separate accounts, and collective investment trust were above median for the one-year time period; 77% for the three-year; 76% for five years; and 89% for the 10-year. For our Morningstar-rated Funds, 71% of fund level AUM had a four or five-star rating. Longer-term performance, which drives our net cash flow, remained strong and positions us well to attract and retain assets going forward.

 



Principal International reported $160 billion of AUM in the first quarter. A 15% increase on a constant currency basis compared to a year ago. China AUM, which is not included in our reported AUM, increased to $155 billion in the first quarter. Total company net cash flow was a positive $8 billion in the first quarter, $5 billion higher than the first quarter of 2020. Our ASP generated $5.7 billion of net cash flow, driven by a record $8 billion of Retirement sales. Growth in reoccurring deposits as well as low contract lapses and participant withdrawals. The pipeline is robust, especially in the large plan market, and is expected to drive strong growth in full-year sales. Participant withdrawals, as a percent of average account values, returned to pre-pandemic levels in the first quarter, a recovery that is expected to persist throughout the year. While PGI sourced first-quarter net cash flow was a positive $400 million, driven by strong institutional flows, PGI managed net cash flow was a negative $500 million. To better meet customers' needs, we chose to move approximately $7.5 billion from mutual funds to collective investment trust in April. This will not impact second-quarter net cash flow, nor will there be a material impact on revenues or earnings. Principal International reported $1.4 billion in first-quarter net cash flow, the 50th consecutive positive quarter, driven by Southeast Asia and Hong Kong. Although not included in our reported net cash flow, China had $34 billion of net cash flow in the first quarter. While China clearly benefited from money market funds being in favor in the first quarter, we're making progress to diversify our offering through our joint venture with China Construction Bank, including $360 million of positive net cash flow and equity strategies in the first quarter. In addition, our digital distribution continues to grow in China. We added 3 million new digital retail mutual fund customers and doubled our digital AUM in the first quarter alone. The pandemic continued to impact many countries we operate in, Brazil in particular. Industrywide net deposits were down 19% from a year ago. While we continue to lead the industry and pension deposits, first-quarter net cash flow [Indecipherable] $100 million declined from the fourth quarter. And, in Chile, first-quarter AUM was negatively impacted by $600 million from COVID hardship withdrawals, improved from $1.3 billion in the fourth quarter.I'll now share some additional execution and business highlights, starting with the integration of the Institutional Retirement and Trust business. The integration is going very well and remains on track with a third successful migration occurring just last week. The migration of the retirement business will be completed in the second quarter and Trust and Custody in the third quarter. In total, we're adding more than 2.2 million retirement participants and approximately $140 billion of retirement account value through the IRT acquisition. Expense synergies will begin to emerge in the second half of the year and the transition services agreement will wind down by the end of the year. To offset some of the pressure on earnings, we're working on solutions to mitigate the impacts that the low IOER rate has had on the acquired Trust and Custody business. We're beginning to realize some tangible benefits of the IRT acquisition. Having scale and additional distribution channels helped drive record Retirement sales in the first quarter and our pipeline has doubled compared to a year ago. As we're servicing more customers, revenue synergies are starting to build and exceeded our expectations in the first quarter, including IRA [Phonetics] rollovers, automatic IRAs, and asset management opportunities. This business is a powerful growth driver for Principal. We are increasing our scale to better serve small, medium, and large-size clients. We're enhancing our capabilities and then we'll have a more robust platform that is needed to compete in the retirement business moving forward.A few other business highlights to note. In RIS spread, we had approximately $900 million of opportunistic MTN and gig issuances in the first quarter. The PRT pipeline continues to build and we expect a robust second half of the year. Individual Life sales rebounded with a 30% increase over the prior-year quarter, driven by non-qualified deferred compensation, an important component of our total Retirement Solutions and our small to medium-sized business strategies. A few weeks ago, Principal unveiled new Corporate Responsibility commitments to bring additional accountability to our ESG strategy. Through these commitments, we're pledging enhanced support for women and minority-owned businesses, continuing to nurture a diverse and inclusive work environment, and by 2050, we are targeting net-zero carbon emissions. As many of you are aware, we entered into an agreement with Elliott Management, earlier this year, to conduct a strategic review of our business mix, capital management, and capital deployment, as well as added two independent directors to our Board. The review, which is being led by the finance committee of our Board is well under way and we'll share the outcome in late June. We are considering the entire spectrum of options to enhance shareholder value, meet the needs of our customers, and strengthen our position as an industry leader. We've had very insightful conversations with many of our investors and sell side analysts since reaching our agreement with Elliott Management in mid-February. I want to thank all of you for your candor and your perspectives. Our conversations with Elliott remain constructive. Last night, we announced Claudio Muruzabal. He's joining our Board of Directors. Claudio's immense global experience and leadership in the technology industry will bring valuable insights to our digital initiatives around the world, combined with the addition of Mary Beams [Phonetics] in February, we've now added two new independent directors in 2021, per our agreement with Elliott.With that, let me turn it over to Deanna.

 



Deanna D. Strable -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Dan. Good morning to everyone on the call. This morning, I'll share the key contributors to our financial performance for the quarter, the impacts from COVID, as well as our current financial position. The first quarter was a strong start to the year with net income attributable to Principal of $517 million, including $94 million of net realized capital gains with minimal credit losses. We reported $424 million of non-GAAP operating earnings in the first quarter or $1.53 per diluted share. Excluding significant variances, non-GAAP operating earnings of $442 million or $1.60 per diluted share, increased 18% and 19%, respectively, compared to the first quarter of 2020. As shown on Slide 4, we had three significant variances during the first quarter. These had a net negative impact to reported non-GAAP operating earnings of $25 million pre-tax, $18 million after tax, and $0.07 per diluted share. Pretax impacts included a net negative $21 million impact from COVID-related claims, a negative $19 million impact from IRT integration cost, and a $15 million benefit from higher than expected variable investment income. Specific to variable investment income, alternatives and prepayment fees benefited RIS spread in Individual Life by a combined $25 million. This was partially offset by a negative $10 million impact in corporate, as the increase in interest rates negatively impacted some mark-to-market fixed-income investments. The first quarter financial impacts from COVID were limited to mortality and morbidity, and RIS spread in US Insurance Solutions. With approximately 200,000 US COVID-related deaths in the first quarter, the net $21 million pre-tax impact was slightly better than our sensitivity would have suggested, primarily due to more favorable impacts in our RIS spread. For the full year, we're now estimating a total of 275,000 US COVID deaths or about 75,000 in the remainder of the year. This is slightly lower than what was anticipated in our outlook due to the vaccine rollout. We continue to see further recovery across our US businesses in the first quarter. Group Benefits and Group growth was a strong positive at just under 1% during the quarter and dental claims returned to expected levels for the quarter. In the Retirement business, recurring deposits increased 10% compared to the first quarter of 2020, driven by an increase in both the number of people deferring and the number of people receiving a match [Phonetics], as well as impact from the IR team migrations. Additionally, a record $8 billion of sales and low lapses contributed to the strong first-quarter net cash flow. Looking at macroeconomic factors in the first quarter, the S&P 500 Index increased 6% and the daily average increased 9% compared to the fourth quarter and 26% from the year ago quarter, benefiting revenue, AUM, and account value growth in RIS-Fee and PGI.Foreign exchange rate tailwinds emerged in the first quarter, but remain a headwind compared to a year ago. Impacts to reported pre-tax operating earnings included a positive $3 million compared to fourth quarter 2020, a negative $4 million compared to first quarter 2020, and a negative $45 million on a trailing 12-month basis. Excluding significant variances, first-quarter results were in line with or better than our expectations for all of the business units. A few comments. PCI's trailing 12-month revenue growth of 2% was muted due to lower performance fees and transaction and borrower fees due to the pandemic. We expect to be at the high end of the 9% to 13% guided range for revenue growth for the full year.In Principal International, while encaje performance was $5 million lower than expected in the first quarter. It was offset by favorable variable investment income in Chile. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, Principal International's trailing 12-month revenue was flat compared to the year-ago with a 33% margin. Revenue growth is expected to improve throughout the year and to be within the 8% to 12% guided range for the full year.Turning to Capital and Liquidity on Slide 6. We remain in a strong financial position with $2.8 billion of excess and available capital, including $1.8 billion at the holding company, more than double our target of $800 million to cover the next 12 months of obligations, $575 million in excess of our targeted 400% risk-based capital ratio, estimated to be 437%, and $400 million of available cash in our subsidiaries. We expect the estimated 437% RBC ratio to move down toward our targeted 400% throughout 2021 as capital is deployed. Our non-GAAP debt-to-capital leverage ratio, excluding AOCI is low at 23%. Our next debt maturity of $300 million isn't until late 2022, and we have a well-spaced ladder debt maturity schedule into the future. As shown on Slide 7, we deployed $252 million of capital during the first quarter, including $100 million of share repurchases. We remain committed to $600 million to $800 million of share repurchases in 2021. So far, in the second quarter, we've completed approximately $75 million of repurchases through April 26. Last night, we announced a $0.61 common set dividend, payable in the second quarter, a $0.05 or 9% increase from the first quarter, and our dividend yield is approximately 4%. During the first quarter, the impact from credit drift and credit losses was immaterial and we're now estimating $100 million impact for the full year, improved from the $300 million estimate at the end of 2020.2021 is off to a great start with record assets under management and strong earnings in the first quarter. The macroeconomic outlook has improved from year-end and will help fuel continued growth across our businesses. We're looking forward to welcoming the remainder of the IRT retirement customers to Principal in the second quarter and are excited for the opportunities that lie ahead. As John mentioned at the beginning of the call, I look forward to connecting with many of you at our Virtual Investor Day on June 29, where we'll share our strategies for long-term growth. This concludes our prepared remarks.Operator, please open the call for questions.