  OperatorGood evening. My name is Missy, and I'll be your conference facilitator today. At this time, I'd like to welcome everyone to the DaVita first quarter 2022 earnings call. [Operator instructions] Thank you. Mr. Ackerman, you may begin your conference.Joel Ackerman -- Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer

 



 Thank you, and welcome, everyone, to our first quarter conference call. We appreciate your continued interest in our company. I'm Joel Ackerman, CFO and treasurer. And joining me today is Javier Rodriguez, our CEO. Please note that during this call, we may make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. All of these statements are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. For further details concerning these risks and uncertainties, please refer to our first quarter earnings press release and our SEC filings, including our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and all subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and other subsequent filings that we make with the SEC. Our forward-looking statements are based on information currently available to us, and we do not intend and undertake no duty to update these statements except as may be required by law.Additionally, we'd like to remind you that during this call, we will discuss some non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures is included in our earnings press release furnished to the SEC and available on our website. I will now turn the call over to Javier Rodriguez. Javier Rodriguez -- Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thank you, Joel, and thank you all for joining the call today. It is an interesting time right now as our country and our world are facing a unique portfolio of onetime events, all happening at the same time. On the positive side, we're gathering and interacting more as communities and society as COVID infection rates have declined. On the more challenging side, we're dealing with new economic pressures of inflation, supply channel constraints and the sad consequences from the war between Russia and Ukraine. As our organization works through these challenges, I think it is critical to keep in mind why DaVita exists. We are a patient-focused organization that provides life-sustaining care to over 240,000 people in 12 countries, which is why I want to start the call by sharing clinical highlights. As you know, one of our key focus areas has been improving a patient's experience in dealing with their kidney disease, and one way to do this is through focused efforts to reduce the amount of time that our patients spend in the hospital. With our new integrated care partnerships, we have been scaling our models of care and are seeing early results of double-digit percentage reduction in time spent in the hospital, which is absolutely great for our patients and for the healthcare system. These results are in line with our expectations. The improvement is primarily driven by our care management, our clinical interventions and our focus on the quality of care of our patients. Pure hospitalization translates into better quality of life for our patients and more healthy days at home doing the things that they like with the people they love. We are optimistic about these early results, and we'll continue to find ways to improve our patients' quality of life. Now, let me transition to our first quarter performance. In Q1, we delivered operating income of $338 million and earnings per share of $1.61. Operating income was down sequentially, primarily due to typical seasonal factors, continued volume pressures from COVID and higher wage expenses. The mortality rate of Omicron variant of COVID has been significantly lower than prior variants, but the sheer magnitude of cases resulted in estimated excess patient mortality of approximately 2,100 in the first quarter.

 



 Therefore, our treatment volumes declined compared to the prior quarter. The good news is that patient infections and mortality rates have declined over the last couple of months, consistent with national trends, and we have not yet seen significant impact from new subvariants. Therefore, we're beginning to see positive trends in treatment volumes in both March and April. On staffing, as we've discussed previously, we continue to experience a challenging labor market. Year over year, our first quarter field labor expense increased over 6%. The increase is due to a mix of higher-than-normal merit increases, higher incentive pay, increased utilization of contract labor and lower productivity due primarily due to higher training costs and inefficient staffing associated with cohorting COVID patients. While we're seeing some positive trends in our ability to fill open roles in our clinics, we expect to experience higher-than-normal, year-over-year labor cost increases for all of 2022. With all of these challenges, we believe it's more likely that our performance will fall within the bottom half of our guidance range for 2022. However, there are scenarios in which our results could be above or below this due to the uncertainty of the environmental impact of labor, costs and COVID. Looking forward to 2023 and beyond, we're preparing for wage rate growth to continue above average historical levels. To offset this impact, we will need to demonstrate continuous cost innovation. We have already identified a number of cost savings opportunities to help mitigate these inflationary pressures. These include savings from a new ESA contract, G&A efficiencies, capacity utilization improvement, clinical operation optimization and procurement improvements. We expect to start realizing these savings in 2023 with a full run rate benefit in 2025. We believe that these anticipated savings, combined with an expectation of higher rate increases from government and private payers in the future, can keep us on a path to deliver on our long-term adjusted operating income growth of 3% to 7% and an adjusted earnings-per-share growth of 8% to 14%. I will wrap up my prepared remarks with some thoughts on our Integrated Kidney Care or IKC business. As we shared in our Capital Markets Day, we continue to see significant potential for our IKC business. First, delegated patient volumes are strong and consistent with our initial modeling with some potential upside over the next 12 months. We are on track with our expected ESKD member growth via new payer partnerships, and we are trending ahead of plan on new CKD payer partnerships as payers recognize our ability to effectively collaborate with physicians on managing this patient population. Second, available cost savings may be higher than initially forecasted given strong nephrologist engagement and from the recent release 2023 MA rate increase of approximately 10%. Third, we have expanded the number of nephrologists with whom we are working with in value-based care. We are now engaged in a new value-based partnership with over 1,800 nephrologists around the country with more than 600 nephrologists using an integrated CKD electronic health record. Last, we continue to have confidence in our clinical model, which is now beginning to operate at scale. With that, I will turn it over to Joel to discuss our financial performance and outlook in greater detail.Joel Ackerman -- Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer Thanks, Javier. First, let me start with some additional details on our first quarter results. The biggest driver of the operating income decline of approximately $50 million from Q4 was seasonal factors. First, there were two fewer treatment days, resulting in approximately 185,000 fewer treatments in Q1. Second, there is negative seasonal impact on revenue from higher patient coinsurance and deductibles. Third, payroll tax expenses are higher in Q1. Now, moving on to the underlying drivers of operating income. U.S. dialysis treatments per day were down approximately 2,000 or 2.2% in Q1 2022 compared to Q4 2021, primarily due to excess mortality from COVID in late Q4 and in Q1. Higher mistreatment rates in Q1 from the Omicron surge added to the negative impact on treatments. Revenue per treatment was down quarter over quarter by approximately $0.35, primarily due to the impact of higher seasonal coinsurance and deductibles, largely offset by increases in the Medicare fee-for-service rate for 2022 and continued improvement in both MA and commercial mix. Patient care cost per treatment was up $4.49 per treatment quarter over quarter, primarily due to higher wage rates and the impact of lower treatment volume on fixed expenses in our centers. G&A expenses were down approximately $26 million quarter over quarter, largely due to the seasonality of our G&A spend. Our Q1 operating loss for the IKC business was in line with our expectations as we continue to invest in growth. We remain on track for the incremental $50 million investment in our IKC business for the year. In Q1, we repurchased 2.1 million shares of our stock, and we've repurchased to date an additional 800,000 shares since the quarter end. Looking forward to the rest of 2022, in Q2, we anticipate a rebound in operating income as the Q1 seasonal factors fall away, partially offset by the reduction and then the full elimination in Q3 and Q4 of sequestration relief. In Q3, we expect to incur the vast majority of the impact from ballot costs. Finally, Q4 will increase sequentially with significantly fewer ballot-related costs. Now, on to our views for 2023. As we shared at our Capital Markets Day, we consider 2022 to be a transition year. We expect to see a rebound in our operating income in 2023, driven by growth in the core business, a reversal of some of the COVID headwinds, no contribution to the industry's fight against ballot initiatives in California and progress in our IKC business. At our Capital Markets Day, we sized this operating income rebound from '22 to '23 between $250 million and $400 million. Our updated view on 2023 revolves around three of the underlying drivers. First, we are anticipating continued cost pressures in wages and from inflation that were not incorporated in our prior guidance. The magnitude of these pressures will largely depend on how the labor environment unfolds over the next few quarters. We are preparing for another year of wage pressure in 2023 that runs a couple of percent above our historic levels of growth, although not as challenging as what we're experiencing this year. We expect some offset to these cost increases from higher RPT increases from Medicare fee-for-service and other payers, although our expectation is that most of our commercial and MA book will take longer to catch up because of our multiyear contracts. Second, as Javier mentioned, we've identified a number of cost-saving opportunities that we expect will begin to materialize in 2023. While we don't anticipate any significant capex associated with these projects, we may incur some onetime expenses associated with some of these efforts in 2022, 2023 and potentially into 2024. We have excluded these nonrecurring expenses from our guidance. Finally, on COVID. Our inability to predict the course of the pandemic remains a source of significant variability in our forecast. Our views of 2023 at Capital Markets Day assumed a scenario in which excess mortality from COVID would be negligible, and we would experience accelerated growth beginning in 2023. As Javier mentioned, although we have seen improvements in treatment volumes recently, we remain cautious about future surges. If we continue to see surges this year and if COVID mortalities continue if the disease remains endemic, the impact of COVID on our forecast could slip from a tailwind to a headwind in 2023. Putting this all together, while it's still early to give full guidance for 2023, particularly given the dynamic environment, we currently believe that if COVID largely subsides as a source of increased mortality this year, we feel good about the range of $250 million to $400 million OI increase versus 2022. If COVID remains a headwind this year and into 2023 we'd still expect a strong rebound but are not in a position to quantify it given the uncertainty. Operator, please open the call for Q&A. 