
OperatorThank you for standing by, and welcome to Anthem's Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, today's conference is being recorded.I would now like to turn the conference over to the company's management. Please go ahead.Stephen Tanal -- Vice President of Investor Relations

 



Good morning, and welcome to Anthem's second quarter 2021 earnings call. This is Stephen Tanal, Vice President of Investor Relations. And with us this morning on the earnings call are Gail Boudreaux, President and CEO; John Gallina, our CFO; Peter Haytaian, President of our Commercial and Specialty Business Division; Felicia Norwood, President of our Government Business Division; and Jeff Alter, President of our Pharmacy and Health Solutions businesses. Gail will begin the call with a brief discussion of the quarter, recent progress against our strategic initiatives and close on Anthem's commitment to its mission. John will then discuss our financial results and outlook in greater detail. After our prepared remarks, the team will be available for Q&A.During the call, we will reference certain non-GAAP measures. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are available on our website antheminc.com. We will also be making some forward-looking statements on this call. Listeners are cautioned that these statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the control of Anthem. These risks and uncertainties can cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations. We advise listeners to carefully review the risk factors discussed in today's press release and in our quarterly filings with the SEC.I will now turn the call over to Gail.Gail K. Boudreaux -- President and Chief Executive Officer

 



Good morning, and thank you for joining us today for Anthem's second quarter 2021 earnings call. This morning, we reported second quarter GAAP earnings per share of $7.25 and adjusted earnings per share of $7.3, ahead of our expectations despite ongoing uncertainties associated with the COVID-19 pandemic. I'm pleased to report that we continue to deliver on our commitments to our stakeholders, while making considerable progress against our long-term strategy to transform our organization from a health benefits company to a lifetime trusted partner in health. This transformation is fueled by the continued expansion of our digital platform, which improves connections across the healthcare system, while leveraging the industry's largest datasets to drive actionable insights and pursuit a better health.In the second quarter, Anthem produced strong membership growth, won significant new contracts in our government business and continue to integrate and expand our digital platform. On the membership front, we ended the second quarter with 44.3 million members, up 1.9 million or 4.4% year-over-year, and 820,000 new members since the end of the first quarter, reflecting the strategic acquisition of Puerto Rico's leading Medicare Advantage organization MMM, as well as strong organic growth in our core benefits businesses. MMM is the largest Medicare Advantage plan in Puerto Rico and operates the only 4.5 star rated plan in the territory. And it's also the second largest Medicaid health plan. Through its integrated care delivery model, MMM has established a strong track record of delivering quality care for seniors and dual eligibles with complex and chronic needs.Medicare Advantage remains a key area of focus for our organization and we continue to see an immense opportunity to grow and optimize this business. Just last week, we were awarded a major contract to serve the retirees of the City of New York in partnership with Emblem Health, in what was one of the largest public procurements for Group Medicare in the last decade. This opportunity builds on our more than 50-year relationships serving New York City's workers, retirees and their families, and will significantly increase Anthem's Group Medicare Advantage business as well as our Medicare Advantage market share in New York. We're honored to have been selected to make a material difference in the lives of New Yorkers, who worked hard to serve the city.In addition to MMM, we also closed on the acquisition of myNEXUS during the second quarter, advancing our strategy to grow and deepen Anthem's capabilities in Medicare Advantage. MyNEXUS is a digitally enabled organization that optimizes home health for more than 2 million Medicare Advantage members across 20 states, including more than 900,000 existing Anthem Medicare Advantage members. MyNEXUS improves outcomes by facilitating timely personalized care for our members in the comfort of their homes, leading to improved continuity of care and reduced hospital admissions, readmissions and ER visits. In addition to supporting future growth in Medicare Advantage, myNEXUS furthers our diversified business group strategy to deliver on its risk contracts to the expansion of home-based care.

 



Our Medicaid business is also performing very well and continues to build upon our deep local alliances and investments in population health, digital tools and local solutions to help address the social drivers of health in our communities. We extended our strong RFP track record in the quarter, securing an award to continue serving consumers in the state of Nevada. This follows our recent award in Ohio. These wins build on the momentum we are coming off a fantastic start to the launch of North Carolina, which went live at the beginning of this month.Our Healthy Blue plan has already become the largest Medicaid managed care plan by membership in North Carolina and the leading choice for consumers. Beneficiaries who chose their plan, nearly 50% selected Healthy Blue, underscoring the power of our alliance partnerships and the Blue brand. In our commercial business, together with IngenioRx, we continue to innovate, while demonstrating the power of true integration. By deploying machine learning and automation across our comprehensive ecosystem of medical, pharmacy, lab and social drivers of health data, Anthem and IngenioRx are improving outcomes. Across these businesses, we're leveraging our proprietary predictive modeling algorithms to apply rich and analytic solutions that allow us to tailor our integrated medical and pharmacy offerings to each member population. This enables us to deliver the right solutions to improve health based on individualized needs. We extend this customized approach to our specialty products, which we are increasingly selling in bundles to Anthem's Whole Health Connection, a differentiator in the marketplace. This traction gives us confidence in the long-term targets we articulated for our commercial business at our recent Analyst Day, including narrowing the profit gap between our fee and risk-based commercial business by serving more of our fee-based members in more ways.The success we are seeing in our core business validates our commitment to continue to invest in building our digital platform for health. The essence of a platform is that what we own matters less than what we can connect, and we are seeing great success in making connections through consumer and provider facing tools. While we are still in the early innings, our efforts to simplify the healthcare experience while creating a more connected and powerful platform are clearly resonating with consumers, providers and employers. For example, over 30% of members registered for Sydney Health are actively using the platform. In the second quarter, we continue to expand access to Sydney across multiple Medicaid markets and saw a five-fold increase in engagement compared to our legacy digital tools for Medicaid.In the commercial markets, 32 national accounts who have purchased Sydney preferred for its superior end-to-end experience and enhanced functionality, like our Find Care feature, which provides members seeking surgical treatments a personalized omnichannel experience, including price transparency, tailored physician and facility recommendations and access to telephonic health coaches to guide them through the process. Digital is also playing a key role in deepening our value-based care penetration and provider enablement by improving connectivity and real-time access to meaningful actionable data. We continue to invest in building enhanced data connections to enable deeper collaboration at scale via our health OS provider platform. Health OS connects siloed health data in disparate technologies to drive deeper insights and reduce cost and complexity. More than 100,000 value-based care physicians and 13,000 value-based care coordinators are connected to health OS today. This connection allows technology partners and providers to plug into health OS and gain data-driven insights as part of their existing workflow.In May, we announced a new partnership with Epic that will allow secure bidirectional exchange of health information, paving the way to better leverage data-driven insights into care decisions. Epic is a significant enabler of many of our efforts to improve our HEDIS and star scores. We have nearly a 150 provider systems on our glide path through the end of 2022 and are in discussions with other healthcare information companies for similar partnerships. All of these efforts align to Anthem's purpose to improve the health of humanity. Our community health strategy supports our purpose by addressing the health-related social needs of our associates, members and communities through data and evidence-based interventions that promote health equity. Our commitment to living this purpose has earned recognition that I'm particularly proud of. For example, Anthem was recently named one of the top 100 U.S. companies supporting healthy communities and families by just capital, the leading platform for measuring and improving corporate performance in the stakeholder economy. We are the leader in our industry, ranking number 1 among healthcare providers and number 14 overall on the list. In addition, Points of Light, the world's largest organization dedicated to volunteer service, recently recognized Anthem as one of the 50 most community-minded companies in America for 2021.As we reflect on our achievements this quarter and our broader mission, we're cognizant that fundamentally improving the health of humanity takes partnerships, aligned incentives and connections across people, care providers, researchers, data scientists, communities and others dedicated to improving health. Anthem is making these connections through our digital platform for health, while following the data and embracing our unique assets to drive positive change in ways that only Anthem can. We have deep local roots in our communities and the industry's largest datasets, both of which position us uniquely well to deliver against our mission.I'll now turn the call over to John to discuss our financial performance and outlook in greater detail. John?John E. Gallina -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Gail, and good morning to everyone on the line. Earlier this morning, we reported second-quarter results that included GAAP earnings per share of $7.25 and adjusted earnings per share of $7.03. Another strong quarter in which we delivered on our financial commitments, while reinvesting in each of our businesses, all while navigating the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic.Second quarter results again underscores the balance and resilience of our enterprise. We ended the quarter with 44.3 million members, growth of 1.9 million lives year-over-year or 4.4%, including growth of 820,000 in the second quarter alone. Excluding the acquisition of MMM, we grew organically by 232,000 members in the quarter, driven by growth in our Medicaid and commercial fully insured businesses, partially offset by continued in-group attrition in our large group and national fee-based accounts in line with our expectations and prior guidance. Second quarter operating revenue of $33.3 billion grew 14% over the prior year quarter. On a HIF adjusted basis, our topline grew nearly 16% with no impact from MMM, which closed at the end of the quarter.Growth was driven by higher premium revenue in Medicaid and Medicare associated with strong membership growth, in addition to rate increases to cover cost inflation. Pharmacy product revenue also contributed to our topline growth as IngenioRx grew affiliated and unaffiliated revenue with the value proposition that continues to resonate in the marketplace. The medical loss ratio for the second quarter was 86.8%, an increase of 890 basis points as compared to the prior year quarter, driven by an increase in non-COVID utilization from depressed levels a year ago and to a lesser extent the repeal of the health insurance tax in 2021. Relative to our expectations, total medical costs were favorable, driven by non COVID cost developing favorably, partially offset by somewhat higher-than-expected cost for COVID-related care. Please note that while total benefit costs were favorable to our expectations, total cost ended the quarter slightly above our estimate of a normalized level.Our second quarter SG&A expense ratio came in at 11.5%, a decrease of 240 basis points year-over-year. Excluding the effect and the repeal of the HIF, our SG&A ratio decreased 110 basis points, driven by leverage on strong revenue growth, partially offset by ongoing investments in support of our growth and our evolution to become a digital first enterprise.Turning to our balance sheet. We ended the second quarter with a debt-to-capital ratio of 40.9%, down sequentially from 41.6% in the first quarter. The decrease was due to the early repayment of debt at par originally scheduled to mature in August of this year and an increase in equity driven by our strong bottom line performance in the quarter. We continue to expect our debt-to-capital ratio to end the year slightly below 40%. During the quarter, we repurchased approximately 1.3 million shares of our common stock at a weighted average price of $380.59 for $480 million. We have now were purchased close to 60% of our full year outlook of $1.6 billion, which is still an appropriate figure for modeling purposes.We maintained a prudent posture with respect to reserves through the second quarter, ending the period with 48.1 days in claims payable, an increase of 1.2 days compared with the first quarter and 2.1 days year-over-year. MMM and myNEXUS, both of which closed during the quarter increased our June 30th claims payable balances with minimal impact on the average day of claims, resulting in the DCP calculation increasing by 1.6 days. Excluding these acquisitions, days in claims payable was largely consistent with the last quarter, decreasing by just 0.4 days. Given the continued uncertainty associated with COVID, we continue to take a prudent posture in establishing reserves and as a result, our second quarter earnings did not benefit from the favorable prior period development.Operating cash flow was $1.7 billion or 0.9 times net income in the second quarter. The year-on-year decline was driven by the deferral of normal tax payments out of the second quarter of last year into the back half as was permitted by the IRS. On a year-to-date basis, cash flow was $4.2 billion or 1.2 times net income. Given our solid performance in the first half, we are increasing our guidance for full year operating cash flow to greater than $5.8 billion. As a reminder, our operating cash flow is depressed this year due to the timing of certain payments as well as the settlement of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield multidistrict litigation scheduled for the fourth quarter.Turning to our earnings outlook for the year. We are raising our guidance for the full year adjusted earnings per share to greater than $25.50 from the greater than $25.10, which squarely puts us at the midpoint of our long-term annual adjusted earnings-per-share growth target of 12% to 15%. There are a number of moving pieces associated with our revised guidance, which includes a portion of the upside we generated in the second quarter. The underlying fundamentals of our core business remains strong, evidenced by our first half results. Given strong year-to-date performance on medical cost, we now expect our full year medical loss ratio to end in the lower half of our full year guidance of 88%, plus or minus 50 basis points. Given accelerated reinvestment in our business in the first half of the year and start-up costs for new contracts in the back half, we now expect full year SG&A ratio to end the year in the upper half of our prior guidance range of 10.8%, plus or minus 50 basis points.We have also increased our outlook for investment income for the year given strong performance in our alternative investment portfolio in the first two quarters, which we have not carried forward in our guidance. The outperformance in this non-operating line item is more than entirely offset by higher effective tax rate in our full year guidance.In the context of our upwardly revised guidance, we now expect to absorb earnings dilution in the second half associated with the start-up cost for the award of the City of New York Group Medicare Advantage contract and our entry into the Ohio Medicaid program, both of which will go live in 2022. We have also taken a slightly more cautious view in the back half of the year in light of new COVID variance coupled with a slowing vaccination rate, a combination that could result in the potential for higher COVID-related cost. Our guidance also includes a partial year of MMM and myNEXUS, both of which are expected to contribute much more meaningfully to our financial results in 2022 and beyond.As noted in our press release, we now expect to generate approximately $137 billion of operating revenue in 2021 and to end the year with 44.8 million to 45.3 million members. Finally, while it is premature to comment quantitatively on 2022, we want to remind you that Group Medicare Advantage contracts and large Medicaid wins are generally dilutive in the first full year of operations. We have a strong line of sight toward a compelling ROI on our recent new business wins and over the seven-year term of our new Group Medicare Advantage contract with the City of New York, our expected returns are well in excess of our cost of capital. Additionally, with these two wins, our percent of membership and revenues from our Government Business Division will become an even larger percentage of our totals.In closing, we were pleased to deliver another quarter of solid growth while reinvesting in our enterprise. We continue to grow inward in our services businesses and outward in all of our segments, each of which remains well positioned for growth. Our mix continues to evolve toward our strategic areas of focus, Medicare advantage in the Government business, in addition to our service segments. We have entered the second half with strong underlying fundamentals, solid momentum, and a prudently position balance sheet.And with that, operator please open up the call to questions.