  OperatorGood morning. Thank you for standing by, and welcome to the AbbVie second-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] I would now like to introduce Ms. Liz Shea, vice president of investor relations. Ma'am, you may proceed.Liz Shea -- Vice President of Investor Relations

 



 Good morning and thanks for joining us. Also on the call with me today are Rick Gonzalez, chairman of the board and chief executive officer; Michael Severino, vice chairman and president; Rob Michael, executive vice president and chief financial officer; and Jeff Stewart, executive vice president, commercial operations. Joining us for the Q&A portion of the call is Laura Schumacher, vice chairman, external affairs, chief legal officer, and corporate secretary. Before we get started, I remind you that some statements we make today may be considered forward-looking statements for purposes of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. AbbVie cautions that these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. Additional information about these risks and uncertainties is included in our SEC filings. AbbVie undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements, except as required by law. On today's conference call, non-GAAP financial measures will be used to help investors understand AbbVie's business performance.These non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled with comparable GAAP financial measures in our earnings release and regulatory filings from today, which can be found on our website. Unless otherwise noted, our commentary on sales growth is on a comparable basis, which includes full current year and historical results for Allergan. For this comparison of underlying performance, all historically reported Allergan revenues have been recast to conform to AbbVie's revenue recognition accounting policies and exclude the divestitures of Zenpep and Biohaven. References to operational growth further exclude the impact of exchange. Following our prepared remarks, we'll take your questions. So with that, I'll now turn the call over to Rick. 

 



Rick Gonzalez -- Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Liz. Good morning, everyone and thank you for joining us today. I'll discuss our second-quarter performance and outlook. And then Jeff, Mike and Rob will review our business highlights, pipeline progress and financial results in more detail. AbbVie delivered another excellent quarter with adjusted earnings per share of $3.11, exceeding the midpoint of our guidance by $0.04. Total adjusted net revenues of nearly $14 billion were up 19.3% on a comparable operational basis, approximately $375 million ahead of our expectations. These results demonstrate our strong and balanced performance across each of our major growth franchises, including double-digit comparable operational revenue growth from immunology, hem/onc, neuroscience and aesthetics. Looking at the most recent trends, the vast majority of our portfolio is well into the recovery phase from the pandemic. In immunology, we continue to see strong recovery across the room, derm and gastro segments with positive trends across all key indicators, including new patient starts. skyrizi and rinvoq continue to ramp nicely in their initial indications with both products demonstrating robust double-digit sequential revenue growth. In neuroscience, vraylar is demonstrating strong new prescription volume in the atypical antipsychotic market and the launch of ubrelvy, the leading oral CGRP for acute migraine, continues to exceed our expectations. Aesthetics continues to perform well above pre-COVID levels, exceeding our internal expectations.

 



 We're pleased with the rapid market growth in both toxins and fillers driven by our increased promotional resources globally, brand strength and COVID-related pent-up demand. Rapid global market demand is expected to remain well above historical levels in the near to medium term. and we are raising our full-year guidance once again for aesthetics. While the recovery across the AbbVie portfolio is going very well in aggregate in certain disease areas like CLL and HCV we continue to see a residual impact from the pandemic. We expect these specialty areas to further recover as the year progresses. One of AbbVie's greatest strengths is the dedication and engagement of our people. Across AbbVie, the majority of our employees have safely returned to the workplace, and our field teams are now predominantly conducting live engagements with physicians and customers where protocols and guidelines permit. I'm extremely proud of the teamwork and collaboration our people have demonstrated throughout this pandemic to bring our medicines to patients and keep our business performing at a strong level. As an organization, we have also made a tremendous amount of progress with the Allergan transaction and integration. We just recently completed our first full year as a combined company, which I'd say has gone exceptionally well. We're tracking well against the operational and financial commitments we outlined at the time of the transaction with accretion performing above our original projections. But I'm particularly pleased with the robust revenue performance that we've been able to drive since acquiring Allergan, with 2021 sales tracking to grow significantly faster than legacy Allergan's historical performance. Our results continue to show that we have created a stronger and much more diverse company with numerous products within our newly combined portfolio delivering robust growth. Based on the continued strong momentum of our business in the quarter and our progress year to date, we are once again raising our full-year 2021 EPS guidance. We now expect adjusted earnings per share of $12.52 to $12.62, reflecting growth of 19% at the midpoint. Our strong performance allows us to continue to fully invest in the business for long-term growth. As you'll hear from Mike momentarily, we continue to make excellent progress across all stages of our research and development programs. In closing, I'm extremely pleased with our performance in the quarter and with our continued strong momentum of the business. which has positioned us well for the remainder of 2021 and many years to come. With that, I'll turn the call over to Jeff for additional comments on our commercial highlights. Jeff?Jeff Stewart -- Executive Vice President, Commercial Operations Thank you, Rick. I'll start with immunology, which delivered global revenues of more than $6.1 billion, reflecting growth of 13.8% on an operational basis. skyrizi and rinvoq continue to have significant impact on AbbVie's growth and performance, contributing more than $1 billion in combined sales this quarter. skyrizi global revenues were up 17.4% on a sequential basis, reflecting increasing market share globally. In the U.S., skyrizi continues to perform well and has maintained its leading in-play psoriasis patient share, which includes both new and switching patients at approximately 34%. skyrizi total prescription share capture is now approaching 20%, second only to Humira. Internationally, skyrizi has achieved in-play patient share leadership in 13 markets, including Canada, France and Japan. rinvoq is also demonstrating robust growth with global sales up nearly 25% on a sequential basis. We continue to see in-play patient share of approximately 15% in the U.S. RA market. where physician and patient feedback remain very positive on rinvoq strong benefit risk profile. Internationally, rinvoq access and share continue to ramp nicely in RA with in-play market leadership now in half a dozen key countries. We are also making excellent progress with the regulatory approval and commercial launch of PSA and AS across several OUS countries. And we look forward to the approval and commercialization of rinvoq in atopic dermatitis later this year following the recent CHMP positive opinion for both the 15 and 30-milligram doses. Humira global sales were approximately $5.1 billion, up 3.6% on an operational basis with continued high single-digit revenue growth in the U.S. offset by biosimilar competition across the international markets, where revenues were down 12.6% on an operational basis. In hematologic oncology, sales were approximately $1.8 billion, up 13.2% on an operational basis. AbbVie maintains a strong leadership position in CLL with a combined portfolio including both imbruvica and venclexta, new patient share of approximately 42% and total patient share of approximately 72% across all lines of therapy. Imbruvica global revenues were approximately $1.4 billion, up 7.2%. In the U.S., performance continues to be impacted by lower new patient starts in CLL, which remain below pre-COVID levels as well as increasing competitive dynamics from newer therapies, including venclexta and other BTK inhibitors. Venclexta sales increased 38.3% on an operational basis with strong demand across all approved indications. We're particularly pleased with the performance in AML with robust share in the U.S. and increasing momentum internationally following recent approvals in the EU and Asia. In neuroscience, revenues were more than $1.4 billion, up 29.6% on a comparable operational basis. We continue to see strong momentum with vraylar, which recently achieved multiple all-time highs in weekly prescriptions and market share. Vraylar revenues of $432 million were up more than 25% on a comparable operational basis. And ubrelvy once again delivered robust results. Sales of our leading acute migraine treatment were $126 million, exceeding our expectations. Feedback from physicians remains very positive, highlighting ubrelvy rapid and sustained pain relief, safety, convenient and flexible dosing profile and overall commercial access. Ubrelvy is now capturing roughly 9% of new prescriptions in the large acute migraine market with more than 1 million cumulative total prescriptions since the launch. We continue to believe there is substantial room for long-term growth in this rapidly expanding acute market based on unmet need and strong patient demand. In migraine prevention, we've also been planning and preparing for the forthcoming regulatory approval and commercial launch of atogepant, our oral CGRP for episodic migraine. We are very encouraged with the efficacy profile of atogepant, including reduction in migraine days versus placebo as well as the overall percentage of responder rates in patients. Now the launch of atogepant will be supported by our existing migraine sales force with commercial access expected to ramp strongly. We remain on track for a U.S. regulatory decision in September. Botox Therapeutics continues to perform well across nearly a dozen medical indications with a total sales of $603 million, up more than 38% on an operational basis. In chronic migraine, Botox Therapeutic remains a foundational prevention treatment and the clear branded leader in new patient starts. Lastly, in our other therapeutic areas, we saw significant contribution from Eye Care, which had revenues of $919 million, up 24.1% on a comparable operational basis, Mavyret sales were $442 million, up 13.9% on an operational basis, although treated patient volumes remain suppressed versus pre-COVID levels. And we also saw double-digit comparable operational revenue growth for both Creon and Linzess. So overall, I'm pleased with the momentum of our therapeutic portfolio, which is demonstrating a strong recovery as well as our progress with new recent product launches. And with that, I'll turn the call over to Mike for additional comments on our R&D programs. Mike?Mike Severino -- Vice Chairman and President Thank you, Jeff. I'll start with immunology, where we had several notable pipeline events in the quarter. In the area of inflammatory bowel disease, we reported positive top-line results from the Phase 3 maintenance studies for rinvoq in ulcerative colitis and skyrizi in Crohn's disease. In the rinvoq UC maintenance study, both the 15- and 30-milligram doses met the primary and all secondary endpoints at week 52. In the induction portion of the program, rinvoq demonstrated a very strong impact on the disease. And the results from this maintenance study demonstrate that patients continuing treatment with rinvoq maintain high levels of clinical remission, clinical response and endoscopic improvement at the 1-year mark. In fact, maintenance treatment with either dose of rinvoq resulted in some of the highest rates of remission and endoscopic improvements seen in UC clinical studies. With the 30-milligram rinvoq dose, 52% of patients achieved clinical remission, 62% achieved endoscopic improvement, 49% achieved histologic endoscopic mucosal improvement and 68% achieved steroid-free remission. We are very pleased with how rinvoq performed from a safety perspective as well. In this maintenance study, the exposure adjusted event rates for overall adverse events, including serious and severe events, were higher in the placebo group than in either rinvoq dose group. Additionally, the exposure adjusted rates for Mace, VTE and malignancies excluding non-melanoma skin cancer were comparable between rinvoq group and placebo. These results provide further evidence that rinvoq has the potential to become a highly effective therapy for patients with moderate to severe ulcerative colitis. We're also nearing completion of the Crohn's disease program for rinvoq and expect to see data from the first Phase 3 induction study later this year. Results from the second induction study and the maintenance study are expected in the first half of next year with regulatory submissions also anticipated in 2022. We also saw very impressive results from skyrizi in the maintenance phase of our Crohn's disease program, particularly with the 360-milligram maintenance dose, which met the co-primary endpoints of clinical remission and endoscopic response versus the withdrawal arm at week 52. Importantly, when we look at the most stringent end points, we see strong separation between skyrizi 360 milligrams and control, with the response rates of 39% for endoscopic remission and 29% for deep remission compared to 13% and 10% for the withdrawal group at week 52. We remain on track to submit our regulatory applications for rinvoq in UC and skyrizi in Crohn's in the coming months. In the quarter, we also announced updates regarding our regulatory applications for rinvoq in atopic dermatitis, psoriatic arthritis and ankylosing spondylitis. In June, rinvoq received a positive CHMP opinion in Europe, recommending both the 15-milligram and 30-milligram doses in moderate to severe atopic dermatitis. This CHMP opinion puts us on track for European approval in August. When approved, atopic dermatitis will be the fourth indication for rinvoq in Europe. Regarding our supplemental NDAs in the U.S., we recently announced that we were notified by the FDA that they would not need our PDUFA action dates for rinvoq in psoriatic arthritis and closing spondylitis and atopic dermatitis, which were in late June for psoriatic arthritis and AS and mid-July for atopic dermatitis. The agency cited their ongoing review of the tofacitinib oral surveillance study, indicated that they -- indicating that they needed more time to complete their reviews of the data. The FDA has not requested any additional safety analysis for rinvoq since the PDUFA dates were missed. While there are no new action dates, based on our discussions with the agency, we expect decisions on our regulatory applications in the next few months following completion of the agency's review of the tofacitinib oral surveillance data. We remain confident in the benefit risk profile for rinvoq across all indications, and we'll continue to work with the FDA to bring rinvoq to market in these new disease areas. In our early stage immunology pipeline, we recently began 2 new trials for ABBV-154, our TNF steroid conjugate. We initiated a definitive dose-ranging study in patients with RA and also started our Phase 2 study in polymyalgia rheumatica. Later this year, we expect to begin the Phase 2 study for 154 in Crohn's disease. Also in the quarter, we completed the induction stage of a Phase 2 proof-of-concept study evaluating Ravagalimab in ulcerative colitis patients. While this CD40 antagonist demonstrated greater efficacy compared to historical control, the efficacy results did not meet our prespecified criteria. As a result, we will not be advancing Ravagalimab in ulcerative colitis. In oncology, we continue to make good progress across all stages of our pipeline. At the recent ASCO and EHA meetings, data were presented from the GLOW and CAPTIVATE studies, evaluating a fixed duration imbruvica and venclexta regimen in CLL patients. Results from these 2 studies demonstrated that the all-oral, fixed duration imbruvica plus venclexta regimen has the potential to provide deeper and more durable remission and extend progression-free survival as a frontline treatment across the spectrum of age and fitness status for CLL patients. We plan to submit these data to regulatory agencies and look forward to bringing this new fixed duration treatment option to CLL patients once approved. Earlier this month, we received a breakthrough therapy designation for venclexta in combination with azacitidine for previously untreated higher-risk MDS patients based on the strong data demonstrated thus far in our ongoing Phase 1b study. We expect to see final results from this study in the coming months and plan to discuss the data with regulators regarding the potential to support an accelerated approval for venclexta in MDS. Also in the quarter, we saw interim results from a Phase 1 study evaluating the BCMA CD3 bispecific antibody, TNB-383B, in multiple myeloma patients who have received at least three prior lines of therapy. 383 performed very well as a monotherapy in these heavily pretreated patients, demonstrating an objective response rate of nearly 80% and a very good partial response or better rate of 63% and a complete response rate of nearly 30% at doses greater than 40 milligrams in the dose escalation cohort. Based on these promising results, we exercised our right to acquire TNB-383B from Teneobio. We expect the transaction to close in the coming months, and we'll provide more information on our development plan for 383 in multiple myeloma later this year. This is a highly competitive area. But based on the data to date, we believe this BCMA CD3 bispecific has the potential to be differentiated on efficacy, safety and dosing interval and could be best-in-class as both a monotherapy and combination therapy across lines of treatment in multiple myeloma. We continue to make good progress with the navitoclax program in myelofibrosis, which consists of randomized Phase 3 trials in both the frontline and relapsed/refractory setting as well as a single-arm Phase 2 study. Based on feedback from the FDA, we intend to submit our regulatory application with randomized Phase 3 data, together with the Phase 2 trial results. We expect the Phase 3 data readout and regulatory submissions in the second half of 2022 with navitoclax approval in myelofibrosis anticipated in 2023. In neuroscience, we recently completed the Phase 2 proof-of-concept studies for two assets, Elezanumab in multiple sclerosis and ABBV-8E12 in Alzheimer's disease. In their respective studies, either asset met the efficacy endpoints of the trial. And we will be discontinuing the development of Elezanumab in MS and 8E12 in Alzheimer's disease. Given the enormous unmet need in Alzheimer's disease, we remain committed to finding disease-modifying therapies, and we continue to pursue a range of approaches. We have several additional programs that are either in the clinic today or are in preclinical development. These include programs that modulate the neuroinflammatory response in Alzheimer's disease, such as our TREM2 and CD33 programs that are both in clinical development and programs that target pathologic through novel mechanism such as approaches that target intracellular aggregates for clearance that are in preclinical development. Following the accelerated approval of aducanumab in the U.S. there has been an increased focus on A beta directed programs. We have monitored this area closely over the last several years. And based on all of the available data, we believe there is a continued opportunity for an A beta directed monoclonal antibody that clears plaque more rapidly than existing agents with a reduced risk of amyloid-related imaging abnormalities or ARIA. We have profiled a number of A-beta antibodies preclinically, and we have a candidate with the potential to meet these requirements. We expect to introduce this candidate into the clinic by the end of this year or early next year. Also in neuroscience, we're nearing completion of our registrational program for ABBV-951 in advanced Parkinson's disease. We recently completed an interim analysis in the first of two Phase 3 studies were our subcutaneous levodopa/carbidopa delivery system demonstrated safety and efficacy comparable to DUOPA after six months of treatment. The primary objective of this trial was safety, but efficacy was also evaluated as secondary endpoints. In this analysis, 951 performed very well, demonstrating a 52% reduction in normalized off-time and a 41% increase in normalized on-time without troublesome dyskinesia. Patients also benefited from 951 24-hour continuous levodopa-carbidopa infusion, with patients experiencing substantial benefits in sleep and reduction in morning off-time. Full data from the six month interim analysis will be presented at a medical meeting later this year. Data from a second Phase 3 study are expected in the fourth quarter with our regulatory submissions anticipated later this year or early next year. And lastly, in eye care, at the recent meeting for the American Society for Cataract and Refractive Surgery, we presented results from the Phase 3 Gemini 1 study, evaluating our topical eye drop, AGN-190584, for the treatment of symptoms associated with presbyopia. In this study, 584 demonstrated improved near vision without impacting distance vision with a rapid onset of action within 15 minutes and sustained vision improvements for up to six hours. 584 has the potential to be convenient, on-demand solution for patients with mild to moderate presbyopia, and we look forward to an approval decision later this year. So in summary, we've made great progress with our pipeline in the first half of this year. and we look forward to several additional data readouts, regulatory submissions and approvals throughout the remainder of 2021. With that, I'll turn the call over to Rob for additional comments on our second-quarter performance and financial outlook. Rob?Rob Michael -- Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Mike. Starting with second-quarter results. We reported adjusted earnings per share of $3.11, up 32.9% compared to prior year and above our guidance midpoint. Total adjusted net revenues were nearly $14 billion, up 19.3% on a comparable operational basis, excluding a 1.6% favorable impact from foreign exchange. The adjusted operating margin ratio was 49.7% of sales, an improvement of 260 basis points versus the prior year. This includes adjusted gross margin of 82.2% of sales, adjusted R&D investment of 11.3% of sales and adjusted SG&A expense of 21.2% of sales. Net interest expense was $606 million, and the adjusted tax rate was 12.6%. As Rick previously mentioned, we are raising our full-year adjusted earnings per share guidance to between $12.52 and $12.62, reflecting growth of 19% at the midpoint. Excluded from this guidance is $6.48 of known intangible amortization and specified items. This guidance now contemplates full-year revenue growth of 10.7% on a comparable operational basis. At current rates, we now expect foreign exchange to have a 0.9% favorable impact on full-year comparable sales growth. This implies a full-year revenue forecast of approximately $56.3 billion. Included in this guidance are the following updated full-year assumptions: We now expect aesthetics global revenue of approximately $4.9 billion, including approximately $2 billion from Botox Cosmetic and approximately $1.4 billion from Juvederm. We now expect Restasis sales of approximately $1.1 billion and assume no generic competition in 2021. For ubrelvy, we now expect sales of approximately $500 million. For women's health, we now expect global revenue of approximately $900 million. And for Mavyret, we now expect global sales of approximately $1.9 billion. Looking at the P&L for 2021. We are now forecasting adjusted R&D investment of approximately $6.7 million and adjusted SG&A expense of approximately $11.9 million. All other full-year assumptions remain unchanged. As we look ahead to the third quarter, we anticipate net revenue of approximately $14.3 billion. At current rates, we expect foreign exchange to have a 0.5% favorable impact on comparable sales growth. We expect adjusted earnings per share between $3.18 and $3.22, excluding approximately $1.64 of known intangible amortization and specified items. Finally, we continue to make great progress on our Allergan transaction commitments. We are exceeding our revenue expectations in several areas, including Botox, vraylar, ubrelvy and Eye Care. We have also delivered expense synergies of almost $800 million during the first half of this year and are on track to deliver synergies of approximately $1.7 billion in 2021 and greater than $2 billion in 2022. And we have already paid down $12 billion of combined company debt. We expect to achieve $17 billion of cumulative debt pay-down by the end of this year with further deleveraging through 2023. This will bring our net leverage ratio to 2.4x by the end of 2021 and approximately two times by the end of 2022. In closing, AbbVie has once again delivered outstanding performance, and we are very pleased with the strong momentum of the business heading into the second half of the year. With that, I'll turn the call back over to Liz.Liz Shea -- Vice President of Investor Relations Thanks, Rob. We will now open the call for questions. In the interests of hearing from as many analysts as possible over the remainder of the call, we ask that you please limit your questions to one or two. Operator first question please. 