
OperatorGood day and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Catalent Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2021 Earnings Conference Call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers' presentation, there will be a question and answer session. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Paul Surdez, of Investor Relations.Paul Surdez -- Vice President of Investor RelationsGood morning, everyone and thank you for joining us today to review Catalent's third quarter 2021 financial results. Joining me on the call today are John Chiminski, Chair and Chief Executive Officer; and Wetteny Joseph, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Please see our agenda for this call on Slide 2 of our supplemental presentation, which is available on our Investor Relations website at www.catalent.com.During our call today, management will make forward-looking statements and refer to non-GAAP financial measures. It is possible that actual results could differ from management's expectations. We refer you to Slide 3 for more detail. Slides 4 and 5 discuss the non-GAAP measures and our just issued earnings release provides reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP numbers. Please also refer to Catalent's Form 10-Q regarding additional information on the risks and uncertainties that may bear on our operating results, performance and financial condition including those related to the COVID-19 pandemic.Now, I would like to turn the call over to John Chiminski whose remarks will be covered on Slides 6 through 8 of the presentation.John Chiminski -- Chairman & Chief Executive OfficerThanks Paul and welcome everyone to the call. Over the past year, Catalent has been providing critical support to the healthcare industry during a time of unprecedented challenge. We've employed comprehensive safety guidelines and protocols to keep our employees safe, which have allowed us to continue our operations and increase our capacity to meet patient needs in to produce COVID-19 vaccine doses, as well as other important and critical medicines. We're very proud of the work that our employees have done to provide essential manufacturing capacity and expertise for the more than 7,000 products we produce annually on behalf of our customers. I'm pleased to report that the strong momentum we built in our fiscal year continued into the third quarter and remained strong and we've entered the fourth quarter. Due to our continued strong results and expected higher net demand for the remainder of the year. We're raising guidance for fiscal year 2021. Wetteny will go into more detail on that later in our presentation.In the third quarter, our net revenue was $1.05 billion representing casting currency organic revenue growth of 35% year-over-year. Adjusted EBITDA of $274 million represents constant currency organic growth of 44% over the third quarter of fiscal 2020. Our adjusted net income for the third quarter was $148 million or $0.82 per diluted share up from $0.50 per diluted share in the third quarter of fiscal 2020. The biologics segment was again the biggest contributor to Catalent's performance, and its net revenue more than doubled over the third quarter of fiscal 2020 with year-on-year margin expansion of more than 1,200 basis points to 33.1%. Demand for our drug product, drug substance, and viral vector offerings remains high with elevated levels of work related to COVID-19 vaccines and treatments, which served as the primary growth drivers in the biologics segment. Our Softgel and Oral Technologies segment experienced the same pandemic related headwinds we called out in prior quarters. Their impact was much less in the third quarter than each of the first three quarters of the fiscal year. As you would recall these headwinds include a decrease in the currents of common colds and flu due to limited travel and social gatherings worldwide as well as muted launches of new prescription products in the last year. We are hopeful that these issues will begin to normalize as more restrictions are lifted over time.Our oral and specialty delivery organic growth was significantly impacted by a product in a respiratory and ophthalmic platform that had a notable strong launch in the third quarter of last year and was later voluntarily recalled in September causing a significant variance in the segment from the prior year quarter. During the quarter we completed the two portfolio moves in the OSD segment that we highlighted last quarter. The first was the February acquisition of a best in class spray drying facility in the Boston Cambridge area from Accorda Therapeutics and the second was the divestiture of global steel manufacturing business located in Woodstock, Illinois, which closed on March 31. Our clinical supply services segment returned a high single digit growth despite a tough comparisons of the third quarter of last year when we accelerated delivery of products to the clinical trial sites ahead of global lock downs creating a boost in related activity and revenue in the third quarter of fiscal 2020. Given the wide range of growth rates among our four business segments due to the pandemic, our M&A activity and other factors, our business mix looks very different today than it did a year ago.In January of 2020, we first announced our projection for the relative size of the biologic segment, which then comprise a quarter of our revenue. We said that it would come to represent half of our revenue by 2024. This projection was based on numerous long term growth drivers for bio therapeutic in cell and gene therapy manufacturing, including faster growth rates in R&D for biologics, higher outsourcing rates, favorable supply demand dynamics, the shift to more complex modalities such as our mRNA, and the fact that the small cap biotech model relies on CDMOS for development. The effects of the pandemic cause some of these drivers to be even more pronounced in enhancing the growth of our biologics segment while also creating higher demand for the CDMO industry as a whole. We're pleased by the continued shift in our business mix toward the higher growth biologics segment and encouraged by the continued increased volume of commercial activity unrelated to COVID that were experienced across all the biologic segments offerings this year.Now, I'd like to provide you with a brief update on our COVID-19 related programs. To meet our commitments to our customers and their patients a number of catalyst facilities have been operating 24/7 for more than a year. At the same time, we hired and trained 1000s of new employees over the last year to meet the demand for production capacity. I'm proud to say that, despite the complexity intensity of this unprecedented manufacturing effort we're confident in our ability to continue to meet our commitments to our vaccine customers. By the end of calendar 2021, we expect to have produced more than 1 billion doses of COVID vaccines.Well, I won't go into detail on any individual customer program, I'll highlight a few notable recent developments regarding capacity additions that we accelerated in order to meet the increased demand required to help fight the pandemic and to serve other growing patient needs. Importantly, COVID-19 has not only accelerated our strategic plans, but also accelerated returns on the strategic investments we've made enabling us to put additional cash to work to continue to drive our long term growth. In the U.S., our state of the art 950,000 square foot facility in Bloomington, Indiana, plays a critical role in the country's vaccine production efforts. The site now has two bio filling lines dedicated to the manufacturer of products for two of our COVID-19 vaccine customers, including the high speed vile filling line that we first announced last September. We recently completed this project in record time and begun the process of ramping up the line. Our 300,000 square foot Fill-Finish facility in the Anagni, Italy is also making significant contributions to the global supply of COVID-19 vaccines for the multiple customers. We recently announced that will accelerate the qualification and scale up of an additional high speed vial filling line at this site, which is expected to be operational before the end of this calendar year.Looking back the $55 million purchase of the Anagni site, 16 months ago and our subsequent investments have quickly provided a critical component of the solution to the current global public health crisis while simultaneously creating meaningful value for our shareholders. In addition to accelerating our global Fill-Finish capacity, we recently announced that we completed the addition of two new suites at our biologics drug substance development and manufacturing facility in Madison bringing the total number of suits at the site to five. The expansion which we started in January 2019 is beginning to ramp and will provide additional clinical and commercial production capacity at the 2000 and 4000 batch scale. The site, with its increased capacity will accommodate increased customer demand for drugs substance manufacturing for a variety of projects, including some related to COVID-19. The completion of these projects will help transform Madison from what has historically been a development phase site to a commercial drug substance production site.Moving to our cell and gene therapy offering within the biologics segment, we've discussed in previous calls our interest in ability to include plasmid DNA technology and production capabilities in our cell and gene therapy service offering. In February, we formally announced our entry into the space via the acquisition of Delphi Genetics, located in Gosselies, Belgium, now part of our Cell Therapy Center of Excellence in Europe, together with the launch of plasmid DNA development manufacturing services through an organic investment in Rockville, Maryland facility. These two strategic actions have enabled us to establish plasmid DNA presence in both Europe and the U.S. Additionally, in April, we completed the purchase [indecipherable] laboratory and clean room space in an adjacent building on the Gosselies campus to allow for accelerated capacity expansion across our growing cell and gene therapy platform.Plasmid DNA is a component in most gene therapy and gene-enabled cell therapy production processes and the market for plasmid DNA is growing rapidly. We estimate the plasmid DNA market size in five years to be well over a billion dollars at the low end. With the horizontal integration of plasmid DNA into our overall cell and gene therapy offerings, choosing Catalent will allow customers to de-risk their supply chain and optimize their programs along the entire development pipeline. Viral vector manufacturing capacity continues to be in high demand for the growing number of gene therapy compounds currently in the industry's development pipeline as well as for viral vector manufacturing for COVID-19 vaccines. With the initial 10 commercial scale manufacturing suites in the first building on our gene therapy campus, near the BWI airport, now available to serve customers we are focused on building out the adjacent building to include at least five CGMP suites with the ability to add additional suites, a project that remains on track for completion in calendar year 2022.In cell therapy we're continuing to build out a commercial scale production and Fill-Finish facility in Gosselies, Belgium, which remains on schedule to open in fiscal 2022. In addition to increasing our cell and gene therapy capacity, we also announced investments in our global cold storage capacity with over 200 ultra low temperature freezers added to our cell and gene therapy and clinical supplies services facilities in the U.S., UK, Germany, and Asia-Pacific, as well as investments in cryogenic storage in our clinical supply services facility in Philadelphia to support sponsors developing cell and gene therapies. These investments enable the safe handling of cell and gene therapy samples and establish capability to package, label, and distributed cryogenic materials. We implemented these initiatives to rapidly expand our capacity in order to meet growing clinical supply needs as well as future commercial demand.Before turning today's presentation over to Wetteny, I'd like to bring your attention to slide 8 to highlight our progress in the corporate responsibility area. A year ago, we published our initial corporate responsibility report and will soon release our second report covering our fiscal year 2020. The report will describe how we extended and deepened our corporate responsibility commitments and we will also share some important achievements for fiscal year 2020. Some of our highlighted progress includes; the development of our first human rights statement, our commitment to new targets for waste and water reduction, the transition of six sites to 100% renewable electricity and completion of 50 energy efficient projects. The improvement of our industry leading recordable incident and loss injury rates, the doubling of the number of employee resource groups to eight each sponsored by a member of our executive leadership team, and our largest ever philanthropic contribution total with a substantial portion of our gifts focused in response to the interconnected COVID-19 and social inequality crises. We also deepen the relationships we have with potential sources of talent and other HR providers to promote even more aggressive diverse talent recruitment, engagement and development initiatives.Finally, we're excited to announce that we will now have the counsel of Mike Barber, GE's Chief Diversity Officer who became a member of our board of directors last week. Mike joined GE in 1981, and has held a wide range of leadership roles in engineering, operations, and product management, including his prior roles as President and CEO of GE's molecular imaging, and computer tomography business and Chief Engineer and CEO of GE Healthcare Systems.I'd now like to turn the call over to Wetteny, who will review our financial results for the quarter and our enhanced fiscal 2021 guidance.Wetteny Joseph -- Senior Vice President & Chief Financial OfficerThanks, John. I will begin this morning with a discussion on segment performance. As usual, my commentary on segment growth will be in constant currency. I begin on slide 9 with biologics, our largest business segment. Biologics net revenue of $544 million increased 113% compared to the third quarter of 2020, increasing 238% over the same period. With Anagni and MaSTherCell acquisitions annualizing, all revenue growth was essentially driven organically. And EBITDA growth was slightly impacted by 1% this costs from the recent and relatively small, Skeletal and Delphi acquisitions as we began to scale and integrate those businesses.Global organic growth in our biologics segment in the quarter was again driven by high demand across all segment operating including drug products, drug substance, cell and gene therapy and byline local services. The increase was primarily driven by COVID-19 related projects, which contributed to both development and commercial revenue growth, depending on the terms of the contract. The segment EBITDA margin increased significantly year-on-year to 33.1% compared to 20.8% in Q3 of last year, which is primarily attributable to increased capacity utilization and higher volumes. We continue to expect strong year-on-year growth for the biologics segment as we conclude fiscal 2021.Please turn to slide 10, which resolved from our Softgel and oral technology segment. Softgel and oral technologies net revenue of $244 million, decreased 2% compared to the third quarter of 2020. Despite EBITDA decreasing 3% over the same period. The decline continues to be driven by reduced volumes for certain prescription products as well as lower demand for consumer health products. The [indecipherable] over the counter pain relief products. We also believe that lower prescription volumes are due to slow rollout of newer products during the pandemic and more consumer health demand is due to a combination of consumer sparking in the early stages of the pandemic is one of the effects of limited social gatherings and travel due to pandemic mitigation efforts. I'd like to note that while the 2% revenue decline is of course well below our long term expected growth rate of 3% to 5% in the SOP segment, it is a sequential improvement from the 10% decline last quarter and the 12% decline in the first quarter. Year-on-year growth in SOP development revenue was again over 25% which frankly will eventually lead to future new product introduction that will help drive to segments long term revenue growth. Lower volumes were the primary drivers to the decline in margin.Slide 11 shows the results of our oral and specialty delivery segment which were impacted by the previously discussed voluntary recall of a single products and our respiratory and ophthalmic platform in September. This platform had a notably strong launch in Q3 of last year, and included a product participation component, creating a visible comparison between the current quarter and Q3 of fiscal 2020. In addition, we incurred further $15 million in costs associated with the recall in the quarter, bringing the total recall associated costs to approximately $29 million this fiscal year. With that background year-over-year segment recorded net revenue of $172 million in the quarter, which is now 9% compared to the third quarter fiscal 2020. Segment EBITDA was $31 million, a 49% decline over the third quarter 2020. The acquisition [indecipherable] in February had a negligible contribution to growth and the sales of local steel business did not impact growth at the sale close on the last day of the quarter.To back out the revenue from the products in the third quarter of fiscal 2020, the segment would have shown low single digit revenue growth this quarter. USB segment third quarter results include continued product momentum in our Zydis platform, which reminds me despite some consumer health pandemic related headlines. This was partially offset by decreased volume for non- Zydis delivered commercial products. Each quarter we dispose our long cycle development revenue in the current year in order to provide additional insight into our long cycle segments which include biologics, softgel and oral technologies, and oral specialty delivery. In the third quarter of 2021 we recorded development revenue across both small and large molecule products of $481 million which is 97% of all the development revenue recorded in third quarter of fiscal 2020.Development revenue which includes net revenue from certain COVID-19 related products for emergency use, represented 46% of our revenue in the third quarter compared to the 32% on the comparable prior year period. The strong growth in our biologics business, including growth from COVID-19 vaccines and therapies approved for emergency use was the biggest driver of these year-on-year changes. In the third quarter, our development pipeline -- 13 new product introductions for total of 92 in the first nine months of fiscal 2021. As shown on slide 12 our medical supply services segment posted net revenue of $100 million representing 9% growth year-over-year. This is a little more increase compared against the segment strong performance in the third quarter of fiscal 2020, when customers were pulling forward for shipments and distributing supplies to clinical sites ahead of lock downs.Segment EBITDA was $27 billion, a 4% increase compared to Q3 of fiscal 21. That was driven by strong demand in our manufacturing and packaging, and storage and distribution offerings in North America, partially offset by an unfavorable sales mix in Europe. Segment EBITDA margin was 27.1%, down slightly over the third quarter of last year. As of March, 31 2021 backlog for the CSM segment was $490 million compared to $448 million at the end of last quarter, and up 24% from March 31, 2020. The segment reported net new business winds of $137 million during the third quarter, a 43% increase compared to the third quarter of the prior year. The segments trailing 12-month book to bill ratio is 1.3 times.Moving to companywide adjusted EBITDA on slide 13. Our third quarter adjusted EBITDA increased 48% to $274 million, or 26% of net revenue, compared to 24.4% of net revenue and the third quarter of 2020. On a constant currency basis, our third quarter EBITDA increased 44% compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2020.As shown on slide 14, third quarter adjusted net income was $148 million or $0.82 per diluted share compared to adjusted net income of $3 million or $0.50 per diluted share in the third quarter a year ago. Slide 15 shows our debt, related ratios and capital allocation priorities. During the quarter, we took advantage of the favorable lending environment to meaningfully reduce our weighted average interest rate below 3% down roughly 70 basis points from our previous weighted average rates. We also modestly increased our debt by over $160 million at these lower rates while also pushing out on maturity to 2027. The net effect of these changes will create an approximate $10 million reduction in our annual interest rate. Despite our additional debt and the purchase of the Accorda facility along with other smaller acquisitions in the quarter, our net leverage decreased to 2.3 times from 2.6 times at December 31 while the sale of our Blow-Fill-Seal business and EBITDA growth boosted our cash position in the same period. Our cash and cash equivalents balance at March, 31 was $988 million. When combined with $75 million of marketable securities our liquid assets exceeded $1 billion. This compared to $833 million in December, 31 and $608 million on March, 31 2020.Moving on to capital expenditures; we continue to expect capex at a percentage of net revenues remain at elevated levels for the next super full year as we accelerate our organic growth plans to meet customer demands and patient needs. In fiscal 2021, we continue to expect that capex will be approximately 15% to 16% of 2021 revenue. Now to our financial outlook for fiscal 2021 as outlined on slide 16. We are raising our previously issued guidance ranges which remains lower than in recent years due to the increased uncertainty introduced by the pandemic. The new ranges are net revenue in the range of $3.75 billion to $3.95 billion compared to the previous range of $3.8 billion to 3.95. billion. Adjusted EBITDA in the range of $975 million to $1.105 billion, compared to the previous range of $950 million to $1 billion and adjusted net income in the range of $500 million to $540 million compared to the previous range of $475 million to $525 million.We continue to expect that our fully diluted share count on a weighted average basis for the fiscal year will be in the range of 180 million to 182 million shares and our consolidated effective tax rate will be between 24% to 25% in the fiscal year. There are three important assumptions underlying our revised guidance. First, we assume no major unforeseen external change to the current status of the COVID-19 pandemic and its effect on our business. Second, revised guidance does not assume the receipt of any vaccine or treatment order from any of our customers beyond what either has been received to-date or is deemed required under executed fee arrangement. And third, approximately 16 to 18 percentage points as a projected net revenue growth to net COVID-19 related revenue. This is an estimate of approximately 14 to 16 percentage points.As with our current estimates, the net COVID-19 revenue estimate is based on factors that affect multiple business segments including; updated forecasts related to business that we included previously, including some that have increased in size due to reaching certain milestones or other triggers. Revenue not previously projected from additional work among the COVID-19 related projects in which we are engaged. On assessment of opportunity costs, including the loss value of work that would likely have been placed in the same space as some of the COVID-19 related work, and estimated lost revenue in certain parts of the business as a result of a pandemic, such as lower demand for consumer health products in our softgel and oral technology segment, as well as impacts with some prescription products.Lastly, we continue to project that revenue from acquisitions will represent approximately two percentage points of our revenue growth for the year.Operator, this concludes our prepared remarks and we would now like to open the call for questions.Paul Surdez -- Vice President of Investor RelationsOperator, we're ready for questions.