
OperatorHello and welcome to the Citrix Q2 2021 Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Please note, today's event is being recorded.I would now like to turn the conference over to Traci Tsuchiguchi, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, ma'am.Traci Tsuchiguchi -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



Thanks, Keith. Good morning and thank you for joining us for today's second quarter 2021 earnings call. Participating on the call will be David Henshall, President and Chief Executive Officer and Arlen Shenkman, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.Please note that we have posted our second quarter Earnings Letter to our Investor Relations website. I'd like to remind you that today's conversation will contain forward-looking statements made under the Safe Harbor provision of the U.S. securities law. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated. Additional information concerning these and other factors is highlighted in today's Earnings Letter and in the company's filings with the SEC. Copies are available from the SEC or on our Investor Relations website.On this call, we will discuss various non-GAAP financial measures as defined by SECs Regulation G. A reconciliation of the differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures discussed on today's call can be found at the end of our Earnings Letter on the Investor Relations page of our website.Now, I'd like to turn it over to David, our President and Chief Executive Officer. David?

 



David J. Henshall -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Traci. Good morning and thanks everybody for joining us today. As you see in the letter, our Cloud transition is progressing well. Our success in migrating customers to the Cloud has continued to gain momentum over the last three quarters and our organic SaaS ARR growth rate continues to accelerate, up 47% year-on-year, while total ARR was steady at 13% growth.However, it's clear that we've had some sales execution challenges in some areas that are reflected in our Q2 results and we believe that the cause of this has been really the increased complexity around managing this faster transition to the Cloud, while simultaneously managing all the different license model types and motions that are key components of our reported revenue and overall P&L.So we believe we've identified the root causes and we're taking immediate actions to remedy these execution challenges. And this is including reorganizing our sales team, including sales leadership, realigning our customer-facing organizations to improve overall focus, as well as indirect channels. We're reallocating resources to increase our capacity of quota-carrying sales reps to better support longer-term growth and we are refining our channel focus to prioritize landing and growing new business activities.

 



While our SaaS transition metrics, obviously, are progressing really well, we acknowledge that many of our 2021 guidance ranges, as well as the financial modeling guide posts we provided back at our analyst meeting in 2019, are going to take us longer than anticipated to achieve; so taking into account our year-to-date results and the changes we're making organizationally and with our overall go-to-market activities, recalibrating the shape and the path of the overall business model transition.At our Financial Analyst Meeting in October, which we'll have in conjunction with our third quarter earnings results announcement, we plan to provide an updated framework to more simply model our faster transition to SaaS and the expected business and financial outcomes. So through this, we of course continue to encourage investors to really focus on the annualized recurring revenue as we believe this continues to provide the most accurate measure of the underlying business performance as we go through this business model transition.So with that let's stop and open it up for questions. Operator?