
OperatorGood day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to The Clorox Company Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2021 Earnings Release Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. At the conclusion of our prepared remarks, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this call is being recorded. I would now like to introduce your host for today's call Ms. Lisah Burhan, Vice President of Investor Relations for The Clorox Company. Ms. Burhan, you may begin your conference.Lisah Burhan -- Vice President, Investor RelationsThanks Christy. Welcome everyone and thank you for joining us. We hope you and your families are continuing to stay safe and well. I'll start by providing some context to this quarter to give you an understanding of the dynamic environment we're seeing as we begin to emerge from this pandemic. Then I'll have my usual topline commentary with highlights from each of our segments. Kevin will then address our total company results as well as our FY 2021 outlook. Finally, Linda will offer her perspective and we'll close with Q&A. A few reminders before we go into results. We're broadcasting this call over the Internet and a replay of the call will be available for seven days at our website at cloroxcompany.com. Today's discussion contains forward-looking statements including statements related to the expected or potential impact of COVID-19. These statements are based on management's current expectations but may differ from actual results or outcome. In addition we may refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures. Please refer to the forward-looking statements section which identifies various factors that could affect such forward-looking statements and the non-GAAP financial information section which include tables that reconcile non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures, both of which are located at the end of today's earnings release which has also been posted on our website and filed with the SEC.

 



To help cut through some of the complexities this quarter, I'd like to share what we see as three important key takeaways. First, we're on track for another strong year. Our FY 2021 outlook continues to project double-digit sales growth. On a two-year stack basis we're also positioned to deliver about 19% sales growth. Second, we continue to see opportunity to accelerate our long-term financial performance. For example, many consumer behaviors that have changed during the pandemic are expected to stick including enhanced hygiene practices. We're leaning into these changes through new growth runways to help Clorox develop into a global disinfecting brand. And third, the pandemic has only reinforced the relevance of our IGNITE strategy priorities which center around people and innovation leveraging technology as a critical enabler. Now, turning to our third quarter results. Our strategy has enabled us to deliver flat sales in Q3 on top of 15% growth in the year ago quarter. Q3 sales reflected about one point of net benefit from July 2020 acquisition that gave us a majority share in our joint venture in Saudi Arabia. On an organic basis sales were down 1%.In our Health and Wellness segment, sales were down 8% reflecting declines in Cleaning and PPD. Sales in Cleaning business declined this quarter from lower shipments in a number of our cleaning and disinfecting products. The lower shipments are a result of demand normalization in bleach and Pine-Sol relative to the year ago period when consumers turned to these products given the persistent out of stocks in wipes and sprays at the onset of the pandemic. Segment results also reflect ongoing supply constraints in our wipes and sprays. Nonetheless, two-year stack growth remains very strong, reflecting a much higher level of consumer demand and household penetration than pre-pandemic, even as we begin to see a return to new normal in the US with a growing percentage of the population vaccinated. As we continue to increase supply in our wipes and sprays, product availability and assortment will improve, which in turn should lead to improvements in shares. We're also excited to be bringing back some of the innovation we've had to pause during the pandemic, including Clorox compostable wipes and Clorox Scentiva disinfecting sprays and wipes. Sales in our Professional Products business were down by double-digits this quarter, due to lower shipments of cleaning and disinfecting products as many businesses remain close during the third quarter relative to the year-ago period.Similar to the trends in cleaning, demand for our consumer-preferred disinfectants, like wipes and sprays remain elevated and consumption continues to be limited by our ability to supply. And as expected, consumption of bleach and other cleaning and disinfecting products has normalized. With continuing category tailwinds, progress in our out-of-home partnerships and a strong innovation pipeline, PPD fundamentals remain healthy. Importantly, we feel good about the prospects of this business. Lastly, within this segment, sales in our vitamins, minerals and supplements business were up in the third quarter, driven by higher shipments of our strategic brands and lower trade spending. Notably, we were lapping a double-digit decrease from the year-ago period, driven by a disruption in our supply chain-related to COVID-19. As noted in today's press release, we recorded $267 million net non-cash impairment charge related to this business, which Kevin will address in more detail shortly.Despite the setback, we're moving forward focused on implementing a refreshed portfolio strategy and incorporating what we've learned since acquiring these brands. There continue to be strong tailwinds in the VMS space. And we have clarity on the path of this business becoming a more meaningful contributor in the long-term. Again, just some brief context before I get into the results in our other businesses. Similar to cleaning, inventory levels in the year-ago period impacted Q3 results, especially in Brita, where we remain supply constrained. With continued elevated demand and supply challenges, several of our businesses in these segments have gone back on allocation. In Household and Lifestyle, consumers continuing to stay at home as well as business closures impact our businesses differently, benefiting some and challenging others. Nonetheless, our two-year stack growth across our segments remain very strong and well above our long-term sales growth targets. Turning to the Household segment. Quarterly sales were up 6% with growth recorded in all three businesses for a fourth consecutive quarter. Grilling sales were up by double-digits in what was a record-setting quarter of shipments for the business. Through strategic collaborations with our retail partners, we've been able to continue to grow household penetration and share.

 



In the past year, we've introduced Kingsford products-Kingsford's products to more than one million new households. And they've invested in their backyard, including buying new charcoal and pellet growth, which will create a lasting tailwind for this business. Our pricing strategy has also led to a less promotional environment, which will reduce pantry loading going forward. And we've improved our product lineup and distribution, making it easier for consumers to find our Kingsford pellet innovation and new flavors of our Kingsford product lineup at even more locations nationwide. All these goodness is helping us build a healthy momentum for this business, which is especially important, as we head into peak -- the peak of the grilling season and tough comparable periods.Cat Litter sales increased this quarter, despite lapping consumer stockpiling in the year-ago period. The driving forces behind the business strong performance have been its success in the e-commerce channel and innovation. Fresh Step with Gain continues to do well and build distribution with more innovation planned for Q4. Additionally, the record number of pet adoptions that has occurred during the past year will resonate for years to come as cat parents continue to purchase necessities like litter long after the pandemic has ended. Glad sales increased in Q3, mainly behind lower trade promotion. As a reminder, while we began to see elevated demand at the tail end of the year-ago quarter, heavy consumption didn't occur until late in FY 2020. So Q4 will be a more challenging comparison than Q3. In recent months, we've also seen a significant resin price inflation. To manage those rising costs, we have announced a pricing action on this brand effective in July. As we've mentioned, we'll manage inflationary pressures holistically using all the tools in our toolbox. This approach will allow us to continue introducing innovation that resonates with consumers, which has driven profitable growth for the category for a long time.For example, over the past decade, we've started using higher-quality resin that has allowed us to reduce overall use by 20%, resulting in a stronger bag with a reduced environmental footprint, all while improving our cost structure over time. Our latest innovation Glad ForceFlex with Clorox trash bags has been performing well since its fall 2020 launch. In Lifestyle segment, Q3 sales were flat. The Food business had a double-digit sales increase for a fourth straight quarter behind continued consumption growth of our Hidden Valley Ranch bottle dressings and dry seasonings. This growth was on top of high single-digit growth in the year-ago period. The ongoing trend of at-home meals has driven household penetration to another record high. Our optimism for this business is further fueled by the success of our latest innovation Hidden Valley Secret Sauces and Hidden Valley plant right-based ranch dressing, which has both -- have both been performing well.Brita sales in Q3 were down by double-digits, as the category consumption decelerated from its COVID-related buying spikes in the year-ago period. Despite these results, consumption level has remained much higher than pre-pandemic, partly fueled by strong filter replacement. As with wipes and sprays, our supply chains have not caught up with demand in Brita, particularly for filters and impacting our shares and sales. On a positive note, we're continuing to make progress in addressing these supply issues, which has already helped us begin to recover share. Burt's Bees sales also decreased by double digits, due to the changes in shopping and usage behavior, that have occurred during the pandemic. The business was also lapping the effect of pantry loading in the year-ago period. Mask wearing and decreased mobility have created headwinds in both the lip care and face care segments. Still, the brand has not only maintained, but fortified its position as the number one lip balm. As we prepare this business for improving consumer mobility and consumers returning to cosmetics and colors, we'll be launching towelette innovation in value sizes and the new watermelon scent. These bright spots, combined with the continued growth in online channels, contribute to our confidence in the long-term growth prospects of this business.

 



Lastly, International has its own unique dynamics that sets us apart from our other segments. Unlike the US, most international markets where we operate don't yet have high vaccination rates. As a result, demand for cleaning and disinfecting product, remain elevated. The two-year stack growth rate for this business is about 22%. In our International segment, Q3 sales grew 9%. These results which reflect the combined impact of about seven points of benefit from the Saudi JV acquisition and about two points from foreign currency headwinds are on top of 11% growth in the year-ago period. Excluding the impact of Saudi acquisition, half of all sales growth was driven by the introduction of a new line of Clorox disinfecting wipes, mainly flat packs innovation sourced from our dedicated international supply chain and launched in more than 30 countries this fiscal year. With strong innovation like this and differentiation of our brands in their respective categories, we feel good about the growth runway of this business. Now, I'll turn it over to Kevin, who will discuss our Q3 performance, as well as our updated outlook for FY 2021.Kevin Jacobsen -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Lisah, and thank you everyone for joining us today. We hope you and your families are well. Before I review our third quarter results, let me first address the non-cash impairment charge we reported today. The Better Health, Vitamins Minerals and Supplements business, represents about 4% of total company sales, comprising several small brands, we acquired in two separate transactions. Performance on this business has not delivered on our expectations. The impairment was a result of our updated valuation, which assumes lower sales and profit projections versus our initial expectations at the time of the acquisition, primarily driven by an increased level of competitive activity and the need for more investments to scale these small brands. As a result of our updated valuation, we record a pre-tax non-cash impairment charge of $329 to lower the carrying values of goodwill, trademarks and other assets of the Vitamin, Mineral and Supplement business unit. Net of a deferred tax benefit of $62 million associated with this impairment, we recorded a $267 million charge to net income or $2.11 per share. This represents about 27% of its initial purchase price. Going forward, we are implementing our refreshed portfolio strategy. We continue to believe in the attractiveness of the VMS space, driven by strong consumer tailwinds and the strategic fit, given our focus on health and wellness. Importantly, we fully expect that our VMS business will be a meaningful contributor to our company results over time.To ensure clarity around the underlying operating performance of our overall business, my comments on the third quarter results will exclude the impact of this non-cash impairment. In addition, my comments will exclude the impact of a onetime non-cash gain related to our Saudi joint venture acquisition. It's important to note, that while the Saudi joint venture is expected to contribute $0.45 to $0.50 to our reported EPS, it includes a $0.60 non-cash gain that we're excluding from our adjusted EPS outlook. Moving forward, in our fiscal year adjusted EPS 2021 outlook, we are continuing to include $0.10 to $0.15 charge, primarily from an ongoing intangible amortization related to the acquisition. Before I review our third quarter results, I'll comment briefly on our fiscal year outlook. As you saw in our press release, we've confirmed our fiscal year sales outlook and provided an adjusted EPS outlook, which excludes a non-cash impact from the VMS impairment in the third quarter, as well as a one-time non-cash gain of the Saudi joint venture acquisition in the first quarter. For perspective, excluding these items, help provide clarity around our underlying operational performance, which is unchanged from our previous outlook. Importantly I'm pleased we're on track to deliver another strong year for our shareholders, targeting a two-year stack of about 19% sales growth, well above our historical financial performance.Now, turning to our third quarter results. Third quarter sales were flat, in comparison to 15% growth in the year-ago quarter, when we saw the initial spike from COVID-19. Our sales results reflect a five-point decline in organic volume, offset by four points of favorable price/mix and one point benefit from our Saudi joint venture acquisition. On an organic basis, third quarter sales declined 1%. Our sales results came in largely as expected, although there's certainly variability across our portfolio, which reflects a very dynamic environment we continue to navigate. Importantly, we grew sales in six out of our 10 businesses. Gross margin for the quarter decreased 320 basis points to 43.5%, compared to 46.7% for the year-ago quarter. Gross margin results reflect a pronounced inflationary environment, resulting in 360 basis points of higher manufacturing and logistics costs, including temporary COVID-19 spending, as well as 170 basis points of higher commodity costs, primarily related to the rising cost of resin, partially impacted by the extreme weather events we experienced in the Southern US earlier this quarter. Gross margin also reflects 100 basis points of negative impact from lower volume in the quarter. These factors are partially offset by 140 basis points of favorable trade promotion and 110 basis points of cost savings.Selling and administrative expenses, as a percentage of sales, came in at 13.3%, compared to 15.1% in the year-ago quarter reflecting lower incentive compensation expenses, primarily related to the non-cash impairment on the VMS business. Advertising and sales promotion investment levels, as a percentage of sales, came in at 11%, reflecting continued strong investments across our portfolio, with U.S. spending at about 12% of sales, to support a robust innovation program in the back half of the fiscal year. Our third quarter effective tax rate was negative 1.4%, driven by the impairment charge we took on our VMS business. Excluding the impairment charge, our third quarter tax rate was 23%, compared to 19% in the year-ago quarter, as we lap excess tax benefits on stock-based compensation. Net of all these factors, adjusted earnings per share for the third quarter came in at $1.62 versus $1.89 in the year-ago quarter, a decline of 14%. As you also saw in our press release, year-to-date net cash provided by operations was $893 million versus $806 million in the year-ago period, an increase of 11%. Our strong cash flow was due to profitable sales growth, partially offset by higher tax payments and higher employee incentive compensation payments. Turning to our updated fiscal year outlook. We continue to anticipate fiscal year sales to grow between 10% to 13%, reflecting the strength of our first half results and our ongoing assumptions for moderating demand over the balance of the fiscal year as we move beyond the peak of the pandemic in the US and lap exceptional prior year comparisons.Our assumptions for one point of contribution from our Saudi joint venture offset by one point of foreign exchange headwinds remain the same. On an organic sales basis, our outlook continues to assume 10% to 13% growth. We now expect fiscal year gross margin to be down due to a more pronounced headwinds from elevated commodity and transportation costs. We now expect fiscal year selling and administrative expenses to come in below 14% of sales reflecting lower incentive compensation costs primarily due to our third quarter non-cash impairment on our VMS business. Additionally, we continue to anticipate fiscal year advertising spending to be about 11% of sales, reflecting our ongoing assumption to spend about 12% in the back half to support our innovation program. For perspective, this fiscal year, we're planning to spend about $125 million more versus a year ago to ensure we're leaning into engaging consumers to build lifetime loyalty to our brands. We continue to expect our fiscal year tax rate on a reported and adjusted basis to be between 21% and 22%. Net of these factors, we anticipate fiscal year adjusted EPS to be between $7.45 and $7.65 or 1% to 4% growth, reflecting the continued assumptions I mentioned last quarter, including strong top line performance partially offset by an increasingly elevated cost environment.In closing, I'd like to note that as we transition from the peak of the pandemic in the US, we're navigating a highly dynamic operating environment with the following factors that can influence our results in the near to medium-term. First, category dynamics and consumption trends. As more people get vaccinated and become increasingly mobile in the US, although we recognize different markets are in varying stages of pandemic, we're keeping an eye on short-term changes in these trends as they could cause variability in our top line. That said longer-term, we believe our portfolio will continue to play a meaningful role in addressing consumer megatrends that have accelerated over the last 12 months, which will contribute to higher demand for our products relative to demand levels prior to the pandemic. Second, more pronounced cost headwinds, which we'll plan to navigate with all the tools in our toolkit including opportunities for pricing in key areas of our portfolio. And third, increased production capacity to support ongoing elevated demand. This remains a key priority for us as our teams continue to look for every opportunity to expand our production capacity, while recognizing the ongoing volatility this creates on our extended supply chain. And finally, I'll reinforce that we're on track to deliver another strong year for our shareholders, while keeping our sights set on the long-term. As you saw in February, we raised our long-term annual sales target to 3% to 5%.Based on the early success of our IGNITE strategy and our continued plans to lean in even further with strong investments behind our brands, people, technology, production capacity and of course, our new growth opportunities where we believe we have a right to win. These efforts are all in service of our broader ambition to accelerate profitable growth, to create long-term value for our shareholders. And with that I'll turn it over to Linda.Linda Rendle -- Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Kevin. Hello, everyone and thank you for being with us today. I hope you are all well. A year ago around this time when the pandemic spiked in the US, we knew we were facing unchartered territory. And as I look back at how we've managed our business to support our consumers, retail partners and communities over the last 12 months what makes me proud is that we stayed true to three things. We embraced our role as a health and wellness company, which helped us prioritize our actions, including ensuring the safety of our people and emphasizing our support for healthcare workers. We put people at the center taking care of our teammates around the world and staying the course in doing everything we could to serve public health and consumer needs. We were led by our values, with our commitment to do the right thing guiding our strategic choices and actions. Out of all of this, our purpose became clearer. We champion people to be well and thrive every single day. With this in mind, here's what's important for you to take away from today's call. First, our business is well positioned for the future. I'm grateful our consumers have rewarded our team's dedication to serving people and communities around the world. Our business is significantly larger than it was before the pandemic. People have turned to our trusted brands for support, during an incredibly tough year, and Clorox has the most trusted brands in many categories. We see this play out in strong household penetration across our portfolio, with our brands in 90% of US households.We continue to see strong repeat rates across our brands among core and new users versus last year. And as Lisah mentioned, we continue to focus on retaining this larger base of loyal consumers. And of course, this is showing up in our results, including flat sales in comparison to a very strong base in the year-ago quarter. For perspective, it's worth noting that we delivered a two-year stack of 15% total company sales growth in the third quarter. And as Kevin mentioned, we're on track to hit a two-year stack of about 19% sales growth for the fiscal year. My second message is that, we have strategic plans in place to address near-term priorities as we continue to navigate in a very dynamic environment. First, there's more work to be done on improving supply, especially after weather-related disruptions in the third quarter and higher-than-anticipated demand in certain parts of our portfolio. We're pulling every lever available to us to improve supply, including working with third-party supply sources as we continue to run flat out. I'm encouraged by our progress, but our overall supply chain remains a top priority focus for us. Next, we fully acknowledge that market shares for key brands are not where we want them to be. That said, share declines are primarily driven by recent supply challenges. And as we continue to improve supply capacity, we expect to recover market share. We feel good about seeing continued strong consumption and demand across our portfolio relative to pre-pandemic levels.And as Kevin discussed, we're facing stronger cost pressures from critical input costs and a tightening transportation market. One of the four key choices in our IGNITE strategy is to generate fuel to support growth and mitigate inflation. We're taking a holistic approach to address these cost pressures by leveraging a number of tools to support our margins, including margin accretive innovation, net revenue management, pricing through trade reduction, and less price increases and as always a relentless focus on cost savings. My last message is this. With conviction in our purpose and guided by a strategy that makes the most of our strength, we continue to have our sights set on our ambition to accelerate long-term profitable growth. In the past year, we learned that by putting people at the center our IGNITE strategy has helped us to do what we do best, serve people who count on our brands. And we continue to have an opportunity to serve even more people around the world. And as we think about our future, our strategy is proving to be particularly relevant as it leverages significant consumer megatrends that have accelerated because of the pandemic. The latest research still tells us that consumer routines and behaviors formed during the pandemic are expected to persist, including prioritizing health and hygiene, drinking more water, taking vitamins and supplements and spending more time online. What's more the role of home has changed. With many companies pursuing hybrid models for their workforce, we expect more cleaning, more meal occasions and more trash to be generated at home.Our portfolio continues to be in a unique position to play a meaningful role in people's lives and we have every intention of accelerating new growth opportunities to support these trends. Moving forward, we're leaning into our IGNITE strategy with innovation remaining core to our key areas of strength. That means; innovating in our products, especially, larger stickier innovation platforms that deliver superior consumer value and multiyear growth for our business; innovating in consumer and shopper engagement; personalizing experiences for consumers so that we get to know 100 million people by the year 2025; and partnering with our retailers on category vision and leadership to support healthy and profitable categories. The turnaround of our Kingsford business is a great example of how our focus on innovation is contributing significantly to strong category and brand growth. Innovating how we work across the organization through technology that makes us smarter, work faster and in the case of our supply chain enables us to respond more quickly to future demand spikes. And finally, innovating through an ESG lens because we believe in the strategic link between our societal impact and long-term value creation. Here are some highlights in the last quarter. We're 21% of the way toward our goal to reduce virgin plastic and fiber packaging by 50% by 2030. We've achieved 76% of our 100% goal for recyclable, reusable or compostable packaging by 2025.We're introducing a companywide learning and development program focused on sustainability because ESG integration in our business not only means embedding it in every brand, but also rallying every person behind our efforts. And with ESG embedded into our operations, our brands are not only contributing to our corporate ESG goals, but they're also pursuing meaningful goals that matter to their consumers. As an example by 2030, Brita has a goal to provide clean water access to 0.5 million people in the US facing poor-quality tap water. This speaks to the heart of Brita's brand purpose. Before I open it up for questions, I'd like to echo the important takeaways Lisah mentioned at the beginning of the call. First, we're on track for another strong year. Second, we'll seize the opportunity before us to accelerate long-term profitable growth. Third, our IGNITE strategy has proven its relevance in the face of the pandemic by putting people at the center, emphasizing innovation and leveraging technology to lay the groundwork for the future. Operator, you may now open the line for questions.