  OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Autodesk, Inc. Q1 2020 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only model. After the speakers' presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Simon Mays-Smith, VP, investor relations. Please go ahead.Simon Mays-Smith -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



 Thanks, operator, and good afternoon. Thank you for joining our conference call to discuss the results of our first quarter of fiscal year 2022. On the line with me are Andrew Anagnost, our CEO; and Debbie Clifford, our chief financial officer. Today's conference call is being broadcast live via webcast. In addition, a replay of the call will be available at autodesk.com/investor. You can find the earnings press release, slide presentation, and transcript of today's opening commentary on our investor relations website following this call. During the course of this call, we may make forward-looking statements about our outlook, future results, and related assumptions, acquisitions, products, and product capabilities and strategies. These statements reflect our best judgment based on currently known factors.Actual events or results could differ materially. Please refer to our SEC filings, including our most recent Form 10-K for important risks and other factors, including developments in the COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting impact on our business and operations that may cause our actual results to differ from those in our forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements made during the call are being made as of today. If this call is replayed or reviewed after today, the information presented during the call may not contain current or accurate information. Autodesk disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. During the call, we will quote a number of numerical growth changes as we discuss our financial performance. And unless otherwise noted, each such reference represents a year-on-year comparison. All non-GAAP numbers referenced in today's call are reconciled in our press release or Excel financials and other supplemental materials available on our Investor Relations website.

 



 And now I will turn the call over to Andrew. Andrew Anagnost -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Simon, and welcome, everyone, to the call. I hope you and your families remain safe and healthy. Now while parts of the world emerge from the pandemic, others are entering the eye of the storm. I especially want to acknowledge our colleagues, family, and friends in India. We are thinking about you, and we are helping wherever we can. Thank you to all our employees and their families, our partners, and customers for their continued resilience, patience, and commitment. Our first quarter marks an important inflection point. While solid execution, a resilient subscription business model, and continued secular shift to the cloud underpinned our strong first-quarter results, weighing uncertainty and growing confidence in our end markets generated momentum.

 



 Robust growth in new product subscriptions, combined with improving usage and renewal rates, accelerated billings and RPO growth to 10% and 22%, respectively. Together, these reinforce our confidence that we are through the revenue growth trough and on track to achieve our fiscal '22 and '23 goals. In mid-May, we completed the acquisition of Upchain, a cloud-native product data and life cycle management solution. Combined with existing Autodesk offerings like Fusion 360, Upchain will profoundly simplify data sharing and collaboration for engineers, manufacturers, suppliers, and other product stakeholders, enabling customers to bring products to market faster and build a stronger supply chain. Its next-generation platform enables it to be rapidly deployed, scaled, maintained, and updated without the expensive inflexible, and time-consuming integrations of legacy systems. We will grow Upchain through our enterprise and channel partnerships and expect it to become a meaningful on-ramp for legacy design tools to the Fusion 360 cloud ecosystem and facilitate further expansion into adjacent verticals. As we highlighted in our recently published Impact Report, the convergence of design and make brings both greater efficiency and sustainability to buildings in a broad range of manufactured goods, stretching from EVs and bicycles to high-performance skis and low-cost ventilators. While we are enabling customers to achieve their sustainability targets, we continue to lead by example, reaching our carbon-neutral goal across our business and value chain in fiscal '21. The report also sets out new diversity, equity, and inclusion goals. And while I'm proud that 50% of Autodesk Board and 45% of our executive team are women, we can and will do more both internally and through partnerships with organizations like IFF Labs externally. As we recently announced, Pascal Di Fronzo, Autodesk's executive vice president of corporate affairs and chief legal officer, will be retiring in December after 23 very successful years at the company. He has been a trusted counselor and steward of the company. His contributions to Autodesk are many and have been incredibly impactful, and I want to thank him for his dedication and wish him all the best in retirement. I am very excited to welcome Debbie back to Autodesk, and will now turn the call over to her to take you through the details of our quarterly results and guidance for the year. I will then come back to provide an update on our strategic growth initiatives.Debbie Clifford -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Andrew. I'm very excited to be back. Looking at the first quarter's results, several factors contributed to our strong financial performance, including robust growth in new product subscriptions, accelerating digital sales, stronger-than-expected upfront revenue, and improving subscription renewal rates. In addition, a one-month contribution from Innovyze and foreign exchange rates provided a modest tailwind to the quarter. Total revenue in the quarter grew 12% and 11% in constant currency, with subscription revenue growing by 18%. Looking at revenue by product and geography, AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT revenue grew by 9%. AEC revenue grew 16% and manufacturing revenue grew 8%. Excluding the impact of moving our bulk product to ratable revenue recognition, which we discussed last quarter, manufacturing revenue grew double digits. M&E revenue grew 5%. Across the globe, revenue grew 8% in the Americas, 11% in EMEA, and 20% in APAC. Direct revenue increased 25% and represented 33% of our total revenue, up from 30% last year due to strength from both enterprise and e-commerce. Our e-commerce sites had their highest new billings growth rate in two years, driven by strong traffic growth and recent site enhancements. Reflecting the business-critical nature of our products to our customers, our net revenue retention rate remained within the 100% to 110% range, and our product subscription renewal rates strengthened. Our billings accelerated 10% to $974 million. Total deferred revenue grew 11% to $3.35 billion. Short-term deferred revenue increased 17%, primarily reflecting growth in new product subscriptions and increasing renewal rates, but also the inclusion of Innovyze. This was partly offset by a smaller contribution from long-term deferred revenue, resulting from fewer multiyear contracts when compared to last year. Total RPO of $4.23 billion and current RPO of $2.86 billion both grew 22%. Current RPO growth was primarily driven by the increase in short-term deferred revenue, but also by strong growth in enterprise business agreements and, to a lesser extent, early renewals ahead of anticipated price increases. Excluding the contribution from early renewals and Innovyze, current RPO grew approximately 20%. Non-GAAP gross margin and operating margin remained strong at 92% and 28%, respectively, broadly level year over year and reflecting the trough in revenue growth relative to cost growth. We delivered healthy free cash flow of $316 million during the quarter, driven by collections of prior-quarter billings and strong results in the current quarter. Consistent with our capital allocation strategy, we continued to repurchase shares with excess cash to offset dilution from our equity plans. During the first quarter, we purchased 515,000 shares for $143 million at an average price of approximately $277 per share. Now I'll shift to giving you my initial thoughts as CFO and then finish with our outlook. Since I rejoined Autodesk about two months ago, I've been focused on two things: first, reacquainting myself with everything Autodesk, the team, our strategy, and how we've evolved during my two years away; and second, I've been digging deep to gain a solid understanding of our fiscal '22 budget and fiscal '23 financial goals. On the first point, while much at Autodesk is familiar to me, I've been pleasantly surprised by how much has changed for the better, reflecting the enormous progress Autodesk has made over the last two years. Autodesk has undergone a cultural revolution. There's been a powerful shift in the company's values and ways we work, and the pace of decision-making has accelerated. As a company, we now benefit not only from the scale of our operation, but also from a newfound agility that is enabling our success in newer markets like construction and manufacturing in the cloud. I'm also struck by the compelling and expanding opportunities ahead of us. Digital transformation is happening now, it is real, and we are well-positioned to capitalize on that trend in the industries we serve. As I begin to turn my attention to our long-range financial plan, these initial learnings give me confidence in our growth potential in fiscal '24 and beyond. Let me finish with our guidance, which now includes Innovyze and Upchain. We still expect that an improving economic environment during the year will result in strong growth in new business over the course of fiscal '22. We expect product subscription renewal rates to continue to be healthy and our net revenue retention rate to remain between 100% and 110%. Given our subscription model, revenue growth will lag the improving sales environment. We continue to expect about three quarters of our free cash flow to again be generated in the second half of the year due to our economic phasing assumptions and normal seasonality. For fiscal '22, we are raising our full-year revenue guidance to a range of $4.305 billion to $4.385 billion or a 14% to 16% increase over last year, reflecting a partial year contribution from acquisitions, net of the deferred revenue writedowns. Given our results are weighted in the second half and Q1 is our seasonally smallest quarter, it's obviously too early to change our view on the underlying trajectory of the year, but we're off to a good start. We expect non-GAAP operating margin to expand to between 30% and 31%, which includes approximately 1 percentage point of negative headwind from acquisitions. Finally, we still expect free cash flow to be around $1.6 billion with a broadly neutral impact from acquisitions. The slide deck on our website has more details on modeling assumptions for the second fiscal quarter and full-year '22. With improving economic conditions and easier comparables, we still expect our first-quarter revenue growth will be the trough. Our accelerating momentum in fiscal '22 will propel us into fiscal '23, and I am therefore confident in our fiscal '23 revenue growth potential and free cash flow target of $2.4 billion. As I begin to look beyond fiscal '23, the digital transformation of the industries we serve, our sustained investment in the cloud, and our flexible business model give us a robust platform for double-digit growth. Andrew, back to you.Andrew Anagnost -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Debbie. Let me finish by giving you an update on our strategic growth initiatives. The secular trends we have been investing in for years have accelerated during the pandemic: the digitization of AEC, the convergence of design and make and our expansion into adjacent verticals through organic investment and acquisitions are growing our total addressable market. The evolution of our business model, the value generated by the growing connectivity of our platform for new and legacy customers, and the hardening of our systems to noncompliant users enables us to attract, retain more of that potential opportunity, growing our ecosystem and the usage and value we generate from it. Turning to AEC. Our unique vision is to connect all the phases of construction with end-to-end cloud-based solutions that combine horizontal data flow with best-in-class functionality to enable seamless collaboration from planning, design, preconstruction, construction, asset operations, and maintenance. The breadth and depth of our solutions distinguish us in the market, and we continue to build on that advantage to industry-leading R&D, which we sustain through the pandemic and acquisitions. Our latest product releases reflect that. For example, Revit 2022 is a bridge to more open and interoperable ways of working that accelerate our design customers' digital transformation and improve communication design intent across all disciplines and project phases. For construction teams, we released Autodesk Build, Autodesk Takeoff, and Autodesk BIM Collaborate, as well as product enhancements, which further empower construction teams to drive better business outcomes such as winning more business, reducing rework, delivering projects on time, and improving safety by connecting data, workflows and teams across the project life cycle. As the construction backlog comes back online and the new project pipeline builds, we are emerging from the pandemic stronger. This is reflected in our success during the quarter. For example, Burns & McDonnell is a family of companies bringing together an unmatched team of 7,600 engineers, construction professionals, architects, planners, technologists, and scientists to design and build critical infrastructure projects. It is at the forefront of technology use and having invested in Revit and BIM 360 design some time ago, most of its data is already in the cloud. Monthly active users, or MAUs, on Autodesk software have grown by 80% since 2018. This quarter, Burns & McDonnell renewed its Autodesk EBA and increased its investment with us, adding more cloud-based products from the Autodesk construction portfolio, including Autodesk Build, Pipe, Assemble, and BuildingConnected. Our unified common data platform enables it to move and collaborate seamlessly from design through construction and to implementation with common workflows across multiple global practices. 1898 & Co., part of Burns & McDonnell, is its future-focused consulting and technology solutions division, and it is a founding participant in our Tandem digital twin programs. The Vault company is a $1 billion professional construction services firm in the U.S., focusing on integrated delivery of complex vertical construction projects that require extremely tight collaboration between stakeholders and integrated workflows between industry partners, the office, and seals. Vault was already relying on BIM Collaborate Pro and PlanGrid when, this quarter, it selected Autodesk Build over a directly competitive construction project management solution and also invested in Pipe. Autodesk Construction Cloud's unified platform connects previously siloed data, reduces rework, and saves time for Vault across the company, enabling teams to easily manage projects from planning and design through to the field and handover. And MultiGreen, a real estate development and operating company specializing in sustainable and tech-enabled multifamily housing in high-growth and supply constrained markets, standardized on Autodesk Construction Cloud. In order to build more efficiently and sustainably, they knew they had to standardize on a single platform to connect their teams from concept and design through project completion and day-to-day operations. In addition to Revit, Inventor, BuildingConnected, Autodesk Takeoff, and Autodesk Build, they will be using BIM 360's integration with the Embodied Carbon Calculator to analyze material carbon emissions with all their data connected through our common data environment. In infrastructure, we released Civil 3D, InfraWorks, and AutoCAD MAP 3D and AutoCAD Plant 3D, and ReCap Pro with enhancements in transportation, water, plant, land development, and reality capture. Most importantly, we continue to mature our project delivery platform across design and construction to better support digital project execution that helps our customers increase operational efficiencies, make better design decisions, increase quality and reduce cost and material waste. During the quarter, we received notice of an award and design from the Montana Department of Transportation. Instead of a competitor offering, they will be using our AEC collection, which includes Civil 3D, Revit, InfraWorks, Navisworks ReCap, and our common data environment, Autodesk Docs. The department was particularly impressed by connected bridge design workflows between Revit and InfraWorks that drive efficiency and sustainability. Turning to manufacturing. We have made significant organic investments in addition to Upchain. Inventor 2022 introduced new features and enhancements to speed up product development and interoperability with AutoCAD, Fusion 360, and Revit. In Fusion 360, we have introduced new functionality across the entire product development process and numerous integrated extensions that unlock advanced design and manufacturing technologies. In Vault, we introduced a new mobile application and web browser experience for engineers and non-CAD users to access their real-time data anywhere and on any device. The potential to converge design and make in the cloud is becoming more of a reality every day to our customer. Autodesk continues to lead that transition. AEC Technologies, the world's leading solutions provider for smart devices, grew its investment with Autodesk. Having struggled with data management and data integrations in their product life cycle management using a competitor's 3D modeling product, AEC Technologies switched to our product design and manufacturing collection with Vault to manage all their data. They found our connected workflows particularly attractive and believe they will improve productivity and collaboration across their teams and enable them to go to market more effectively by increasing flexibility in their supply chain. For data management, our customers can now choose Vault for on-prem and Upchain as they transition to the cloud. With the largest number of new commercial users in 2020, Fusion 360's strong momentum continued, growing commercial subscriptions to 152,000 without any systematic cost promotions. While still early in its life cycle, we believe Fusion 360 has reached an adoption tipping point. And with extensions and Upchain, we are excited about its future. During the quarter, a U.K.-based design, manufacturing, and installer of architectural precast design invested in Fusion 360 in its nesting and fabrication extension. By converting the design and manufacturing process into a single unified experience in the cloud, Fusion 360 enables faster design, prototyping, and go-to-market. By creating optimized and associative multi-sheet layouts for sheet metal and non-sheet metal parts in preparation for cutting on CNC machines, our nesting and fabrication extension helps them to significantly reduce waste. Last month, three students from Danville Community College in Virginia won the inaugural Project MFG National Championship, an advanced manufacturing competition sponsored by the U.S. Department of Defense. Jeremiah Williams, Director for Integrated Machining Technology at Danville Community College said that, "By testing a variety of advanced skills like welding and multiaccess machining, as well as communication and teamwork, the Project MFG National Championship is one of the most challenging skilled trade competitions in the country. Fusion 360's next-generation platform enabled our team to complete all required and optional objectives from prototype through to welding and machining the finished product and to win this prestigious prize." As announced last quarter, we expanded our multiuser trade-in to August 2023, but we are still seeing customers convert and benefit from kind of transition to named users. SSP, one of the leading integrated design offices in Germany, traded in their multiuser licenses with us this quarter and significantly increased their investment by purchasing additional AEC collections and premium subscriptions, in the process, may completely replace the competitive design solution, standardizing their workflow on our cloud platform. The premium plan is especially valuable to them as they improve their site-to-site management using single sign-on, which enables more digital collaboration and efficiency while increasing employee satisfaction. While we continue to be sensitive as the economy recovers, we are successfully converting noncompliant users to paying customers with Q1 license compliance billings almost doubling year over year during the quarter. For example, a noncompliant client customer converted into one of our largest premium customers to date. Over 500 branches in Indonesia made it difficult to track and manage software usage, and this customer was inadvertently using more licenses than it was paying for. After completing a self-audit, which confirmed the software gap, it purchased premium to help manage the complex rollout of compliant licenses. They are now a happy premium customer with detailed usage insights and the ability to flexibly manage their licenses from headquarters across their entire branch network. Now let me finish with a story. Construction began on Notre Dame Cathedral in 1163, but was not completed for more than 100 years. In a 12th century version of lightweighting, Notre Dame was the first Gothic structure to use flying buttresses, which are slanted beams that support the heavy walls and ceilings that enable giant rose glass and stained-glass windows in large edifices with open-air spaces beneath them. Following a catastrophic fire in 2019, the cathedral is being rebuilt with traditional and sustainable materials enhanced by next-generation building information modeling provided by Autodesk. Combining traditional design and build know-how with modern workflow solutions, reconstruction is expected to be completed in 2024 in time to welcome athletes at the Summer Olympics in Paris and future generations from across the globe. I share this because as the world rebuilds after the catastrophic impact of the pandemic, I am reminded again that Autodesk's purpose to enable its customers to build and manufacture efficiently and sustainably has never been more important or urgent. Together, we can meet the generational challenges posed by carbon, water, and waste. Autodesk's central role in meeting these challenges underpins my confidence this year and my confidence in the future. With that, operator, we would like to open the call up for questions. 