  OperatorWelcome to the MSCI second-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded. I would now like to turn the call over to Salli Schwartz, head of investor relations and treasurer. You may begin.Salli Schwartz -- Head of Investor Relations and Treasurer Thank you, operator. Good day, and welcome to the MSCI second-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. Earlier this morning, we issued a press release announcing our results for the second quarter 2021. This press release, along with an earnings presentation we will reference on this call, as well as the brief quarterly update are available on our website, msci.com, under the investor relations tab. Let me remind you that this call contains forward-looking statements. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made and are governed by the language on the second slide of today's presentation. For a discussion of additional risks and uncertainties, please see the risk factors and forward-looking statements disclaimer in our most recent Form 10-K and in our other SEC filings. During today's call, in addition to results presented on the basis of U.S.GAAP, we also refer to non-GAAP measures, including, but not limited to: organic operating revenue growth rates, adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA expenses, adjusted EPS and free cash flow. We believe our non-GAAP measures facilitate meaningful period-to-period comparisons and provide insight into our core operating performance. You'll find a reconciliation to the equivalent GAAP measures in the earnings materials and an explanation of why we deem this information to be meaningful as well as how management uses these measures in the appendix of the earnings presentation. We will also discuss run rate, which estimates at a particular point in time the annualized value of the recurring revenues under our client agreements for the next 12 months subject to a variety of adjustments and exclusions that we detailed in our SEC filings. As a result of those adjustments and exclusions, the actual amount of recurring revenues we will realize over the following 12 months will differ from run rate. We, therefore, caution you not to place undue reliance on run rate to estimate or forecast recurring revenue. Additionally, we will discuss organic run rate growth figures, which exclude the impact of changes in foreign currency and the impact of any acquisitions or divestitures. On the call today are Henry Fernandez, our chairman and CEO; Baer Pettit, our president and COO; and Andy Wiechmann, our chief financial officer. Finally, I would like to point out that members of the media may be on the call this morning in a listen-only mode. With that, let me now turn the call over to Henry Fernandez. Henry? Henry Fernandez -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Salli. Hello, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. MSCI delivered exceptional results in the second quarter. This outcome was the direct result of our vision to be a change agent for the investment industry, our mission to help investors build better portfolios for a better world, and the Triple-Crown investments we are making to support these efforts. For the quarter, we achieved total revenue growth of 22%, adjusted EBITDA growth of 25% and adjusted EPS growth of 38%. Last month, we held our annual strategy session with our Board of Directors. Our Board and our management team are incredibly excited about the many opportunities we have to significantly accelerate our growth, including in solutions like investment thesis indices, fixed income, private assets, and of course, ESG. And now, even more so, climate. We are making great progress with the newer client segments that we have previously highlighted to you, including wealth managers, insurance companies and corporates. And with respect to capabilities, we continue to transform and expand our technology and data infrastructure to align with our clients' needs. Let me now highlight one area within each of solutions, client segments and capabilities. Within solutions, MSCI intends to lead all participants in the investment ecosystem in addressing climate change and carbon intensity in their investment portfolios and in their business operations. We believe that addressing the impact of climate change will require the largest reconstruction of the global economy since the Industrial Revolution some 200 years ago. Institutional investors will need to reallocate their enormous pools of capital to the decarbonizing companies that are on track to keep the world under a 1.5-degree Celsius rise and away from those companies that are moving too slowly or not acting at all. Investors and stakeholders are already exerting influence on companies and management teams to transform their business models to reduce their carbon emissions. Assets will be massively repriced, and we believe the net-zero revolution will produce spectacular winners and some losers. Moreover, this revolution will touch every company in the world. And for that matter, every part of our societies around the world. We believe this transformation will occur much sooner than companies and investors may see coming, and a number of market participants need to act faster and more decisively than they may appreciate. As you can imagine, this presents MSCI with enormous opportunities. We want to be the premier provider of all tools involved in portfolio decisions related to climate. In the near term, we look ahead to the COP26 conference to be held in Glasgow later this year. And we expect policymakers, regulators, market participants, and various other constituents to push for more extensive climate-related disclosures. MSCI will play its part and will join with the Glasgow Financial Alliance for Net Zero in organizing a net-zero financial service providers alliance. This new alliance will galvanize the world's index and data providers, credit rating agencies, and accounting firms to lay the tracks that can take investors and companies to a net-zero world. We are fast in reaching our suite of climate products and aggressively investing to provide the market with the climate models and reporting capabilities that can contribute to or even drive developing broader standards. We're also pursuing a multi-asset class coverage strategy within climate, which is beyond public securities. This strategy will include real estate, private equity and private debt. Within client segments, our spotlight are ongoing success with corporates, where we are providing public and private issuers of capital and their corporate advisors with solutions for TCFD reporting and ESG and climate benchmarking. Our greenfield success in this client segment and in others, such as wealth managers and insurance companies, directly reflects the investments that we have made not only in our product offerings, but also in our client coverage organization. Our value proposition also remains very strong with asset managers and asset owners, which still represents the largest part of our client base. We are honored to have been selected by the California State Teachers Retirement System to provide their policy benchmark. CalSTRS adopted a custom MSCI All Country World Investable Market Index, displacing its prior domestic benchmark. The primary reason was to simplify their benchmarking process by moving away from a weighted calculation of separate U.S. and non-U.S. exposures. Using one index also simplifies performance attribution and better reflects CalSTRS' goal to target and manage active risk. Within capabilities, I would like to focus on how data is playing a critical role in our vision of revolutionizing the investment industry. Data is the core building block of investment analysis, reporting, another processes and a competitive advantage for MSCI. For many years, we have made use of various technologies like artificial intelligence, machine learning and natural language processing, to harness the power of Big Data. More recently, our investments to develop MSCI Data Explorer and Data Lake aim to address our clients' strong appetite to ingest rich and extensive data in their operations. Clients want to leverage our data for a variety of use cases, including custom indices, liquidity reporting, factor analysis, among many others. They also want to easily expose, download and manipulate massive volumes of underlying data for MSCI ESG ratings, SFDR metrics and climate models. Before I turn the call over to Baer and Andy, I would like to take a few moments to note our current views on the global operating environment. We continue to be encouraged by the global economic recovery underway. While markets may oscillate day-to-day, the underlying trend is a positive one. Accordingly, we are aggressively positioned MSCI to take advantage of its many opportunities, and we will continue to increase our level of investment in the Triple-Crown areas we see for our company. With that, let me pass the floor over to Baer. Baer?Baer Pettit -- President and Chief Operating Officer Thank you, Henry, and greetings, everyone. We have quite a number of exciting areas that I could cover here today, but I will focus my comments on three: One, our technology strategy and within that, our transition from Beon; two, climate where the market's focus and needs are accelerating; and three, data. On technology, flexibility is paramount, and we are pursuing a modular open platform strategy across MSCI. As part of our enterprisewide integrated Investment Solutions-as-a-Service or ISaaS offerings, we are moving our analytics products into modular components, integrated through APIs, and delivered through a consistent client experience. This allows us to offer clients access to offerings from across MSCI on a common infrastructure. Given our plans for and progress with this initiative, as we announced earlier this morning, we are discontinuing our investment in Beon. Beon was originally conceived to consolidate analytics applications and distribute content in a unified way to our clients. With the investment industry increasingly converging around the use of cloud-based technologies for content production, distribution and consumption, we will instead, over time, offer a range of new experiences through the integration of existing and planned ISaaS services. On climate, as Henry noted, we continue to enrich our suite of climate data models and tools. Our solutions help investors measure their portfolio companies and assets against emissions and temperature alignment goals, minimize transition risks and physical risks, and identify opportunities associated with the decarbonization of their portfolios. MSCI's climate tools are strongly resonating with clients, and we have seen robust uptake of our climate value at risk solutions, climate change metrics and climate indexes. MSCI's run rate with climate offerings now totals more than $30 million, up nearly two and a half times year over year. We also continue to launch new tools and products to address the quickly evolving landscape. We recently published a quarterly MSCI net-zero tracker. This tool gauges the level of climate change progress in meeting the 1.5-degree warming target. It currently covers the existing universe of public companies comprising the MSCI All Country World Investable Market Index. Coming soon, we are introducing an implied temperature rise tool, which provides investors with an indication of how companies in their investment portfolios align to global temperature targets. MSCI is also helping address gaps in climate data in private assets. We have been collaborating with our partner, Burgiss, to source Scope One and Scope Two carbon footprint estimates for private companies, and see significant opportunities to serve investors in these markets. These are all good examples of how MSCI contributes to transparency and standards as investors reallocate capital to lower-carbon assets. Each of these tools is intended to respond to the increasing need for high-quality data sets that clients can access directly or via various tools and applications that MSCI provides or through platforms outside of MSCI. Henry referenced SFDR, which imposes mandatory ESG disclosure obligations on asset managers and other financial market participants. MSCI has expanded its toolkit of climate data and reporting capabilities to address clients' SFDR-related needs, including issuer-level SFDR metrics for more than 10,000 companies and 175 sovereign issuers. We also provide index-level metrics that enable investors to easily report SFDR indicators for the benchmarks of their financial products. Given the strong market backdrop and our financial performance year-to-date, we have increased our upturn playbook investments in areas such as ESG and climate, fixed income and private markets as well as to enhance our data and technology capabilities, our research, and our client coverage. As always, we will make these investments in the context of our rigorous Triple-Crown framework. Let me now turn the call over to Andy. Andy?Andy Wiechmann -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Baer, and hi, everyone. As Henry and Baer have noted, the exceptional performance in the quarter highlighted the massive strategic opportunities in front of us and our continued ability to execute. We had our best quarter ever for net new recurring subscription sales and have best second quarter on record for recurring subscription sales. The client coverage footprint investments we've made in targeted subregions are also yielding strong business momentum. In EMEA, we had our best quarter ever for recurring subscription sales, and APAC had its second highest quarter on record for recurring subscription sales. The operating environment remains constructive, and our sales pipeline remains healthy across products and regions. And we continue to see strong momentum in our key franchises. Index recorded subscription run rate growth of over 11%, marking the 30th consecutive quarter of double-digit growth. We continue to experience steady index subscription run rate growth of around 9% within the asset management client segment, complemented by outsized growth within hedge funds, broker dealers and wealth managers, collectively growing approximately 17%. In the ESG and climate segment, we witnessed a further acceleration of growth as we continue to broaden adoption and use cases within existing clients, while successfully expanding into new clients with over half of subscription sales in the quarter coming from new clients to ESG and climate. In all other private assets, run rate and revenue growth both benefited from solid new sales growth and FX tailwinds, and revenue growth also benefited from an elevated level of service deliveries relative to last year. I would note that a portion of our real estate business recognizes revenue upon delivery of service and typically sees more revenue in the first half versus second half of the year. Although the timing of the deliveries can shift between quarters, resulting in some swings in year-over-year revenue growth rates. Turning to asset-based fees, where revenue grew 55% year-over-year, the strong market rally as well as healthy cash inflows drove record AUM levels with continued strength both in developed markets outside the U.S. and within U.S. exposures. On a product level, ETFs linked to MSCI ESG and climate equity indexes experienced cash inflows of nearly $17 billion during the quarter, continuing to represent the leading market share of global ESG and climate equity ETF flows. Turning to our balance sheet. We ended the quarter with a cash balance of approximately $1.97 billion after issuing $600 million of notes in May. Our strong balance sheet affords us flexibility to support both organic investments in our business and other capital allocation opportunities. This includes actively pursuing both partnerships and potential acquisitions in key strategic growth areas. It also includes shareholder capital return, including dividends, which continue to grow with adjusted EPS. Yesterday, MSCI's Board approved a 33% increase to our quarterly dividend to $1.04 per share. As we go forward, I would like to highlight that we continue to monitor the market and may raise additional debt, if we see an attractive opportunity to do so. Before I turn to guidance, I'll review the impact of the Beon write-down, which was included in amortization of intangible assets. As a reminder, this was a $16 million noncash pre-tax charge that has been excluded from adjusted EPS. Importantly, it does not impact the opportunities we see for our business nor our high single digit long-term revenue growth target for analytics that we shared with you at our Investor Day in February. Turning to our guidance. As we mentioned throughout the first half of this year and at Investor Day, our pace of investment may flex up and down based on the trajectory of our asset-based fees and the business more broadly. The strong trajectory year-to-date in equity markets and ETF AUM, exceptional top line growth and ongoing improvement in the macro backdrop give us further confidence to execute on our upturn playbook opportunities and continue to drive growth. Additionally, the strong business performance has led to increases in incentive compensation accruals. We've therefore increased our expense guidance range. We would note, however, that we remain committed to driving positive operating leverage and modest margin expansion. Our increased interest expense guidance range takes into account our May notes offering of $600 million. And our depreciation and amortization expense guidance reflects the noncash write-off of $16 million from Beon in this quarter, partially offset by the benefit from the removal of projected amortization expense associated with Beon in the second half of 2021. We reduced our tax rate guidance, taking into account the second quarter and our latest view on a number of discrete items, and we increased our free cash flow guidance primarily to reflect our strong asset-based fees in collections in the first half of the year, as well as lower interest expense, partially offset by higher operating expenses and cash taxes. In summary, we continue to monitor risks from the pandemic, but are encouraged by the improving economic backdrop. We are pleased with the strong quarter we delivered, the investments we continue to make in our growing franchise, and the many opportunities we see ahead of us. And with that, operator, please open the line for questions. 