  OperatorGood morning, and thank you for joining our call. Representing Prudential on today's call are Charlie Lowrey, chairman and CEO; and Rob Falzon, vice president, chairman; Andy Sullivan, head of U.S. businesses; Scott Sleyster, head of international businesses; Ken Tanji, chief financial officer; and Rob Axel, controller and principal accounting officer. We will start with prepared remarks by Charlie, Rob and Ken, and then we will take your questions. Today's presentation may include forward-looking statements. It is possible that actual results may differ materially from the predictions we make today. In addition, this presentation may include references to non-GAAP measures. For a reconciliation of such measures to the comparable GAAP measures and a discussion of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. Please see the slides titled forward-looking statements and non-GAAP measures in the appendix of today's presentation. And the quarterly financial supplement, both of which can be found on our website at investor.prudential.com. Now I'll turn the call over to Bob McLaughlin. Please go ahead.Bob McLaughlin -- Vice President, Investor Relations Good morning, and thank you for joining our call. Representing Prudential on today's call are Charlie Lowrey, chairman and CEO; Rob Falzon, vice chairman; Andy Sullivan, head of U.S. businesses; Scott Sleyster, head of international businesses; Ken Tanji, chief financial officer; and Rob Axel, controller and principal accounting officer. We will start with prepared comments by Charlie, Rob and Ken, and then we will take your questions. Today's presentation may include forward-looking statements. It is possible that actual results may differ materially from the predictions we make today. In addition, this presentation may include references to non-GAAP measures. For a reconciliation of such measures to the comparable GAAP measures and a discussion of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements, please see the slides titled forward-looking statements and non-GAAP measures in the appendix to today's presentation and the quarterly financial supplement, both of which can be found on our website at investor.prudential.com.Now I'll turn it over to Charlie. Charlie Lowrey -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Bob, and thanks to everyone for joining us this morning. We delivered solid operating earnings for the first quarter, including strong variable investment income that more than offset the impact of elevated mortality from COVID-19. We have also recently achieved multiple significant milestones in our transformation process to become a higher growth, less market-sensitive and more nimble company. These milestones included continued execution on our plans to reposition our businesses. We completed two key divestitures and announced another programmatic acquisition. We continue to invest in our businesses to further enhance the customer experience and expand solutions to support sustainable long-term growth. And we also further advanced the progress on our $750 million cost savings program. We are pleased with the pace of these initiatives, which are well supported by our rock-solid balance sheet and help us expand access to investing insurance and retirement security for our customers and clients around the world. I'll provide an update on each of these areas before turning it over to Rob and Ken. Moving to Slide 3. At the beginning of April, we successfully completed the divestiture of our full service retirement business and the sale of a significant portion of our legacy variable annuities block. Together, these dispositions reduced the overall market sensitivity of our businesses by approximately 20%, while enabling us to further sharpen our focus on higher growth opportunities, including programmatic M&A and asset management and emerging markets. To that end, we agreed during the quarter to acquire a minority stake in Alexander Forbes, a leading provider of financial advice, retirement, investment and wealth management in South Africa. This deal provides access to essential financial tools and further expands our footprint in a strategically important market. We also continue to focus on enhancing customer experiences and creating solutions to drive sustainable growth across our businesses and to address the evolving needs of our customers. For example, FlexGuard continued to build momentum, and we are excited about its future and our broader suite of complementary annuity products, including FlexGuard Income. In Individual Life, we continue to expand our reach to a broader range of customers and further address the $12 trillion life insurance coverage gap with the introduction of a final expense product. And we are also making similar growth investments to further enhance customer experience and expand solutions across our international businesses. In Japan, we are focusing on evolving our product suite to meet the increasing retirement and inheritance needs of the aging Japan population. In Brazil, we are diversifying our customer offerings with the introduction of a new stand-alone accident and health product. And in China, we introduced Grow Partners, a digital sales platform that we are extending to distribution partners and directly to consumers, beginning with a medical cash benefit plan. Turning to Slide 4. We continue to make steady progress toward achieving our cost savings target of $750 million at the end of 2023, while improving customer experience. During the first quarter, we realized $170 million in cost savings for a total of $680 million of run rate savings to date since 2019. Turning now to Slide 5. Prudential's rock solid balance sheet provides significant financial flexibility to execute on our transformation strategy while returning substantial capital to shareholders. Our robust financial position includes: a high-quality, well-diversified investment portfolio; a capital position that supports a AA financial strength rating; and $3.6 billion in highly liquid assets at the end of the first quarter, as well as over $4 billion of additional proceeds from divestitures that we have already received in the second quarter. In addition to supporting our strategy for sustainable, profitable growth, we remain committed to returning $11 billion of capital to shareholders between 2021 and the end of 2023. As part of this program, we have increased our dividend by 4% in the first quarter of 2022, our 14th consecutive annual dividend increase. Before turning it over to Rob, I'd like to update you on a few of our recent ESG initiatives, which we consider integral to our purpose of solving the financial challenges of our changing world. First, relating to the war in Ukraine. In addition to providing financial assistance to humanitarian and nonprofit organizations supporting people impacted by the war, we divested our modest level of Russian financial assets in our investment portfolio. Closer to home, we've adopted a hybrid working model that combines the benefits of in-person collaboration and remote work flexibility to support our employees and help us attract and retain talent. Our hybrid work model will enable us to reduce our total home/office properties in the U.S. by approximately 50% over time as we invest in the redesign of 600,000 square feet of office space that will be optimized for collaborative and hybrid work, most of which was completed during the past two years. In addition to helping us achieve our cost savings targets, our real estate and hybrid work strategies are one of the several factors that will contribute to a 2050 net zero emissions target. Alongside these efforts, we are also finding new opportunities to support our home city in Newark, New Jersey, including new investments in local commerce, live workspaces for resident small business owners and additional opportunities to foster local home ownership. We look forward to continuing to support the city's revitalization. With that, I'll turn it over to Rob for more specific details on our business performance.Rob Falzon -- Vice Chairman Thank you, Charlie. I'll provide an overview of our financial results and business performance for our PGIM, U.S. and International businesses. I'll begin on Slide 6 with our financial results for the first quarter of 2022. Our pre-tax adjusted operating income was $1.6 billion or $3.17 per share on an after-tax basis and reflected a benefit from variable investment income, which exceeded the net mortality impact from COVID-19. PGIM, our global investment manager had higher asset management fees than the year ago quarter. However, these were more than offset by lower other related revenues as well as investments made to support business growth. Results of our U.S. businesses increased 12% from the year ago quarter and reflected higher net investment spread, including benefits from variable investment income and rising interest rates, more favorable underwriting, primarily due to declining COVID-19-related mortality experience and lower expenses, primarily driven by our cost savings initiatives, partially offset by lower fee income resulting from the runoff of our legacy variable annuities. Earnings in our International Businesses decreased by 8%, reflecting lower net investment results, less favorable underwriting results and lower earnings from joint venture investments, partially offset by continued business growth. Turning to Slide 7. PGIM, our top 10 global investment manager has diversified capabilities in both public and private asset classes across fixed income, alternatives, real estate and equities. PGIM's long-term investment performance remains attractive with more than 84% of assets under management outperforming their benchmarks over the last 3-, 5- and 10-year periods. PGIM experienced third-party net outflows of $4.3 billion in the quarter as institutional net inflows, driven by fixed income and real estate, were more than offset by retail outflows, driven by mutual fund investors rebalancing out of fixed income due to rising rates and inflation expectations. As the investment engine of Prudential, the success and growth of PGIM and of our U.S. and international insurance and retirement businesses, are mutually enhancing. PGIM's asset origination capabilities, investment management expertise and access to institutional and other sources of private capital or a competitive advantage, helping our businesses bring enhanced solutions, innovation and more value to our customers. And our insurance and retirement businesses, in turn, provide a source of growth for PGIM through affiliated flows and unique access to insurance liabilities that complement its successful third-party track record of growth. PGIM's asset management fees increased by 2% compared to the year ago quarter, reflecting positive third-party flows and a continued shift toward higher fee-yielding strategies, including the benefits from recent acquisitions over the past year, partially offset by the impact of rising rates. As rates rise in the near term, investor demand for some fixed income strategies could continue to moderate. However, over the longer term, a stabilized higher rate environment would be a positive for fixed income demand and PGIM's business. We continue to grow our alternatives in private credit business, which has assets under management of approximately $240 billion, across private credit, real estate equity and debt and private equity secondaries, and benefits from our global scale and market-leading capabilities. Notably, across PGIM's private platform, we deployed nearly $10 billion of capital, up 20% from the year ago quarter, reflecting the continued strong environment for both real estate and private credit. Now turning to Slide 8. Our U.S. businesses produced diversified earnings from fees, net investment spread and underwriting income and benefit from our complementary mix of longevity and mortality businesses. We continue to shift our business mix toward higher growth and less market-sensitive products and businesses to transform our capabilities and cost structure and to further expand our addressable markets. Our product pivots have worked well, as demonstrated by strong sales of recently launched simplified solutions. Our FlexGuard and FlexGuard income products represented $1.4 billion or over 90% of total individual annuity sales in the first quarter. We continue to exercise pricing discipline informed by changing market conditions and our sales benefit from having a strong and trusted brand and a highly effective distribution team. Our Individual Life sales also reflect our earlier product pivot strategy with variable life products representing approximately 70% of sales for the quarter. We also successfully completed the national rollout of our Individual Life Express term plus product with a large national distributor and recently launched a final expense product continuing to expand our middle market presence. And we are focused on enhancing customer experience through digital tools, including automated underwriting, resulting in more than 90% utilization for eligible policies in the first quarter of 2022. Our retirement business has market-leading capabilities, which drove funded pension risk transfer sales of $700 million in the quarter. And our group insurance business reflected sales growth of 5% compared to the prior year quarter driven by an increase in supplemental health sales. Turning to Slide 9. Our International Businesses include our Japanese life insurance companies, where we have a differentiated multichannel distribution model as well as other businesses aimed at expanding in high-growth emerging markets. In Japan, we are focused on providing high-quality service and expanding our geographic coverage and product offerings. Our needs-based approach and mortality protection focus continue to provide important value to our customers as we expand our product offerings to meet their evolving needs. We continue to enhance customer experience and agent support, including through digital tools. The value we provide customers was recently recognized by the 2022 J.D. Power life insurance customer satisfaction survey. Prudential of Japan was ranked #1 in all three categories: contract; servicing; and claims. In emerging markets, we are focused on creating a carefully selected portfolio of businesses in regions where customer needs are growing, where there are compelling opportunities to build market-leading businesses and partnerships and where the Prudential enterprise can add value. In the first quarter, we continued to focus on expanding product and business capabilities in emerging markets to meet the evolving needs of our customers. We launched a new accident and health product in the large and growing Brazil market, and continue to expand our wellness platform across Latin America. In addition, as Charlie discussed earlier, we are pleased to expand our presence in Africa with the announcement to acquire a minority interest in Alexander Forbes through our existing partnership with LeapFrog investments. As we look ahead, we're well positioned across our businesses to be a global leader in expanding access to investing, insurance and retirement security. We plan to continue to invest in growth businesses and markets, deliver industry-leading customer experiences and create the next generation of financial solutions to better serve the diverse needs of a broad range of customers. And with that, I'll hand it over to Ken.Ken Tanji -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Rob. I'll begin on Slide 10, which provides insight into earnings for the second quarter of 2022 relative to our first-quarter results. Pretax adjusted operating income in the first quarter was $1.6 billion, and resulted in earnings per share of $3.17 on an after-tax basis. To get a sense of how our second quarter results might develop, we suggest adjustments for the following items: first, variable investment income outperformed expectations in the first quarter by $275 million; next, we adjust underwriting experience by a net $165 million. This adjustment includes a placeholder for COVID-19 claims experienced in the second quarter of $40 million for our U.S. businesses based on 25,000 COVID-19-related fatalities in the U.S. and a placeholder of $25 million for our International Businesses. While we have provided this placeholder for COVID-19-related claims experience, the actual impact will depend on a variety of factors such as infection and fatality rates, geographic and demographic mix and the effectiveness of vaccines; and last, we expect other items to be $95 million lower in the second quarter, primarily as a result of completing the sales of both our full service retirement business and a block of legacy variable annuities. These items combined get us to a baseline of $2.75 per share for the second quarter. I'll note that if you exclude items specific to the second quarter, earnings per share would be $2.91. A modest decline from recent quarters, primarily from the completed sales of businesses. And the proceeds from these sales will provide flexibility for future capital deployment. I would also note a few other items: first, due to the rise in interest rates, we no longer anticipate a reduction in net investment income from portfolio reinvestment. The benefit from a rising rate environment on our investment income compounds over time as we reinvest our portfolio. However, the reductions in assets under management and related income and our fee-based businesses occurs more immediately. In addition, as a result of our derisking actions, the sensitivity of our adjusted operating income to markets will be reduced by approximately 20% on an annual basis. We also expect to report a gain on the sale of the legacy variable annuity block and adjusted operating income in the second quarter. Impacts from the annual review of actuarial and economic assumptions will also be reported in the second quarter. In accordance with our established practice, we have a comprehensive process that will include, among other things, the review of long-term interest rates, inflation, COVID mortality experience and updated industry data that may impact our assumptions. And finally, as a result of new foreign tax credit regulations, we are expecting an effective tax rate in the range of 21% to 23% for 2022. While we have provided these items to consider, please note there may be other factors that affect earnings per share in the second quarter. Turning to Slide 11. We continue to maintain a robust capital position and adequate sources of funding. Our capital position continues to support a AA financial strength rating, and we have substantial sources of funding. Our cash and liquid assets were $3.6 billion and within our $3 billion to $5 billion liquidity target range. And other sources of funds include free cash flow from our businesses, proceeds from divested businesses and contingent capital facilities. Turning to Slide 12 and in summary. We are executing on our plans to reposition our businesses. We are on track to achieve our targeted cost savings and our rock solid balance sheet provides financial flexibility to execute on our transformation and thoughtfully deploy capital. Now I'll turn it to the operator for your questions. 