
OperatorGood afternoon. My name is Lateef, and I will be your conference facilitator. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to Intuit's Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2021 Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]With that, I'll now turn the call over to Kim Watkins, Intuit's Vice President of Investor Relations. Ms. Watkins?Kim Watkins -- Investor Relations

 



Thanks, Lateef. Good afternoon, and welcome to Intuit's fourth quarter fiscal 2020 conference call. I'm here with Intuit's CEO, Sasan Goodarzi; and Michelle Clatterbuck, our CFO. Before we start, I'd like to remind everyone that our remarks will include forward-looking statements. There are a number of factors that could cause Intuit's results to differ materially from our expectations. You can learn more about these risks in the press release we issued earlier this afternoon, our Form 10-K for fiscal 2020, and our other SEC filings.All of these documents are available on the Investor Relations page of Intuit's website at intuit.com. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement. Some of the numbers in these remarks are presented on a non-GAAP basis. We have reconciled the comparable GAAP and non-GAAP numbers in today's press release. Unless otherwise noted, all growth rates refer to current period versus the comparable prior year period, and the business metrics and associated growth rates refer to worldwide business metrics. A copy of our prepared remarks and supplemental financial information will be available on our website after this call ends.And with that, I'll turn the call over to Sasan.Sasan Goodarzi -- Chief Executive Officer

 



Thanks, Kim, and thanks to all of you for joining us today. We had a very strong fourth quarter, capping off an outstanding year. Full year revenue grew 25%, including the addition of Credit Karma. Total revenue growth was fueled by 16% growth for the Small Business and Self-Employed Group and 14% growth for the Consumer Group, while Credit Karma had a very strong year, delivering another record quarter in Q4. Combined platform revenue, which includes QuickBooks Online, TurboTax Online, and Credit Karma grew 39% to $6.6 billion in fiscal year 2021. This includes 18 points from the addition of Credit Karma.I'm proud of what the team has accomplished this year and our Game Plan to Win remains durable. Let me now turn over to tax. This year marks our fourth consecutive year of double-digit revenue growth. We built a durable strategy, and we've made outstanding progress this year with customer growth of 6% and our share of total returns up approximately 1 point. We extended our lead in the do-it-yourself category by focusing on under-penetrated segments including investor customers where we tripled the growth rate from last year. We continue to transform the $20 billion assisted segment with TurboTax Live, accelerating total customer growth by nearly 100%.We have a highly predictable model and a platform with significant runway for growth as we accelerate innovation. Recently, we announced plans not to renew our participation in the IRS Free File Program. We expect no impact to revenue from this decision. I want to make sure that you understand how this decision fits within our overall strategy. Free offerings are a critical part of our strategy to serve and grow with customers over time, offering benefits that power their prosperity. Intuit has delivered nearly 100 million free tax filings over the last eight years, and with nearly 90% of those free tax filings coming outside of the IRS Free File Program. Looking ahead, with no IRS Free File program constraints, customers can enjoy all of the innovation we have to offer on our TurboTax, Credit Karma, and Mint platform.Our AI-driven expert platform strategy and five Big Bets are driving strong momentum and accelerating innovation across the company. These Big Bets are focused on the largest problems our customers face and represent durable growth opportunities for Intuit. As a reminder, these Big Bets are: revolutionize speed to benefit, connect people to experts, unlock smart money decisions, be the center of small business growth, and disrupt the small business mid-market. Today, I'll highlight the notable progress we've made this quarter on three of these Big Bets and will provide a detailed update on all five Big Bets at Investor Day next month. Our second Big Bet is to connect people to experts.

 



We're solving one of the largest problems our customers face, lack of confidence, by connecting people to experts virtually with TurboTax Live and QuickBooks Live. With TurboTax Live, we're transforming the $20 billion assisted category by providing 86 million filers who have previously relied on in-person assistance the opportunity to access tax experts to help them do their taxes or complete their return digitally. This expertise provides confidence for consumers and creates a halo effect for our entire TurboTax experience. The TurboTax Live funnel was strong this season. Customer awareness grew over 20%, and TurboTax Live customers new to Intuit grew more than 100%.Our full service do-it-for-me offering attracted new customers from the assisted segment at a rate nearly 25% higher than our TurboTax Live do-it-with-me offering. Our third Big Bet is to unlock smart money decisions. With Credit Karma's data platform and powerful network effects, we're making progress toward our goal of creating a personal financial assistant that helps consumers find the right financial products, put more money in their pockets, and access financial expertise and advice. To deliver on this goal, our strategic focus is to grow the core, including credit cards and personal loans, expand growth verticals, including home loans, auto loans and insurance, and develop emerging verticals focused on digital money offerings such as savings and checking accounts.Credit Karma also provides an additional monetization engine increasing our combined wallet share with both free and paying customers. Credit Karma achieved another record high revenue quarter in Q4, with the number of members reaching a new all-time high fueled partly by the TurboTax integration and monthly active users and frequency of member visits remained strong. Within the core, credit card and personal revenue achieved another record high on a combined basis, reflecting an increase in transactions per member. The growth verticals also achieved an all-time revenue high again this quarter, reflecting strong momentum in auto insurance, followed by home loans and auto loans.And we're developing the emerging verticals by focusing on innovation with Credit Karma Money, part of our digital money offering. Just this past month -- or just this month, we announced the integration of QuickBooks Online Payroll to deliver a better checking experience to a portion of our Small Business employees that help them manage all aspects of their finances all in one place. These results are evidence that successful innovation drives Credit Karma members to the platform, creating more opportunities to connect them with products that are right for them resulting in more monetization opportunities for Intuit.The all-time highs we achieved are driven by focused innovation in both bolstering our proprietary AI-powered Lightbox technology and investing in growth verticals such as home and auto, as well as pent-up demand from our partners. Lightbox enables Credit Karma to present offers to members that have a higher likelihood of approval. Partners' usage of Lightbox in Q4 is now at an all-time high with over 50% of credit card and over 40% of personal loan transactions flowing through versus less than 40% and 20% a year ago. This is the power of a network effect, solving a two-sided problem. We expect pent-up demand across the core verticals to taper this coming year after a very strong year of investments by our partners, returning to pre-COVID investment levels.I'm very pleased with our progress and excited about the upcoming innovations. I'll end by circling back to our first Big Bet, which is our foundational bet to revolutionize speed to benefit for our customers. Our goal is to put more money in our customers' pockets, eliminate friction, and deliver confidence at every touch point by using AI and customer insights. This year, we accelerated our use of AI, increasing the number of models deployed across our platform by nearly 50%, saving our customers millions of hours of work.Our application of AI has dramatically increased the number of experiments we ran by more than 35% this year, made it easier for our TurboTax customers to never enter data saving them millions of hours of manual entry, and modernize our payroll offering, tripling release velocity. We are very pleased with our results and remain confident in our Game Plan to Win accelerated by digital tailwinds. Across all of our Big Bets, we're building momentum and accelerating innovation, which we believe positions us well for durable growth in the future. We will continue to invest aggressively, including in key talent, to drive even faster innovation going forward.Now, let me hand it over to Michelle.Michelle Clatterbuck -- Executive Vice President, Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Sasan. Good afternoon, everyone. For the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021, we delivered revenue of $2.6 billion; GAAP operating income of $402 million versus $483 million last year; non-GAAP operating income of $715 million versus $616 million last year; GAAP diluted earnings per share of $1.37 versus $1.68 a year ago; and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $1.97 versus $1.81 last year. Turning to the business segments, in the Small Business and Self-Employed Group, revenue grew 19% during the quarter and 16% in fiscal 2021. Online Ecosystem revenue grew 30% in the fourth quarter and 26% for the year.With the aim of being the source of truth for Small Businesses, our strategic focus within Small Business and Self-Employed is threefold: grow the core, connect the ecosystem, and expand globally. First, we continue to focus on growing the core. QuickBooks Online Accounting revenue grew 28% in fiscal Q4 driven mainly by customer growth, mix shift, and higher effective prices. Second, we continue to focus on connecting the ecosystem. Online Services revenue, which includes payments, payroll, time tracking and capital, grew 35% in fiscal Q4. Within payments, revenue growth reflects ongoing customer growth along with an increase in charge volume per customer.Within payroll, we continued to see revenue tailwinds during the quarter from growth in payroll customers and a mix shift to our full-service offering. During the quarter, we continued migrating customers to our new full-service lineup, which added approximately 5 points to Online Services growth. We're also seeing the number of employees per customer back to pre-pandemic levels. Third, our progress expanding globally added to the growth of Online Ecosystem revenue during fiscal Q4. Total international online revenue grew 47% on a constant currency basis.We believe the best measure of the health and success of our strategy is Online Ecosystem revenue growth, which we expect to grow better than 30% over time. This is driven by 10% to 20% expected growth in both customers and ARPC. Desktop Ecosystem revenue grew 5% in the fourth quarter and 4% for the full year. QuickBooks Desktop Enterprise revenue grew mid-single digits in fiscal 2021. Consumer Group revenue grew 14% in fiscal 2021, above the high end of our longer-term expectation of 8% to 12%. Fiscal 2021 was the fourth consecutive year of double-digit revenue growth for the Consumer Group.TurboTax units grew 6% this season. There are four primary drivers in our Consumer business. Note that these metrics exclude approximately 8 million stimulus filings last season. This data reflects the season through July 31, 2021 versus the prior season through July 31, 2020. The first is the total number of returns filed with the IRS, which we estimate will be up approximately 3% this season, higher than our prior estimate of up approximately 1%. The second is the percentage of those returns filed using do-it-yourself software. We estimate the DIY category share of total IRS returns was down slightly this season versus our prior estimate of approximately flat.The third driver is our share. Our share of total tax returns expanded approximately 1 point to 31% this season and our share of the DIY category grew approximately 1 point. Our total share excluding Free File customers this season was approximately 29%. The fourth is average revenue per return, which increased again this season. This growth reflects the stronger contribution by TurboTax Live and mix shift to our Premier offering, which is used by investors. We estimate our retention rate rose slightly year-over-year excluding filers seeking stimulus payments last season that didn't return again this season, and we're pleased with these results.Including these filers, we estimate total retention was down approximately 2 points. Turning to the ProConnect Group, we reported $517 million of revenue in fiscal 2021, up 5%. Moving on to Credit Karma, revenue was $405 million in Q4, another all-time high, reflecting record highs for both the core and growth verticals. Sequential growth predominantly reflects strength in credit cards and personal loans as transactions per member increased. As Sasan shared earlier, we expect pent-up demand across the core vertical to taper sometime in fiscal 2022 after a strong year of investment by our partners. We remain excited about the opportunities ahead for this platform.Turning to our financial principles, with we remain committed to growing organic revenue double-digits and growing operating income dollars faster than revenue. As I've shared before, as we lean into our platform strategy, we see the opportunity for margin expansion over time. We take a disciplined approach to capital management, investing the cash we generate in opportunities that yield an expected return on investment greater than 15%. We continue to reallocate resources to top priorities with an emphasis on becoming an AI-driven expert platform. These principles remain our long-term commitment.Our first priority for the cash we generate is investing in the business to drive customer and revenue growth. We consider acquisitions to accelerate our growth and fill out our product roadmap. We return excess cash that we can't invest profitably in the business to shareholders via both share repurchases and dividends. We finished the quarter with approximately $3.9 billion in cash and investments on our balance sheet. We repurchased $467 million of stock during the fourth quarter and $1 billion during fiscal 2021. The board approved a new $2 billion repurchase authorization, giving us a total authorization of approximately $3.3 billion to repurchase shares. Depending on market conditions and other factors, our aim is to be in the market each quarter.The board approved a quarterly dividend of $0.68 per share payable October 18, 2021. This represents a 15% increase versus last year. Moving on to guidance, our full year fiscal 2022 guidance includes revenue of $11.05 billion to $11.2 billion, growth of 15% to 16%, including a full year of Credit Karma, GAAP earnings per share of $7.46 to $7.66, and non-GAAP earnings per share of $11.05 to $11.25. We expect the GAAP tax rate of 20% in fiscal 2022. Note that our revenue guidance for Credit Karma of $1.345 billion to $1.38 billion translates into 18% to 21% growth if we had a full year of Credit Karma revenue during fiscal 2021.I'd like to provide some additional context around our operating margin expectations. As I've shared before, we continue to see opportunities to leverage the platform and drive margin expansion over time. However, our guidance implies GAAP operating margin declines just over 2 points in fiscal 2022 versus fiscal 2021. This reflects the impact of the Credit Karma acquisition, along with investments we're making in stock compensation to attract and retain talent.We are confident these are the right decisions to drive long-term growth. On a non-GAAP basis our guidance implies operating margin in fiscal 2022 expands approximately 60 basis points. As I shared last quarter, fiscal 2021 was a very unique year as we took a conservative approach to investments during the first half of the year when we were deep in the pandemic, and then the business started to bounce back more quickly than we anticipated in the second half.Our fiscal 2022 non-GAAP operating margin implies on average a point of expansion each year since fiscal 2019 even though our initial guidance after closing the Credit Karma acquisition included a negative 2-point non-GAAP operating margin impact. We continue to see margin expansion opportunities ahead. Our Q1 fiscal 2022 guidance includes revenue growth of 36% to 38%, GAAP earnings per share of $0.14 to $0.19, and non-GAAP earnings per share of $0.94 to $0.99. You can find our full Q1 and fiscal 2022 guidance details in our press release and on our fact sheet.And with that, I'll turn it back over to Sasan.Sasan Goodarzi -- Chief Executive OfficerSuper. Thank you, Michelle. I'm proud of the team and all we've accomplished together, and I'm optimistic about the future. We have a large addressable market with digital tailwinds that include a shift to virtual solutions, acceleration to online, and omni-channel capabilities and digital money offerings. With our strategy of becoming an AI-driven expert platform and five Big Bets, we are positioned well for accelerated innovation and growth.Let's now open it up to your questions.