  OperatorGood morning. My name is Cecilia, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Biogen first quarter 2022 earnings call and business update. [Operator instructions]. Thank you. I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Mike Hencke, head of investor relations. Mr. Hencke, you may begin your conference.

 



Michael Hencke -- Head of Investor Relations Thank you. Good morning, and welcome to Biogen's first quarter 2022 earnings call. Before we begin, I encourage everyone to go to the investors section of biogen.com to find the earnings release and related financial tables, including our GAAP financial measures and a reconciliation of the GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures that we will discuss today. Our GAAP financials are provided in Tables 1 and 2 and Table 4 includes a reconciliation of our GAAP to non-GAAP financial results. We believe non-GAAP financial results better represent the ongoing economics of our business and reflects how we manage the business internally. We have also posted slides on our website that follow the discussions related to this call. I would like to point out that we will be making forward-looking statements, which are based on our current expectations and beliefs. These statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties and our actual results may differ materially.I encourage you to consult the risk factors discussed in our SEC filings for additional detail. On today's call, I am joined by our chief executive officer, Michel Vounatsos; Dr. Priya Singhal, interim head of research and development; and our CFO, Mike McDonnell. As a reminder, during the Q&A portion of the call, we kindly ask that you limit yourself to one question.

 



 I will now turn the call over to Michel. Michel Vounatsos -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Mike. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us. We continue to execute on our core business objectives in the first quarter. Mike and Priya will review our quarterly performance and recent progress in R&D, while I focus on our strategy and near-term operational priorities. Let me start with a few comments on the recent national coverage determination by CMS for amyloid beta targeted therapies for Alzheimer's disease. This decision effectively denies all Medicare beneficiaries access to Aduhelm. We are very disappointed by the final NCD. And as a result, we will substantially eliminate our commercial infrastructure for Aduhelm.

 



 We will retain minimal resources to manage patients access programs, including a continued free drug program for patients currently on treatment in the U.S. We expect to continue funding certain regulatory and R&D activities for Aduhelm, including the continuation of our EMBARK redosing study and the initiation of our phase 4 post-marketing requirement study ENVISION. Additional actions regarding Aduhelm may be informed by upcoming data readouts expected for this class of antibodies as well as further engagement with the FDA and CMS. In parallel, we are committed to working closely with Eisai on the potential launch of lecanemab. We are now looking forward as we work to advance our broader pipeline, including lecanemab and zuranolone, execute on our base business, and deploy our capital in the best interest of shareholders. We recognize that Biogen is facing a number of near-term challenges. These challenges, including generic erosion of Tecfidera, competition for SPINRAZA in biosimilars in [Inaudible] and a declining profit share from RITUXAN in the U.S. These challenges are all part of the biopharmaceutical business life cycle, and we believe that potential new product launches such as lecanemab, zuranolone, and additional biosimilars can help return the company to grow over time. Further, we see the potential for additional growth driver in the mid- to late 2020s in other areas such as stroke, lupus, and Parkinson's disease and, of course, we will be pursuing new business development opportunities as well. However, given that we are in a long product cycle business and in light of the CMS decision, we recognize there is more we must do today to provide better clarity and visibility into the company's future. Let me share the priority actions we are implementing now. First, we are increasing our focus on R&D prioritization with the goal of maximizing the probability of success, which Priya will further discuss. This prioritization process will be informed in part by key data readouts expected in 2022. In Alzheimer's disease, together with Eisai, we plan to complete the rolling submission for lecanemab under the Accelerated Approval Pathway in the U.S. during the second quarter of this year. In addition, we expect a readout of the phase 3 Clarity AD, complementary trial for lecanemab this fall. Based on the results of the study, we plan to submit for full FDA approval by the first quarter of 2023 with the opportunity for lecanemab to become the first anti-amyloid antibody to obtain full approval for Alzheimer's disease in the U.S. In neuropsychiatry, we are working with Sage to advance zuranolone as an important new potential option for MDD and PPD. We recently initiated the rolling submission of the zuranolone in MDD and expect to complete the filing in the second half of 2022. We also look forward to the phase 3 SKYLARK study readout in PPD, expected mid this year with an associated filing for PPD anticipated early next year. Also in neuropsychiatry, we expect the phase 2 readout for B104 in cognitive impairment associated with schizophrenia in mid-2022. Second, we will implement additional cost reduction and productivity measures above and beyond our previously communicated initiatives to further align our costs with our revenue base. These measures will include the substantial elimination of our commercial infrastructure supporting Aduhelm as well as other cost reduction while we continue to fund promising pipeline and commercial opportunities. Third, we are executing on international growth opportunities with a focus on key emerging markets, such as China and certain markets in both Latin America and the Middle East. This includes the continued launch of SPINRAZA and may also include pursuing local business development opportunities. Both -- we plan to drive renewed growth in our biosimilars business, although our portfolio of NTMS products slightly past the peak of its life cycle. We currently have four more programs in development, and in the near term, we are preparing to launch BYOOVIZ, referencing LUCENTIS in the U.S. in the coming half. Our fifth near-term priority is capital allocation. Biogen is fortunate to have a strong balance sheet with $4.8 billion in cash as of the end of the quarter and modest net debt, as well as strong cash flow generation. Going forward, we plan to continue to focus the deployment of cash toward initiatives designed to create incremental revenue growth opportunities while continuing to return cash to shareholders through share repurchases. In summary, the challenges faced by the company over the last -- the past 12 months have been significant. We are committed to taking advantage of all the strengths we have, including our talent, our commercial portfolio, our manufacturing capabilities, our pipeline, which includes 10 programs in phase 3 filed and, of course, our strong balance sheet to deliver on the performance that is expected from us. Let me conclude by saying that it has been an honor to lead this outstanding company during such a challenging period of time and to work closely with so many dedicated and talented colleagues. I am very proud of all that we have achieved. I want to thank the board of directors and my colleagues for their support during this period. I will be leaving at a time of promise for Biogen with noteworthy potential for value creation, and I look forward working with my successor through a smooth transition. I will now turn the call over to Priya for an update on our recent progress in R&D.Priya Singhal -- Interim Head of Research and Development Thank you, Michel, and good morning, everyone. As Michel mentioned, we are enhancing our focus on dynamic R&D prioritization with the goal of ensuring a sustainable pipeline that can deliver on Biogen's vision of a multi-franchise portfolio. We will continue to invest in R&D in a disciplined manner, including pursuing new and external opportunities with a potentially different risk/reward profile encompassing those within our core neuroscience therapeutic areas as well as select investments in therapeutic adjacencies. This approach will be informed by emerging scientific data, as well as internal and external readouts. As part of our overall prioritization strategy, we may choose to accelerate, terminate, divest, or partner certain programs. In addition, we will continue to advance key capabilities such as functional genomics, patient identification, novel modalities, biomarkers, and clinical outcome measures. The goal being to reduce risk, accelerate clinical development, and increase the probability of success in achieving positive proof of concept. I will now share the R&D highlights of the quarter. Starting with Alzheimer's disease. In addition to continuing the progress with lecanemab U.S. filing and the phase 3 study, Eisai presented data at the annual ADPD meeting this past March showing that lecanemab treatment in the core phase 2b study resulted in a dose and time-dependent reduction of brain amyloid as measured by PET SUVR and that the reduction of brain amyloid was co-related with changes in two important peripheral biomarkers of amyloid and tau pathology, specifically an increase in plasma ABN42 to 40 ratio and a decrease in plasma phospho-tau 181, respectively. Furthermore, these biomarker changes were correlated with clinical benefit as assessed by the change from baseline in the clinical dementia rating scale, Sum of Boxes. Notably, however, these peripheral biomarkers gradually began to reverse upon discontinuation of lecanemab treatment at the end of the core study, suggesting that stopping dosing prematurely may allow reaccumulation of Alzheimer's disease pathology. Eisai also presented additional information on ARIA from the lecanemab phase 2b study. This included the incidence of ARIA-E in the open-label extension where ARIA-E was observed in less than 10% of participants receiving 10-milligram per kg lecanemab biweekly and a symptomatic ARIA rate of less than 2%, consistent with the core study. We look forward to further defining the safety and efficacy of lecanemab through the larger phase 3 Clarity AD study. Biogen and Eisai are currently evaluating subcutaneous dosing in a substudy of the Clarity AD open-label extension, which will evaluate subcutaneous injections compared to IV infusions. This is in addition to the ongoing AHEAD 345 study evaluating lecanemab in people with preclinical Alzheimer's disease or prior to cognitive impairment, which was initiated back in 2020. Beyond lecanemab, Biogen continues to pursue new treatments across molecular targets in Alzheimer's disease. This includes actively planning for the phase 2 study of BIIB080, our tau ASO, and initiation of dosing in the phase 1 study of BIIB113. BIIB113 is a small molecule inhibitor of O-GlcNAcase or OGA, an enzyme believed to catalyze the removal of post-translational modification of the tau protein. By inhibiting OGA, we aim to increase the O-GlcNAcylation of tau to potentially inhibit tau aggregation and thereby slow clinical decline. As Michel mentioned, with aducanumab, we are also continuing to collect data in our EMBARK redosing study and working toward the initiation of Aduhelm phase 4 post-marketing requirement study ENVISION. Moving to neuropsychiatry. Biogen and Sage recently announced that we initiated the rolling submission of a new drug application to the FDA for zuranolone in MDD. We expect to complete the filing in the second half of this year. We were also excited to announce that the zuranolone phase 3 CORAL study in major depressive disorder met the primary endpoint and key secondary endpoint. The CORAL study was a randomized blinded trial designed to assess rapidity of response when zuranolone 15 milligrams is co-initiated with an open-label standard of care antidepressant or ADT versus placebo who initiated with ADT, as measured by the change from baseline on the 17-item Hamilton Depression Rating Scale. Top line results showed that zuranolone co-initiated with ADT resulted in a statistically significant reduction in depressive symptoms at day three, the primary endpoint and the earliest time point measured, as well as over the full two-week treatment period as compared to placebo co-initiated with ADT. Zuranolone was generally well tolerated with most treatment-emergent adverse events reported as mild to moderate. In MDD, zuranalone has now delivered four positive randomized controlled trials in total, as well as important insights on repeat treatment from the SHORELINE study, a large prospective naturalistic study in MDD. While these trials were designed to address different questions, we see a consistent profile of zuranolone that includes rapid reduction in depressive symptoms compared to the standard of care antidepressants, a consistent tolerability profile with a low discontinuation rate due to adverse events and without observed weight gain, sexual dysfunction, or suicidal ideation; a short course of treatment that can be potentially taken as needed; and a flexible treatment approach that may provide optionality to HCPs and patients. This is in addition to positive data from the phase 3 ROBIN study of zuranolone in postpartum depression. We look forward to the phase 3 SKYLARK study readout in PPD expected by midyear with an associated filing for PPD anticipated early next year. We look forward to potentially bringing a rapid onset, well-tolerated oral antidepressant with sustained effects, and a new mechanism of action to patients suffering from depression. Moving to ALS. We previously reported that while the phase 3 VALOR study for tofersen in SOD1 ALS, a rare genetic form of ALS, did not achieve the primary endpoint of a statistically significant change on the ALSFRS-R at week 28 versus placebo. We did observe signs of reduced disease progression across multiple secondary and exploratory endpoints. We plan to present integrated data from the phase 3 VALOR study and a new interim analysis of its ongoing open-label extension at the upcoming [Inaudible] meeting in June. This interim analysis includes data from participants with SOD1-ALS who had the opportunity for at least one year of follow-up from the start of VALOR. Long-term data on measures of function, strength, quality of life, and survival will be presented. We also continue to recruit for ATLAS, a study evaluating tofersen in presymptomatic participants with a confirmed SOD1 mutation, while also supporting the global Toferson Expanded Access Program, which includes approximately 120 people with SOD1-ALS to date from more than a dozen countries. We also remain engaged with regulators on potential next steps for tofersen. As you can see, 2022 is an important year for Biogen R&D with several important milestones expected as we continue to advance a diversified pipeline that contains a total of 32 clinical programs with 10 programs in either phase 3 or being filed. These milestones include key regulatory filings, mid- to late-stage readouts in both Alzheimer's disease and neuropsychiatry, initiation of late-stage studies in Parkinson's disease, and starting a pivotal study in cutaneous lupus erythematosus, in addition to ongoing recruitment for two phase 3 lupus programs in SLE, as well as planning next steps for the BIIB131 stroke program. In summary, we are taking actions that we believe will enable delivery of a number of potential first-in-class and best-in-class molecules to patients suffering from diseases with significant unmet need. I will now pass the call over to Mike.Mike McDonnell -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Priya, and good morning, everyone. I will provide some key highlights around the financial performance for the quarter and review our full year 2022 guidance. Please note that all financial comparisons are versus the prior year, unless otherwise noted. Total revenue for the first quarter was $2.5 billion. Our MS business inclusive of Ocrevus royalties delivered $1.6 billion in revenue. Tecfidera continues to be impacted by generic entry in the U.S. and was negatively impacted by pricing pressure outside of the U.S. Vumerity first quarter global revenue was $128 million. We are pleased with Vumerity's trajectory in the U.S. and are making good progress toward launching in up to 20 markets outside the U.S. this year. TYSABRI global revenue increased 3%. In the U.S., TYSABRI revenue benefited from favorable pricing that more than offset modest volume declines. Outside the U.S., we were pleased to see continued patient growth. Interferon global revenue declined by 23% due to the continued shift from the injectable platforms to oral or high efficacy therapies. Moving now to SMA. SPINRAZA global revenue declined 9%. In the U.S., although revenue growth of 10% was driven by positive channel dynamics, we were encouraged to see new patient starts at the highest levels in over two years and a continued slowdown of discontinuations versus the prior quarter. Outside the U.S., the revenue decline was driven primarily by the timing of shipments in certain markets, competition, and negative currency impacts, partially offset by strong initial uptake in China as this was the first full quarter since receiving national reimbursement in China. Global SPINRAZA revenue grew 7% versus Q4 of 2021, driven by solid sequential performance outside the U.S. as well as some seasonality dynamics in the U.S. Moving to our biosimilars business, revenue declined 5%. While volume increased, this was more than offset by pricing pressure and negative currency impacts. In April, we completed the transaction to sell our equity stake in our biosimilar joint venture. As a reminder, the economics for anti-TNF and ophthalmology programs will be substantially unchanged. In addition, we are preparing to launch BYOOVIZ the U.S. in the coming months. We expect a gradual launch with more meaningful revenue contribution starting in 2023. Overall, we expect full year biosimilars revenue to decrease versus the prior year due to pricing pressure in Europe. Total anti-CD20 revenue grew 3% with increased Ocrevus royalties being partially offset by a continued decline in RITUXAN revenues due to biosimilar competition. First quarter gross margin was negatively impacted by a $275 million charge for Aduhelm inventory write-offs, as well as approximately $45 million of idle capacity charges. Note that Eisai's share of these charges is reflected in the collaboration profit sharing line. Moving now to expenses and the balance sheet. Q1 non-GAAP R&D expense was $552 million. Non-GAAP SG&A was $635 million, including approximately $80 million related to [Inaudible]. Eisai's share of these costs are also reflected in the collaboration profit sharing line. First quarter collaboration profit sharing reduced our net operating expense by $117 million, which includes reimbursement of approximately $182 million from Eisai, partially offset by $64 million of net profit sharing expense related to our collaboration with Samsung Bioepis. In the first quarter, we generated approximately $162 million in cash flow from operations, which was negatively impacted by the timing of certain payments. Capital expenditures were $58 million and free cash flow was approximately $104 million. We ended the quarter with $7.3 billion in debt, $4.8 billion in cash and marketable securities, and $2.5 billion in net debt. We subsequently also received approximately $1 billion from the sale of our JV equity to Samsung Biologics. Additionally, our $1 billion revolving credit facility was undrawn as of the end of the quarter. Overall, we remain in a very strong financial position with significant cash and financial capacity to invest in growing the business over the long term. Let me now turn to our updated full year guidance for 2022. We are reaffirming our full year revenue guidance of $9.7 billion to $10 billion. This revenue guidance reflects the strengthening of the U.S. dollar from January 1 through April 29, resulting in an estimated currency headwind of approximately $120 million, net of hedging activities. We are also reaffirming our full year non-GAAP diluted EPS guidance of $14.25 to $16 despite the $0.76 impact of Aduhelm inventory write-offs as well as an impact of approximately $0.35 related to the strengthening of the dollar that I just mentioned. Although our prior guidance did not assume either the inventory write-offs or the currency headwinds, we believe the additional cost measures announced today as well as better performance in our base business can largely offset these impacts. This financial guidance assumes continued declines in RITUXAN revenue due to biosimilar competition as well as continued erosion of Tecfidera revenue in the U.S. due to generic entry. This guidance also continues to assume the potential entry of Tecfidera generics in the EU in the second quarter of 2022. We expect to decrease revenue from these high-margin products as well as the Aduhelm inventory charges to reduce our gross margin percentage when compared with 2021. This guidance reflects the initial implementation of the additional cost reduction and productivity measures, which Michel discussed. These additional measures are expected to yield approximately $500 million in annualized savings in addition to the previously communicated initiatives already targeting approximately $500 million in annualized savings. This brings total expected annualized savings to approximately $1 billion, a portion of which will be reinvested in strategic initiatives over the coming years. We expect non-GAAP R&D expense to be between $2.2 billion and $2.3 billion, which is unchanged from our previous guidance. Non-GAAP SG&A expense is expected to be between $2.3 billion and $2.4 billion, which is a decrease from prior guidance of $2.5 billion to $2.6 billion, which is due to the additional cost reduction measures just mentioned, which we expect to primarily impact the third and fourth quarters. This guidance assumes that foreign exchange rates as of April 29 will remain in effect for the remainder of the year, net of hedging activities and does not contemplate any further strengthening or weakening of the dollar throughout the year. We assume that we will utilize a portion of the remaining share repurchase authorization of $2.8 billion throughout the year. Please see our press release for other important guidance assumptions. So in summary, we continue to execute on our core business objectives this quarter and are now focused on a set of near-term operational priorities, which we believe can drive value creation over time. We'll now open the call for questions. 