
OperatorGood day, everyone and welcome to the Copart Incorporated Third Quarter Fiscal 2021 Earnings Call. Just a reminder, today's conference is being recorded. For opening remarks, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. John North, Chief Financial Officer of Copart Incorporated. Please go ahead, sir.John North -- Chief Financial OfficerGood morning. Thanks for joining us today. During today's call, we'll discuss certain non-GAAP measures, which include adjustments to reverse the effects of certain discrete income tax items, foreign currency related gains, certain income tax benefits and payroll taxes related to accounting for stock option exercises. We provided a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures on our Investor Relations website and in our press release issued yesterday. We believe these non-GAAP measures together with our corresponding GAAP measures are relevant in analyzing our results and assessing our business trends and performance. In addition, our comments today include forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws, including management's current views with respect to trends, opportunities, and uncertainties in our markets including the COVID-19 pandemic. These forward-looking statements involve substantial risks and uncertainties. For more detail on the risks associated with our business, we refer you to the section titled Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended July 31st, 2020 and each of our subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. Any forward-looking statements are made as of today and we have no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.

 



So with the disclosure out of the way, I'll turn the call over to Jeff Liaw, President.Jeffrey Liaw -- President and Chief Executive Officer North AmericaThank you, John. We're pleased to report our record financial results for the third quarter of fiscal 2021. I want to start first with -- by extending a thank you to our team in the field around the world and here at headquarters for their resilience and agility over the past 14 months. For over a year now we face the challenge of providing excellent service to our customers while keeping our people and communities safe and I'm grateful and proud for our team for having delivered on both. We take very seriously our responsibility as an essential business in keeping our roads and support infrastructure clear for the movement of people and things.I'll start with some of the key statistics that we share each quarter and I'll close with some remarks about the future before turning it over to John for a review of the financial results specifically.

 



For the quarter, we experienced global unit sales increase of 3% for the quarter, with the US increase of 4.5% and an international decline of 5%. We have observed more pronounced shutdowns internationally in certain countries in which we operate and they are likewise adopting more protracted reopening plans than we're experiencing here in the US. Our insurance business specifically was slightly below the third quarter 2020 volumes, down approximately 3% but effectively flat with 2019. This is the product of lower driving activity, of course, as driving activity remains suppressed relative to the norm and also decreased claims frequency, offset by increases in total loss frequency and share gain.Our US non-insurance business grew approximately 30% in unit volume year-over-year. This is also a reflection of strong used vehicle price -- a strong used vehicle price environment combined with our auction liquidity and sales efforts across non-insurance categories. Our dealer business, in particular, increased 26% in unit volume year-over-year compared to what we believe were significant declines for other whole car auction platforms that serve dealers. This is a reflection of the flywheel effect we've talked about on earnings calls previously. Our growing auction liquidity enables us to serve an expanding set of vehicles and then those additional vehicles, of course, further enhance our liquidity as well.Our global inventory at the end of April increased 16% versus a year ago. That's comprised of a year-over-year increase of 21% for US inventory and a decline of 13% for international inventory, a reflection of the dynamics described a moment ago. On average selling prices, our ASPs increased worldwide 48% year-over-year for the quarter. Our ASP strength is a reflection of both market dynamics as well as our own member recruitment and -- member recruitment and retention efforts as we cultivate more buyers worldwide. We will comment more on that in a moment as well. The ASP increase is not primarily due to mix shift effects. Our insurance ASPs in the US, for example, were up more than 50% year-over-year.And while growth in used car prices have, of course, contributed to our ASP growth, our selling price growth has far exceeded the overall used car price environment, a reflection again of our marketing and member recruitment capabilities and our broad global reach to emerging economies, who are increasingly buyers of vehicles from our markets. Our auction liquidity itself also continues to grow as we observed sequentially and year-over-year more domestic and international bidders and bids per unit, a reflection both of supply growth for us as well as our active cultivation of those buyers.

 



The natural questions that we would all pose would be what's the aftermath of the pandemic might be to our business. It's certainly challenging to separate signal from noise given the abundance of confounding and extreme variables at the moment. My comments will largely be US centric, but will apply by and large to the rest of our markets as well. I thought I'd take a minute to talk about some of our long-term assumptions and how they may have been affected or not by the pandemic.First on driving activity. It does appear to be rebounding but certainly still suppressed relative to pre-pandemic levels, in particular with commuting traffic still down 25% to 30% or more based on sources like Google Maps, among others. Due to increasing vaccine availability there is certainly line of sight to reopening more fully here in the US and our other markets appear to be three to six months or thereabouts behind the reopening sequence of the US. Longer term, we continue to expect modest increases in per capita driving as we've observed over the past 50 years. Mobility remains essential for employment, education, healthcare, leisure and every other aspect of our existence. We do anticipate perhaps some increase in virtual work arrangements but offset by a shift from various forms of other mass transit in favor of driving.Accident and claims frequency have declined during the pandemic, as you know, though with increasing severity due to higher speed driving and increase in distracted driving. Long-term, we expect a continuation of a decade-long trend to a very modest decline in accident frequency over time due to the gradual penetration of safety technologies and new car shipments, which then in turn eventually make their way to the operating fleet. We do, however, expect an increasing severity over time as well as those safety technologies also become more expensive to repair as well.On the question of our average selling prices, I would note the longer-term trend in favor of higher ASPs, certainly there have been near term pandemic effects. But over time, say over 10 years plus, it has been demand from emerging economies for wrecked vehicles from our markets, from the US, from UK, Canada, Germany, Spain, the Middle East in Finland and elsewhere, combined with our member cultivation efforts that have driven ASP growth over time.I'd acknowledge that we're seeing an unusual historic moment for used car valuations given the supply shortage for new cars, but we have experienced with the exception of the third quarter of last year the very beginning of the pandemic, we've now experienced year-over-year increases in prices for 17 straight quarters. So we think that there are elements of the selling prices certainly that will prove much more durable over time.Our operating and strategic decisions are predicated on the expectation of volume recovery post pandemic as well as long-term growth post pandemic largely consistent dramatically with what we've experienced over the past 40 years. We are grateful for our strong financial performance this quarter and excited to continue investing in our customers' future and our own.And with that, I'll turn it over to our CFO, John North.John North -- Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Jeff. As we mentioned, I'll make a few brief comments on our results to provide a little more color on the earlier remarks and then we'll be happy to take a few questions this morning.Global revenue increased $184 million or 33%, including an $8 million benefit due to currency. Global service revenue increased $132 million or 27% primarily due to higher ASPs. The US service revenue grew 27% and international experienced an increase of 23%. Purchased vehicle sales increased $51 million or 87% due to higher ASPs and increased volumes. US purchased vehicle revenue was up 103% over the prior year and international grew by 64%. As a result, purchased vehicle gross profit, defined as vehicle sales less cost of vehicle sales, increased by almost $11 million overall.Global gross profit increased by $138 million or 57% and our gross margin percentage improved by approximately 788 basis points to 52%. US margins improved from 46% to 55% and international margins increased from 32% to 37%. Both segments' margin improvement was driven primarily by higher ASPs.Moving to G&A expenditures. Excluding stock compensation and G&A -- and depreciation expense, our spend increased $2.2 million from $37 million a year ago to $39 million in 2021. We anticipate G&A will be lumpy quarter to quarter but will continue to improve as a percentage of revenue over time as we grow. As a result, our GAAP operating income increased by 68% from $195 million to $328 million. We delivered 926 basis points of operating margin improvement due to revenue growth from strong ASPs and controlling cost.Net interest expense decreased $0.2 million or 4% year-over-year primarily due to lapping last year's decision to draw on our revolver in the initial days of the pandemic to ensure adequate liquidity.Q3 income tax expense was $36.7 million, at an 11.4% effective tax rate reflecting a $20 million tax benefit from the effect of certain discrete income tax items and a $5 million tax benefit on the exercise of employee stock options, both of which have been adjusted out for purposes of the non-GAAP earnings included in our earnings release. On a non-GAAP basis, our effective tax rate would have been 19%.In summary, GAAP net income increased 95% from $147 million last year to $267 million this year. Adjusted to remove the effects of currency and the tax benefits described above, non-GAAP net income increased $89.8 million from $138 million last year to $262 million in the third quarter of '21. For the first nine months of fiscal '21 GAAP net income increased 27% from $534 million last year to $681 million this year and non-GAAP net income increased 44% from $447 million last year to $642 million this year.Now to briefly highlight our liquidity and cash flow. As of April 30, we had $2 billion of liquidity comprised of $912 million of cash and cash equivalents and an undrawn revolving credit facility with capacity of over $1 billion. This is an increase of $434 million over July 31, 2020. Operating cash flow for the quarter increased by $75 million year-over-year to $369 million, primarily driven by stronger earnings or partially offset by working capital consumed by building consignment on inventory.We invested $81.2 million in capital expenditures for the quarter. Approximately 95% of this amount was attributable to capacity expansion. This investment continues to ensure adequate capacity for additional business and creates a wider economic moat for potential market entrants given the difficulty in sourcing appropriately zoned facilities.In conclusion, our conservative capital structure and strong durable cash flow enable us to continue to make decisions for the long-term interest of both our customers and our shareholders.And with that that's the end of our prepared remarks. We're happy to take some questions.