
OperatorGood day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the First Quarter 2021 CF Industries Holdings Earnings Conference Call. My name is Faith, I will be a coordinator for today. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the presentation over to the host for today, Mr. Martin Jarosick with CF Investor Relations. Sir, please proceed.Martin A. Jarosick -- Vice President of Investor RelationsGood morning, and thanks for joining the CF Industries First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. I'm Martin Jarosick, Vice President of Investor Relations. With me today are Tony Will, Chief Executive Officer; Chris Bohn, Chief Financial Officer; and Bert Frost, Senior Vice President of Sales, Market Development and Supply Chain. CF Industries reported its first quarter 2021 results yesterday afternoon. On this call, we'll review these results in detail, discuss our outlook and then host a question-and-answer session. Statements made on this call and in the presentation on our website that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements.

 



These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or implied in any statements. More detailed information about factors that may affect our performance may be found in our filings with the SEC, which are available on our website. Also, you'll find reconciliations between GAAP and non-GAAP measures in the press release and presentation posted on our website.Now let me introduce Tony Will, our President and Chief Executive Officer.Tony Will -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Martin, and good morning, everyone. Yesterday afternoon, we posted our financial results for the first quarter of 2021, in which we generated adjusted EBITDA of $398 million. These results are really the story of nitrogen prices that increased throughout the quarter, somewhat offset due to lower production and corresponding sales volumes. There were a lot of other things happening during the quarter, such as winter weather driving up LNG demand and corresponding gas prices, and one very large winter storm event in the U.S. But if you take all of these impacts together, they roughly offset each other.

 



Let me provide a bit of color on our response to these events, but I'd like to refer you to Slide six and seven in our posted materials. Back in February, leading into Presidents' Day weekend, an extreme winter storm hit the U.S. Gas suppliers into several of our locations curtailed gas deliveries, and we were informed that we would likely force majeure hard shutdowns. Our team mobilized quickly, discussed various options and decided on the following course of action. Given we are facing the loss of gas delivery into our plants and would be shut down anyway, we opted to effectively sell the gas we had contracted for back to our suppliers by net settling our gas delivery contracts at prevailing market prices.We also reduced operating rates to minimum levels at some plants that were still receiving gas and sold the excess gas above those minimum levels back to suppliers. The result was a gain on sale of gas of $112 million. Slide six provides some details of how we mitigate gas price risk and how the February storm affected gas prices. However, there were pretty significant impacts to our operations as a result of the shutdowns and freeze-offs. We experienced some prolonged outages and increased maintenance expense, including fixed cost write-offs as a result of the abrupt disruption and extreme cold.And of course, gas price rose for that portion of our gas that was not hedged. Because we lost a fair bit of production, we chose to go into the market and purchased urea barges so that we could meet existing customer commitments, which also cost us a small amount. The net result of all of this is shown on Slide seven of our materials. Net-net, our sale of gas mitigated our increased costs so we came out of it basically even. Now we did lose production and the corresponding positive margins we would have received. So the full picture was a net loss for us, but at least we recovered our out-of-pocket costs.Hopefully, that provides some context for the big unusual moving pieces. Even with all the challenges we faced in the quarter, we feel very positive about where we are at, at this point of the year. We had solid results, and Bert is now going to take you through the two main factors of why we are so bullish. First, coarse grains stocks-to-use ratios are extremely low. Meaning we expect grain prices to remain strong through several growing cycles and farmers are incented to maximize yield, driving increased demand for nitrogen.

 



Second, global energy spreads have continued to widen, such that production costs for Eastern European plants are actually higher than China now. Meaning the nitrogen cost curve is not only steeper, but substantially wider for fourth quartile producers. Therefore, nitrogen pricing is expected to remain quite strong.With that, let me turn it over to Bert.Bert Frost -- Senior Vice President, Sales, Market Development and Supply ChainThanks, Tony. As we look at the first quarter and into the foreseeable future, we believe that the positive conditions in the global nitrogen market are likely to prove resilient for some time. Since late 2020, global commodity crop prices have been rising steadily, driving strong nitrogen demand. Global urea prices rose alongside this demand and prices for other nitrogen products followed. Our team did a good job of capturing these opportunities in the first quarter, especially as they dealt with the impact of the severe winter weather on our production volumes. I will note, however, that our UAN segment results do not fully reflect the positive environment at hand.We continue to face challenges there from subsidized Russian UAN imports that have depressed prices in North America. Coming out of the first quarter, the spring application season in North America has progressed very well. Nitrogen prices have remained high, demand is strong and supply is tighter than the market expected. As we look further out, positive agricultural fundamentals are setting up an extended period of strong margins across the entire value chain. Strong global demand for all major commodity crops has resulted in low stocks-to-use ratios and higher commodity crop prices.Given where those ratios are, as well as the continued robust demand for commodity crops, we do not believe stocks will be replenished in just one growing season. In fact, if you look back to the last time we had stocks-to-use ratios this low, it took several growing seasons to recover, as you can see on Slide nince. As global stocks recover slowly, commodity crop prices should remain higher for some time, supporting strong financial conditions for all aspects of the channel, from producers, to wholesalers, to retailers, to farmers, to grain originators, to grain processors and protein. We believe this will underpin heightened demand for nitrogen into next year and likely beyond.CF is well positioned for this opportunity due to an increasingly favorable global energy pricing environment. As you can see on Slide 10, energy costs in Europe and Asia have both dramatically increased from the lows of last year and returned to sizable differentials compared to Henry Hub prices. This is steep in the global cost curve significantly. Additionally, with European natural gas at around $9 per MMBtu today and the outlook from the forward curves, we expect that Eastern European producers will act as a marginal producer in the near term.These conditions have created a very positive environment for the company. The steeper global cost curve increases margin opportunities for low-cost producers such as CF. We also expect the traditional nitrogen price reset in the third quarter will be at levels well above the last few years. We are operating in the most favorable environment we have seen in many years, and we believe this will have a relatively long tail. We expect that the need to rebuild global stocks will persist at least through next year, resulting in strong economics across the agricultural value chain and robust global nitrogen demand.At the same time, forward curve suggests CF will benefit from favorable energy differentials for the foreseeable future. As a result, we believe this will have a tremendous opportunity ahead of us as we leverage our manufacturing, distribution and logistics capabilities to deliver for our customers.With that, let me turn the call over to Chris.Chris Bohn -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Bert. For the first quarter of 2021, the company reported net earnings attributable to common stockholders of $151 million or $0.70 per diluted share. EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA were $398 million. The trailing 12 months net cash provided by operating activities was approximately $1.5 billion and free cash flow was approximately $1.1 billion. These results reflect generally higher year-over-year prices, partially offset by lower year-over-year volumes and higher realized natural gas prices. They also reflect how we offset the challenges we faced in the first quarter through management actions.As Bert described, the nitrogen pricing outlook through the rest of the year is very favorable in comparison to last year. Partially offsetting this benefit will be a number of factors. We expect gross ammonia production to be around 9.5 million to 10 million tons compared to 10.4 million tons last year. This reflects the impact of the planned turnaround activities and the production we lost due to the weather. This level of production, along with lower inventories to start the year, will likely result in the company selling between 19 million and 19.5 million product tons this year compared to over 20 million product tons last year.We also expect our natural gas costs will be higher compared to last year. Based on forward curves, we would expect our average MMBtu price at the end of the year to be similar to 2018 or 2019. Finally, we anticipate that our capital expenditures for this year will be in the range of $450 million. This will be much closer to our capital expenditures in 2018 and 2019, reflecting a return to normal level of planned maintenance and turnaround activities. That said, the positive nitrogen industry conditions we have described should support expanded margins for the company compared to 2020, driving significant free cash flow this year. We will continue to invest in growth in line with our clean energy strategy.The recent announcement of our partnership with ThyssenKrupp on our Donaldsonville green ammonia project was an important step forward in our efforts. The cost of this project fits within our typical annual capital expenditure budget. We also continue to advance discussions with other potential partners for green and blue ammonia, validating the broad opportunities we believe will be available in the future. In March, we repaid the $250 million remaining on our senior secured notes that were due in December. As we remain focused on investment grade and positioning the company to execute our clean energy's growth strategy, we'll continue to evaluate opportunities to further reduce gross debt over time. We will continue to return cash to our shareholders through our quarterly dividend and opportunistic share repurchases at attractive levels.With that, Tony will provide some closing remarks before we open the call to Q&A.Tony Will -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Chris. Before we move on to your questions, I want to thank everyone at CF for their fantastic efforts during the quarter, especially at the time when many of our employees were still working remotely. I am particularly proud of our teamwork and collaboration, critical thinking and data-driven decision-making, and our agility at recognizing and capitalizing on disruptions in the market. We are very optimistic about where the company is positioned. We believe our first half results will be strong and our outlook for the remainder of this year and into next year is very positive.Nitrogen industry dynamics for producers in North America are the most favorable we've seen in years. This, along with the progress we are making on our clean energy growth strategy, positions us well to create shareholder value in the near and longer term.With that, operator, we will now open the call to your questions.