  OperatorWelcome to the HCA Healthcare First Quarter 2022 Earnings Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Vice President of Investor Relations, Mr. Frank Morgan. Please go ahead, sir.Frank Morgan -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



 Good morning and welcome to everyone. Today's call with me this morning is our CEO, Sam Hazen and CFO, Bill Rutherford. Sam and Bill will provide some prepared remarks and then we'll take questions. Before I turn the call over to Sam. Let me remind everyone that should today's call contain any forward-looking statements that are based on management's current expectations, numerous risks, uncertainties and other factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those they might be expressed today. More information on forward-looking statements, and these factors are listed in today's press release and in our various SEC filings. All in this morning's call, we may make a reference measure such as adjusted EBITDA, which is a non-GAAP financial measure. A table providing supplemental information on adjusted EBITDA and reconciling net income attributable to HCA  Healthcare Inc.is included in today's release. This morning's call is being recorded and a replay of the call will be available later today. With that, I'll now turn the call over to Sam.  Sam Hazen -- Chief Executive Officer

 



 Good morning and thank you for joining our call. The Covid-19 pandemic continued to influence our results in the first quarter with the American surge, which slowed in the middle of the quarter. More significantly, the challenging labor market pressured margins as the cost of labor increased more than we expected as compared to the first quarter of the prior-year. In the face of these challenges, however, we had a number of positive volume and revenue indicators that were encouraging compared to the first quarter prior-year. Same facility admissions increased 2%. During the quarter, we provided care to approximately 49,000 Covid-19 in-patients, which represented approximately 10% of total admissions consistent with prior-year. Non-Covid admissions grew 2.2%. This growth occurred in February and March. In-patient surgeries grew approximately 1%, and across our in-patient business, acuity levels and payer mix continued to be strong. Outpatient volumes also rebounded strongly in the quarter. Same facility emergency room visits grew 15%. Same facility, outpatient surgeries grew nearly 7%. And outpatient cardiac related procedures grew by approximately 7%. We continue to believe that overall demand for healthcare remains strong in our markets across most categories, with favorable population trends and other contributing factors that developed during the pandemic driving it. Total revenues grew 6.9% compared to the first quarter of 2021. Same facility in-patient revenues grew 5.4% and same facility outpatient revenues grew 10.6%.

 



 They will provide more color on our revenues in his comments. I realize that our bottom line financial results were not what we expected, but these top line metrics were positives. Diluted earnings per share. Excluding gains on sales of facilities were $4.12, which was down $0.02 from the prior-year. In the quarter, we experienced higher levels of contract labor expenses than planned. As compared to the fourth quarter, we saw modest improvements in certain contract labor metrics. We expect further improvements in the remainder of the year as we align the workforce appropriately by reducing both the utilization of contract labor and the associated hourly rates for these contracts. In some situations, the challenges in the labor market also constrained our capacity preventing us from delivering hospital services to certain patients. By the end of the quarter, we were able to overcome some of these capacity constraints and for the most part, our transfer centers were able to operate normally and move more patients to the proper setting in our networks. It is important to understand we are doing what we absolutely have to do to take care of our patients, and we will always do that. This past quarter, our teams continue to show up and deliver on our promise to provide high quality care to patients who need our services. I want to thank them for their commitment and hard work during these challenging times. We do, however, have numerous initiatives underway around retention, recruitment, capacity management and new care models that we believe will help offset some of these labor pressures. However, we now believe improvement in our labor costs will be slower than originally anticipated. This factor primarily influenced our revised outlook for 2022. We will continue to invest in our people, in our relationships and in our networks. We believe these investments are appropriate and should help us address the long term opportunities for growth that exist in our markets. At the end of the quarter, we had approximately 2500 facilities or sites of care and HCA Healthcare networks. This represents a 15% increase over last year. Recently we published our annual impact report for 2021, which highlights the tremendous impact our colleagues had on the patients and communities we serve. You can find the details on our website. Before I turn the call over to Bill, let me in my comments with this. Over the past few years, we have demonstrated an ability to adjust effectively to whatever our realities are, and I'm confident we will do it again. With that, I'll turn the call over to Bill. Thank you.Bill Rutherford -- Chief Financial Officer OK. Thank you, Sam. And good morning, everyone. I will provide some additional comments on our performance for the quarter. Then addressed our 2022 updated guidance. First, let me provide a little more commentary on our revenues in the quarter. We are encouraged with certain trends we saw in our Non-Covid activity during the quarter. Same facility Non-Covid admissions grew 2.2% versus the prior-year, and our Non-Covid revenue per admission grew 2.4% as a result of maintaining our acuity levels and a slightly favorable pay remix as compared to the prior-year. Within our Covid activity, our same facility common admissions were slightly above last year and represented approximately 10% of our total admissions. But we did see lower acuity and intensity with the Omicron variant this year. Our Covid in-patient revenue per admission was down approximately 15% from the first quarter of last year, which resulted in approximately 150 million less Covid revenue this year compared to the first quarter of last year. Let me transitioned to discussing cash flow and balance sheet metrics. Our cash flow from operations was 1.345 billion as compared to 2 billion in the first quarter of 2021. We did pay 344 million of deferred payroll taxes from 2020 during this quarter, representing 50% of the total amount deferred. Capital spending was 860 million as compared to 650 million in the prior-year period. And we completed just over 2.1 billion of share repurchases during the quarter. Our debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio at the end of the quarter was slightly below the low end of our target range and we had just under $7.9 billion of available liquidity at the end of the quarter. We plan to use approximately 2.6 billion of this amount to redeem our 2023 bonds in the second quarter. Finally, I will mention, as noted in our release this morning, during March of this year, CMS approved the direct repayment portion of the Texas waiver program. As a result, we recognized 385 million of revenue and 160 million of additional provider tax assessments related to this portion of the program from the period September 1st, '21 through March 31st, 2022. Of these amounts, approximately 244 million of the revenue and 90 million of the provider tax assessments related to the September or December of '21 period. As noted in a release this morning, we are adjusting our full year 2022 guidance as follows. We expect revenues to range between 59.5 billion and 61.5 billion. We expect net income attributable to HCA Healthcare to range between 4.95 billion to 5.34 billion. We expect full year adjusted EBITDA to range between 11.8 billion and 12.4 billion. We expect full year diluted earnings per share to range between $16.40 and $17.60. And we expect capital spending to remain at 4.2 billion for the year. So let me provide some additional commentary on our adjusted guidance and three primary areas that we have considered. First, our cost of labor was higher than anticipated in the first quarter, primarily due to the utilization and cost of contract labor. We now believe the disruption in the labor market and the pressure this places on labor cost inflation will be slower to moderate than we originally anticipated. Second, as I previously discussed, we saw reduced acuity and revenue from Omicron Covid patients in the quarter, and the slower acuity has been factored into our guidance as well. And lastly, we made assumption around increased inflationary pressures and expect that to have greater impact on us going forward, including for professional fees, energy procurement costs utilities and other purchase services. So let me close with a brief discussion on some of the initiatives we have underway to respond to these current market dynamics. We've spoken in the past of our resiliency efforts, which now include three main focus serious. First is around staffing and capacity, as Sam mentioned in his comments. We have teams working on and focused on multiple workstreams in this category. These workstreams stand around investing in and enhancing employee recruitment and retention efforts and enhancing capacity management through new case management models and technology solutions. In addition, we are exploring new delivery models through our care transformation initiatives. All of these are focused on supporting our care teams and easing some of the current labor pressures. Second, we have our original resiliency programs that are continuing. Many of these are advancing efficiencies through our next generation of shared services. Examples of these include a consolidation and alignment of laboratory operations, facility management, environmental and food and nutrition support areas. And in the third major effort underway as an initiative around advancing our capability to benchmark key performance metrics across the organization. This is intended to identify variation and opportunity to share best practices across several areas, such as supply utilization, provider support costs, discretionary spending and other similar cost areas. Many of these were factored into our original planning assumptions, and we remain focused on these efforts to help offset some of the contract labor and inflationary cost pressures we are experiencing. So with that, I'll turn the call over to Frank to open it up for Q&A.Frank Morgan -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you, Bill. As a reminder, please limit yourself to one question so that we might give us as many possible in the queue an opportunity to ask a question. Emma, you may now give instructions to those who would like to ask a question. 