  OperatorGreetings, and welcome to the Microsoft fiscal year 2022 first-quarter earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A question-and-answer session will follow our formal presentation. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Brett Iversen, general manager and investor relations. Thank you. You may begin.Brett Iversen -- General Manager and Investor Relations

 



 Good afternoon, and thank you for joining us today. On the call with me are Satya Nadella, chairman and chief executive officer; Amy Hood, chief financial officer; Alice Jolla, chief accounting officer; and Keith Dolliver, deputy general counsel. On the Microsoft Investor Relations website, you can find our earnings press release and financial summary slide deck, which is intended to supplement our prepared remarks during today's call and provides the reconciliation of differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. Unless otherwise specified, we will refer to the non-GAAP metrics on the call. The non-GAAP financial measures provided should not be considered as a substitute for or superior to the measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. They are included as additional clarifying items to aid investors in further understanding the company's first-quarter performance in addition to the impact these items and events have on the financial results. All growth comparisons we make on the call today relate to the corresponding period of last year unless otherwise noted. We'll also provide growth rates in constant currency when available as a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed, excluding the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations. Where growth rates are the same and constant-currency, we refer to the growth rate only. We will post our prepared remarks to our website immediately following the call until the complete transcript is available.Today's call is being webcast live and recorded. If you ask a question, it will be included in our live transmission, in the transcript, and in any future use of the recording. You can replay the call and view transcripts on the Microsoft Investor Relations website. During this call, we will be making forward-looking statements, which are predictions, projections, or other statements about future events. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could materially differ because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release, in the comments made during this conference call, and in the Risk Factors section of our Form 10-K, Forms 10-Q, and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statements. And with that, I'll turn the call over to Satya. 

 



Satya Nadella -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Brett. We're off to a fast start in fiscal 2022 with Microsoft Cloud quarterly revenue surpassing $20 billion for the first time, up 36% year over year. The case for digital transformation has never been more urgent or more clear. Digital technology is a deflationary force in an inflationary economy. Businesses small and large can improve productivity and the affordability of their products and services by building tech in density. The Microsoft Cloud delivers the end-to-end platforms and tools organizations need to navigate this time of transition and change. Now, I'll highlight examples of our innovation and momentum, starting with Azure. Every organization will need a distributed computing fabric across the cloud and the edge to rapidly build, manage, and deploy applications anywhere. We are building Azure as the world's computer, with more data center regions than any other provider, delivering fast access to cloud services while addressing critical data residency requirements. And we're partnering with mobile operators from AT&T and Verizon in the United States to Telefonica and BT in Europe, Telstra and Singtel in Asia Pacific, as they embrace new business models and bring ultra-low latency, compute power, and storage to the network and the enterprise edge. Seventy-eight percent of the Fortune 500 use our hybrid offerings. And with Azure Arc, customers like Nokia, Royal Bank of Canada, and SKF can deploy and run applications at the edge or in multicloud environments. Organizations also prefer our cloud to power the mission-critical apps they rely on every day. GE Healthcare and Procter and Gamble migrated critical workloads to Azure this quarter. And leading companies in every industry including Bertelsmann, Kimberly Clark, The NBA, SoftBank, ThyssenKrupp all chose Azure for their SAP workloads. Now on to data. The leading indicator of digital transformation success in an organization is organization's ability to turn data into analytical and predictive bar.

 



 Azure Synapse bring together -- brings together data integration, enterprise data warehousing, and big data analytics into a comprehensive solution. With Synapse Link for Dataverse, organizations can analyze data from business applications like Power Platform and Dynamics 365 with just a few clicks. With Synapse Link for Cosmos DB, they can run real-time no ETL analytics over their operational data. And with Power BI, anyone in the organization can access these insights. Thousands of active Power BI customers are using Synapse today. More than ever, every business needs a holistic understanding of its data estate, and Azure Purview, now generally available, is helping organizations such as FedEx manage and govern on-premise multicloud and SaaS data. Now on to developers. As every company becomes a digital company, they will need standardized tools to modernize existing apps and build new ones. From GitHub to Visual Studio, we have the most used and loved developer tools to build any app on any platform. GitHub is now home to 73 million developers up 2 times since our acquisition three years ago. More and more businesses are choosing GitHub Enterprise to provide their developer teams the most advanced platform to build, ship, and maintain software. This quarter alone, we introduced more than 70 enterprise features, 84% of the Fortune 100 use GitHub, and we are seeing growing usage from digital-native companies and the world's most established firms, from Pinterest to Procter and Gamble, from Stripe to Societe Generale. We are rapidly innovating in AI and our large-scale models are powering everything, from meeting recaps in Teams to helping developers code in GitHub to the next best action in Dynamics 365. And as machine learning continues to mature, managing the life cycle of models or MLOps has become more prevalent, and Azure ML is now the go-to tool for data science teams. And large organizations from Ecolab to Providence Health Care are relying on Azure AI to better meet customer needs. Now, to Power Platform. With Power Platform, we are helping domain experts to drive productivity gains with low-code/no-code tools, robotic process automation, virtual agents, and business intelligence. All up, Power Platform now has nearly 20 million monthly active users, up 76% year over year. Power Apps is the undisputed market leader in low-code/no-code tools, now with 10 million monthly active users. Ninety-one percent of the Fortune 500 use the service to build applications. And 129 organizations have more than 10,000 users including 3M, EY, GSK, Marks and Spencer, Sony, and ZF Group. Now on to Dynamics 365. Going forward, every business process will be collaborative, powered by data and AI, and will bridge the digital and physical worlds. Dynamics 365 ushers in this hyperconnected business process era. We continue to gain share. With Dynamics 365 and Teams, we are creating a complete new category of collaborative applications that help businesses like Rockwell Automation, Willis Towers Watson, surface data and insights across the entire organization. Dynamics 365 customer insights leads its category. Customers like Meyer are using it to create 360-degree view of customers in order to deliver more personalized experiences. All up, the number of customer profiles increased 174% year over year. Now on to industry. Our industry clouds bring together capabilities across the entire Microsoft Cloud along with industry-specific customizations to improve time-to-value, increase agility, and lower costs. We are seeing strong customer adoption of our new industry cloud for healthcare. And our clouds for financial services and manufacturing will become more broadly available next week. Sustainability is an existential priority for our society and for every business today. And when we think about our approach to sustainability, it's more than just the carbon footprint of our own data centers. With our Microsoft Cloud for sustainability, we are creating an entirely new business process category to help organizations monitor the carbon footprint across their operations. The world's largest baking company, Grupo Bimbo, for example, is using our tools to report, record, and reduce its emissions in every country where it operates. Now on to LinkedIn. We are experiencing a great reshuffle across the global labor market as people are rethinking not only where and how they work but why. And as more people change jobs than ever before, we saw record engagement as they increasingly turn to LinkedIn to connect, learn, grow and get hired. LinkedIn now has nearly 800 million members. Confirmed hires on the platform increased more than 160% year over year. And this quarter, we launched new ways to help job seekers discover roles that align with how they want to work. In a rapidly evolving labor market, companies are increasingly turning to LinkedIn Learning to upskill and reskill their employees. We now have over 15,000 enterprise customers of LinkedIn Learning, and we are expanding our opportunity in the creator economy, including offering new ways for LinkedIn Learning instructors to build their audiences and connect with learners live. Businesses continue to choose LinkedIn as the trusted way to reach professionals. LinkedIn advertising revenue was up 61% year over year. Now on to Microsoft 365 and Teams. Flexibility and productivity are not mutually exclusive. We are innovating to empower people to have impact from home, in the office, and anywhere in between. Microsoft Teams is the only solution that supports all the ways people work. Usage has never been higher. Hundred and thirty-eight organizations now have more than 100,000 users of Teams and more than 3,000 have more than 10,000 users. Updates to Teams rooms, including new AI-powered cameras and spatial audio ensure every meeting attendee is always a first-class participant. The rise of hybrid work is transforming the enterprise phone market and we are taking share across PSTN and VoIP. Calls originating from Teams chat increased 50% this quarter compared to a year ago. Operator Connect enables organizations to bring their existing service directly into Teams. And leaders in every industry, including Schlumberger, Westpac, ZF Group, REI, and SAP chose Teams Phone this quarter to meet all their internal and external calling needs. Moving forward, organizations will need a digital fabric that spans organizational boundaries to address key challenges like customer service swarming and supply chain resilience. With Teams Connect, employees across multiple companies can chat and collaborate as one extended team without switching tenants. In private preview, we are already seeing strong interest in usage from companies like LVMH and WPP. Teams, by itself, has become a first-class platform for application development. For example, employees at Levi Strauss and NTT Data are using ServiceNow applications right within Teams to access critical info within the flow of work. Organizations are also using Power Platform to build their own rich collaborative apps within Teams for everything, from curbside pickup to care team coordination. All up, the number of organizations with more than 10,000 users integrating their third-party and line of business applications with Teams increased 82% year over year. We are creating a complete new category with Microsoft Viva, which brings together communications, knowledge, learning, resources, and insights. Our acquisition of Ally.io, a leader in the fast-growing objectives and key results category, adds new tools to help employees drive outcomes, not just output in hybrid work. Avanade, Old Mutual, PayPal, and Toyota North America all chose Viva to help strengthen connections between employees and their mission, between employees and managers, and drive individual empowerment. Across Microsoft 365, we're seeing growth in all segments, including triple-digit year-over-year usage growth of Teams in front line. Coles, one of Australia's largest retailers chose Teams to bring two-way communications to more than 120,000 frontline employees. And Chevron, H&M, Lululemon, and St. Jude all turn to our premium Microsoft 365 E5 offerings for advanced security, compliance, voice, and analytics. Now on to Windows. Earlier this month, we launched Windows 11th, the biggest update to our operating system in a decade. When I step back and reflect on the future of how we work, connect, and play, one thing is clear, the PC will be more critical than ever. There has been a structural shift in PC demand emerging from this pandemic, and we're delighted with the early response to Windows 11. With every new generation of Windows, we also unlock the next generation of hardware innovation across our ecosystem. And together with our OEM partners, we are excited to offer the widest choice of Windows 11 devices at every price point in every form factor this holiday. We are providing people and organizations everywhere with the most differentiated devices for productivity, learning, and gaming. And also have massive opportunity to create a new class of applications that take advantage of the edge and AI capabilities in Windows coupled with cloud. And Windows 11 is also the most open platform. It's pioneering new store commerce models and policies, with both Amazon and Epic Games are bringing their marketplaces to the Microsoft Store. Now on to security. Cybersecurity is the No. 1 threat facing businesses today. Our goal is to help every organization strengthen its defense through the zero trust architecture built on end-to-end solutions that span all clouds and all platforms. We analyze over 24 trillion signals across email, endpoints, and identities each day and translate this intelligence into innovative features to protect our customers. We have prevented more than 70 billion attacks over the past year alone. We now have nearly 650,000 customers using our security solutions, up 50% year over year. And businesses like HCA Healthcare and Siemens switched to our security solutions to protect their endpoints. In identity, Azure Active Directory now has more than 500 million monthly active users and we have seen usage of third-party apps increase 1.5 times year over year. And the future of security is passwordless. Nearly 240 million users have adopted passwordless login to date and consumers can now completely remove passwords from their personal Microsoft accounts. And we're not stopping there. Over the next five years, we'll invest $20 billion to advance our security solutions and protect customers. Now on to gaming. We continue to attract new gamers and retain those we have gained over the past year and a half. We saw record first-quarter monetization and engagement. This holiday season, we'll bring our biggest lineup of content and exclusive games ever, with three new AAA titles including Halo Infinite available via Game Pass subscription service, which continues to offer the best value in gaming. We're also bringing xCloud gaming to the console for the first time, enabling Xbox users to discover the stream, and stream more than 100 games with just a click. Cloud gaming is now available in 26 countries, including, as of this quarter, in Australia, Brazil, Mexico, and Japan. We are expanding our opportunity with independent creators, as well as top studios. Updates to Azure PlayFab make it easier for developers to integrate the creator marketplace in games they built. And leading publishers from Bungie to Krafton are all relying on our cloud to scale and operate their games. In closing, we have the most diversified set of digital businesses, and we are innovating to expand our opportunity across the entire portfolio to help our customers in this new era. Next week, we'll hold our flagship Ignite conference, where we will share the next chapter of Microsoft Cloud from the metaverse to large-scale AI, from hybrid work to hybrid infrastructure. I couldn't be more optimistic about the opportunities ahead. With that, I'll hand it over to Amy.Amy Hood -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Satya, and good afternoon, everyone. Our first-quarter revenue was $45.3 billion, up 22% and 20% in constant currency. Earnings per share was $2.27, and increased 25% and 23% in constant currency when adjusted for a net tax benefit of $3.3 billion related to the transfer of intangible properties this quarter. Our sales teams and partners delivered a strong start to the fiscal year. In our commercial business, customers continue to choose the Microsoft Cloud. We, again, saw healthy growth in our Azure consumption-based business and increased usage across products such as Teams and Power Platform, as Satya reflected in his comments. In our on-premises business, annuity performance in Office and Server benefited from a greater than expected mix of contracts with higher in-period revenue recognition. And in LinkedIn, the talent solutions business continued to benefit from an improved job market. In our consumer business, Windows OEM performance was better than expected in a growing PC market despite ongoing supply chain constraints. We also saw positive demand signals for Windows 11 ahead of launch, with nearly all devices built this quarter eligible for upgrade. Microsoft 365 subscription growth drove Office consumer results. Advertising market growth drove another strong quarter in LinkedIn, as well as search and news advertising. And in gaming, we were able to ship more Xbox Series X and S consoles than expected even as demand continues to exceed supply. Let's move to our overall results. Against the strong prior-year comparable, commercial bookings grew 11% and 14% in constant currency, driven by a consistent execution across new, add-on, and renewal sales motions. This quarter growth was impacted by fewer large long-term Azure contracts, which were unpredictable in their timing. As a result, commercial remaining performance obligation increased 28% and 29% in constant currency to $137 billion with a roughly equivalent split between revenue that we recognized within and the portion beyond the next 12 months. And our annuity mix increased two points year over year to 95%. Microsoft Cloud revenue grew 36% and 34% in constant currency to $20.7 billion, ahead of expectations. Microsoft Cloud's gross margin percentage decreased slightly year over year to 71%. Excluding the impact from a change in accounting estimate for the useful life of server and network equipment assets, Microsoft Cloud's gross margin percentage increased roughly four points, driven by improvement in our cloud services, particularly in Azure and Office 365, partially offset by sales mix shift to Azure. With the weaker U.S. dollar, FX increased total company, productivity and business processes, and intelligent cloud revenue growth by two points, in line with expectations. More personal computing revenue growth was increased by one point from FX, less favorable than expected. FX increased cost by one point, in line with expectations, and had no impact to operating expense, slightly more favorable than expected. Gross margin dollars increased 21% and 19% in constant currency. Gross margin percentage was 70%, down slightly year over year. Excluding the impact of the change in accounting estimate discussed earlier, gross margin percentage increased roughly one point, driven by improvements in cloud services noted earlier, partially offset by sales mix shift to cloud. Operating expense increased 11%, lower than expected, primarily driven by investments that shifted to future quarters. At a total company level, headcount grew 14% year over year as we continue to invest in key areas such as cloud engineering, sales, customer deployment, and gaming. Operating income increased 27% and 24% in constant currency, and operating margins expanded two points year over year to 45%. Excluding the impact of the change in accounting estimate, operating margins expanded roughly four points year over year. Now to our segment results. Revenue from productivity and business processes was $15 billion, and grew 22% and 20% in constant currency, with better-than-expected performance in Office commercial and LinkedIn. Office commercial revenue grew 18% and 16% in constant currency, Office 365 commercial revenue grew 23% and 21% in constant currency, driven by installed-base expansion across all workloads and all customer segments, as well as higher ARPU. Demand for our advanced security, compliance, and voice offerings drove continued momentum in E5 revenue this quarter. Paid Office 365 commercial seats increased 17% year over year, driven by another strong quarter of growth in our small and medium business and frontline worker offerings. Office commercial licensing increased 13% and 14% in constant currency, significantly ahead of expectations, benefiting from the higher in-period revenue recognition noted earlier. Office consumer revenue grew 10% and 8% in constant currency on a strong prior-year comparable, with better-than-expected growth in Microsoft 365 subscriptions. Over the past two years, our Microsoft 365 subscriber base has grown over 50%, reaching $54.1 million this quarter. Dynamics revenue grew 31% and 29% in constant currency. Dynamics 365 revenue growth was 48% and 45% in constant currency, with continued strong demand for Power Apps, which grew 202% and 197% in constant currency. And in LinkedIn, revenue increased 42% and 39% in constant currency, with continued strength in marketing solutions and better-than-expected performance in talent solutions from the improved job market noted earlier. Segment gross margin dollars increased 22% and 20% in constant currency and gross margin percentage increased slightly. Excluding the impact of the change in accounting estimate, gross margin percentage increased roughly two points, driven by improvement across all cloud services. Operating expense increased 7%, and operating income increased 33% and 29% in constant currency. Next, the intelligent cloud segment. Revenue was $17 billion, increasing 31% and 29% in constant currency, ahead of expectations, driven by continued customer demand for our differentiated hybrid and cloud offerings. Overall, server products and cloud services revenue increased 35% and 33% in constant currency. Azure and other cloud services grew 50% and 48% in constant currency, ahead of expectations, driven by our consumption-based services. And our per-user business, the Enterprise Mobility + Security installed base grew 30% to over 196 million seats. In our on-premises business on a low prior-year comparable, revenue increased 14% and 13% in constant currency, ahead of expectations. Strength in our annuity business was driven by healthy demand for our hybrid offerings that include Windows Server and SQL server running in multicloud environments and higher in-period revenue recognition, including benefit from annuity purchasing ahead of the Windows Server 2022 launch. Enterprise services revenue grew 9% and 8% in constant currency, driven by growth in Microsoft Consulting Services and Enterprise Support Services. Segment gross margin dollars increased 28% and 26% in constant currency, and gross margin percentage decreased roughly one point year over year. Excluding the impact of the change in accounting estimates, gross margin percentage increased roughly two points, driven by improvements in Azure, partially offset by sales mix shift to Azure. Operating expense increased 13% and 12% in constant currency and operating income grew 39% and 37% in constant currency. Now to more personal computing. Revenue was $13.3 billion, increasing 12% and 11% in constant currency, with better-than-expected performance in Windows OEM and gaming. Windows OEM revenue increased 10%, driven by a stronger than expected PC market, particularly in the commercial segment, which has higher revenue per license. These results include roughly seven points of impact from the $210 million revenue deferral related to Windows 11 licenses sold to OEMs prior to general availability. The deferral was lower than expected OEMs prioritized upgraded eligible device builds early in the quarter. Windows commercial products and cloud services revenue grew 12% and 10% in constant currency, driven by demand for Microsoft 365. Surface revenue declined 17% and 19% in constant currency on a strong prior-year comparable. Search and news -- advertising revenue ex TAC increased 40% and 39% in constant currency in line with expectations, benefiting from the advertising market noted earlier. And in gaming, revenue increased 16% at 14% in constant currency, ahead of expectations. Better-than-expected console supply, and continued strong demand resulted in Xbox hardware revenue growth of 166% and 162% in constant currency. Xbox content and services revenue increased 2% and was relatively unchanged in constant currency against a strong prior-year comparable. Segment gross margin dollars increased 10% and 8% in constant currency. Gross margin percentage decreased roughly one point year over year, driven by sales mix shift to gaming hardware. Operating expenses increased 15%, driven by the ZeniMax acquisition, as well as Windows 11 marketing. Operating income grew 7% and 5% in constant currency. Now, back to total company results. Capital expenditures, including finance leases were $7.4 billion, in line with expectations, and cash paid for PP&E was $5.8 billion. Our capital investments, including both new data center regions and expansion in existing regions continue to be based on significant customer demand and usage signals. Cash flow from operations was $24.5 billion, increasing 27% year over year, driven by strong cloud billings and collections. Free cash flow was $18.7 billion, up 30% year over year. This quarter, other income and expense was $286 million, higher than anticipated, primarily driven by net gains on investments. As a reminder, we are required to recognize mark-to-market gains or losses on our equity portfolio. Our non-GAAP effective tax rate was approximately 16%. And finally, we returned $10.9 billion to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends. Now, before we turn to our outlook, I'd like to provide a couple of reminders. First, the outlook we give, unless specifically noted otherwise, is on a U.S. dollar basis. Second, my remarks for the next quarter do not include the impact from the Nuance acquisition, which we now expect to close by the end of Q2 or early Q3. With that, let's move to our second-quarter outlook. In our commercial business, our differentiated market position, compelling solution portfolio, and consistent execution should drive another strong quarter. Commercial bookings growth should again be healthy, but impacted by modest growth in the Q2 expiry base and the normal quarterly volatility from large long-term Azure contracts previously discussed. Microsoft Cloud gross margin percentage could decrease roughly two points year over year, excluding the impact of the change in accounting estimate previously discussed. Q2 gross margin percentage will increase roughly two points, driven by continued improvement across our cloud services and site revenue mix shift to Azure. Longer-term, we expect the Microsoft Cloud gross margin percentage to be impacted by revenue mix shift to Azure, increased usage of our Microsoft Cloud services, and ongoing strategic investments to support our customers' success. And on a dollar basis, we expect capital expenditures to be roughly in line with last quarter as we continue to invest to support growing demand. Now the FX. Based on current rates, we expect FX to increase revenue at the total company and all individual segment levels by approximately one point, and have no impact on total COGS or operating expense growth. Next, to segment guidance. In productivity and business processes, we expect revenue between $15.7 and $15.95 billion. In Office commercial, revenue growth will, again, be driven by Office 365 with healthy seat growth across customer segments and continued momentum in E5. In our on-premises business, we expect revenue to decline in the high teens, consistent with the ongoing customer shift to the cloud. In Office consumer, we expect revenue to grow in the mid-teens, with continued momentum in Microsoft 365 consumer subscriptions. For LinkedIn, a strong job market and continued engagement on the platform should drive revenue growth in the mid 30% range. And in Dynamics, we expect revenue growth similar to Q1, driven by strength in Dynamics 365, including continued momentum in Power Apps. For intelligent cloud, we expect revenue between $18.1 billion and $18.35 billion. Revenue will continue to be driven by Azure, which as a reminder, can have quarterly variability, primarily from our per-user business and from in-period revenue recognition depending on the mix of contracts. In Q2, we expect healthy broad-based growth in our Azure consumption business, consistent with recent trends. And our per-user business, while continuing to benefit from Microsoft 365 Suite momentum, should see a moderation in growth rates given the size of the installed base. In our on-premises server business, on a higher prior-year comparable, we expect revenue growth in the mid single digits, driven by continued demand for our hybrid solutions. And in enterprise services, we expect revenue growth to be in the high single digits. In more personal computing, we expect revenue between $16.35 billion and $16.75 billion. Despite ongoing supply chain constraints, OEM revenue should grow low to mid-teens, including six points of impact from the $210 billion Windows 11 deferral that shifted revenue from Q1 to Q2. In Windows commercial products and cloud services, customer demand for Microsoft 365 and our advanced security solutions should drive low double-digit growth. In Surface, we expect revenue to decline single digits as we continue to work through supply chain uncertainty, particularly in our premium devices. In search and news advertising ex TAC, we expect revenue growth in the low- to mid-20s. If supply chain uncertainty reduces advertising budgets, our results would be negatively impacted. And in gaming, on a high prior-year comparable that included the launch of our new consoles and strength across Xbox content and services, we expect revenue growth in the high single digits. Console sales will continue to be impacted by supply chain uncertainty. And in Xbox content services, we expect revenue growth in the mid-teens with strong engagement on the Xbox platform in a holiday quarter that will include several AAA title launches. Now, back to company guidance. We expect COGS of $17 billion to $17.2 billion, and operating expenses of $12.7 billion to $12.8 billion. In other income and expense, interest income and expense should offset each other. And finally, we expect our Q2 effective tax rate to be approximately 17%. In closing, we are off to a strong start in FY '22, with tremendous opportunity to drive sustained long-term revenue growth. We remain focused on growing high-value users across our differentiated Microsoft cloud offerings and delivering exciting new consumer experiences with Windows 11, Surface, and our Xbox gaming platform as we enter the holiday season. Our consistent approach to investing for these and other future opportunities, while continuing to deliver solid operating performance, will drive strong results throughout FY '22 and beyond. Now, Brett, let's go to Q&A.Brett Iversen -- General Manager and Investor Relations Thanks, Amy. We'll now move over to Q&A. Out of respect for others on the call, we request that participants please only ask one question. Operator, can you please repeat your instructions. 