
OperatorGood day and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Charter Third Quarter 2021 Investor Call. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Stefan Anninger. Please go ahead, sir.Stefan Anninger -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



Good morning and welcome to Charter's third quarter 2021 investor call. Presentation that accompanies this call can be found on our website, ir.charter.com, under the Financial Information section.Before we proceed, I would like to remind you that there are a number of risk factors and other cautionary statements contained in our SEC filings, including our most recent 10-K and also our 10-Q filed this morning. We will not review those risk factors and other cautionary statements on this call. However, we encourage you to read them carefully. Various remarks that we make on this call concerning expectations, predictions, plans, and prospects constitute forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ from historical or anticipated results. Any forward-looking statements reflect management's current view only and Charter undertakes no obligation to revise or update such statements or to make additional forward-looking statements in the future.During the course of today's call, we will be referring to non-GAAP measures, as defined and reconciled in our earnings materials. These non-GAAP measures, as defined by Charter, may not be comparable to measures with similar titles used by other companies. Please also note that all growth rates noted on this call and in the presentation are calculated on a year-over-year basis, unless otherwise specified.On today's call, we have Tom Rutledge, Chairman and CEO; Chris Winfrey, our COO; and Jessica Fischer, our CFO.

 



With that, let's turn the call over to Tom.Thomas M. Rutledge -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerGood morning, and thank you, Stefan. We performed well in the third quarter with good customer growth and very strong financial results. However, we're operating in an unusual environment where the market effects of COVID-19 have not yet normalized. Market churn remains historically low such that net gains are being driven by much lower transaction activity. Despite that, for the full quarter, we added 185,000 customer relationships with customer growth of 3.3% year-over-year. We also added 265,000 Internet customers in the quarter and 1.3 million over the last year for a year-over-year growth of 4.4%. We added 244,000 mobile lines and supported by lower churn, and a more tenured customer base, we grew our adjusted EBITDA by a strong 13.9% and our quarterly free cash flow by over $700 million year-over-year.Our view is that, we have a long and robust runway of customer growth ahead of us. Today, our network passes over 54 million homes in businesses and we're doing business with approximately 32 million of them, leaving us with over 20 million opportunities to create new customer relationships. There are also approximately 120 million mobile broadband lines in our footprint and we're currently serving 3.2 million of those. We're currently very under-penetrated.

 



We're looking forward -- looking forward, we remain focused on improving both the quality and value of our products as data usage in the home and outside the home continues to increase at a rapid pace. Earlier this month, we launched our new and highly attractive unlimited multiline pricing structure, which allows customers to save even more on their mobile bills. Early next year, we will launch a field trial, our CBRS small cells in a full market area, allowing participants to attach to our CBS -- CBRS small cell access points when they are outside of WiFi coverage, providing our Spectrum Mobile customers with even faster speeds, while improving the economics of our mobile business.We also continue to deliver improving wireline connectivity products. Today, over 70% of our Internet customers subscribed to tiers that provide 200 megabits or more of speed and our new WiFi 6 routers and Spectrum WiFi Pods, managed by our Advanced Home WiFi platform in our My Spectrum app provide customers with complete home coverage and greater control of their home networks and connected devices. As expected, we continue to see very high demand for data by our customers.During the quarter, non-video Internet customers used over 600 gigabytes per month, stable as of late, but more than 30% higher than pre-pandemic levels. And today, close to 20% of our non-video Internet customers use a terabyte or more of data per month. In order to increase the capacity and speed on our network for next-generation products and services, we've developed a multifaceted approach to our network evolution, comprised of a number of technologies, which will be deployed where they make the most sense strategically and economically, delivering the very fastest speeds and lowest latency at the lowest cost and time to deploy.We continue to expand our capacity by splitting nodes but we have a cost-effective approach to deliver multi-gigabit speeds in the downstream and a gigabit per second symmetrical speeds in both downstream and upstream directions, all using our deployed DOCSIS 3.1 platform and high splits, which are currently being tested in the market, not only allow for increased speeds in the near-term, but are also a capital-efficient way, as they currently use deployed DOCSIS 3.1 customer premises equipment and reduce the need for node splits which require an average consumer bandwidth utilization, which require -- which were required as consumer bandwidth utilization increase. So, what I'm saying there is that, the high split actually uses the capital that was needed for node splits. We also continue to actively develop our DOCSIS 4.0 technology plan architecture and rollout, which allows us to cost effectively and cost efficiently offer greater gigabit speeds in both the downstream and upstream and, of course, we're already using fiber-to-the-home technology in a number of use cases across our footprint, including rural areas such as RDOF build and an MDUs and greenfield build areas where the economics make sense. Ultimately, our plant will be comprised of the most bandwidth-rich and cost-effective technologies, enabling us to deliver the fastest speeds in the industry in a more cost-efficient manner than competitors ubiquitously across 24 million passings and growing. So, with our network and product capabilities, we remain confident in our ability to grow our customers, penetration, EBITDA and free cash flow for many years to come.Before turning the call over to Chris, I want to make a few comments about our recently announced management changes and promotions. On October 19, we announced that John Bickham had been appointed Vice Chairman, ahead of his previously announced retirement at the end of 2022. I've worked with John for three decades and at every turn his knowledge, leadership and steady hand had, not only contributed greatly to the success of the companies we led, but made a profound impact on the growth for our industry. I'm grateful that John will continue to serve Charter in his new capacity as strategic advisor to me and the executive team. We also recently announced that Chris Winfrey had been promoted to Chief Operating Officer. Over the past 11 years, Chris' influence on Charter has expanded far beyond that of a typical CFO. He has been actively involved in all our business operations and that deep knowledge, combined with his previous operational experience in Europe, will serve us well as Charter's next Chief Operating Officer. And John's guidance as Vice Chairman will help ensure a successful transition for Chris into the COO role.As Chris moves to COO, we've also promoted Jessica Fischer, previously Executive Vice President of Finance to Chief Financial Officer. Jessica's leadership and financial expertise has benefited Charter for many years, both in her roles at Charter and while at E&Y, where she was a key advisor during our 2016 transactions. In her new role, Jessica will have an even greater impact on Charter's success.Finally, Rich DiGeronimo, our Chief Product and Technology Officer adds oversight of network and software operations to his current responsibilities, leading the product and technology organization. With expanded responsibility, Rich will both shape the customer experience and lead our networks critical evolution into the 10G future delivering to our customers a superior broadband connectivity experience.Now, I'll turn the call over to Chris.Christopher Winfrey -- Chief Operating OfficerThanks, Tom. I wanted to make a few comments about what we're seeing in the marketplace and briefly discuss our long-term market opportunity. Residential customer activity, particularly churn has taken longer than we expected to return to normal levels. The overall lower level of market churn has reduced sales opportunities available to us. But interestingly, the value of net additions is even higher in this environment. We still maintain good continued customer growth. Given that the start of Q4 feel similar to Q3, we now expect current year Internet net adds to look more like 2018 than 2019 as record low churn of every type has not offset the higher loss of selling opportunities from competitors' churn. That lower overall transaction volume has exposed the high level underlying EBITDA and cash flow growth that is normally masked by even higher unit growth.With fewer new customers than usual, we have a lower mix of customers on promotion, benefiting our customer relationship ARPU. Additionally, the lower sales volume has driven lower expense and capital expenditures associated with sales and installation, lower upfront provisioning cost, and fewer service calls and truck rolls which are more frequent with newer customers. Ultimately, market churn will return, driving more sales opportunities and a return to normal net addition environment for Charter. As that happens, we would expect a reversal of some of the transactional financial benefits I mentioned a moment ago. We thought that would happen by the summer of this year, but it hasn't happened quite yet.Lower transactions have lowered cost and at the same time, our cost per existing customer relationship continues to get better. Our service model drives lower service calls and truck rolls with nearly 100% insourcing of our call centers now, improving tools for our employees, and increasing customer usage of our digital and automated platforms. The service, churn and expense benefits of those initiatives will continue for years. We've also continued to invest in our product, marketing, sales capabilities and our yield for close rate has been growing, albeit on lower sales traffic. And we continue to grow Internet customers across our footprint, regardless of the competitive technology or infrastructure.Earlier this month, we announced a new mobile multiline pricing designed to drive new mobile relationships, more lines per relationship and ultimately, stimulate overall market movement and sales opportunities for all of our products, including Internet. Mobile and wireline broadband are converging into a single connectivity service package and we offer the nation's fastest overall mobile service, combined with our WiFi and best mobile pricing, which offers unlimited service for just $29.99 per line per month when households have two or more lines. An average household served by the big three mobile broadband competitors with two lines in mobile broadband and wireline broadband spends approximately $200 per month on its telecom services. With our pricing and packaging, a spectrum customer can purchase our Internet product and two lines of our unlimited mobile product with faster service for nearly 50% less, and with more lines means more savings. And customers can also combine By the Gig rate plans for $14 per gig with one or more unlimited lines to take advantage of the new $29.99 unlimited line pricing.Today, we have roughly 2 million of our 54 million passings subscribed to this converged connectivity service. So, as Tom mentioned, we have a very long runway for customer and market share growth, created by an ability to save customers hundreds or even thousands of dollars per year with better product capabilities and service.As Tom mentioned, Jessica has been promoted to CFO, I had the opportunity to work with Jessica for over 10 years. Five years while she was partner at E&Y advising us, including on the structure of the Time Warner Cable and Bright House transactions. In the past five years, she's been at Charter, she has steadily grown her responsibilities from initially overseeing tax and treasury to adding procurement, internal audit, Investor Relations, and acquisitions, and capital markets activities, all of which has prepared her to take over the CFO role.Now, I'll turn the call over to Jessica to cover our Q3 results in more detail.Jessica Fischer -- Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Chris. Now, let's turn to our results on Slide 5. We will continue to reference the COVID schedules we provided last year and included again on Slide 17 and 18 of today's presentation to help with year-over-year financial comparisons. We grew total residential and SMB customer relationships by 185,000 in the third quarter and by 1 million in the last 12 months. Including residential and SMB, we grew our Internet customers by 265,000 in the quarter and by 1.3 million or 4.4% over the last 12 months. Video declined by 121,000 in the third quarter, wireline voice declined by 216,000 and we added 244,000 mobile lines in the quarter. As of the end of the quarter, we had 3.2 million mobile lines. Despite the lower number of selling opportunities from cable sales, we continue to drive mobile growth with our high-quality, attractively priced service rather than using device subsidies.Moving to our financial results starting on Slide 6. Over the last year, we grew total residential customers by over 900,000 or 3.2%. Residential revenue per customer relationship increased by 5.6% year-over-year, given last year's third quarter, residential revenue adjustment of $218 million for sports network credits that we provided to video customers, as well as promotional rate step-ups. Video rate adjustments that pass through programmer rate increases and a greater mix of longer-tenured customers. Those were partially offset by the same bundle and mix trends we have seen over the past year, including a higher mix of non-video customers and a higher mix of choice, essentials and stream customers within our video base. Keep in mind, that our residential ARPU does not reflect any mobile revenue. As Slide 6 shows, residential revenue grew by 9.4% year-over-year, reflecting customer relationship growth in last year's COVID impacts.Turning to commercial, SMB revenue grew by 7.5%. This growth rate reflects COVID-related impacts of $11 million that negatively impacted the third quarter of 2020. Excluding this impact from last year, SMB revenue grew by 6.3% faster than the second quarter growth when making the same COVID-related adjustments. Enterprise revenue was up 6.4% year-over-year, and included some one-time fees which were a benefit in this quarter. Excluding the benefit from this year, enterprise revenue grew by 3.8% and by 6.5% when additionally excluding all wholesale revenue. Enterprise PSUs grew by 4.5% year-over-year.Third quarter advertising revenue declined 15.1% year-over-year, primarily due to less political revenue in 2021, partially offset by COVID impacts last year. When compared to the third quarter of 2019, advertising revenue declined by 0.8%, primarily due to local ad revenue, particularly auto, mostly offset by our growing advanced advertising capabilities. Excluding auto, the third quarter advertising grew by 8% over the third quarter of 2019. Mobile revenue totaled $535 million with $201 million of that revenue being device revenue and other revenue grew by 6.5% year-over-year. In total, consolidated third quarter revenue was up 9.2% year-over-year.Moving to operating expenses on Slide 7. In Q3, total operating expenses grew by $460 million or 6.2% year-over-year. Similar to revenue, the year-over-year operating expense growth rate is elevated due to 2020 COVID effects, programming increased 9.4% year-over-year due to last year's third quarter benefit of $163 million related to sports network rebates and higher programming rates. These factors were partially offset by a higher mix of lighter video packages such as choice, essentials and stream. Regulatory, connectivity and produced content grew by 3.5%, primarily driven by higher regulatory and franchise fees and video CPE sold to customers.Cost to service customers were essentially flat year-over-year compared to 3.3% customer relationship growth. Excluding bad debt, cost to service customers declined by 2.8% year-over-year and that's despite a higher number of customers and outsized hourly wage increases that we put through earlier this year. Bad debt was higher by $47 million year-over-year, but still nearly $75 million lower when compared to the third quarter of 2019.Marketing expenses were also flat year-over-year, primarily driven by the lower sales environment. Mobile expenses totaled $607 million and were comprised of mobile device costs tied to device revenue, customer acquisition and service and operating costs. And other expenses grew by 3.8%, driven primarily by higher corporate costs, partially offset by lower advertising sales expense year-over-year given the absence of political revenue this year. Adjusted EBITDA grew by 13.9% in the quarter.Turning to net income on Slide 8, we generated $1.2 billion of net income attributable to Charter shareholders in the third quarter versus $814 million last year. The year-over-year increase was driven by higher adjusted EBITDA.Turning to Slide 9, capital expenditures totaled $1.9 billion in the third quarter, below last year's third quarter spend of $2 billion, driven by lower scalable infrastructure spend, primarily due to a stabilized level of network traffic growth and investments made earlier this year, a decrease in line extension spend driven by housing build delays due to supply chain constraints in the housing industry and lower support capital primarily due to timing. We spent a $119 million on mobile-related capex this quarter, which is mostly accounted for in support capital and was driven by investments in back office systems and mobiles to our build-out. For the full-year 2021, we expect cable capital expenditures to be relatively consistent as a percentage of cable revenue versus 2020.As Slide 10 shows, we generated nearly $2.5 billion of consolidated free cash flow this quarter, an increase of $722 million or 41.2% year-over-year. We finished the quarter with $87.9 billion in debt principal. Our current run rate annualized cash interest, pro forma for financing activity completed in October is $4.1 billion. As of the end of the third quarter, our net debt to last 12-month adjusted EBITDA was 4.32 times. We intend to stay at or just below the high end of our 4 times to 4.5 times leverage range. During the quarter, we repurchased 5.3 million Charter shares and Charter Holdings common units, totaling about $4 billion at an average price of $753 per share. Year-to-date, we purchased $12 billion of our stock and common units and since September of 2016, we have repurchased $51.4 billion or 37.5% of Charter's equity at an average price of $436 per share.Our results show that even in this unusual environment, our flexible and robust business and service model which benefits economically from lower customer transaction activity still drive outstanding EBITDA and free cash flow. Coupling that with our unique balance sheet structure and a proven capital allocation strategy, we will continue to produce shareholder value for years to come.Operator, we're now ready for Q&A.