
OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Freeport-McMoRan Third Quarter Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to Ms. Kathleen Quirk, President and Chief Financial Officer. Please go ahead ma'am.Kathleen L. Quirk -- President and Chief Financial OfficerGreat, thank you. And good morning everyone. And welcome to the Freeport McMoran conference call. Earlier this morning we reported our third quarter 2021 operating and financial results and a copy of today's press release and the slides are available on our website at FCX.com. Our conference call today is being broadcast live on the Internet and anyone may listen to the call by accessing our website homepage and clicking on the webcast link for the conference call. In addition to analysts and investors, the financial press has been invited to listen to today's call and a replay of the webcast will be available on our website later today.

 



Before we begin our comments, we'd like to remind everyone that today's press release and certain of our comments on the call include forward-looking statements and actual results may differ materially. We'd like to refer everyone to the cautionary language included in our press release and presentation materials and to the risk factors described in FCX's SEC filings.On the call with me today are Richard Adkerson, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Mark Johnson, our COO of Indonesia; Josh Olmsted, our Chief Operating Officer for the Americas; Steve Higgins, our Chief Administrative Officer; Rick Coleman, who runs our engineering and construction business; and Mike Kendrick, who runs our Molybdenum business.I'll start by briefly summarizing our financial results and then we'll turn the call over to Richard who will go through the materials in our slide presentation materials. After our formal remarks, we'll take your questions.Today, FCX reported third quarter 2021 net income attributable to common stock of $1.4 billion that was $0.94 per share and adjusted net income attributable to common stock of $1.3 billion or $0.89 per share. The $0.89 per share excludes net credits totaling $0.05 a share primarily associated with tax credits related to the release valuation allowances at PT Freeport Indonesia and a gain on the sale of FCX's remaining cobalt business. The details of our adjusted net income are reflected in our press release on page VII. We generated adjusted EBITDA for the third quarter of roughly $3 billion and we've got a reconciliation of the EBITDA on page 37 of our slide deck.

 



Favorable results in the third quarter reflects strong execution by our team growing our production volume safely, efficiently and responsibly. Our sales volumes for the quarter for copper exceeded 1 billion pounds that approximated our prior estimate in July of 2021 and was above the year ago period. Gold sales of 400,000 ounces for approximately 12% higher than our prior estimate and also significantly above the year ago period. We also benefited from positive pricing for copper. Our third quarter, average realized copper price was 4.20 per pound. That was substantially above the year ago period. And gold prices were slightly below the year-ago period. We also benefited from improved molybdenum prices in the quarter where prices nearly doubled from the year ago period. Net unit cash costs were $1.24 per pound in the third quarter. That was lower than our estimate going into the period and we had some good performance from our leach production, which reduced our unit production costs in the period. We generated strong cash flows, and we've been doing that every quarter this year, generating $2 billion of operating cash flow, which exceeded capital spending of roughly 500 million during the quarter. Our balance sheet is strong. We ended the quarter with consolidated debt of 9.7 billion and consolidated cash of 7.7 billion, which resulted in net debt of $2 billion. We had no borrowings under our credit facility and have $3.5 billion available. We also announced today some liability management where we called for redemption, our outstanding notes due 2022, that has a total principal amount of $524 million.I'd now like to turn the call over to Richard who will be referring to the slide presentation materials. Richard, go ahead.Richard C. Adkerson -- Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive OfficerThanks everyone. Thank you for joining our call. Really pleased to be able to review our strong performance for this quarter, where we are with the company. It's a special time. Several years ago on a call I said, if we could be fortunate enough to ramp up our underground production at Grasberg, at the same time, we had a positive copper market, it would be a great time for Freeport. And this is really a great time for us. We're going to focus on the future but just one comment. I was last at the job site two years ago in October and we were just completing the mining of the open pit and starting to ramp up of the Grasberg Block Cave. And so, during this two-year period, our progress has been nothing short of remarkable. And I really congratulate our team at job site, but also in the Americas for what we've been able to accomplish, even in the face of all the distractions and challenges that COVID brought on.

 



I hope you and all your families and your colleagues are staying healthy. This thing is not over. We're keeping our guards up. I encourage you to as well. We have, at Freeport, had a successful program to give vaccines to our people internationally. Over 90% of our people in South America are not vaccinated, and 85% in pipeline and Indonesia are vaccinated. We continue to be challenged as some of our operations in the United States, which is common across our country unfortunately, but we are encouraging our people and making some progress there. But the news is, we've been able to meet the challenge of COVID and accomplish what we're reporting to you today.Our copper volumes have grown over 20% from a year ago, and that reflects this really exceptional execution of our business. With these prices that we have today, we're generating very strong margin. Our EBITDA doubled from a year ago. Our strong operating cash flows that Kathleen mentioned in the quarter are really exceptional, and particularly when you looked at our capital expenditures were only $500 million. Now this is generating cash flows to -- now that we've met our debt target and we met that at the end of June, way ahead of what we'd anticipated at the beginning of the year. We're now focused on managing these cash flows. And that's a happy time for us; looking at investments for our long-term future. At the same time, we've been able to increase returns to shareholders and maintain a really strong balance sheet, which is going to be real hallmark of our Company going forward.Everybody is focused on carbon reduction and climate initiatives. We've got 26 coming up next month. It's going to be all over the papers. We published our second report on our climate initiatives. We've put a lot more resources into it. We're really focused on it. As a company compared with other natural resource companies, we have much limited scope three emissions and other natural resources. And we're really focused on our Scope one and two emissions, and have a plan to achieve targets that we believe are realistic and achievable. We and the other 28 members of ICMM, International Council Mining and Metals, which our chair have signed a commitment to work toward having zero net carbon emissions by 2050, and everybody is working hard on it. We're also continuing to make progress to certify all of our operations with the International Copper Association's copper mark. And this just clearly demonstrates our commitment to responsible production.You recall that I became Chairman earlier this year. And when that occurred, I made a real commitment to build the kind of Board that the company like ours really needs and deserves. We've added four new members in 2021. We added to this quarter; Marcela E. Donadio and Sara Grootwassink Lewis. That brings us to a total of eight independent directors which have a broad range of experience, and it's going to be a real strength of our company going forward. Underlying all of this is the fundamental outlook for copper is incredibly favorable; copper's role in the economy. And as the economy changes with global investments in infrastructure, and I know we have a controversy here, but countries around the world are going to build infrastructure. Less developed countries are going to develop. The world is getting increasingly focused on electrification with modern technology, 5G, and artificial intelligence.And then, a new major element that people are talking about and recognizing now for demand that's coming. It's not here in real significance now is all of the investments that people are going to be making to reduce carbon. And across the board, those investments are results in significant demands for copper. And then, you got, we'll talk about this more, the commodity really supported by supply factors. I mentioned our Climate Report reported in September. It's on our website. I encourage you all to take a look at it. It really details work in a much more comprehensive way than we did in our first report last year about how our company will work to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and how we are approaching climate scenario analysis and we're reporting in line with recommendations of the task force on climate related financial disclosures. We are, as a company and as an organization, firmly committed to this. We see it in our everyday lives with the forest fires in our operations in the West and hurricanes on the Gulf Coast-weather patterns all around the world. We all know we need to do this and we are committed to do our part for our company.And as I said, as the rest of the world, the rest of industry focuses on this, it's going to create a lot of copper demand. Although, we established our target to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions in Indonesia, about 30%, which is a new target for us. We have this aspirational goal of net zero by 2050. Our two big issues are; one, the coal power plant in Indonesia, a lot of power required for our massive operations there. We're now investing in dual fuel powered plant there. We're looking to a future of power being generated by bio diesel, initially natural gas. We're looking at hydropower opportunity. So, we are working on that.And then, the other major issue is how to convert our big haul truck fleet; massive trucks, diesel driven. They've had to work with our suppliers and others in the industry to convert that to electrical power or hydrogen powered vehicles. We'll hear a lot more about this in the week. Just know that our company is committed to it, to deal to deal with our own emissions, and to work with industry and communities in general to meet the things we need to move with climate change. Copper is essential to that. It's a strategic metal in many respects for the future. The world is getting increasingly electrified and more than 65% of the world's copper is used to deliver electricity. And when you look at electric vehicles charging stations, clean power from wind, solar, all of these require significantly more copper too operate then the way that things are currently done now. And so, it's up it's a challenging time for us and we're serious about this challenge, but it is also a great opportunity for us as a responsible global copper producer. So, we got these rising demand and supply is a real issue for this industry. Even today, with the economic uncertainties in China and globally, copper inventories are remarkably low. [Indecipherable] recently hit a 47-year low. Shanghai's lower then it's been since 2009. And while there will be some new projects that were started four years to five years ago, delayed by COVID, coming on stream in the next couple of years, that will bring some new copper to the market. Beyond that, the cupboard is pretty empty in terms of new supply projects of any significance.And the world today, the opportunities are smaller. They're more difficult to develop and produce. Permitting still requires a very long period of time. And so, the industry really, one, has an issue with meeting the demand with supply and that's going to require action across a lot of fronts; more scrap, some substitution. But copper as a commodity is so much better than any alternatives that in whichever environment you can envision for the world going forward, absent some doomsday situation in the global economy, it's just in a situation of where copper prices have to be strong in my view, stronger than they are today.Turning to slide 7. What this means for our company is with all the work we've done today in preparing our business in building our assets, we're going to have really significant margins and cash flow. Six years ago our company was facing real challenges and we worked our way through that very successfully. As we were working so hard and facing, dealing with some real tough problems, and dealing with it on a sustainable debt level at that time, we all looked at ourselves and talked about the assets that we had in our company, the long-term assets, the quality of the team, our track record, our capabilities, and that's really what inspired us all the work so hard to get to where we are today.Copper volumes are 20%. Gold volumes are 50% higher than they were a year ago, and they'll be growing another 15% to 20% next year. It's a great feeling as we were ending the quarter and looking at September, in particularly, to recognize that the capital and execution risk to achieve these higher volumes, which we've been pointing to for a very long period of time, that those risks are behind us. The higher volumes are coming with low incremental cost. And copper prices from $45, we would generate annual EBITDA for the next couple of years on the order of $12.5 billion to $17 billion per year. And our capital expenditures, and we have a new project that we'll be talking about in Indonesia. Including that, our capital expenditures will range on the order of $2 billion to $2.5 billion dollars a year. So that means we are where we wanted to be, where we targeted to be, where we thought we would be. But the important part is, now we've done it. We're just not pointing to it.And slide 8 shows that is ramp-up of the Grasberg mine. And that was -- this slide looks like this was really a straightforward, easy to accomplish deal. There are challenges every day out there. This is the most complicated mine in the world when it was open pit mine. And now, in the industries historically and historic large underground mine, it is truly remarkable.The third quarter was 90% of our target annualized rate. We were at target in September. We're now on track to reach full rates metal production by the end of the year. Our team in Indonesia just needs to be congratulated and recognized for meeting all these targets. And it was strategically so important for us. And it was a real matter of concern back in March of 2020 when we had COVID facing us. Looks easy on paper, but man it's a challenge every day. And I had a great meeting with our team in advance of this call and the excitement, morale and so forth is just exceptional. It's really something special for our company and we now look forward to taking the steps that we need to take to sustain this for the life of this robot [Phonetic]. We're beginning to talk with the government and getting positive initial responses about extending our operating right beyond 2041, because of the ramp up, the limit of the operating rights, we haven't done much exploratory drilling, extension type core drilling. Our feeling and our confidence is there's a lot more resources beyond what we're developing there and we're explaining that to the government. As I said, initial reactions are positive. And I'm confident that we will not be facing an end to this operation in 2041. That makes no sense for any stakeholder. We need to look at it, to take advantage of the long-term resources available to us.Slide 9 talks about our growth of our company. The real strength of Freeport is its large reserve base, 30 years to 35 years life in its proved and probable reserves, which gives us a sustainable ability of our operations for a very long period of time. And beyond that we have resources that are even larger than our reserves that are brownfield resources, which is really important in the Americas because that means that we are not trying to permit, getting community approval to build new mines. We have great support for our communities. We've involved them. We share our benefits with them. And so, as a result, we have these multiple options for long-term brownfield low-risk growth. And I'm really encouraged by the opportunities we have in United States where we have great community support. You have the benefit of strong communities and supporting schools, hospitals, education, great workforce, great community. We pay our people really well. We make sure they have living wages. We're sensitive to them. So, here we see, across the board, Bagdad in Northwest Arizona; long-reserve life, through a concentrated project, we can double production.Lone Star, you're going to hear a lot about Lone Star in Freeport's future. This resource has a long-term opportunity to be a flagship asset. It's just across the ridge from Morenci, the largest mine in North America. We honestly believe this can be another long-term Morenci. And it's got -- right now, we're having real success with our, the new oxide mine we started this past year. It's expanding. It's got further expansions. We're able to make it economic by using available production facilities at our nearby Stafford mine that is winding down. And then, processing this oxide is really a stripping operation for this enormous sulfide deposit.We have a great project in Chile, at our El Abra mine, where we're partners with CODELCO. This is a mine that we have a sulfide leaching project going on now. There is a big sulfide resource there. It would be a big price capital project to build a mill desalination plant. We're looking at a number of alternatives there. Chile is going through a process of the government, the people assessing how they're going to tax and what the fiscal regime is going to be for mining projects. We are going to wait to see how that plays out before making any investment decision. But in the meantime, we're getting prepared working communities, working with -- preparing for permitting and so forth. This will be a project that the world will ultimately need going forward. We've got a lead [Phonetic] project that's not very big in Europe at our Atlantic Copper smelter where we are going to be recycling electronic equipment. This responds to people wanting to see this sort of thing happening. It's a way of generating some copper without carbon emissions of significance and investments. And so, we're looking for that. We're looking at other opportunities like that.And then, this Kucing Liar in Indonesia is really special. It is -- I was actually out there in the '90s when as we were driving the Amoli [Phonetic] drift, which was a dewatering drift going underneath the Grasberg open pit. As we were driving in the pit, we found this ore body. The engineers gave our geologists a hard time about it because they literally pierced this ore body that we had not seen previously that lies really to the south flank of the Grasberg pit. And we've been working on getting the right mine plan, the timing for it in the context of -- and if you turn to slide 10, you can see where it's located. It's an ore body that's in separate mineralization zone from our DOZ, Deep MLZ, and the Grasberg pit, it's a long fault line. It may have resources at depth. It has some complicated geology and mineralogy but it's a big mine. I mean it's 90,000 tons a day from a Block Cave, you only think of that as not being a huge mine because it's next to the Grasberg Block Cave. But it's like 60% size of Deep MLZ, 40% the size of Grasberg Block Cave, 350 million tons of ore, good copper and gold grades. 90,000 tons a day from a Block Cave, that's big by global standards. And it's going to occur over a number of years. It will help sustain our high level of low-cost production out of Grasberg; 500 million pounds of copper a year, 500,000 ounces of gold when it's ramped up in 2030. Capital expenditure is going to be spent over a number of years, use existing infrastructure. Just ask your gold analysis how they'd feel if gold companies were to announce that the gold mine and it was $500,000 a year and 500 million pounds of copper a year. This is a significant opportunity for us.12, I mentioned Lone Star. You can see how we're ramping up the oxides. We've got 250 reserves of about 5.5 billion pounds. The real price here is sulfide underlying it. We've done some drilling to identify it. We're doing preliminary plans of how to process it and so forth. Metal potential of 50 billion pounds. 50 billion pounds. This is a long-term opportunity, but we're a long-term company. And this is going to be a flagship opportunity for us going forward.Another area that's emerging and our guys on this call are really exciting about it is new opportunities to apply technology leaching. Now, [Technical Issue] guides and Freeport's predecessors were long leaders in leaching, going back to the very starting of, I'd say, CW leaching. The opportunities globally for traditional XSCW leaching are diminishing because they've been accessed and taken advantage of it. But this opens up a whole new realm of opportunities for us to add production with limited capital and low carbon emissions. This will range from looking at a series of additives and approaches for existing leach stacks which would allow us to recover more from those. We're also really getting excited by using this data analytics efforts that we started several years ago, to apply those weak [Phonetic] stacks and know more about what we're doing, what are the consequences of taking certain actions. So, it's a combination of things.There are several alternatives we're looking at. The opportunity is really significant. Our guys estimate we have almost 40 billion pounds of copper in our existing stockpiles. This is not -- this is our demand. It's not in reserves and resources in any production plant. We can record -- if we can cover just a piece of this, it's the size of a new mine; low capital, low operating costs, low carbon footprint. A lot of this is in Morenci but there are other places. And it could even apply to some old historical mines that have whole leach stacks that we can use it for.It's an emerging thing, but we are excited about it. And our company is particularly well situated to take advantage of that because of the history that we've had with these older mines and what this could mean for it. So this is a stay tuned deal. We're not building in our plans yet. But it's like a development project; low capital, low cost, low carbon. So it's really good. So, listen, we're just feeling great about Freeport. I mean, we've been to the wards together.Our team is -- we're adding some really new resources to our team despite COVID. We're bringing in support. We've got young people in our organization stepping up to leadership positions. You know it's a dynamic company. It's remarkable that through all the trials and tribulations we went through, we had very limited numbers of people to leave us. Our people look at each other and we're inspired by each other and it's just great. Strong cash flows. We are going to be responsible. We have this great track record of doing all of this. If you look at our success we've had in development projects all around the world, different kinds of mining, different kinds of processing technology. Market outlook is great. We've got these organic growth opportunities. And really as a shareholder myself, the prospects of seeing returns on those shareholders coming of significance is just a great feeling.So, I hope you can sense how we are feeling about our company and our outlook. And really appreciate your interest. And I'm going to turn it over to Kathleen before we open it up for questions.Kathleen L. Quirk -- President and Chief Financial OfficerAll right, great. Thank you, Richard. I'm just going to cover some brief comments on financial and operating matters, and then we'll open up for questions. And just really starting on Slide 16, we provide some additional details on our operating activities. Richard mentioned Lone Star and the performance there has been really strong. Our operations are exceeding our design capacity, which was originally 200 million pounds. We're seeing that now by 25%. And we're continuing to optimize and planning for the next increment of production from oxides as we study the longer-term opportunities.Richard mentioned the leach work that we're doing. It's a major focus at Morenci. We have a big effort underway to enhance recoveries and we're deploying a variety of initiatives. Some of these have already produced results and that did enable us to increase expected recovery from some of our leach material in the third quarter. And what this does is it gets us small volumes, but also allows us to reduce unit costs; having a bigger pool to spread costs over. So that's a really positive thing and more to come there. We've incorporated some of this into our plans but we're optimistic that additional copper pounds can be added as we go forward.At Morenci, we're continuing to work to increase mining rates. We're targeting getting up to 900,000 tons of material per day in 2023. That's a major undertaking. 30% higher than where we were in 2020. As we reported, we've started restarted the historic Morenci mill, which had been idled since the first half of 2020 and that's proceeding. We started the mill in the third quarter. We did experience some delays, but those are largely behind us. We also had, probably a lot of you've seen, the weather conditions in the Southwest that we experienced this summer. We did experience severe wet weather and some power issues during monsoon season. And we always have monsoon season, but this year was more severe than normal and that did impact some of our operations in the third quarter. And again, that's behind us as well.I want to just echo what Richard said about our team in South America. The Cerro Verde team has overcome significant challenges in dealing with the pandemic. We've been operating at about 95% of capacity over the last several months and that's in the face of still restrictions on movement around Arequipa and our team just does great work in managing this and being creative about how to manage it safely.We are optimistic that as we look forward to this 2022, many of the government restrictions can be lifted safely and we can return to a more normal operating environment there and achieve higher rates at Cerro Verde. El Abra mine in Chile is making great progress. We're increasing the stacking rate of material where we're storing production that we had curtailed during 2020. And we're focused on sustaining a level of production at El Abra in the 200 million to 250 million pounds per year range as we look to potentially expand that as we go forward.Richard talked about the terrific results at Grasberg. The team there is just continuing to deliver results quarter after quarter. We expect to be at our quarterly run rate for metal, beginning here in the fourth quarter. And for the next several quarters, we project the mill will run at about 175,000 tonnes per day until 2023 when we install the new SAG mill, which is currently under construction, and that will support higher rates as we continue to ramp up the Grasberg Block Cave and the Deep MLZ, and then make room for the Kucing Liar project that Richard mentioned.A lot of talk right now about inflation. Our team is really focused on cost management and efficiency projects. We're focused on extending equipment lives, ways to improve our energy efficiency, ways to efficiently implement maintenance practices, and really use technology in all pf this. We have, like everyone else, experienced some cost increases. Those have really principally been associated with the energy price increases. To a lesser extent, we've had some other impacts on our consumables; the impact of steel prices on some of our consumables. We've had higher sulfuric acid costs, freight costs. But we really want to send appreciation to our global supply chain team. They're doing excellent work in keeping our operations stock with critical supplies and managing in these uncertain times. And they've just done an outstanding job in keeping our business continuity going. I will note that we have seen very strong prices in molybdenum and those have more than offset some of these inflationary pressures we've had on the cost side.Turning to the smelter on Slide 17, we provide an update of our activities with the greenfield smelter we're developing in East Java and the work we're doing with our partner at PT Smelting to expand the facility there. We're focused on completing this project as efficiently and timely as possible. We're advancing in the engineering and commercial arrangements and we've commenced preparing the land for construction. You probably have seen press reports that the President of Indonesia recently visited the site in a ground breaking ceremony, and this indicates the significance of this project to the country.We've got a $1 billion bank credit facility in place for PT-FI to use to advance the projects. And we are going to plan additional debt financing for the project which can be obtained at attractive rates to fund the project long term. As we previously have discussed, the long-term cost of the financing for the smelter would essentially be offset by a phaseout of the 5% export duty, so the economic impact to PT-FI is not material. And this is a project that has shared 51% by our shareholder-- PT-FI shareholder MIND ID in the balance of FCX.Turning to our volumes, and Richard talked about the growth in volumes. We've had great success in execution. We've got our three-year outlook listed on slide 18. And this is generally consistent with our previous guidance. We made some relatively minor adjustments to the fourth quarter of 2021, but you'll see here that the execution of our plan is on track. We'll show on slide 19 the strong cash flow generation of this business. We've got very significant free cash flows using our volume and cost estimates and prices ranging from $4 to $5 copper, holding gold flat at $1800 and molybdenum at current prices around $19 per pound. The real growth in our volumes, with low incremental costs, show EBITDA ranging from $12.5 billion per annum on average for 2022 and 2023 at $4 copper and $17 billion at $5 copper as Richard has mentioned.And operating cash flows, and this is net of tax, ranges from $9 billion to over $12 billion, which provides significant cash flows, not only to invest in our business and fund programs, grow our business, but also increase capital returns to investors.Our capital spending plans are detailed on the next slide, Slide 20. You'll see here that we reduced our outlook for 2021 for capital spending from $2.2 billion previously $2.2 billion and that excludes the smelter investment. But that reflects really timing. We've had really a timing issue in getting these projects going. And so, some of that has fallen over into 2022. We've also added the -- in our forecast plans to commence development of the Kucing Liar ore body that Richard mentioned previously. So you're talking about $9 billion to $12 billion of operating cash flows and capex below $3 billion, very strong free cash flow. We've got growing volumes, strong markets, low capital requirements. And that's really allowed us, just over the past 12 months, to reduce our debt, our net debt by nearly $6 billion. And so, we're down now to $2 billion in net debt. I know some of you remember a time when it was multiples of this. And so, we're in a great situation from a balance sheet standpoint. Our credit metrics are extremely strong and it positions us well as we go forward to invest in future growth and increase our payouts to shareholders.The last slide, 22, refers to our financial policy. It is centered around our strong balance sheet. The combination of the strong balance sheet and the success in growing our volumes will put us in a strong position. Our Board had established earlier this year a policy that provides for up to 50% of free cash flow to be used for shareholder returns with the balance available for growth and further balance sheet improvements. We look forward to -- with the achievement of our net debt targets, we look forward to the implementation of this policy. We expect our Board will determine the structure and size of additional payouts to shareholders with our annual results and this will be something that we update and it gets reviewed periodically.So, that concludes our remarks. We look forward to reporting our progress and continuing to build on our momentum as we go forward. And operator, we'd now like to turn the call over for questions.