  OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. My name is Brent, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the SVB Financial Group Q4 2021 earnings call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session [Operator instructions] It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Meghan O'Leary, head of investor relations. Ma'am, please go ahead.Meghan O'Leary -- Head of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Brent, and thank you, everyone, for joining us today. Our president and CEO, Greg Becker; and our CFO, Dan Beck, are here and will be joined by other members of our management team for Q&A regarding our fourth quarter and full-year 2021 financial results. We'll be making forward-looking statements during this call, and actual results may differ materially. We encourage you to review the disclaimer in our earnings release dealing with forward-looking information, which applies equally to statements made in this call. In addition, some of our discussion may include references to non-GAAP financial measures. Information about those measures, including reconciliation to GAAP measures, may be found in our SEC filings, specifically our financial release and slide deck. And now I will turn the call over to our president and CEO, Greg Becker.Greg Becker -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Meghan, and thank all of you for joining us today. We're pleased to be reporting another quarter of strong growth and profitability. Our core business continues to fire on all cylinders with a growing balance sheet, healthy net interest income in spite of NIM pressure, robust fee income, and excellent credit quality. While warrants and investment gains moderated from record levels in Q3, we see continued strength across our entire business.

 



 We are reiterating our strong 2022 outlook and raising our expectations for loan growth and net interest income. In addition, our outlook does not include the significant positive impact of future short-term rate increases, which seem increasingly likely. We filed our earnings materials earlier this afternoon, and they are available on the Investor Relations section of our website. And with that, I'll ask the operator to open up the lines and turn it over for questions. Thank you. 