
OperatorGood morning and welcome to Otis Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. This call is being carried live on the Internet and recorded for replay. Presentation materials are available for download from Otis website at www.otis.com.I'll now turn the call over to Michael Rednor, Senior Director of Investor Relations.Michael Rednor -- Senior Director, Investor RelationsThank you, Angie. Welcome to Otis' second quarter 2021 earnings conference call. On the call with me today are Judy Marks, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Rahul Ghai, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.Please note, except where otherwise noted, the Company will speak to results from continuing operations, excluding restructuring and significant non-recurring items. The Company will also refer to adjusted results where adjustments were made as though Otis was a stand-alone Company in the current period and prior year. A reconciliation of these measures can be found in the appendix of the webcast.We also remind listeners that the presentation contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to risks and uncertainties. Otis' SEC filings, including our Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, provide details on important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially.With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Judy.Judith F. Marks -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Mike, and thank you, everyone, for joining us. We hope that everyone listening is safe and well.Before we get into the quarter, I'd like to congratulate Mike on his new role leading Investor Relations and thank Stacy for all the great work getting us to this point. We look forward to seeing you both excel in your new positions.Otis delivered an excellent second quarter closing out a strong first half. This included mid-teens organic sales growth, demonstrating the resiliency of our colleagues and business, and our ability to execute on our long-term strategy. Overall, demand in the New Equipment segment was strong. We gained about 1 point of New Equipment share with orders up approximately 24% in a market that was up low-teens. New Equipment orders grew in all regions and were particularly strong in the Americas, up nearly 50% with an over 4 times increase in major project bookings versus the prior year. These orders will support customer projects throughout North America. For example, in Canada, Otis secured an order to outfit a luxury high rise condominium building in the M City community with several elevators, including custom cab interiors that fit the buildings' upscale design.Moving to Service. We grew sales in all lines of business, including repair and modernization. Modernization demand was strong with orders up mid-teens versus the prior year. This includes another Otis partnership with Silverstein Properties in the Americas, where we will modernize more than 40 elevators in the U.S. Bank Tower in Los Angeles and integrate Compass 360 and Otis' eCall app to allow for more seamless customer and tenant access to the building services. The demonstrated strength of the maintenance business continued and we achieved 3% growth year-over-year on our industry-leading service portfolio, a key goal we set for ourselves entering this year. We drove profit growth and margin expansion in both segments, largely from the benefit of higher volume, as New Equipment and Service organic sales grew about 25% and 8%, respectively.Since spin, our consistent performance reflects the power of our strategy and its implementation. I hope many of you were able to join us for Welcome to Tomorrow, where we shared our Gen3 and Gen360 highly innovative platforms that meet the current and future needs of our customers in an increasingly connected world. Gen3 built upon the proven flat-belt technology of Otis' best-selling Gen2 platform, while adding built-in Otis ONE IoT connectivity and a variety of options, such as eCall, eView, Compass dispatching systems, health solutions and updated aesthetics. APIs allows us to access and leverage data with analytics that drive value for our customers. Upon release, Otis secured an order for more than 100 Gen3 elevators for a new residential project in the Jilin province in northeast China.In EMEA, after successful pilots in several countries, Otis officially launched Gen360, a next-generation digitally native platform that includes all the features of the Gen3 elevator built around an all new electronic architecture in a more compact design. Gen360 is enabled with IoT capabilities and online tools, a connected passenger experience, and additional safety features to help limit entrapments and enable maintenance from inside the elevator cab.In France, Otis was selected to outfit a future aquatic center in the Paris suburbs with the Gen360 ecosystem. In addition to its many digital, safety and passenger benefits, this platform has a decisive advantage. For the first time, we can eliminate the need to accommodate hoistway projection onto the roof, avoiding interfering with the buildings' architectural lines, a feature desirable to architects and building owners.All of this strong first half performance, including robust free cash flow generation in excess of 150% of net income, enables us to return additional cash to shareholders. In the second quarter, we completed the previously planned $0.5 billion in share repurchases, ahead of schedule and are now in a position to increase our 2021 target to $750 million. In parallel with a strong financial performance, we continue to make progress on our ESG initiatives that are integral to bringing our vision to life. In May, we released additional long-term ESG goals aligning with our four ESG commitments, health and safety, people and communities, environment and impact, and governance and accountability.During the quarter, we made progress on our goal to meet ISO 14001 certification standards in all of our factories. Otis' manufacturing facility in Brazil became the latest to achieve this certification, meaning nearly 90% of our factories are now ISO 14001 certified. This is part of our ongoing work to operate more sustainably. Initiatives in the factory include implementation of rainwater and water reuse systems, LED lighting to reduce energy consumption by more than two-thirds, and improvements to shipping and packaging materials to reduce waste by approximately 800 tons annually. In Paris, we introduced electric vehicles into our fleet and we'll be expanding this pilot over the coming months. Early feedback from our field professionals has been positive and the program will continue to contribute to our CO2 emission reduction targets.Moving to Social. One year ago, in response to the urgent problems of social unrest and entrenched racism, we announced our commitment to change a framework to ensure all colleagues feel safe, welcome and heard. While there is still work to be done, I'm proud of the progress we've made on this initiative over the past year. Actions taken include engaging all supervisors worldwide in a training program designed to help them mitigate unconscious bias, increasing access to employee assistance and wellness programs globally, launching our Made to Move Communities signature STEM education program, and awarding not-for-profit grants to communities in each region that support diversity, equity and inclusion programs. And in June, we began our second annual Season of Safety, reinforcing Otis' strong safety culture, recommitting to our lifesaving partner rules and prioritizing ongoing training on safety procedures and protocols, we remain committed to a zero-harm workplace.Now, turning to Slide 4, second quarter results and 2021 outlook. In addition to record New Equipment bookings in the second quarter, total Otis orders were up 9.4% on a rolling 12-month basis. Organic sales were up 15.4% in the second quarter with 25.4% organic growth in the New Equipment segment and 7.8% organic growth in the Service segment. Adjusted operating profit was up $115 million and margin expanded 40 basis points despite a 60 basis point impact from segment mix as the New Equipment business grew faster than the higher margin Service business. Free cash flow was robust at $493 million, with a 151% conversion of GAAP net income.This positive momentum, our continued progress on our long-term strategy and the pace of recovery in our end markets gives us confidence to improve our 2021 outlook across all key metrics. We now expect sales to be in a range of $14.1 billion to $14.2 billion, up 10.5% to 11% versus the prior year, and up 7.5% to 8% organically. Adjusted operating profit is expected to be in a range of $2.16 billion to $2.18 billion, up $240 million to $260 million at actual currency and up $170 million to $190 million at constant currency. We're improving adjusted EPS by $0.10 at the midpoint versus the prior outlook and now expected to be in a range of $2.89 to $2.93 of 15% to 16% increase versus the prior year. Lastly, we're improving our free cash flow outlook to a range of $1.45 billion to $1.50 billion with about 120% conversion of GAAP net income.With that, I'll turn it over to Rahul to walk through our Q2 results and 2021 outlook in more detail.Rahul Ghai -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Judy, and good morning, everyone. Starting with second quarter results on Slide 5. Net sales grew 22.2% to $3.7 billion as the strong growth momentum continued in New Equipment and Service grew for the second consecutive quarter. Adjusted operating profit was up approximately 25% or $115 million and up $80 million at constant currency, primarily from the benefit of higher volume in both segments.Favorable service pricing and productivity initiatives in both New Equipment and Service helped offset the headwinds from commodity inflation and the absence of temporary cost actions taken last year to absorb the impact from COVID-19. We maintained the focus on cost containment, while continuing to invest in the business, and adjusted SG&A was down 60 basis points as a percentage of sales despite the step up in public company expenses.R&D spend and other strategic investments were up approximately $8 million versus prior year and were about flat as a percentage of sales. This strong focus on execution resulted in 40 basis points of margin expansion in the quarter and a full point of margin expansion at constant segment mix. Second quarter adjusted EPS was up 41%, or $0.23, driven primarily from $0.18 of operating profit growth and $0.06 from a lower adjusted tax rate.Moving to Slide 6. New Equipment orders were up 23.9% at constant currency with growth in all regions. Orders momentum continued in the Americas and EMEA, up approximately 47% and 19%, respectively, as the markets recovered and the investments made by orders continued to deliver. Orders in Asia were up approximately 17% and were up for the fifth consecutive quarter, including strength in China, where the orders were up mid-teens with record bookings during the quarter. Pricing was down 60 basis points similar to the first quarter.Organic sales were up 25.4%, with Americas and EMEA up mid-30s, driven by strong backlog execution as the business continues to progress toward pre-COVID levels. Asia was up mid-teens, driven by China, where organic sales were up double digits. Despite strong sales, there was broad-based growth in backlog that was up 10% and up 5% at constant currency with backlog margin down about 0.5 point versus prior year, including any adverse product mix impact.New Equipment adjusted operating profit was up $64 million, primarily driven by higher volume. The strong year-over-year improvement in installation execution and continued focus on material productivity helped offset the unfavorable impact from price mix and commodity inflation. Adjusted operating profit margin expanded 2 percentage points.Service segment results on Slide 7. Year-over-year growth in the number of units under maintenance contracts accelerated to 3%, reflecting strong global improvement and retention, recapture and conversion rates versus prior year. Number of units increased in all regions, and China was up mid-teens after a high-single-digit growth in 2020. Modernization orders were strong in the quarter, up 16.8% at constant currency, as North America and Europe grew double digits, a sharp rebound after a decline in 2020. Modernization backlog was up 4% at constant currency, providing a foundation for sales growth in the subsequent quarters.Service organic sales were up 7.8%, with growth in all lines of business. Growth accelerated in maintenance and repair with 7.5% from a strong recovery in repair with the contractual maintenance remaining resilient. Modernization sales were up 9.3% from continued momentum in Asia Pacific and China and pickup of activity in EMEA.Adjusted operating profit grew $55 million from higher volume and improved pricing, including favorability from the absence of price concessions made last year. Translational FX benefit of $24 million was more than offset by incremental public company expenses and the snap back of COVID-related cost containment actions taken in the prior year. Adjusted operating profit margin expanded for the sixth consecutive quarter and was up 10 basis points. Overall, the first half results reflect solid performance across all metrics with 1.5 percentage points of New Equipment share gain, 13% organic sales growth and close to $200 million of adjusted operating profit growth. First half New Equipment and Service organic sales were up 25.3% and 4.5%, respectively, with margin expansion in both segments.Free cash flow generation was robust at $1 billion, enabling us to raise dividends and complete our debt repayment and previously announced $500 million of share buyback.As we look forward to the second half of 2021 on Slide 8, we feel confident about growth across all key metrics, given higher backlog, growth momentum in all lines of business and our focus on operational excellence. This combined with strengthening demand in our end markets and strong first half results gives us confidence to raise organic sales outlook to be up 7.5% to 8% for the year, up 275 basis points versus prior outlook. We now expect adjusted operating profit to grow $240 million to $260 million, up from $55 million in the prior outlook at the midpoint with sales growth, operating profit growth and margin expansion in both segments.Adjusted EPS is expected in a range of $2.89 to $2.93, $0.10 higher than prior outlook and up 15% versus the prior year at the midpoint. The year-over-year EPS increase is driven by strong operating profit growth, a 140 basis point reduction in that adjusted tax rate, that is now expected to be 29% for the year from 29.5% in the prior outlook and a reduced share count.Following the strong cash generation in the first half from net income growth and close to $300 million of reduction in working capital from the end of the year, we now expect free cash flow for the year to be in a range of $1.45 billion to $1.50 billion. This is $75 million higher than prior outlook at the midpoint from improved net income and better working capital performance. Given the improved free cash flow outlook and the success in repatriation of foreign cash, we are increasing the share buyback target for 2021 to $750 million. In addition, we will continue our bolt-on M&A activities and are always open to other opportunistic investments that can create value for our customers and shareholders.Taking a further look at the organic sales outlook on Slide 9. The New Equipment business is projected to be up 12% to 13% from 7.5% to 8.5%, previously, driven by accelerated backlog conversion and continued recovery in the construction activity in several countries. This 450 basis point increase from prior outlook includes improved expectations in all regions. EMEA is now expected to be up high-single digits, and we expect low-teens growth in the Americas and Asia, driven by China. We are also improving our Service outlook by 125 basis points at the midpoint, now expected to be up 4% to 4.5%. This reflects improvement in maintenance and repair, that is now expected to be up 3.5% to 4.5% from maintenance portfolio growth and stronger discretionary repair demand. Modernization business is now expected to be up mid-single digits, driven by higher Q2 ending backlog. Overall, the organic sales outlook of 7.5% to 8% reflects growth across all regions and all lines of business.Switching to operating profit on Slide 10. We now expect operating profits to be up $240 million, $260 million versus prior year, including FX tailwind of approximately $70 million from strengthening of the renminbi and other currencies against the US dollar. At constant currency, operating profit is expected to be up $170 million to $190 million. Total Company margin is projected to improve by 30 basis points. This outlook reflects the benefits of higher volume, service, material and installation productivity initiatives and favorable service pricing. It is partially offset by unfavorable New Equipment price mix, headwinds from incremental stand-alone expenses and higher commodity prices.The commodity headwind for the year is now expected to be $70 million to $80 million for the year, approximately $35 million to $40 million higher than what we communicated in April, as metal prices have stayed at an elevated level. Despite this incremental headwind, we are improving our earnings outlook for the business by approximately $55 million with the improvement in both segments. And to help alleviate the incremental commodity cost impact this year and in 2022, we are broadening the price increases announced last quarter to include additional markets. This outlook is, not only a sharp turnaround from 2020, but also puts us more than $1 billion ahead of 2019 reported revenue with 100 basis points of margin expansion. 2021 revenue, earnings and margins in both New Equipment and Service segments are expected to be higher than 2019. This improvement reflects our confidence in long-term strategy, ability to execute and the benefits of a solid end market recovery.And with that, may I request Angie to please open the line for questions.