
OperatorGood morning and welcome to PACCAR's Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Today's call is being recorded and if anyone has an objection, they should disconnect at this time.I would now like to introduce Mr. Ken Hastings, PACCAR's Director of Investor Relations. Mr. Hastings, please go ahead.Ken Hastings -- Director of Investor RelationsGood morning. We would like to welcome those listening by phone and those on the webcast. My name is Ken Hastings, PACCAR's Director of Investor Relations. And joining me this morning are Preston Feight, Chief Executive Officer; Harrie Schippers, President and Chief Financial Officer; and Michael Barkley, Senior Vice President and Controller.As with prior conference calls, we ask that any members of the media on the line participate in a listen-only mode.Certain information presented today will be forward-looking and involve risks and uncertainties, including general economic and competitive conditions that may affect expected results. For additional information, please see our SEC filings and the Investor Relations page at paccar.com.I would now like to introduce Preston Feight.R. Preston Feight -- Chief Executive OfficerHello, everyone. It's good to be on the call with all of you. Harrie Schippers, Michael Barkley and I will update you on our second quarter results and business highlights. First and foremost, I appreciate our outstanding employees around the world for providing excellent trucks and transportation solutions to our customers. I'd also like to thank PACCAR's fantastic dealers and suppliers for their support.PACCAR achieved very good quarterly revenues and net income in the second quarter of 2021. PACCAR's results reflect quarterly sales and profit records at PACCAR Parts and PACCAR Financial Services. The economies and freight markets continue to be robust in all of PACCAR's geographic markets. Demand for PACCAR's premium trucks is strong. PACCAR's second quarter sales and Financial Services revenues were $5.8 billion and second quarter net income was $493 million. PACCAR Parts achieved record quarterly revenues of $1.2 billion and record pre-tax profits of $266 million. PACCAR Financial achieved record pre-tax income of $107 million. And I'd just like to take a moment to recognize these wonderful achievements by our great team.So looking at product. 2021 is the biggest year of new truck introductions in PACCAR's history. The most recent truck introduction was in June. When DAF launched the XF, XG and XG+. These DAF trucks are game-changing. DAF is the first manufacturer to utilize the new European regulations allowing for a longer cab and the regulations enabled DAF's engineers to design an aerodynamically optimized truck that provides up to 10% greater fuel efficiency and an equal reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. Technology enhancements include a new Powertrain, new digital mirrors, digital dash displays and a full suite of advanced driver assistance systems. The new models provide drivers a new level of luxury and comfort and there is great customer excitement for the new trucks. And this is being reflected in strong orders. Production start is in October.The next-generation Peterbilt 579 and Kenworth T680 began production in May. These new trucks feature enhanced aerodynamics and powertrains that deliver up to 7% higher fuel efficiency, industry-leading LED headlights, advanced driver assistance systems and a state-of-the-art interior with a configurable digital display. So, in addition to launching the new Class 8 trucks, this month Kenworth and Peterbilt began production of their new medium-duty truck lineup. These vehicles have an 8-inch wider cab, best-in-class visibility for enhanced safety, and a premium interior with configurable dash displays. The new medium-duty trucks featured the PACCAR 8-speed automatic transmission. And we are seeing excellent customer demand for these new Peterbilt and Kenworth vehicles.PACCAR's industry-leading zero emissions battery electric trucks are now in production, with 60 vehicles in customer operations in Europe and North America. And we've received orders for over 450 battery electric trucks and are working closely with our customers and our dealers, as we move forward with these exciting zero emissions product offerings.During the second quarter, PACCAR enhanced its autonomous truck development partnership with Aurora by becoming a minority investor in their planned public offering. The PACCAR, Aurora partnership continues to make progress in developing a Level 4 autonomous solution.Now, looking at the truck markets, US and Canada Class 8 industry retail sales are estimated to be in a range of 260,000 to 280,000 vehicles. Kenworth and Peterbilt market share was 29.4% in the first half. In Europe, truck industry registrations in the above 16-ton market are estimated to be in a range of 270,000 to 290,000 vehicles and DAF's year-to-date market share is 15.7%. The South American above 16-ton market is projected to be in a range of 100,000 to 110,000 trucks and DAF Brazil is about 16-ton market share through June was 5.7%. So, as has been discussed in recent months, industry truck production has been tempered by the under-supply of semiconductor chips. Kenworth, Peterbilt and DAF had a good quarter and delivered 40,100 trucks with an additional 6,500 awaiting key components. While it's very dynamic, we currently anticipate supplier constraints improving toward the end of this year.PACCAR continues to advance its industry-leading environmental focus with our products and in our factories. PACCAR is committed to achieving science-based carbon reduction targets and PACCAR continues to receive high rankings for its environmental leadership. These are really exciting times for PACCAR as we create our future.And Harrie Schippers will now provide an update on PACCAR Parts, PACCAR Financial Services and other business highlights. Thank you. Harrie?Harrie C.A.M. Schippers -- President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Preston. PACCAR Parts had another outstanding quarter, achieving record revenues of $1.2 billion, compared to $823 million for the second quarter of last year. Parts pre-tax profits were a record $266 million, compared to $152 million in the same period last year. Parts gross margins grew a robust 28.2%. PACCAR Parts benefited from strong freight demand and truck utilization, investments in e-commerce technology and distribution capacity. Strategically located PDCs reduced delivery times and increased customer uptime. E-commerce part sales increased 56% in the second quarter, compared to the same quarter last year. PACCAR is continuing its investments in world-class distribution by opening a new distribution center in Louisville, Kentucky next year. We expect third quarter part sales to be similar to the strong second quarter.PACCAR Financial Services earned record pre-tax income of $107 million, reflecting strong portfolio performance, and robust used truck demand. We expect third quarter PACCAR Financial results to be in line with the excellent second quarter. PACCAR Financial is increasing its retail used truck center capacity worldwide, which enhances margins. A new PACCAR Financial used truck facility is under construction Madrid, Spain. Kenworth and Peterbilt truck resale values command a 10% to 20% premium over competitors' trucks.PACCAR has invested $7.3 billion in new vehicle programs, enhanced facilities and new technologies during the past decade. This includes the investment of $1 billion for the new DAF truck range and expand its factories.Capital expenditures for the year are projected to be $550 million to $600 million and research and development expenses are estimated to be $340 million to $360 million. PACCAR is investing in zero emissions and ultra clean diesel powertrains, advanced driver assistance and autonomous driving systems, connected vehicle services and enhanced production and distribution facilities.Second quarter truck, parts and other gross margins were 13.5%. Customer demand is strong and DAF, Kenworth, and Peterbilt are sold out for the year. Depending on the supply of materials, third quarter global truck production and gross margins could be similar to the second quarter. The recently introduced DAF, Kenworth and Peterbilt truck models provide PACCAR the newest and most exciting product lineup in Company history. These new trucks will support our customers, dealers and our success in the coming years.Thank you. We'd be pleased to answer your questions.Ken Hastings -- Director of Investor RelationsOperator?