  OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to Realty Income first-quarter 2021 operating results conference call. [Operator instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Julie Hasselwander, investor relations at Realty Income. Thank you. Please go ahead.Julie Hasselwander -- Investor Relations

 



 Thank you all for joining us today for Realty Income's quarter operating results conference call. Discussing our results will be Sumit Roy, president and chief executive officer; and Christie Kelly, executive vice president, chief financial officer. During this conference call, we will make certain statements that may be considered forward-looking statements under federal securities laws. The company's actual future results may differ significantly from the matters discussed in any forward-looking statements. We will disclose in greater detail the factors that could cause such differences in the company's Form 10-Q. We will be observing a two-question limit during the Q&A portion of the call in order to give everyone the opportunity to participate. If you would like to ask additional questions, you may reenter the queue. I will now turn the call over to our CEO, Sumit Roy.Sumit Roy -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Julie. Welcome, everyone. The continued strength of our business is made possible by the incredible partnerships we have with all stakeholders. I would like to express my gratitude and appreciation to our Realty Income team, who continues to effectively execute our strategic objectives while enduring a sustained remote work environment.

 



 As we've announced last week, we are excited to have reached a definitive merger agreement with VEREIT, which would further distance ourselves as a leader in the net lease industry and create a company with a combined enterprise value of approximately $50 billion. We believe shareholders of both companies will enjoy meaningful value creation through immediate earnings accretion and expanded platform with enhanced size, scale, and diversification, driving further growth opportunities and strategic and financing synergies, which are enhanced by Realty Income's A-rated balance sheet and access to well-priced capital. We are very excited about the strategic transaction and look forward to continuing to drive future growth together as a combined enterprise. However, today, we will focus on what was a very successful first quarter for Realty Income. Our first-quarter results illustrate our ability to grow through a variety of swim lanes afforded to us by our size and scale by completing over $1 billion in acquisitions. Notably, in this quarter, we invested approximately $403 million in high-quality real estate in the U.K., highlighting the continued strength of our international platform and bringing our total investment in the U.K. to over $2 billion since the first international acquisitions we closed in 2019. Domestically, we invested $625 million in real estate, including our first-ever acquisition in Hawaii, becoming the first and only REIT to own property in all U.S. states. Our accomplishments during the quarter continued to demonstrate the momentum in our business and highlight our ability to leverage our size and scale to drive our business forward in pursuit of sustainable growth. On the subject of sustainable growth, our team continues to make tremendous progress through our ESG initiatives as ESG considerations continue to permeate throughout our organization at every level. In April, we published our inaugural Sustainability Report, which details our company's commitments, goals, and progress to date with regard to environmental, social, and government initiatives. I invite all Realty Income stakeholders to share in our dedication to embrace a changing world for the benefit of all those we serve, and I encourage everyone listening to read our 2020 Sustainability Report found on the Corporate Responsibility page of our website. Additionally, we are excited to share an updated investor presentation with the marketplace. On the homepage of our website, you can find our new deck, which highlights our fundamental business philosophies, key competitive advantages, and plan for future growth. Turning to results for the quarter.

 



 Our global investment pipeline remains a significant driver of growth for our business. Our business is simple. We seek to acquire high-quality real estate leased to leading operators in economically resilient industries in pursuit of stable and increasing cash flow generation. Our confidence in continuing to grow our platform stems from the quality of our real estate portfolio, which is designed for resiliency through a variety of economic environments. Key to mitigating economic risk, we believe, in portfolio diversification by geography, client, industry, and property type as we continue to grow our real estate portfolio. In the first quarter of 2021, we invested over $1 billion in high-quality real estate, and we remain very comfortable with our 2021 acquisition guidance of over $3.25 billion. On a total revenue basis, approximately 39% of total acquisitions during the quarter are leased to investment-grade rated clients, which brings our total investment-grade client exposure for the portfolio to approximately 50%. Aligning with our ethos, the weighted average remaining lease term of the assets added to our portfolio during the quarter was 12.6 years. And at the end of the quarter, the weighted average lease term of our total portfolio was 8.9 years. As of quarter-end, our real estate portfolio includes over 600 clients who operate in 56 different industries. Approximately 84% of rental revenue comes from our traditional retail properties, while industrial properties generated about 11% of rental revenue. With regard to our retail business, we seek to invest in industries with a service, nondiscretionary, and/or low price point component to the business as we believe these characteristics make for economically resilient operations that can more effectively compete with e-commerce. As such, of our acquisitions during the quarter, the largest industry representative was grocery stores. Walgreens remains our largest client at 5.5% of rental revenue and convenience stores remain our largest industry at 12% of rental revenue. Our investment philosophy primarily focuses on acquiring freestanding single-unit commercial properties leased to best-in-class clients under long-term net lease agreements typically in excess of 10 years. We believe the market is efficient. As such, we are seeing a competitive environment for high-quality assets leased to strong operators. Cap rates, as you all know, reflect an aggregation of many factors, including, but not limited to, fundamental real estate economics, lease term, credit of the client or their sponsor, rent relative to the market, average rent coverage by the operator and alternative use of the real estate. Accordingly, the quality of our acquisitions is reflected in our average initial cash cap rate during the first quarter of 5.3%. Our size and scale allow us to be highly selective in pursuing investment opportunities that fit our stringent criteria. This quarter, we sourced nearly $20 billion of transaction opportunities, ultimately investing in approximately 5% of the prospects sourced and reviewed. Additionally, our cost of capital allows us to invest accretively, even when pursuing the highest-quality assets. During the first quarter, our investment spreads relative to our weighted average cost of capital were 115 basis points. The quality of the assets we acquired flows through the entire life cycle of our portfolio, allowing us to favorably recapture rent on expiring leases and maintain a healthy level of occupancy. During the quarter, we released 54 units, recapturing 103.5% of expiring rent. Since our listing in 1994, we have executed over 3,600 releases or sales on expiring leases, recapturing over 100% of rent on those released contracts. And occupancy at quarter-end was 98%. Our size and scale afford us the ability to execute large-scale sale-leaseback transactions, which are often sourced through existing partnerships with best-in-class clients but also serve as an attractive way to establish new relationships. The transaction we closed in Hawaii is an excellent example of the sale-leaseback opportunities we can execute. In this instance, we partnered with Par petroleum to acquire 22 well-located convenience stores for approximately $116 million. All 22 properties fall under one triple-net master lease agreement with an initial 15-year lease term, and all assets are located in many main locations, primarily on the Island of Oahu. This quarter, about 24% of all acquisitions we closed were executed as sale-leaseback transactions. The merger between Realty Income and VEREIT will enhance our ability to execute large-scale leaseback transactions through expanded capacity to buy in bulk, which improve our competitive positioning when competing for portfolio or sale-leaseback transactions in the fragmented net lease industry. As we have previously articulated, the ability to buy at wholesale prices and at a discount to the one-off market is a competitive advantage. We are often one of only a handful of buyers for large-scale portfolio transactions, particularly those that would otherwise create untenable client or industry concentration issues for our competitors. Pro forma for the closing of the transaction, we will have approximately $2.5 billion of annualized rental revenue. For every $1 billion of acquisition to a single creditor industry, our exposure to that creditor industry will increase by approximately 2% compared to around 3.5% based on our current size. By leveraging our size and scale, we continue to effectively execute through our international platform via healthy acquisition volume in the U.K. Fundamentally, we are replicating our U.S. business strategy, seeking to curate a high-quality real estate portfolio leased to leading operators in economically resilient industries. Our total first-quarter acquisition volume includes approximately $403 million of international acquisitions in the U.K., which brings our total investment volume to more than $2 billion since the first transaction we closed in the U.K. in 2019. Our international pipeline has accelerated even more quickly than originally anticipated. This quarter's international acquisition volume represents nearly 40% of our total investment volume during the quarter, a figure that is truly incremental to the U.S. business and one that we expect to grow. Now, I'll pass it over to Christie to provide financial updates.Christie Kelly -- Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Treasurer Thank you, Sumit. I'll start with some high-level background and then move into our financial results for the quarter. We are the only net lease REIT in the S&P 500, one of the top 10 largest U.S. REIT by enterprise value, and the largest company in the net lease REIT sector. Upon closing our recently announced merger with VEREIT, Realty Income is expected to be the sixth largest REIT in the RMZ in terms of equity market capitalization. Our size and scale in conjunction with our conservative balance sheet and financial strength have afforded us two A credit ratings by the major rating agencies. And our $3 billion multicurrency revolver grants us ample access to well-priced capital that allows us to opportunistically raise permanent long-term capital when the markets are most favorable. During the quarter, we raised approximately $670 million through an overnight equity offering to reduce our financing risk by prefunding our active global investment pipeline. In January 2021, we completed the early redemption of all $950 million, 3.25% notes due in 2022 to take advantage of attractive borrowing rates in the fixed income market while reducing our near-term financing risk. This redemption was primarily funded through our December issuance of $725 million of senior unsecured notes through a dual-tranche offering of a five-year and 12-year note, which achieved record-low U.S. dollar coupon rates in the REIT sector for each of those tenors. As a result, our fixed charge coverage ratio, I'm pleased to report, has hit an all-time high at 5.8 times this quarter. We believe funding our business with approximately two-thirds equity and one-third debt contributes to maintaining a conservative balance sheet. We ended the quarter with net debt-to-adjusted-EBITDA ratio of 5.3 times or 5.2 times on a pro forma basis adjusting for the annualized impact of acquisitions and dispositions during the quarter. And our near-term debt maturities remain minimal with only $26 million of debt maturing through year-end 2021, excluding our commercial paper program and borrowings outstanding on our revolving credit facility. At the end of the first quarter, we had full availability of our $3 billion multicurrency revolving credit facility, $675 million outstanding under our $1 billion commercial paper program, And over $184 million of cash on hand, providing approximately $2.5 billion of liquidity available to capitalize on our active global investment pipeline. During the quarter, our business generated $0.86 of AFFO per share, and we are maintaining our 2021 AFFO per share guidance of $3.44 to $3.49 on a stand-alone Realty Income basis, unadjusted for the expected merger. Remember, we currently have 37 of our 79 theater assets on cash accounting. These 37 theaters represent about $25.5 million of annual rent remaining in 2021. And we've reserved $33.2 million as allowance for bad debt on these assets net of $1.9 million of straight-line rent receivables. In total, this $58.7 million translates to approximately $0.15 that is not currently included in AFFO per share guidance. We are encouraged by the recent momentum in the theater space such as increased nationwide openings and the release of blockbuster films. Most recently, Godzilla vs. Kong brought in approximately $49 million during the opening weekend, five days specifically Wednesday to Sunday, and generated more than $390 million of revenue within the first two weeks of its global release, turning a profit of more than $200 million. However, until we are confident these particular theaters can continue to pay us contractual rent, we will continue to recognize revenue for these 37 theaters on a cash basis. As a monthly dividend company, we would be remiss not to discuss the dividend when providing business results. In April, we declared our 610th consecutive monthly dividend, and we now increased the dividend 110 times since our listing in the New York Stock Exchange in 1994. Since 1994, we have increased the dividend every year, growing dividends per share at a compound average annual growth rate of approximately 4.4%. And as a result of increasing the dividend every year for the past 25 consecutive years, we are proud to be a member of the exclusive S&P 500 Dividend Aristocrats Index, which consists of only three REITs and 65 companies overall. I would now like to hand our call back to Sumit.Sumit Roy -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Christie. Our first-quarter results continue to highlight the incredible opportunities afforded to us by our size and scale, which uniquely position us to be the global consolidator in a highly fragmented net lease space. And we believe the VEREIT merger will enhance our positioning to reach us that. Our positive results, as well as our powerful business momentum and a strong outlook, energize our talented team to continue expanding our existing verticals while finding new swim lanes through which the business can grow. At this time, I'd like to open it up for questions. Operator? 