
OperatorGood morning, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Keurig Dr Pepper's Earnings Conference call for the Second Quarter of 2021. I would now like to introduce Keurig Dr Pepper's Vice President of Investor Relations, Mr. Tyson Seely. Mr. Seely, please go ahead.Tyson Seely -- Vice President of Investor RelationThank you, and hello, everyone. Thanks for joining us. Earlier this morning, we issued our press release for the second quarter of 2021. If you need a copy, you can get one on our website at keurigdrpepper.com in the Investors section. Consistent with previous quarters, today, we will be discussing our performance on an adjusted basis excluding items affecting comparability. The company believes that the adjusted basis provides investors with additional insight into our business and operating performance trends. With the exclusion of items affecting comparability is not in accordance with GAAP, we believe that the adjusted basis provides meaningful comparisons in an appropriate basis for discussion of our performance. Details of the excluded items are included in the reconciliation tables included in our press release and our 10-Q, which will be filed later today.Due to the inability to predict the amount and timing of certain impacts outside of the company's control, we do not reconcile our guidance. Here with me to discuss our second quarter 2021 results are KDP Chairman and CEO, and Bob Gamgort; our CFO, Ozan Dokmecioglu; and our Chief Corporate Affairs Officer, Maria Sceppaguercio. And finally, our discussion this morning may include forward-looking statements which are subject to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially, and the company undertakes no obligation to update these statements based upon subsequent events. A detailed discussion of these risks and uncertainties is contained in the company's filings with the SEC.With that, I'll hand it over to Bob.Robert Gamgort -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Tyson, and good morning, everyone. Since we spoke last quarter, consumer mobility across North America has continued to increase, with improving trends in travel, grocery and retail and recreation translating into changes in growth trends in beverage category segments and retail channels. Just as we experienced in 2020, the COVID recovery period in 2021 is creating significant volatility in demand, which has required us to remain nimble and flexible in managing our business. One area in which mobility remains challenged is offices, which continues to be a headwind for us in coffee. While we've experienced some improvement year-to-date and expect more over the balance of the year, we project the recovery of office mobility to lag other areas of the economy. Mix management was key to our success in 2020 as we were able to drive growth in on-trend segments and channels to offset those that were structurally challenged by COVID.While managing demand mix continues to be critical this year, we also face the added challenges of input cost and labor inflation, transportation constraints, labor shortages and supply chain disruptions, making 2021 arguably more difficult in many respects than 2020. We expect another six to 12 months of macro volatility before a more predictable operating environment emerges. Key to stabilization will be a return to both school and the office environment, the course of the COVID virus and its variants, the impact of reduced or eliminated government subsidies, the catch-up of global supply chains to meet unprecedented demand and an improvement in the labor market. Despite all the challenges, we remain confident in our ability to deliver our EPS guidance for 2021 while increasing our revenue growth target to 6% to 7% for the full year.Our updated financial outlook offsets the challenges I mentioned a moment ago with new pricing actions announced across most of our categories, along with continued productivity and efficiency efforts and the improving performance in our higher-margin beverage concentrates and fountain food services businesses that both benefit from increased mobility. It's important to note that we still intend to reinvest any earnings upside into growth investments. At the midpoint of our 2021 guidance range we will have achieved the three-year financial algorithm that we communicated at the time of our merger, delivering annual adjusted diluted EPS within our target range of 15% to 17%, revenue growth well above our target range of 2% to 3% and our leverage ratio at or below three times by the end of this year.We will share our outlook for the business and update our long-term algorithm for total shareholder return at our upcoming investor event in September. Details regarding the virtual event will be shared next week. Turning to second quarter results we announced this morning. We posted another strong quarter, highlighted by double-digit growth in adjusted diluted EPS and high single-digit growth in constant currency net sales. These results were broad-based and balanced across the company with growth driven by both core business and innovation. Because we're one of the few companies layering strong current year performance on top of strong year ago performance, it's also helpful to highlight our results on a two-year basis. Comparing the first half of 2021 with the same time period in 2019 shows constant currency net sales growth of 13.5%, adjusted operating income growth of 19.5% and adjusted diluted EPS growth of just under 30%.We expanded our market share of total liquid refreshment beverages over the previous two years, driven in part by our 1.4 share point increase in carbonated soft drinks. Total K-Cup pod shipments increased nearly 15% over the same time, and brewer sales are up nearly 50%. Looking specifically at the second quarter, more than 70% of our cold beverage retail sales base expanded market share, reflecting continued growth of CSDs driven by core brand strength and innovation, the most recent being our new Zero Sugar lineup, which is performing exceptionally well. Growth in key non-carb beverage brands such as Snapple, Core, Bai and Evian was good for the quarter but could have been even stronger had it not been for supply disruptions, which I will discuss in a few moments. In coffee, our K-Cup pod shipments were essentially flat in the quarter, successfully lapping the very strong year ago period that was driven by peak at-home consumption.Comparing K-Cup pod shipment volume to 2019 removes some of the significant noise and timing for that business. For the quarter, K-Cup pods grew nearly 10% on a two-year basis, demonstrating the underlying long-term growth trends in our coffee business. Brewer sales in the quarter increased by nearly 30% compared to a year ago, some of which was influenced by government stimulus and the timing of Amazon Prime Day. Finally, with regard to coffee systems innovation, we were excited to announce earlier this week the launch of the K Supreme Plus Smart Brewer, marking our first launch of a connected brewer for the broader consumer market. We look forward to talking more about the new Brew ID technology and the growth platforms it creates for us at our upcoming Investor Day event.Shifting from demand to supply, nearly all CPG companies have discussed supply disruptions in 2021, and we're certainly not immune to these challenges. We continue to be effective in supplying K-Cup pods and CSDs, and we've been able to overcome ship shortages and ocean transportation limitations to supply the high levels of demand for our Keurig brewers. However, our noncarb beverage portfolio has been negatively impacted by supply disruptions, especially Snapple and Core, which is evident in the latest Scanner numbers. I'll use Snapple as one example of the type of challenges that we and most other CPG companies are facing in the current environment. As we discussed on previous earnings calls, we started rolling out our refreshed Snapple bottle on the West Coast in November of 2020.That new package substitutes post-consumer recycled plastic or RPET for glass and nonrecycled plastic. And it also contemporizes the Snapple brand look and feel. The consumer reception has been very strong, with Snapple growing share for the first six months of the year as we increased recruitment of younger consumers, exactly what we intended to do with the refresh. However, an unexpected shortfall in committed glass bottles from our supplier required us to transition our new RPET packaging faster, which pressured material availability from our supplier of RPET and stretch the start-up curve of our new production lines. We're navigating through this challenge and other disruptions that have become the new normal in 2021 to maintain our guidance. However, we do expect some sales and share pressure on key non-carb beverage brands throughout the third quarter.Our learnings on how to successfully manage our business through the volatility of COVID continue to serve us well as we build an increasingly resilient organization. Before I turn it over to Ozan to discuss our segment performance in detail, I'd like to mention the great progress we continue to make in the area of ESG, which we know is important to an increasing number of investors. We recently issued our annual corporate guidance -- our annual corporate responsibility report that highlights our performance against our previous ESG goals, increases our ambition through new ESG goals and expands our impact in new areas such as diversity and inclusion and health and wellness. If you haven't done so already, I encourage you to read the CR report, which is available on the KDP corporate website. Ozan, over to you.Ozan Dokmecioglu -- Chief Financial Officer and President, InternationalThanks, Bob, and good morning, everyone. Continuing on an adjusted basis, I will briefly review our performance for the second quarter, which was very strong and our press release discusses in significant detail. I will then turn to our outlook for 2021. Constant currency net sales increased 8.1%, fueled by higher volume mix of 6.1% and favorable net price realization of 2%, with all four of our business segments posting growth driven by elevated consumption and strong in-market execution. For the first six months of 2021, constant currency net sales grew 9.4% versus a year ago and 13.4% versus the first six months of 2019. Adjusted operating income in the second quarter totaled $839 million, an increase of 8.3% compared to $775 million in the year ago period driven by this strong net sales growth across our portfolio, productivity and merger synergies.These growth drivers were partially offset by significantly higher marketing investment in the quarter, inflation in logistics, manufacturing and input costs and higher operating expenses associated with increased consumer demand. For the first six months of 2021, adjusted operating income increased 8.3% versus year ago and 19.4% as compared to the first six months of 2019. On a constant currency basis, adjusted operating income for the second quarter increased 6.8% versus year ago. Adjusted operating margin in the second quarter was 26.7% compared to 27.1% in the prior year, significantly impacted by the reinvestment in marketing in the quarter, inflation and unfavorable margin mix due to the higher brewer sales. Adjusted net income advanced 14.7% in the quarter to $538 million compared to $469 million in a year ago period driven by growth in adjusted operating income and lower interest expense, largely driven by lower interest rates stemming from the strategic refinancing we completed in the first quarter of 2021.Debt repayments and the lower adjusted tax rate in the quarter. Adjusted diluted EPS grew 15.2% to $0.38 per diluted share compared to $0.33 per diluted share in the year ago period. For the first six months of 2021, adjusted diluted EPS advanced approximately 14.5% versus a year ago and more than 29% versus the first six months of 2019. Let me pause for a moment to discuss the inflationary pressures and supply chain challenges we have referenced this morning. Price expectations continue to rise for aluminum, glass, corn products and polypropylene, which is a material use in our K-Cup pods. And like most other CPG companies, we have also experienced an increase in transportation and logistics costs as well as supply chain challenges related to supplier constraints, labor shortages and material and packaging availability.Despite these challenges, we have confidence in our ability to successfully navigate them. I will elaborate on this. For 2021, we are in a position of strength as our sales growth momentum will help to offset inflation. As discussed previously, we rely on a combination of productivity, cost controls, pricing and various other revenue growth management strategies, pulling the right levers at the right time to protect the long-term health of our business. In terms of price, we have already announced increases in both our cold beverage and owned and licensed coffee portfolios. Along with the other levers I just mentioned, this approach enables us to mitigate rising input costs and address supply chain challenges while reinvesting in the business and protecting bottom line profit. As we did in 2020, we will remain nimble in response to changing market conditions to ensure our continued success focusing on flexibility, speed and delivery to manage our product and SKU performance at a granular level.Our updated guidance for 2021 incorporates all of these considerations, and we are confident that we have the tools and management disciplines to deliver strong growth in both revenue and earnings despite the dynamic inflation and logistic challenges. Let me now turn to our segment performance in the second quarter. Coffee Systems constant currency net sales increased 3.9% driven by higher volume mix of 3.5% and favorable net price realization of 0.4%. The volume mix performance reflected pod volume growth of 0.2% and brewer volume growth of 29%. The pod growth reflected successfully, lapping peak shipments in the year ago period related to consumer stock-up behavior in the early days of the pandemic and an improved performance in the away-from-home business. Even though the return to offices continues to be slow, and this business remains well below pre-pandemic levels, the 29% increase in brewer shipments in the quarter was fueled by continued strong consumer purchases stemming from successful brewer innovation and, to a lesser extent, favorable timing of Prime Day during the second quarter of 2021 versus the third quarter of 2020.The favorable net price realization in the quarter was largely driven by brewers and the continued moderation of pod pricing declines, consistent with our strategic pod pricing initiative launched several years ago. Looking to the back half of the year, we expect pod shipments growth to continue in the mid-single-digit range, while brewer shipments are expected to be about even with a year ago given the 30% brewer growth we achieved in the second half last year, which benefited from the government stimulus during COVID sheltering. At the time, we had some concern that the elevated brewer growth and incremental households we were adding in 2020 represented a pull forward from 2021. Given the continued strength of brewers, which are now expected to be up approximately 10% for the year on top of the 21% last year, performance would suggest that the pull forward did not occur and that our momentum continues.Adjusted operating income for Coffee Systems totaled $371 million, an increase of 2.2% compared to $363 million in the prior year. This increase was driven by continued productivity and merger synergies partially offset by inflation in manufacturing, input costs and logistics. On a constant currency basis, adjusted operating income increased 1.1% in the quarter. Adjusted operating margin in the quarter was 33.7% compared to 34.8% in the year-ago period largely driven by the negative margin mix associated with the very strong brewer sales. Packaged Beverages constant currency net sales grew 7.3% in the second quarter driven by strong volume mix growth of 6.2% and higher net pricing of 1.1%. This performance reflected growth in both our company-owned DSD operations and warehouse direct business.The majority of our LRB portfolio contributed to this growth, with CSDs, including Canada Dry, Dr Pepper and Sunkist, along with premium water leading the way. Adjusted operating income for Packaged Beverages in the second quarter totaled $286 million, an increase of 6.3%, compared to $269 million in the year ago period. This was driven by the strong net sales growth as well as productivity and merger synergies. These growth drivers were partially offset by inflation in logistics, manufacturing and input costs, a significant increase in marketing investment and higher operating costs to meet continued strong consumer demand. On a constant currency basis, adjusted operating income increased 5.9% versus a year ago. Adjusted operating margin for Packaged Beverages was 19.1% in the quarter compared to adjusted operating margin of 19.3% in the year-ago period, largely reflecting our significant reinvestment in marketing.Beverage Concentrates constant currency net sales increased 20.7% due to favorable net pricing of 10.4% and higher volume mix of 10.3%. The net pricing was driven by our annual price increase and a favorable comparison to prior year on our annual true-up of customer incentive accruals as well as strong revenue growth management. The volume mix performance was largely driven by improving trends in the fountain foodservice business, reflecting higher levels of consumer mobility in the restaurant and hospitality channels compared to the year ago period as well as the benefit of significant marketing investment driving growth in the quarter. Dr Pepper and Crush led the growth, partially offset by declines in Canada Dry. Adjusted operating income for Beverage Concentrates increased 15.3% to $256 million compared to $222 million in the year ago period, driven by net sales growth, which was partially offset by the significantly higher marketing investment.On a constant currency basis, adjusted operating income advanced 14.4%. Adjusted operating margin in the quarter was 68.3% compared to 71.8% in the year ago period, primarily reflecting the higher marketing investment. And finally, Latin America Beverages constant currency net sales grew 20.8%, reflecting strong volume mix of 16.6% and favorable net pricing of 4.2%. Liquid refreshment beverage in market execution in Mexico continued to be strong and resulting in the overall liquid refreshment beverage share expansion and continued robust retail consumption, which drove significant net sales growth for key brands, namely Penafiel and Clamato. Adjusted operating income increased 61% to $37 million compared to $23 million in the year-ago period. On a constant currency basis, adjusted operating income increased 44%, reflecting the strong net sales growth and productivity.These growth drivers were partially offset by significantly higher marketing investments in the quarter and inflation in logistics, manufacturing and input costs. Adjusted operating margin in the quarter advanced 310 basis points to 22.3%. Free cash flow in the quarter continued to be strong at $492 million, which translated into a year-to-date free cash flow conversion ratio of nearly 95%. In addition to our ongoing deleveraging and investing in the business to drive top line momentum, we're also increasing our return to shareholders. Specifically, during the quarter, the KDP Board authorized the previously announced 25% increase in our quarterly dividend rate, which was paid earlier this month. Despite this healthy increase, our payout as a percentage of free cash flow remains below 50%, pointing to the exceptional strength of our cash flow generation and the future optionality it provides.During the quarter, we reduced our outstanding bank debt by $427 million and structural payables by $4 million. We also ended the second quarter with $167 million of unrestricted cash on hand. Due to growth in earnings and our reduction in bank debt, we improved our management leverage ratio to 3.4 times at the end of the second quarter of 2021. Since the merger close in July 2018, we have reduced our management leverage ratio by 2.6 times. Let me now move to our outlook for 2021. For the full year 2021, we now expect net sales growth to be in the range of 6% to 7%. This compares with our original guidance for the year of 3% to 4% and our most recent guidance of 4% to 6%. We continue to expect adjusted diluted EPS growth of 13% to 15% for the year and plan to reinvest any over-delivery back into the business to support continued momentum.Supporting this guidance, we continue to expect merger synergies of approximately $200 million for a three-year total of approximately $600 million, in line with our merger targets. Adjusted interest expense in the range of $505 million to $515 million; an adjusted effective tax rate in the range of 23.5% to 24%; diluted weighted shares outstanding of approximately 1.43 billion. And finally, our management leverage ratio is expected to be at or below three times by the end of this year. With that, let me hand it back to Bob for some closing remarks.Robert Gamgort -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Ozan. Before handing it over to questions, I want to highlight that earlier this month, we celebrated the three-year anniversary of the Keurig Dr Pepper merger. Transaction that was based on our vision to create a North America-focused beverage company that approach the consumer and customer beverage experience in a more contemporary way. In the three years since we've accomplished a great deal and we are on track to achieve all of the financial commitments we made back in January 2018. We will continue to demonstrate what we believe it takes to be a modern beverage company, and we look forward to sharing more details with you in September. I will now turn it back to the operator for your questions.