
OperatorGood day, and welcome to the Pool Corporation Second Quarter 2021 Conference Call. All participants will be in a listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] Please note, this event is being recorded.I would now like to turn the conference over to Mark Joslin, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Please go ahead.Mark Joslin -- Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer

 



Thank you, operator. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to our second quarter 2021 earnings call.I'd like to remind our listeners that our discussion, comments and responses to questions today may include forward-looking statements, including management's outlook for the remainder of the year and future periods. Actual results may differ materially from those discussed today. Information regarding the factors and variables that could cause actual results to differ materially from projected results is discussed in our 10-K. In addition, we may make references to non-GAAP financial measures in our comments. A description and reconciliation our non-GAAP financial measures is included in our press release and posted to our corporate website in our Investor Relations section.I'm joined here today by our President and CEO, Peter Arvan; and I'm very happy to say by our next CFO, Melanie Hart. We'll start as usual today with opening remarks by Pete.Peter Arvan -- President & Chief Executive Officer

 



Thank you, Mark, and good morning to everyone on the call. Beginning in May of last year, as the country came to grips with the pandemic and its effects on everyday life across North America and Europe, homeowners' interest in swimming pools and anything to do with outdoor living surged. The steady growth that we'd seen over the years kick into overdrive as people realize that investing in their own backyard, they could enjoy a family friendly safe healthy outdoor living experience right at home.Demand for in ground pools, above ground pools, luxury patios and outdoor kitchens spiked, creating demand that quickly soaked up any available builder capacity. This surge in demand has not let up and continues through today as our builders and remodelers are telling us, for the most part, they are booked through year end and, in many cases, into 2022. Our retailers are also reporting robust store traffic as well. This morning, following an exceptional first quarter, we reported that our second quarter total earning -- total sales came in at a record $1.8 billion, which is a 40% increase over the second quarter of 2020, which was up 14% over 2019. This is our largest quarter ever and our seasonally most significant quarter of the year. Thanks to the tremendous efforts and hard work of our team that is executing at an incredible level, the support from our supplier partners and the perseverance of our customers, together, we helped more people enjoy the healthy safe outdoor living experience than ever before.From a base business perspective, sales increased 32% with acquisitions accounting for 8% of our quarterly growth. Inflation, as we have previously mentioned, has been above average this year and is trending to 5% to 6% for the year in total. This has had no meaningful impact on demand and has passed through the channel as is typically the case. Overall, the unprecedented demand for our products has strained the manufacturing capacity and supply chains in the industry. In times like this, we use our strong balance sheet, the robust network of sales centers and tremendous execution to help our customers keep projects moving forward, so families can enjoy their backyard and escape. By and large, the manufacturers are finding ways to increase production, which, when combined with the industry seasonality, should ease some of the shortages that have played the industry this year, allowing supply chains to function more normally as the year progresses.Looking at base business in our four largest markets, California, saw a sales increase of 33%, Florida sales increased 35%, Texas saw sales decline by 30% and Arizona sales increased 24% for the quarter. Overall, our year-round base business markets increased by 31%, while the seasonal markets increased by 33%. This growth is a testament to the strong demand throughout the entire business.

 



Now, let me provide some product sales details for our base business. Even with the strained supply chains, equipment sales, which include heaters, pumps, filters, lighting and automation all used in the construction, remodel and maintenance of swimming pools posted record sales up 35% in the quarter, following a 62% gain in the first quarter. Again, what is most significant about this result is that it occurred in our seasonally biggest quarter when industry capacity is most challenged and our comps the most difficult from an industry perspective. Chemicals, which have been a challenge to supply this year with the widely known industry shortages, our sales increased by 28% in the quarter. Pricing represented 19% of the increase, while volume accounted for 9%. Persistent shortages in Trichlor and Dichlor have driven increased demand for alternatives such as liquid chlorine in calcium hypochlorite, which, most recently, have seen supply interruptions of their own in elevated stock-outs across our network as teams grapple with industry shortages. In most cases, this results in intermittent stock-outs across some of our network that can last a day or two. As seasonal demand for chemicals is peaking soon, we expect the situation to ease in the coming months.Building material demand remains strong as construction and remodel activity is brisk. Our sales in this product category grew by 33% in the quarter, following a similar growth number in the first quarter. Retail products posted a 20% gain driven by a larger installed base and elevated usage levels, although here too the shortage in chemicals and other products is limiting growth. Commercial pool products continue to rebound as leisure travel has resumed and resort, hotel and municipal pools reopened. For the quarter, sales in this product group increased 45% coming off a weak second quarter in 2021, where sales fell by 21% due to the COVID lockdowns. Currently sales in this category are being dominated by maintenance and repair products as large commercial construction projects are just beginning to get traction again.Last year, we completed four acquisitions, three blue and one green. And to date, we have completed two more blue acquisitions. All are performing well and being integrated into our network, which will make them even better. Our deal pipeline and expansion plans are robust and remain a focus area for the business. Year-to-date 2021, we have opened nine new locations, seven on the blue side and two on the green side.Let me now take you across the Atlantic and provide some commentary on our European business. Sales remains brisk and growth strong. For the second quarter, we saw sales grow by 42%, bringing the year-to-date growth to an incredible 62%. Our team is executing at the highest level and benefiting from a similarly strong market that we are seeing in North America. Being a multi-line distributor versus a distributor manufacturer allows us to be more flexible and provide customers more options in a supply constrained environment. This has allowed us to take significant share.Turning to our Horizon business, we are very pleased to report that sales growth continues to be strong as the business posted another terrific quarter with sales up 31%. For the same period, base business sales increased 24% versus last year. As mentioned above, year-to-date, we've opened two new locations, one in California and the other in Florida, while continuing to execute our strategic plan of organic growth greenfield expansion and acquisitions, as we develop our pipeline in targeted areas.Let me now switch my commentary to gross margin, expenses and operating income. First, on gross margins, we are very pleased to have reported a gain of 170 basis points for the quarter and a 200 basis point gain from our base business. This improvement was driven by supply chain execution, inflation benefits and product mix. Melanie will provide more color on this topic. Operating expense performance was spectacular given the volume growth. Our opex, as a percentage of sales, improved by 117 basis points for the quarter, has been driven by the team's execution and a relentless focus on capacity creation activity. Pool360 sales grew by 56% and accounted for 12% of our sales for the quarter. The importance of this tool continues to increase as it enables both our customers and Pool Corp to be more efficient in how we operate.Wrapping up the income statement, I could not be prouder of what our team delivered in operating income. The record $339 million in operating income for the quarter was a 64% increase over the same period last year. Our team's skill, dedication and commitment to the customer experience is second to none. This, along with the benefits of our business model, continue to set us apart from the competition and enable us to continue to take share in this challenging environment. Our ability to consistently drive organic growth and manage our cost structure through execution and capacity creation is a testament to the team here at Pool Corp. With this in mind and the half of the year behind us, we are raising and narrowing our EPS guidance for the year from previously $11.85 to $12.60 to $13.75 to $14.25 per diluted share, including the $0.29 year-to-date tax benefit that we have received.Looking forward, there are several factors and trends that give us confidence for continued growth beyond 2021. First, the single-family housing market remains strong, driven by millennials entering the housing market for the first time, the urbanization and the southern migration, all of which are very positive factors for both the blue and the green business. As people move to the Sun Belt states with longer outdoor living season, they see the value of investing in a pool, patio, outdoor kitchen or remodel project, which is driving demand for our products. Second, the work from home change that has swept across North America is also creating more time to enjoy a luxury backyard retreat. This trend looks like it will continue longer term. Third, new products such as automation and the connected pool simply increase our sales opportunity on every project as people become familiar with this new user-friendly technology. Fourth, new in ground pool installations were 96,000 pools last year and are forecasted to grow to more than 110,000 pools this year, as our builders are reporting stronger backlogs that continue into 2022. Each new pool adds to the maintenance and repair market going forward, which, by far, is the largest part of our industry. Fifth, inflation, which is higher than normal this year will likely continue with elevated levels into 2022. Sixth, the new variable speed pump legislation that goes into effect this month will add $30 million to $40 million of incremental revenue opportunity going forward. Seventh, our relentless focus on the customer experience and our expansion plans are allowing us to take significant share, and we see that continuing going forward.Finally, acquisitions will continue to play a role in our growth as we continue to build and execute our deal pipeline as part of our strategic plan. As you can see, we have many reasons to be optimistic about the future, and we expect to continue the track record of success that we have demonstrated over the years.I will now, turn the call over to Melanie Hart for her financial commentary.Melanie Hart -- Chief Financial OfficerI am very pleased to be joining you all this morning. I will cover some of the details of our second quarter financial results. As Pete has provided an overview of our sales activity in the quarter, I will begin my commentary with some additional discussions on gross margins. Gross margins increased 170 basis points during the quarter, with base business gross margins up 200 basis points. These increases exceeded the expectations expressed on our first quarter call.First, we saw benefits from our supply chain initiatives, which included a focus on accelerating purchases ahead of vendor price increases to limit stock-outs where possible in today's tight supply conditions. Next, with our increased purchase volumes, we also expect improvements in the rate earned under our vendor progress. Additionally, we realized some improvements in gross margin during the 2021 second quarter from product mix changes, as a larger portion of our sales was comprised of lower margin, bigger ticket items in prior year. Lastly, customer mix changes also had a positive impact on margins for the quarter.Moving down the P&L to expenses, our consolidated quarter-to-date operating expenses were up 27%, with base business operating expenses increasing 18% over prior year on base business sales growth of 32%. Base business operating expenses were down 140 basis points as a percentage of sales. Variable expenses, such as those related to personnel and freight costs that are necessary to serve our increased business activity, were very well managed by the team during the quarter. Included in these expenses is our performance-based compensation. We recorded an additional $7 million over prior year during the quarter and $19 million more year-to-date, given our exceptionally strong performance.Operating margin grew 280 basis points to 18.9% for the quarter. The five acquisitions added since second quarter of last year have performed well, contributing $11 million or 11% operating margin. The operating margin contribution from these acquisitions was below our base business operating margins and like underperforming sales centers and new locations, of which we opened nine new locations in the past 12 months, represent additional opportunity for operating income growth overtime. Interest expense declined from the same time last year, as lower debt levels resulted in lower overall borrowing costs. Our average debt for second quarter 2021 was $376.8 million compared to the same period last year of $493.4 million. Our recurring tax rate continues to be around 25% on pre-tax earnings. We realized an additional ASG tax benefit of $7.7 million or $0.19 per share from stock option exercises that occurred during the quarter, bringing the reported rate to 22.9% for the quarter.I'll now move to our balance sheet and cash flows. Our growth in current assets over last year reflects an increase in total net receivables of 29%, including the effect of acquisitions made after the second quarter of last year. This is driven by sales growth in the quarter, offset by strong collections activity. We realized a reduction in DSO or days sales outstanding to 25.8 days, down from 28.5 days during the same quarter last year. Inventories were up in total 42% or 36% not considering the inventories we added for acquisitions. We continue to leverage our capital strength and sourcing scale to add inventories to support the demand increases and maintain customer service levels. Inventory turns on a trailing four quarter basis increased to 4.1 from 3.5 in second quarter of 2020.Cash provided by operations through the end of June was $187.2 million. This is down $33.9 million from the same quarter last year, primarily due to increased inventory investments. Prior year also benefited from deferred tax payments that shifted from June to July in 2020 as part of the COVID relief package. Cash flow for the year are expected to remain strong, but we may continue to prioritize investments in inventory over cash generation, as we believe our strong inventory position has allowed us to gain share.For the year, we've also been focused on returning excess cash to shareholders. In May, the board increased the authorization of share buyback by $450 million. During the quarter, we spent $19 million, in addition to the $66 million repurchased in first quarter, returning a total of $85 million to shareholders year-to-date. These repurchases resulted in total shares acquired of almost 243,000 for an average price paid of $348, leaving $542 million on our repurchase authority. We also increased the quarterly dividend rate during the quarter by 38%.Our debt levels remain lower than our targeted range with a trailing 12-month ratio of 0.5 at quarter end, giving us substantial capacity and flexibility to support our business needs and execute on capital investment opportunities.I'll now turn the call over to Mark to provide comments on our expectations for the remainder of the year.Mark Joslin -- Senior Vice President & Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Melanie. Those are my comments today with some perspective on our second quarter financial results. For each of the last two quarters, I have alluded to our results looking like the work of some sort of modern day renaissance masters. In hindsight, I think I should have saved my superlatives for this Q2 results, which are the real work of the master. At the peak of the season, when demand is greatest, our customers' needs are most urgent and our supply chain is the most stressed, delivering the kind of results we achieved this quarter is the embodiment of a team effort that is truly exceptional and demonstrates incredibly high level of execution.Our second quarter was the combination of a frenetic year in the pool industry that really showcase the talent of our team, as well as the value of our business model. Looking back over the last year, our trailing 12 months of financial highlights included 40% revenue growth and cumulative sales of $4.8 billion, 84 basis points of gross margin expansion and 350 basis points of operating margin expansion, while delivering a return on invested capital of 50%, all remarkable results. In addition, we had a balanced deployment of capital over this 12-month period, with $125 million in capital used to acquire five companies and nearly $200 million returned to shareholders, evenly split between dividends and share repurchases, and we invested $26 million in PP&E, primarily to support investments in technology and new locations. We also invested just over $200 million in working capital in 2021 ahead of our seasonal business peak to be in the best position possible to serve our customers throughout our supply constraint environment.As a matter of note, our sales growth over the last year of $1.4 billion was just a bit more than our total sales, when I joined the company back in 2004. Clearly, our marketplace has evolved at a rapid pace over the course of the last year and as our performance and our outlook for the future, which continues to be very positive. At this point, I'll share some insights into the factors included in our guidance range.Using the midpoint of our new guidance range as a measuring stick and comparing the new range to the old, you can see that we raised our expectations by 15% for the year. This is a result of three factors. Better overall Q2 performance than expected with higher sales growth and bigger gross margin gains than we had factored into our previous range. Expectations for somewhat higher sales growth and better gross margin performance for the remainder of the year. And lastly, the $7.7 million or $0.19 share benefit from our ASU tax gain in the second quarter that was not in our previous range. Our previous range had anticipated sales growth for the year in excess of 20%. Our new range, which, of course as Q2 baked into it, anticipates sales growth in excess of 25% for the year, with greater growth in Q3 than in Q4 as past become increasingly difficult.As a reminder our Q3 2020 sales growth was 27%, while Q4 2020 sales growth was 44%, which was aided by a very favorable weather conditions and included acquisitions, which will be lapped this year. While we assume normal weather for the rest of the year in our guidance range, favorable fourth quarter weather this year could see us reach a milestone of $5 billion in revenue for the full year.As I noted, our gross margin expectations for the remainder of the year have also improved, with year-over-year gross margin gains now anticipated in both the third and fourth quarters, so much less improvement in the fourth quarter given the 70 basis points of margin pickup we recorded in Q4 of 2020. Despite inflationary pressures on our operating costs and growth in certain discretionary business expenses that have been pared back during the pandemic, we expect to continue to manage expenses well and could achieve as much as 250 to 300 basis points operating margin improvement in 2021 over 2020 with the majority of additional gains for the back half of the year coming in Q3.With that, I will turn the call back over to our operator to begin our question-and-answer session.