
OperatorGood morning, everyone and welcome to Citizens Financial Group Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. My name is Alan and I'll be your operator today. [Operator Instructions]Now, I'll turn the call over to Kristin Silberberg, Executive Vice President, Investor Relations. Kristin, you may begin.Kristin Silberberg -- Executive Vice President of Investor RelationsThank you, Alan. Good morning, everyone and thank you for joining us. First, this morning, our Chairman and CEO, Bruce Van Saun and CFO, John Woods will provide an overview of second quarter results, referencing our presentation which you can find on our Investor Relations website. After the presentation, we'll be happy to take questions. Brendan Coughlin, Head of Consumer Banking; and Don McCree, Head of Commercial Banking are also here to provide additional color.Our comments today will include forward-looking statements, which is subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause our results to differ materially from expectations. These are outlined for your review on page 2 of the presentation. We also reference non-GAAP financial measures. So it's important to review our GAAP results on page 3 of the presentation and the reconciliation in the appendix.And with that, I will hand over to Bruce.Bruce Van Saun -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Kristin. Good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining our call today. We continue to execute well through the second quarter, driving forward on key initiatives in both consumer and commercial, accelerating our digital transformation, making steady progress on TOP6 and announcing the acquisition of HSBC's East Coast branches and online bank. The diversity and resilience of our business model was evident as record revenue and capital markets and wealth partially offset the sizable drop in mortgage. Our credit results continue to be excellent given further improvement in the economy.The headline numbers for the quarter with EPS of $1.46 and ROTCE of 17.7% were flattered by a sizable reserve release. Importantly, we feel PPNR has now bottomed and growth should resume in the second half. We achieved 1% average loan growth in the quarter, a little less than projected as pay downs on PPP loans and across the back book in commercial offset generally good levels of originations. We did a nice job on expenses, protecting the areas aligned with our growth initiatives while delivering on our expense efficiencies associated with TOP.Looking out to the second half, we believe we will see a pickup in loan growth, particularly on the consumer side and student point of sale finance and auto. In commercial, we should start to see gradual growth in line utilization off of low levels along with the pickup in deal related financings. Mortgage revenues should rebound modestly, given hedge losses in Q2, and generally strong production or Capital Markets pipelines remain healthy. We expect to return to positive operating leverage in both Q3 and Q4. Credit should continue to be excellent. We are now calling for further improvement in charge-offs to 20 basis points to 25 basis points in the third quarter and 25 basis points to 35 basis points for the full year. We continue to feel good about our progress and our ability to come out of the pandemic period with increasing differentiation and growth in franchise value versus our peers over time.With that, I'll turn it over to John.John F. Woods -- Vice Chairman and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Bruce and good morning, everyone. Let me start with the headlines for the quarter. We reported underlying net income of $656 million and EPS of $1.46. Our underlying ROTCE for the quarter was 17.7%, which includes the impact of the sizable credit provision benefit. Revenue of $1.6 billion was down slightly linked quarter on lower mortgage fee income with net interest income up slightly given interest earning asset growth. Average loans were up 1% in the quarter on the strength of retail originations hitting an all-time high, giving us good momentum heading into the second half of the year.Key highlights include record results in capital markets and wealth. Mortgage fees were lower as margins continue to tighten, although origination volumes remain quite strong and we continue to control expenses down 2% quarter-over-quarter. We recorded a credit provision benefit of $213 million, which reflects sustained macroeconomic improvement and strong credit performance with lower charge-offs. Our ACL ratio is now at 1.75% excluding PPP loans. And finally, we are in a very strong capital position with CET1 at 10.3% after returning $168 million to shareholders in dividends during the quarter. We also continue to grow our tangible book value per share, which was $33.95 at quarter end, up 6% compared with a year ago. Next, I'll refer to a few slides and give you some key takeaways for the second quarter, I'll then outline our outlook for the third quarter.Net interest income on slide 6 was up 1% linked quarter, given interest earning asset growth and higher day count. Average loans were up 1% and net interest margin was down slightly. The net interest margin reflects lower earning asset yields reflecting the low rate environment. Spread pressures and elevated lending competition although improved funding mix and better deposit pricing are helping to mitigate these factors. Interest-bearing deposit costs improved 4 basis points to 16 basis points from continued discipline on deposit pricing. Our asset sensitivity increased to about 10.7% from 8.5% at the end of the first quarter. The increase primarily reflects the ongoing stability in deposit levels and the improvement in funding mix given the increase in low cost deposits.Referring to slide 7, we delivered solid fee results again this quarter with record results in capital markets and wealth, reflecting the ongoing investments in our capabilities and the benefit of acquisitions. Mortgage fees were down approximately $80 million this quarter as production revenue was impacted by continued pressure on gain on sale margins, particularly in the wholesale and corresponding channels, given increased industry capacity and competitive pressures. While we have expected a meaningful decline in mortgage revenue for the quarter, it ended up greater than expected due to two items that reduced our revenue by a combined $24 million.The first was the $14 million of MSR valuation losses net of hedges driven by changes in implied rate volatility which moved to unexpectedly near the end of the quarter. Also, we were impacted by a $10 million increase in late quarter to mortgage agency fees retroactively applied to existing pipelines. We would not expect these impacts to recur in Q3. Secondary originations remain strong but were down about 10% from first quarter levels. As expected, we are seeing a continuing shift toward purchase originations which increased from about 35% of the total in first quarter to about 48% in the second quarter.Also, our third party servicing book grew to $85 billion, up 3% linked quarter and 6% year-over-year and servicing contribution improved $13 million linked quarter. Moving on to some of our positive quarter-over-quarter fee contributors. We delivered record results from capital markets and wealth reflecting our ongoing investments in capabilities and demonstrating diversity in our fee income. Capital market fees hit another high of 12% linked quarter with loan syndication fees hitting the highest level since 2017. Our M&A pipeline continues to be strong at historic highs. Additionally, while these had a new record, up 3% linked quarter, reflecting an increase in assets under management from net inflows with record sales and strong market levels.Finally, card fees results were strong, up 16% linked quarter as debit transactions and credit card spend rebounded to exceed pre-pandemic levels given the strengthening recovery, which also benefited from seasonal trends. On slide 8, expenses were well controlled, down 2% linked quarter with seasonality in salaries and employee benefits. Average loans on slide 9 were up $643 million or 1% linked quarter given strength in our retail portfolio, offsetting a decline in commercial.Diving into drivers a bit more, the diversity of our retail lending business produced record high retail loan originations in the quarter, which was partially offset by elevated pay downs. This was driven by strength in mortgage, auto and education refinance, partially offset by planned rundown of the personal unsecured portfolios. Commercial was roughly flat in the quarter excluding PPP. We had a strong origination quarter led by asset-backed and subscription line finance, which have been steady contributors over the last few quarters. This was offset by elevated payoff activity which reflects highly favorable conditions for commercial companies to access the debt capital markets.Line utilization levels stabilized near historic lows over the course of the quarter. We saw average commitments for our middle market and mid corporate clients grew by 2% in the second quarter after being flat in the first quarter. This will benefit us as economic activity drives corporate Investment. Overall spot loan growth for the quarter before the impact of PPP forgiveness was 1.8% given strong retail and commercial originations. This provides good underlying momentum for loan growth in the second half of the year.On slide 10 deposit flows continue to be robust especially in low cost categories and our liquidity ratios remain strong. Average deposits were up 3% linked quarter and 6% year-over-year with strong growth in demand deposits. Interest-bearing deposits were broadly stable as the decline in term deposits was offset by growth in low cost categories. We are very pleased with our continued progress on deposit repricing with total deposit costs down 3 basis points to 11 basis points. Interest-bearing deposit costs were down 4 basis points to 16 basis points during the quarter and we expect these costs to continue decreasing to low teens or better by the end of the year.Moving on to credit on slides 11 and 12, we saw excellent credit results this quarter. Net charge-offs dropped by more than half as they declined from 52 basis points to 25 basis points linked quarter, driven by improvements across the portfolio. Non-accrual loans decreased $229 million or 23% linked quarter with $116 million decrease in commercial reflecting repayments and charge-offs. Retail non-accrual loans decreased by $113 million linked quarter driven by mortgage and home equity. Given the improvement in outlook and performance of the portfolio, our reserves decreased ending the quarter at 1.75% excluding PPP loans compared with 2.03% at the end of the first quarter.Moving to slide 13. We maintained excellent balance sheet strength increasing our CET1 ratio from 10.1% in the first quarter to 10.3% at the end of the second quarter after returning $168 million in capital to shareholders through dividends in the quarter. We paused our stock repurchases in the second quarter in anticipation of strong second half loan growth and the HSBC transaction which are expected closing in the first quarter of 2022, we use about 24 basis points of capital. We have the opportunity to resume repurchases in the second half with about $660 million of capacity remaining under our current Board authorization. The pace and magnitude of repurchases will consider the strength of organic growth as well as the potential for fee based acquisitions while managing CET1 to within our target range of 9.75% to 10%.Before I move on to our second [Phonetic] quarter outlook, let me highlight some exciting things that are happening across the Company on slide 14, and I should have said as 3Q outlook, before I move on to that. As Bruce mentioned, we are now working on further transformational efficiency opportunities to form a TOP7 program. For example, based on the work we've done so far, we have further opportunities as we mature our agile delivery model and simplify how we operate, implement the next wave of our next-gen technology program, including further rationalization of applications and continue to optimize our branch density. This quarter, we released our fourth Annual Corporate Responsibility Report highlighting our commitment to advancing our environmental, social and governance goals reflecting our core values.The report provides a snapshot of our significant progress this year including the establishment of a formal corporate responsibility governance framework and the completion of our first materiality assessment to more specifically define ESG priorities. For example, we know that it is vitally important that we help create a healthy and sustainable future and we are committed to reducing our impact on the environment. Therefore, consistent with international influence [Phonetic] we have set ambitious targets to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions from operations by 30% by 2025 and 50% by 2035.The last item I will cover on this page is the acquisition of HSBC East Coast branches and online deposit franchise. There is a recap of the transaction on slide 15, so I won't rehash all the details, other than to reiterate the attractive entry this provides us in the important New York City Metro, Washington DC and South Florida markets.Sizable customer base and solid deposit franchise provide a springboard for our consumer national expansion strategy. In addition, the $7 billion net deposit position provides a significant long-term funding flexibility in support of our attractive loan growth opportunities. And now for some high level commentary on the outlook on slide 17. We expect NII to be up 2% to 3% with NIM up low to mid single digits with our outlook based on 10-year treasury rate expectation of 1.35% for the third quarter. We expect average loans to be up slightly in the third quarter with spot loans up about 2% to 3%.Earning assets are expected to be broadly stable in the third quarter. We are well positioned to see overall loan growth accelerate in the second half and into 2022, particularly given the continued strength we are seeing in mortgage, education refi and auto as well as the seasonal benefits expected for InSchool and point of sale lending in the third quarter. In commercial, we expect a slower recovery in utilization rates of historic lows with modest growth over the second half of the year led by asset backed subscription lines and deal related financings. Fee income is expected to be up 2% to 4% reflecting improvement in mortgage banking results and other categories as the economic recovery continues, partially offset by seasonal impacts in capital markets.Non-interest expense is expected to be up slightly in the third quarter. We expect net charge-offs will be in the range of 20 basis points to 25 basis points of average loans with the provision less than net charge-offs. With a substantial improvement in credit, we expect that net charge-offs will be in the range of 25 basis points to 35 basis points for the full year, down from our prior outlook of 35 basis points to 45 basis points. To wrap up, this was a solid quarter for Citizens with good momentum heading into the back half of the year. Our expectation is that PPNR will grow quarterly in the second half of the year with positive operating leverage each quarter.With that, I'll hand it back over to Bruce.Bruce Van Saun -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerOkay. Thank you, John. Operator, let's open it up for Q&A.