
OperatorGood morning. Welcome to the Trane Technologies Q2 2021 Earnings Conference Call. My name is Hillary, and I will be your operator for the call. [Operator Instructions]I will now turn the call over to Zac Nagle, Vice President of Investor Relations.Zachary A. Nagle -- Vice President of Investor Relations

 



Thanks, operator. Good morning, and thank you for joining us for Trane Technologies' Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. This call is being webcast on our website at tranetechnologies.com, where you'll find the accompanying presentation. We are also recording and archiving this call on our website. Please go to slide two. Statements made in today's call that are not historical facts are considered forward-looking statements and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of federal securities laws. Please see our SEC filings for a description of some of the factors that may cause our actual results to differ materially from anticipated results. This presentation also includes non-GAAP measures, which are explained in the financial tables attached to our news release. Joining me on today's call are Dave Regnery, CEO; Chris Kuehn, Executive Vice President and CFO; and Mike Lamach, Executive Chair and former CEO.With that, I'll turn the call over to Dave. Dave?Dave Regnery -- Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Zac. Before we jump in, I wanted to take a moment to recognize Mike Lamach. Mike has reinvented this company a couple of times over. He built our high-performance culture and incredibly strong team. I'm proud to have worked with Mike in his capacity as CEO, and I'm looking forward to continue to work with him in his role as Executive Chair until his retirement in the first half of 2022.

 



And now I'd like to turn it over to Mike for a few words. Mike?Michael W. Lamach -- Executive ChairmanThank you so much, Dave. After we announced Dave as my successor, I appreciate that we're able to connect with a large number of analysts and investors. First, I want to personally thank everyone for the kind words and emails and letters. I'm thankful for the opportunity I've had to work with such a great group of people. In fact, today is a bit of a milestone, marks my 50th and final earnings call. Second, I want to share how excited I am to have Dave leading Trane Technologies. As a retiring CEO, in my view, you only hope for two things. The first is that you're leaving things a little better than when you started; and secondly, that you have complete confidence and trust in your successor. And I have absolute confidence in Dave, having worked closely with him for 18 years and spending the last several years co-architecting our strategy together. I'm extremely proud of what we've accomplished, and I believe we have tremendous opportunity ahead as a climate-focused sustainability leader.Now back over to you, Dave.

 



Dave Regnery -- Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Mike, and thanks to everyone for joining us on today's call. I've played an active role on these calls in the past several quarters, but this is my first official call as CEO. I'd also like to thank the long list of shareholders and analysts who I've had the pleasure of speaking with right after the announcement. As Mike and I highlighted on those calls, this transition in leadership is an evolution, not a revolution. We co-created the Trane Technologies strategy and have worked closely together for many years. Please turn to slide three. While the world has contended with unprecedented change over the past 18 months and continues to face significant challenges, our purpose-driven sustainability strategy remains steadfast. The long-term sustainability megatrends that underpin our strategy have only intensified, and our innovation leadership is transforming the climate industry as the world decarbonizes. This is more critical every day as the clock is ticking on climate change.Our aggressive goals and bold actions can dramatically reduce carbon emissions and accelerate the world's progress. In addition, we are proactively addressing emerging trends as we see heightened focus on indoor air quality, energy efficiency, cold chain and the need to upgrade aging infrastructure in our schools. We are committed to making a difference consistently, relentlessly and over the long term. This unyielding approach drives market outgrowth over the long term, which in turn, helps us drive strong margin and powerful free cash flow to deploy through our balanced capital allocation strategy. The end result is more value across the board for our customers, for our team, for our shareholders and for the planet. Moving to slide number four.After posting a very strong first quarter, we have significantly raised our 2021 guidance range to reflect top quartile EPS growth for full year 2021. The raise reflected both a positive demand outlook and expected acceleration in global vaccination rates. Through the first half of the year, demand is shaping up consistent with our high expectations. While the delta and other coronavirus variants continue to pose considerable risk, large portions of the global economy are rebounding and continue to gradually improve. Our global teams delivered a strong second quarter, with robust organic bookings growth of 30%, driving backlog to a record high. Backlog is up 15% from record Q1 levels and up more than 50% from the end of 2020. It's also up more than 50% versus any quarter in 2019.Net, our backlog is extremely strong, not only in the context of a modestly down 2020, but also in the context of strong financial performance in 2019. Demand for our innovative products and services is high and our record bookings and backlog provide good visibility into 2021 and 2022. Performance was strong throughout the P&L, with organic revenue up 18%. Adjusted EBITDA margins were up 180 basis points on 30% organic leverage and adjusted EPS growth was up more than 50%. In many ways, 2021 is shaping up largely as we anticipated on our Q1 earnings call. So I thought it would be constructive to take a few minutes and talk about what has changed and how that's affecting our approach to the second half of 2021. There are two areas that are making operating environments substantially more challenging. The first is the speed and slope of material and other inflation that has risen dramatically.You'll recall that we saw unprecedented inflation and tariffs impact in the 2017 to 2018 time frame. However, if 2021 plays out as we currently expect, we'll far exceed the peak inflation and tariff numbers we faced during that time frame. In 2021, not only are we seeing higher material cost inflation. Trane Technologies, and from what we're seeing in the market, the entire industry, are implementing price changes faster and with far less lag time than in 2017 to 2018. The net result for us is we are implementing about $150 million of incremental pricing in the second half of 2021 to offset about $150 million in incremental inflation. To be clear, this is $150 million above and beyond what was already baked into our guidance at the end of Q1 in both cost and price. Successfully executing the price action offsets otherwise negative EBITDA impacts, but also drives organic leverage on our incremental revenues lower in the second half of the year.However, our industry typically holds on to price. So long term, we expect these actions to be a solid tailwind for our business. The second thing that has changed is the strong economic environment, combined with other factors such as strained logistics systems and tight labor markets, have further stressed already tight supply chains. This is resulting in higher cost and greater inefficiency throughout the value chain. We are fully leveraging our high-performance business operating system and transformation initiatives to manage and mitigate these impacts and meet the needs of our customers, but there is no silver bullet. We believe we can limit the impact of these inefficiencies to a few points of leverage in the back half of the year as we work to meet our customers' expectations and strong demands. Our multiyear track record of delivering high-quality earnings and free cash flow fuels our balanced capital allocation strategy. Year-to-date, we've deployed about half the cash we expect to deploy in 2021.We have a solid pipeline of M&A prospects and continue to see value in our shares. Longer term, our purpose-driven sustainability strategy continues to be focused on secular megatrends that are powerful tailwinds for our business and support continued top-tier performance and differentiated returns for shareholders. Please turn to slide number five. We delivered robust organic bookings and revenue growth in the quarter, up 30% and 18%, respectively, with growth across all segments and business units. Our Americas commercial HVAC business delivered robust growth in the quarter. Unlike many other peers in industrials who entered the quarter with easy growth comps after being down significantly in 2020, Americas commercial HVAC organic bookings were up mid-20s, and revenues were up low teens in Q2 of 2021, building on mid-single-digit declines in the prior year. The residential HVAC markets continue to be extremely strong, and our residential HVAC team delivered high 30s bookings growth, with independent distributor sell-through up high 20s.We entered the second half of the year with record backlog, up significantly from record backlog at the end of the first quarter. Our Americas transport refrigeration business continues to outperform the North American transport markets, delivering more than 30% revenue growth this quarter. Transport bookings were up low single digits, which may look like a misprint but actually, it's a positive story and simply reflects a natural pause in orders from substantial bookings growth in Q1 as industry trailer production has largely maxed out capacity for 2021 and the focus has turned to booking slots for 2022. We only recently opened up the order book for our first quarter of 2022, prudently keeping an eye on inflation looking several months out. It's also worth noting that this quarter's bookings build upon very strong prior year truck and trailers, where bookings were up nearly 50%.Turning to EMEA, our teams delivered 53% bookings growth in the quarter, with strong growth in both commercial HVAC and transport refrigeration. Revenues were also strong, up 28%. We continue to see strong demand for our innovative products and services that helped reduce the energy intensity and greenhouse gas emissions for our customers. Our Asia Pacific team delivered bookings growth of 12% and revenue growth of 2% in the quarter, with growth in both commercial HVAC and transport. The impacts of COVID-19 pandemic continue to be challenged in the region, with low vaccination rates and partial lockdowns in some countries.Now I'd like to turn the call over to Chris. Chris?Chris Kuehn -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Dave. Please turn to slide number six. We drove strong adjusted EBITDA and operating margin expansion, supported by strong organic leverage of 30% despite increasing headwinds as we move through Q2. Combined with strong revenue growth, we delivered outstanding adjusted EPS growth of 51%. In addition, we increased business reinvestment in innovation, technology and productivity initiatives in the quarter. As Dave outlined at the beginning of the call, we're relentless when it comes to innovation to advance our proven sustainability strategy and fuel our growth. Please turn to slide number seven. In the Americas and EMEA, volume growth, transformation savings, productivity and price realization drove strong EBITDA margin expansion of 170 basis points and 460 basis points, respectively.Asia Pacific's margins declined modestly, but remained at strong levels, and we continue to be very pleased with the progress the region has made since implementing its direct sales force strategy in 2017. Since 2018, Asia's margin improvement is impressive, up approximately 500 basis points. Further, on a two year stack, EBITDA margins were up 270 basis points in the quarter or 135 basis points per year on average. As you look across our portfolio, a couple of common themes will continue to drive strong performance. First is our relentless focus on investments in superior innovation to help our customers solve their most challenging and complex problems and fuel market outgrowth over the long term. The second is using transformation savings to fund business reinvestments and drive margin expansion. We're on track to deliver $300 million in transformation savings by 2023, which we'll touch on a bit later in the presentation.Now I'd like to turn the call back over to Dave. Dave?Dave Regnery -- Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Chris. Please turn to slide number eight. Commercial HVAC Americas has significantly outperformed the broader markets over a number of years through strong focus, agility and execution, combined with relentless innovation for our customers. These defining characteristics power the business forward today. End markets are improving with continued strong data center and warehouse demand. Demand in the education and office end markets is also growing. We're benefiting from increased demand across our K-12 customers, with federal stimulus funds supporting both current and more importantly, future growth. We see this as a multiyear tailwind for our business, given our strong position in the education market and our direct sales force with deep relationships in this vertical. Vaccination rates are improving, and end market indicators are generally strong, with ABI over 50 since February as one example. Demand remains high for comprehensive indoor air quality solutions, with particularly strong interest from education, government and office end markets.We continue to see indoor air quality as a long-term tailwind for our business. Though we remain prudent and cautiously optimistic given the emergence of new COVID variants and the unpredictable impacts they may have, we enter the second half of the year with very strong backlog and are encouraged by the healthy demand picture that is forming. Turning to residential. We delivered record second quarter bookings and revenue and are entering the second half of the year with record backlog. Overall, we delivered a strong first half and expect a challenging second half against tough comps, given record bookings and revenue in the second half of 2020. Turning to Americas transport. We're expecting continued strong growth for the balance of 2021, with weighted average transport market growth of approximately 24% for the year. Given strong demand for trucks, trailers and APU through the first half of the year, and supply constraints at OEMs limiting the market size for 2021, we have pretty good visibility at this point, but our transport business will continue to have a strong year and that 2022 has the potential to be even stronger. I'll talk more about transport outlook in our topics of interest section. Turning to EMEA.Economic conditions are improving across the region. We expect continued improvement in the back half of the year with increased vaccination rates supporting the opening of an increased number and the ride of venues. Transport markets have been and remained strong. We are expecting 9% weighted average market growth. Our transport business is outperforming the broader markets and 2021 should be a very good year for us. Turning to Asia. We expect growth in China in 2021, supported by increased vaccination rates and strength in data centers, electronics, pharmaceutical and healthcare. Outside of China, the picture is mixed. Vaccination rates generally remain low, with partial lockdowns in some countries.Now I'd like to turn the call back over to Chris. Chris?Chris Kuehn -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Dave. Please turn to slide number nine. After an outstanding first quarter, we raised our full year guidance significantly, with a clear goal of delivering top quartile EPS growth in 2021. Halfway through the year, we're seeing the market strength play out largely as expected. Importantly, we continue to see our 2021 EPS growth guidance as top quartile among peers and other industrials as we move through the Q2 earnings season. Given increasing inflation and supply chain headwinds, we believe our guidance remains prudent at this time. We are raising our revenue guidance, largely to reflect the additional $150 million in pricing we are executing to offset an additional $150 million of inflation in the second half of the year, as Dave outlined. Net, we've raised our organic growth estimate to approximately 11%, up from our previous guidance of 9%. We also expect to deliver strong organic leverage of approximately 30% for the full year. Other elements of our guidance remain largely unchanged, as you can see on the slide.All in, total revenue growth is expected to be approximately 13.5% and adjusted EPS is expected to be approximately $6.05, which translates to approximately 36% earnings growth versus 2020. We continue to expect free cash flow to remain strong and equal to or greater than 100% of adjusted net income. Please go to slide number 10. We've covered the main points of our guidance, so I won't spend a lot of additional time on this slide. The key takeaways are that we continue to expect strong organic growth, leverage and adjusted EPS in 2021. Additionally, M&A and FX each adds additional revenues with modest EPS impact. The primary driver, which moves our leverage target from 35% to 30% for 2021, is the additional $150 million in price we're executing in the second half of 2021 to offset incremental inflation. Please go to slide number 11. We typically only provide annual guidance. However, given the comparisons to an unusual 2020 throughout this year, we believe it may be constructive to provide some additional details on the second half outlook.Based on orders, backlog and market visibility, we currently expect organic revenues to be up approximately 7% in the second half of the year. Acquisitions are expected to add about 1.5 points of growth. Assuming FX holds at current rates, FX would add about another 50 basis points of growth. All in, total revenues are expected to be up about 9%. In the back half of the year, we continue to expect additional volume to generate strong underlying leverage in the high 20% range. Embedded in that expectation is a netting of transformation savings and other productivity programs, inflation and continued reinvestment in the business. All of these elements were part of the full year guidance we provided in May. As we've highlighted, the main change since providing guidance in May is $150 million of additional price we discussed. Mathematically, this drives leverage around nine points lower in the back half of the year. We're also taking stock of where we are from a stressed supply chain and logistics standpoint, which is not unique to us but carries with it real costs and inefficiencies.Our business operating system and our transformation savings are mitigating a large portion of these inefficiencies, and we expect to see just a few points of leverage headwind in the back half of the year. All in, we expect organic leverage in the high teens during the second half of 2021, with successful execution of price to cover material inflation. The other piece of guidance we would provide at this time is that we expect the fourth quarter to have stronger revenue growth than the third quarter, with similar leverage in both Q3 and Q4. Please go to slide number 12. As we outlined during our investor event in December, by transforming Trane Technologies, we initially identified $100 million of fixed cost reductions by 2021. We exceeded our initial cost reduction expectations, delivering $100 million of savings in 2020, a full year early. In 2021, we're on track to deliver $90 million of incremental savings, for a total of $190 million in savings. This performance gives us confidence to deliver $300 million of run rate savings by 2023.We will continue to invest these cost savings to further strengthen our high-performance flywheel, which has a reinforcing and compounding effect over time. Please go to slide number 13. We remain committed to our balanced capital allocation strategy that is focused on consistently deploying excess cash to opportunities with the highest returns for shareholders. We continue to strengthen our core business through relentless business reinvestment. We remain committed to maintaining a strong balance sheet that provides us with continued optionality as our markets evolve. We have a long-standing commitment to a reliable, strong and growing dividend that increases at or above the rate of earnings growth over time. We continue to pursue strategic M&A that further improves long-term shareholder returns, and we have a strong pipeline of M&A opportunities. We also continue to see value in share repurchases and as the stock trades below our calculated intrinsic value.All in, we expect to consistently deploy 100% of excess cash over time. Please turn to slide 14, and I'll provide an update on how we're deploying excess cash in 2021. We are on track to deploy approximately $2.5 billion in 2021. Year-to-date, we have deployed $1.3 billion in cash, with nearly $700 million to M&A and share repurchases, including approximately $250 million of share repurchases in July. We have paid $282 million in dividends and $300 million to pay down debt. As I shared, we have a strong pipeline of M&A opportunities and continue to see value in our shares.Now I'd like to turn the call back over to Dave. Dave?Dave Regnery -- Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Chris. Please go to slide number 16. As we've done in the past couple of quarters, we want to provide an update on the transport markets. Our outlook for 2021 is largely unchanged, with modest adjustments to North America and EMEA numbers. As we discussed earlier, trailer production capacity is constrained in 2021, which is shifting volume to 2022. EMEA added one point of overall growth on truck and trailer strength. Halfway through the year, we're seeing considerable strength in both of these markets across bookings, revenue and backlog, which supports the forecast from ACT and IHS, with an even higher degree of confidence than when we reported our first quarter results. The other point I'd like to highlight is that ACT's forecast for 2022 stands at 51,100 units, up 17% from 2021. This is another strong tailwind for us as we look toward 2022. Please go to slide number 17. 2021 is shaping up to be a strong year for us overall. Our current guidance firmly places our EPS growth in top quartile of industrial companies supported by high-quality free cash flow.Energy efficiency and sustainability megatrends are only growing stronger, and we are uniquely positioned to deliver leading innovation that addresses these trends and accelerates the world's progress. And we're not only focused on investments in innovation and growth, but also on investments in our business transformation. We are on track to deliver $300 million in savings that will continue to improve the cost structure of the company. This will enable additional reinvestment to expand margins and further strengthen our ability to outgrow end markets. When combined with the megatrends underpinning our strategy, strong demand in our end markets, our exceptional ability to generate free cash flow and our balanced capital deployment, we are well positioned to continue to drive differentiated shareholder returns.And now we'd be happy to take your questions. Operator?