  OperatorGood day, everyone, and welcome to The Estee Lauder Company's fiscal 2022 third-quarter conference call. Today's call is being recorded and webcast. For opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Ms. Rainey Mancini.Rainey Mancini -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Hello. On today's call are Fabrizio Freda, president and chief executive officer; and Tracey Travis, executive vice president and chief financial officer. Since many of our remarks today contain forward-looking statements, let me refer you to our press release and our reports filed with the SEC, where you'll find factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements. To facilitate the discussion of our underlying business, the commentary on our financial results and expectations is before restructuring and other charges and adjustments disclosed in our press release. Unless otherwise stated, all net sales growth numbers are in constant currency, and all organic net sales growth excludes the noncomparable impacts of acquisitions, divestitures, brand closures, and the impact of currency translation. You can find reconciliations between GAAP and non-GAAP measures in our press release and on the Investors section of our website. As a reminder, references to online sales include sales we make directly to our consumers through our brand.com sites and through third-party platforms. It also includes estimated sales of our products through our retailers' websites.[Operator instructions] And now I'll turn the call over to Fabrizio. Fabrizio Freda -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Rainey, and hello to everyone. I want to begin by expressing the great sadness where for our colleagues and all the people impacted by the envision of Ukraine who are experiencing a devastating humanitarian crisis. We continue to focus on our employee safety, and our dearest hope is for peace to prevail. In the third quarter of fiscal year 2022, we delivered organic sales growth of 9%, in line with our guidance despite the acceleration of temporary COVID-19 restriction in China in March. We exercised cost discipline as volatility increased, and our adjusted operating margin expanded, leading to stronger-than-expected adjusted diluted earnings-per-share growth of 17%. Our multiple engines of growth strategy enabled us to amplify the engines of the moment amid intensified macro environment, with sales rising organically across both brick-and-mortar and online. Every category grew organically, led by fragrances' outstanding performance. Eleven brands contributed double-digit organic sales growth and further demonstrated our diversified drivers. Consumer demand remains robust even in this inflationary environment. Our largest brands provided highly sought-after, MAC, Estee Lauder, and Clinique each delivered double-digit growth in makeup, fueling the category renaissance while La Mer thrived in skincare. Four of our scaling brands resonated strongly with consumers as Jo Malone London, Tom Ford Beauty, Aveda, and Bobbi Brown each rose double digits. Among our developing brands, Le Labo, KILIAN PARIS, and Bumble and bumble each achieved outsized growth and showcased their promise. Our sales rose double digit organically in the Americas and EMEA. We capitalize on reopening to translate improving brick-and-mortar traffic trends into outstanding sales growth, owing to our high-touch services, breakthrough innovation, hero franchises and operational excellence. Our freestanding stores delivered exceptional performance benefiting from fleet optimization and expanded omnichannel capabilities and complement the strengths in specialty multi. We are managing the ongoing complexities from the invasion of Ukraine as well as the temporary COVID-driven restrictions in China, which impacted performance in Asia Pacific in the quarter. In Mainland China, organic sales fell mid-single-digit as 25% growth online was offset by a steep decline in brick-and-mortar. After a strong February, in Mainland China, traffic slowed more sharply in March to pressure brick-and-mortar sales. Additionally, for us, the distribution centers for our Mainland China business are in Shanghai and operated with limited capacity. Tourism to Hainan highland was also curtailed in March after a vibrant start of the quarter. There is no doubt that these current limitations in China will prove to be transitory, although there will be a far greater impact on our results in the fourth quarter than they were in the third quarter, as Tracey will discuss. Looking ahead, we are confident in the resilience of the Chinese consumers and the untapped opportunity driving our investments in the market. We expect a reacceleration of growth when this moment of COVID abates. Let me share the progress we made during the third quarter to drive these strong results and advance our long-term ambitions for our multiple engine of growth strategy. Innovation excelled to reach nearly 30% of sales. We continue to elevate our ability to leverage data analytics with our best-in-class creative talent and R&D to successfully anticipate scale and set trends. The breadth of our innovation wins was far-reaching and benefited every category in skincare, La Mer upgraded the treatment lotion sort as the brand doubled down on this coveted East-West product, increasing the skin recharging Miracle Broad and transitioning to a recyclable luxurious glass bottle that contains 20% post-consumer recycled content. In Asia Pacific, consumer gravitated to the new serum strengths and anti-aging benefits, while in the Americas, educating on the benefits of hydration and energy proved impactful with consumers, demonstrating our expertise in serving multiple needs with one product and communicating with the appropriate local relevance. For makeup, MAC sought to grow its mascara base, especially across Gen Z, younger millennial and multi-ethnic consumers and created MACStack Mascara. With breakthrough technology, the stacks and builds the last look. MACStack went viral on TikTok, having now amassed over 153 million views, and its sales far exceeded our expectations in the quarter. Tom Ford Beauty new private blend rose fragrances, feature locally relevant nodes, where Rose De Chine feature Chinese golden and Rose D'Amalfi includes Italian bergamot. This launch drove exceptional results globally, including China, where the brand had a very successful Valentine's Day. Lastly, haircare, Aveda launched botanical retail strengthening overnight serum, disrupting the category by creating our first overnight serum that builds new hair bonds while you sleep. The products sold key consumer pain points with quick-absorbing technology by leveraging a serum-based formula. Encouragingly, the product quickly rose to being the top-selling product in freestanding store and sold out on brand.com. We are excited to build upon this momentum with our new innovation center in Shanghai opens later this calendar year. This important investment in China will significantly increase our ability to serve the Chinese and Asian consumers with locally relevant and inspired innovation. Also, the new center will further enable our East to West innovation mindset, supporting the creation of more successes like La Mer's The Treatment Lotion. Looking at our growth engines by category, the strategic decision to pivot our fragrance portfolio to luxury and artisanal is benefit both top-line growth and profitability. Fragrances performance in the third quarter was super with sales increasing 31% organically. Impressively, sales exceeded the pre-pandemic third quarter of fiscal year 2019 by nearly 50% on a reported basis. Jo Malone and Tom Ford Beauty, Le Labo, KILIAN PARIS, and Edition DePasanFederic, each delivered double-digit sales growth, and Estee Lauder brand complemented these strengths with its well-received new luxury collection. As consumers around the world increasingly express their individuality with scent, these brands are delivering outstanding results. with strong double-digit growth fiscal year to date in every region, driven by demand across channels from brick and mortar to online and travel retail. Their freestanding doors are driving omnichannel experiences, while their online businesses have been transformed during the pandemic. And these fragrance brands are also contributing to our sustainability goals, with refillable packaging being a compelling element of the value proposition for Le Labo and KILIAN PARIS. We are also thrilled to announce that during the third quarter, Le Labo became BCR-certified, making it the first major fragrance brand and first within our company to receive this certification, indicating a high level of commitment to sustainability and impact. Turning to makeup. It was on this call a year ago that we introduced our expectation for makeup renaissance, anticipating it would gradually evolve market by market as social and professional-use educations began to resume. We envisioned the category would experience a recovery driven by both restocking as well as a renaissance rooted in a renewed passion for the joy and creativity of makeup after a difficult time. Even with the rise of the Delta and Omicron variants, the makeup renaissance has delivered very favorable trends and offers great promise for the future. As usual location expanded in certain markets upon reopening in the third quarter, makeup once again delivered double-digit organic sales growth in the Americas and EMEA. MAC and Clinique's makeup sales growth accelerated sequentially, while Estee Lauder and La Mer businesses in the category are already ahead of pre-pandemic levels. While brands have been meticulous in executing their merchandising and innovation strategy for the renaissance, we invested to create the omni artist with meeting the consumers in innovative ways across brick and mortar and online to educate inspire looks and offer the best in personalized high-touch services. MAC has been superb in this regard. So, too, has Bobbi Brown with events like live streams from the largest mall in Manchester, England to as per group classes to in China to one-to-one Zoom sessions in the U.S. Moving to hair care, Aveda Bumble and bumble have reignited growth engines to contribute to the diversified category growth that we expected for fiscal year 2022. Impressively, even as these brands grew sales strong double digits in brick and mortar or reopening during the third quarter, they also achieved mid-single-digit online growth. Lastly, while skincare was pressured by COVID restrictions in the East, the bright spots were still many. In the quarter, we continued to advance our strategies across many long-term growth drivers from luxury to prestige. La Mer performance was extraordinary, with sales rising strong double digits. As I discussed, it upgrades The Treatment Lotion sort creating a high effect on the still new hydrate-infused emotion, while its heroes were highly sought after. With desirable innovation and coveted icons, La Mer is welcoming new consumers, earning their trust, and traded them up as its ultra Genaissance de la Mer franchise is booming. While our high-end prestige skincare thrives with La Mer and Estee Lauder Bobbi Brown is prospering in the heart of the category, thanks to its strategic focus on treasured heroes like vitamin-enriched face base. We are also laser focused on entry-level prestige to reach new consumers, notably with Vaseem The Ordinary as the brand amplifies its heroes to drive repeat with its ingredient-led regiment-based approach. After the quarter closed, Des announced it will be refining its brand portfolio to focus resources on the compelling opportunity we foresee for and New York. During the quarter, we also improved upon the fundamentals of consumer acquisitions, engagement, and high-touch services, positioning us well to realize even greater success with trial and repeat. Our partnership with TikTok expanded, and we are piloting new innovations on the platform to be at the forefront of social commerce innovations. In the U.S., several of our brands launched storefronts on TikTok, similarly linking to brand.com. Brands also expanded their capabilities with Instagram Shopping and launched category-powered lenses on Snapchat similarly linked to brand.com. Clinique realized favorable engagement trends on TikTok and Instagram, and it featured its back in stock coveted Black Honey Lipstick and strong recruitment growth with new advertising for 100 hour featuring the made for social phase of adventure campaign. The Estee Lauder brand entered the metaverse as connecting with our consumer wherever they are is paramount, and we are excited to be testing and learning in this new ecosystem. Estee Lauder was the exclusive beauty brand partner of the Centraland Metaverse Fashion Week, the first-ever large virtual fashion week in an unchanged metaverse. Around the world, our brands are increasingly leveraging new campaign management tools to tailor communication and drive repeat to both reengage with consumers and foster relationships with new consumers. We are realizing increased reactivation and repeat purchase rate from the U.K. to France, Australia, and beyond. In closing, we delivered very strong performance amid the accelerating headwinds during the third quarter. We also made excellent progress advancing the long-term drivers of our multiple engine of growth strategy. These results in this progress are due to the tremendous accomplishments of our employees around the world to whom I extend my deepest thanks as they continue to manage complex situation with grace and ingenuity. Moreover, I'm incredibly inspired by our employees' compassion for each other. Last week marked the two-year anniversary of the ELC Cares Employee Relief Fund. The fund was created in response to employee increasing desire to support one another in times of need. Since inception, over $10 million has been distributed to employees globally from donations and company matches. Looking ahead, while we are lowering our expectation for the fourth quarter, given the impact of the temporary COVID-driven restrictions in China, we expect to deliver another record year in fiscal year 2022. We remain incredibly optimistic about the future of our business. This quarter proved the vibrancy of prestige beauty, its resiliency even in a difficult macro environment and the strength of our trusted brands and product innovations as markets sequentially recover from the prolonged pandemic. I will now turn the call over to Tracey.Tracey Travis -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Fabrizio, and hello, everyone. Our third-quarter net sales grew 9% organically despite the increased complexity and volatility caused by the pandemic and the invasion of Ukraine. Growth was broad-based across categories and markets as most regions across the world continue to recover and grow, albeit at different rates. Sales in specialty-multi and freestanding retail stores led growth and online sales rose mid-single-digits. The inclusion of sales from the late May 2021 DECIEM investment added approximately two points to reported net sales growth, and currency was a headwind of approximately one point. From a geographic standpoint, organic net sales in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa region rose 18%. Growth was realized across most markets, channels and brands. Market growth was led by both the recovery in the largest Western markets as well as in key emerging markets like Turkey and India. All brick-and-mortar channels grew, led by double-digit growth in department stores, freestanding stores, and specialty-multi stores. Organic sales online declined when compared to the prior-year quarter where online sales benefited both from the pandemic-driven store closures and reduced store traffic. All product categories and most brands grew in the region, led by La Mer, Jo Malone London, and MAC. Our global travel retail business again grew double digits despite the challenges that arose during the quarter. Asia is the largest region for our travel retail business, and sales in the key markets of China and Korea were very robust at retail for most of the quarter. However, there was a precipitous decline in Chinese travel in March as restrictions to contain COVID were increased in China. We continue to see a sharp increase in travel retail sales outside of Asia as traffic increased throughout Europe and the Americas. Net sales in the Americas rose 11% organically, with all markets contributing to growth. All product categories grew with particular strength in makeup and hair care. The two largest prestige makeup brands in the U.S., MAC and Clinique outpaced overall category growth to gain share. Bobbi Brown and Tom Ford Beauty also gained share helping to further drive the makeup renaissance as more consumers continued their return to the workplace and resumed more social occasions. Our sales in specialty-multi and in freestanding retail stores strongly outperformed this quarter as consumers return to stores for shopping and services. The inclusion of sales from DECIEM added approximately three points to growth, and favorable currency movement contributed one point to sales growth in the region. In our Asia Pacific region, organic net sales fell 4%, driven entirely by Greater China. For the quarter, net sales in Mainland China declined mid-single-digits. Following a strong Lunar New Year in February, sales declined in March as additional COVID restrictions impacted many cities, most notably Shanghai, where our distribution centers serving the entire country are located. The restriction sharply curtailed productivity at these facilities, affecting our ability to both receive product being shipped into the country and to fulfill demand across all channels of distribution. However, shipments should begin to normalize as restrictions ease. Net sales in Hong Kong also declined throughout the quarter as the city took increasing measures to contain the virus. Partially offsetting these decreases with strong net sales growth in most other markets, including Japan, Malaysia, Thailand, and Singapore. Online sales in Asia Pacific grew strong double digits as we continue to expand our brand reach across new platforms. Our gross margin improved 70 basis points compared to last year. Strategic price increases of approximately 4% combined with favorable currency and reduced obsolescence contributed to the increase in gross margin as well as the favorable impact of anniversary last year's under absorption of manufacturing overhead. This more than offset the impact of increased inflationary pressures in our supply chain, mainly in logistics and materials, and increasing start-up costs for our new plant in Japan. Operating expenses decreased 40 basis points as a percent of sales. Our leverage of general and administrative expense was partially offset by increased shipping costs related to higher freight rates and more air shipments on increased sales volume. Additionally, as cities throughout China began tightening restrictions and traffic to Hainan slowed, we reduced certain expenses to correspond with slower retail traffic. Operating income rose 15% to $917 million, and our operating margin expanded 110 basis points to 21.6% in the quarter. Diluted EPS of $1.90 increased 17% compared to the prior year. During the quarter, we recorded $216 million of impairment to goodwill and other intangibles primarily related to Dr. Jart Plus, reflecting forecast for slower-than-expected growth in China and travel retail. We continue to believe in the growth potential of the brand, which has been impacted by the temporary COVID disruptions in Asia given its strong growth prior to the start of the pandemic as well as the growth seen in recovering markets. For the nine months, we generated $1.97 billion in net cash flows from operating activities, compared to $2.78 billion last year, which reflects investments in working capital to both support growth and mitigate some of the risk of supply chain disruptions as well as higher cash paid for taxes. This was partially offset by higher net income. We significantly increased our capital investment to $658 million to support the ongoing construction of our new manufacturing facility near Tokyo. Investments in our innovation center in Shanghai as well as investments in online and technology enhancements. And we returned $2.62 billion in cash to stockholders through a combination of share repurchases and dividends. Turning now to our outlook. As you have heard and are aware, there have been two significant headwinds that have emerged since we last gave guidance in early February, increased COVID-related restrictions in China also impacting Hainan and the invasion of Ukraine. Our current guidance for the balance of this year reflects continued momentum in the Americas and EMEA excluding travel retail as well as the continuation of lockdowns and corresponding distribution constraints in China through at least the first half of our fourth quarter. While we expect continued growth at retail in both Mainland China and Hainan, the severity of the distribution constraints we are experiencing are expected to result in a meaningful decline in net sales for these areas for the quarter. We are cautiously optimistic that we will be able to fulfill the majority of our orders in time for our planned 6.18 activities. The elimination of sales in Russia and Ukraine has reduced expected fourth-quarter sales growth by approximately 120 basis points. At the same time, we delivered outstanding results for the first nine months of the fiscal year, with greater diversification of our growth drivers. Our geographic diversity is a tremendous asset, and we expect our multiple engines of growth to continue, including the ongoing recovery of the Americas, Western Europe, and most markets in Asia. We expect to also deliver strong margin improvement for the year. The benefit of our strategic pricing actions this year, along with agility and our cost management are helping to offset the initial effects of increasing inflation throughout this fiscal year. We plan to continue to invest in the recovery, support innovation, and assuming current disruptions abate, fuel upcoming key shopping moments in the quarter, like 6.18 in China and Mother's Day. With these assumptions as our backdrop for the full fiscal year, organic net sales are now forecasted to grow 5% to 7%. This range excludes approximately two points from acquisitions, divestitures, and brand closures, primarily the inclusion of DECIEM, and currency is forecasted to be neutral. Diluted EPS is expected to range between $7.05 and $7.15 before restructuring and other charges. This includes approximately $0.05 of accretion from currency translation and $0.02 dilution from DECIEM. In constant currency, we expect EPS to rise by 8% to 10%. These expectations imply margin expansion of approximately 70 basis points, including dilution of 40 basis points from DECIEM this year. In closing, we managed extremely well through an increasingly complex environment in our third quarter, and these complexities are expected to meaningfully impact our fourth quarter. Despite this, we continue to expect to deliver a very strong year with above-average organic top-line growth, excellent margin expansion, and solid EPS growth. We are confident that we can continue to manage through the present temporary headwinds and be well prepared for accelerated momentum when the pandemic effects ease. And that concludes our prepared remarks. We'll be happy to take your questions at this time. 