  OperatorGood morning and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the AbbVie fourth quarter 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] I would now like to introduce Ms. Liz Shea, vice president, head of investor relations.Liz Shea -- Vice President and Head of Investor Relations  Good morning, and thanks for joining us. Also on the call with me today are Rick Gonzalez, chairman of the board and chief executive officer; Michael Severino, vice chairman and president; Rob Michael, vice chairman, finance and commercial operations and chief financial officer; and Jeff Stewart, executive vice president, chief commercial officer. Joining us for the Q&A portion of the call is Laura Schumacher, vice chairman, external affairs, chief legal officer, and corporate secretary. Before we get started, some statements we make today may be considered forward-looking statements for purposes of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

 



 AbbVie cautions that these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. Additional information about these risks and uncertainties is included in our SEC filings. AbbVie undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements, except as required by law. On today's conference call, non-GAAP financial measures will be used to help investors understand AbbVie's business performance.These non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled with comparable GAAP financial measures in our earnings release and regulatory filings from today, which can be found on our website. Unless otherwise noted, our commentary on sales growth is on a comparable basis, which includes full current year and historical results for Allergan. For this comparison of underlying performance, all historically reported Allergan revenues have been recast to conform to AbbVie's revenue recognition accounting policies and exclude the divestitures of Zenpep and Viokace. References to operational growth further excludes the impact of exchange. Following our prepared remarks, we'll take your questions. So with that, I'll now turn the call over to Rick.  Rick Gonzalez -- Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thank you, Liz. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. I'll provide perspective on our overall performance and outlook. And then Jeff, Mike, and Rob will review our quarterly business highlights, pipeline progress, financial results, and guidance for 2022 in more detail. Our performance this quarter tops off another excellent year for AbbVie, with results well above our initial expectations. We delivered full year 2021 adjusted earnings per share of $12.70, representing growth of more than 20% versus the prior year. Full year adjusted net revenues were more than $56 billion, up 10.5% on a comparable operational basis. These results demonstrate balanced performance across each of our major growth franchises, including double-digit comparable operational revenue growth from immunology, aesthetics, and neuroscience. I'm extremely pleased with our momentum, and we've entered this year in a strong position, which is reflected in our guidance. We anticipate 2022 adjusted earnings per share of $14 to $14.20, representing growth of 11% at the midpoint. Longer term, we remain well-positioned with an impressive set of diversified growth assets. In immunology, Skyrizi and Rinvoq are already contributing meaningful revenue, including $4.6 billion in combined sales last year with substantial growth anticipated in 2022 and beyond. Over the next few months, we expect to add several new indications to the list of approved uses for these two assets. At which point, Skyrizi and Rinvoq will be commercialized across all of Humira's major indications plus atopic dermatitis. With the strong performance that we're seeing in their initial indications and the robust data we've demonstrated across our broad development programs, we expect combined peak sales for Skyrizi and Rinvoq to exceed the peak revenues achieved by Humira. In hematological oncology, we've established a leading position with Imbruvica and Venclexta, which are both expected to remain important revenue contributors through the decade.

 



 To support our next wave of growth, we also have an exciting and diverse pipeline of promising new therapies to address critical unmet needs in both blood cancers and solid tumors. Notable opportunities from our mid- to late-stage oncology pipeline include: navitoclax for myelofibrosis, which has the potential to provide disease modification in a market where current treatments only address symptoms; epcoritamab, a potentially best-in-class CD3xCD20 for B-cell malignancies, including DLBCL and follicular lymphoma; ABBV-383, our BCMA CD3 bispecific, which has the potential to become a best-in-class treatment in multiple myeloma; and Teliso-V, our promising c-Met ADC being studied for nonsquamous non-small cell lung cancer, which was recently granted Breakthrough Therapy Designation. In neuroscience, we have a portfolio of compelling and differentiated therapies to support robust long-term growth in migraine, Parkinson's disease, and psychiatric conditions. Ubrelvy and QULIPTA are both demonstrating strong launch trajectories in migraine, with each treatment expected to contribute more than $1 billion in peak sales. Vraylar continues to have a significant opportunity with currently approved indications with peak sales expected to approach $4 billion. An approval in major depressive disorder represents upside to our current projections. In 951, a potentially transformative improvement to our current treatment options for patients with advanced Parkinson's disease with peak sales also anticipated to be more than $1 billion. Our leading aesthetics portfolio represents another extremely attractive growth opportunity. This business is performing well above expectations, delivering full year 2021 sales of more than $5.2 billion, $700 million higher than our initial guidance. AbbVie's increased promotional investments are driving accelerated category growth, especially in toxins and fillers, where there is substantial room for additional market penetration globally. Dedicated resources are also focused on delivering new product innovation within aesthetics with several exciting R&D programs internally, including both short-acting and long-acting toxins, as well as novel fillers, with biostimulatory or regenerative features. And we remain active with business development to pursue promising external technologies and complementary opportunities, including the recently closed Soliton acquisition, which further expands our body contouring portfolio. Given this focused investment, we expect our aesthetics franchise to deliver high single-digit revenue growth through the end of the decade, including sales of more than $9 billion in 2029. Lastly, we've developed a robust pipeline, including numerous attractive late-stage programs, novel early stage therapies, and a growing range of potential platform technologies, which we expect will collectively contribute to our growth through the decade. With the actions that we've taken to diversify our sources of growth, we remain very confident in the long-term outlook for our business. Following the U.S. Humira LOE event in 2023, we expect to quickly return to growth in 2024 and deliver a high single-digit growth from 2025 to the end of the decade. This is a testament to the strength of AbbVie's broad and balanced portfolio. In summary, this is an exciting time for our company. We're demonstrating excellent execution across our portfolio, and our long-term growth prospects remain very strong. With that, I'll turn the call over to Jeff. Jeff?Jeff Stewart -- Executive Vice President, Chief Commercial Officer  Thank you, Rick. Looking at our quarterly results, we continue to demonstrate excellent commercial execution across our therapeutic portfolio. I'll start with immunology, which delivered global revenues of more than $6.7 billion, reflecting growth of 13.3% on an operational basis. Global Humira sales were $5.3 billion, up 3.5%, with 6% revenue growth in the U.S., offset by biosimilar competition across the international markets where revenues were down 8.8% on an operational basis. Skyrizi is performing extremely well. Global sales of nearly $900 million were up 12.4% on a sequential basis, reflecting continued market share gains. Skyrizi has now surpassed Humira as the leader for total prescriptions in the U.S. psoriasis biological market with share of approximately 20%. We are also now leading the market in several international geographies, including Japan. Total in-play share, which includes both new and switching patients, remains very strong and now reflects roughly 37% patient share in the U.S., as well as leadership in nearly 20 key countries around the world. Skyrizi is also now approved for its second major indication, to treat adults with active psoriatic arthritis, further enhancing its compelling profile in dermatology. Field promotion is now active globally, and early feedback from physicians has been very positive, given Skyrizi's demonstrated skin clearance and joint efficacy in our PsA clinical program. With nearly 30% of patients visiting dermatologists having both skin and joint involvement, this new approval will sustain Skyrizi's strong momentum. In addition, we are preparing for the launch of Skyrizi in Crohn's disease, an indication with very meaningful long-term revenue potential, with regulatory approvals in both the U.S. and Europe anticipated this year. Rinvoq also continues to demonstrate robust growth. Global sales of more than $500 million were up 14% on a sequential basis. Prescriptions in RA remain strong, with a total market share of more than 5.5% in the U.S. and nearly 5% across key international markets. We're very pleased with the competitive labels for both PsA and atopic dermatitis, where we are making excellent progress with their launches globally. In atopic dermatitis, dermatologists appreciate key elements of Rinvoq's new label, including the incorporation of stringent skin and itch end points, reflective of the performance in our registrational trials, as well as an adolescent indication and dosing flexibility. Managed care access is expected to ramp fairly quickly for both atopic dermatitis and PsA in the U.S. We are also preparing for the launches of Rinvoq in ulcerative colitis and axial SpA, with regulatory approvals for both indications anticipated this year as well. Overall, we continue to feel very good about the performance and progress we are making with both Rinvoq and Skyrizi, which are expected to contribute more than $15 billion in combined risk-adjusted global sales in 2025. In hematologic oncology, global revenues were nearly $1.9 billion, up 4.7% on an operational basis. Venclexta once again delivered robust growth. Sales were up 34% on an operational basis with strong share performance across all approved indications. Imbruvica global revenues were down 2.7%, reflecting a slower-than-anticipated market recovery in CLL and increased share pressure from newer therapies. In neuroscience, revenues were more than $1.6 billion, up 19% on an operational basis, including robust double-digit growth for both Vraylar and Botox Therapeutic. I'm also very pleased with our performance in migraine, where we have a portfolio of multiple distinct therapies to address the full spectrum of this disease. This includes our two leading oral CGRP therapies: Ubrelvy for acute migraine, which delivered total sales of $183 million, up 13% on a sequential basis. We anticipate robust sales growth again this year based on Ubrelvy's competitive profile, continued strong new patient starts and a rapidly expanding CGRP segment. And we also have QULIPTA, the only oral CGRP treatment specifically developed for the prevention of episodic migraine. The launch is going extremely well. When considering both paid and bridge volume, QULIPTA is already capturing nearly 20% of the new-to-brand share in the preventative CGRP class. Roughly three months post launch, this is an incredible accomplishment, and it's a testament to QULIPTA's demonstrated efficacy, including rapid and meaningful reduction in migraine days. We expect commercial access for QULIPTA to ramp quickly in the first half of this year. In eye care, revenues of $960 million were up 3.9% on an operational basis, including $364 million in sales from Restasis. Lastly, Mavyret sales were $427 million, down 10.1% on an operational basis as treated patient volumes remain suppressed compared to pre-COVID levels. Overall, I'm very pleased with the performance and the momentum across the therapeutic portfolio. And with that, I'll turn the call over to Mike for additional comments on our R&D programs. Mike? Mike Severino -- Vice Chairman and President, Research and Development, Corporate Strategy Office, Operations and Human Resources Thank you, Jeff. We made significant advancement across all stages of our pipeline in 2021, and we expect continued progress again this year. In immunology, we had several recent important regulatory updates. We implemented safety and indication updates to our RA label for Rinvoq and also received FDA approval in psoriatic arthritis and atopic dermatitis, securing strong labels that highlight Rinvoq's favorable benefit-risk profile in both new indications. In atopic dermatitis, we received approval for both the 15- and 30-milligram doses. And based on the impressive levels of skin clearance and itch reduction demonstrated in our development program, we believe Rinvoq will be an important new treatment option for adult and adolescent patients with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis who have not responded well to other systemic agents such as cyclosporine, methotrexate, azathioprine or biologics. We also have regulatory applications under review for Rinvoq in ulcerative colitis, ankylosing spondylitis, and non-radiographic axial SpA. We expect an FDA approval decision next month for ulcerative colitis, in the second quarter for ankylosing spondylitis, and in the fourth quarter for non-radiographic axial SpA. In Europe, we anticipate approval decisions for ulcerative colitis and non-radiographic axial SpA in the second half of the year. We're nearing completion of Rinvoq's registrational program in Crohn's disease, which is the last major indication expansion program for Rinvoq. We recently announced positive top-line results from the first Phase 3 Crohn's induction study, where Rinvoq demonstrated a very strong impact on clinical remission and endoscopic response in a difficult-to-treat refractory patient population. We expect to see results from the second Phase 3 Crohn's induction study and from the maintenance study in the first half of this year with regulatory submissions anticipated in the second half of 2022. Also in immunology, we recently received FDA approval for Skyrizi in psoriatic arthritis, an important indication expansion for this asset. Based on the strong joint efficacy and the high level of skin clearance that Skyrizi provided in our registrational trials, we believe Skyrizi will be very competitively positioned as an effective new treatment option for psoriatic arthritis patients. We also have regulatory applications under review for Skyrizi in Crohn's disease with approval decisions expected in the U.S. next month and in Europe later this year. We've seen impressive results in our Crohn's disease program, and we believe Skyrizi has the potential to become an important new therapy in this market where there continues to be considerable unmet need. We're making very good progress with our early stage immunology pipeline as well, where we are developing novel agents with the goal of significantly advancing the standard of care across our core areas by providing deeper and more durable responses. Our anti-TNF steroid ADC, ABBV-154, is a novel approach for delivering a potent steroid that has the potential to provide durable remission in diseases such as RA, PMR, and Crohn's disease. We expect to see preliminary data from our Phase 2 dose-ranging study in RA in the fourth quarter of this year. We also expect to see Phase 2 proof-of-concept data in PMR and Crohn's disease in 2023. In dermatology, our early stage efforts are focused on developing oral agents that can provide clear skin with durable responses. Our RORgamma t inverse agonist, ABBV-157, is designed to more effectively inhibit IL-17 production compared to pure antagonists, which has the potential to result in a greater impact on skin inflammation. We recently began a Phase 2 dose-ranging study for 157 in psoriasis. Moving to oncology, where we continue to make good progress across all stages of our pipeline. We recently received an FDA Breakthrough Therapy Designation for Teliso-V and second-line-plus advanced or metastatic nonsquamous non-small cell lung cancer based on the encouraging results we've seen to date in our clinical program. Treatment options for patients who have exhausted platinum-based chemotherapy, immunotherapy, and targeted therapy are limited to single-agent chemo, which typically provides response rates of only 15% to 20% with a median overall survival of less than one year. Prognosis for these patients is very poor. While targeted therapies have been approved by the FDA for the 3% to 4% of non-small cell lung cancer patients harboring MET exon 14 skipping mutations, there are currently no therapies approved, specifically for the much larger group of patients who exhibit c-Met protein overexpression. Patients with overexpressed c-Met represent about 25% to 30% of the advanced or metastatic nonsquamous non-small cell lung cancer population with wild-type EGFR, which corresponds to an incidence of approximately 35,000 patients each year in the U.S. In Stage 1 of our Phase 2 study, we saw promising efficacy in heavily pretreated patients who received Teliso-V, including a 54% objective response rate in those with highly expressed c-Met. The second stage of the Phase 2 study is ongoing and has the potential to support an accelerated approval in second-line-plus advanced metastatic nonsquamous non-small cell lung cancer. We expect to see additional data from this study next year. We also recently began the clinical program for our next-generation c-Met ADC, ABBV-400, which utilizes a more potent topoisomerase inhibitor payload to potentially drive deeper tumor responses in patients with both intermediate and high levels of c-Met expression. We also expect to see data this year from several important indication expansion programs for Venclexta, including results from the Phase 3 CANOVA trial in relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma patients with a t(11;14) mutation, as well as results from our program for Venclexta in previously untreated higher-risk MDS patients, where we received a Breakthrough Therapy Designation. We plan to submit our regulatory applications to the FDA in the first half of this year for an accelerated approval in MDS and late in '22 or early '23 for multiple myeloma. Both indications represent important expansion opportunities for Venclexta and will help drive long-term growth for our oncology portfolio. We are also making very good progress with epcoritamab, where we continue to generate strong data in early stage studies to support our view that epcoritamab has the potential to become a differentiated and best-in-class CD3xCD20 bispecific across several B-cell malignancies, including diffuse B cell and follicular lymphomas. We'll see monotherapy data in the third quarter from the Phase 2 expansion cohort in DLBCL, which has the potential to support a submission for accelerated approval in the second half of this year. We also have a Phase 3 study ongoing in third-line relapsed/refractory DLBCL, and we plan to initiate several additional Phase 3 trials this year, including studies in earlier lines of therapy for diffuse B-cell lymphoma in multiple combinations, as well as in follicular lymphoma in combination with rituximab and Revlimid. This year, we'll also see additional data maturing from our cohort expansion studies for ABBV-383, both as a monotherapy and in combinations with standard of care and novel agents in multiple myeloma. We believe our BCMA CD3 bispecific has the potential to be differentiated on efficacy, safety and dosing interval and can be best-in-class across multiple lines of therapy. We plan to initiate Phase 3 studies later this year in relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma. We also continue to make good progress with navitoclax in myelofibrosis, where we've seen strong mid-stage data supporting our view that navitoclax has the potential to provide disease modification, which we believe will lead to improved and durable clinical outcomes for patients. We expect a Phase 3 data readout and regulatory submissions in the first half of next year, with approval anticipated near the end of 2023. Moving to neuroscience, where we expect several important pipeline events in 2022 as well. We recently completed discussions with the FDA and are preparing to submit our application for Vraylar as an adjunctive treatment for major depressive disorder. Based on the totality of the data and the strong benefit-risk profile demonstrated in our clinical program, we believe Vraylar has the potential to be competitively positioned as an adjunctive treatment for major depressive disorder. We expect a submission in the first quarter and an approval decision by the end of the year. We've also completed our registration-enabling program for ABBV-951, our novel subcutaneous levodopa/carbidopa delivery system for treatment of advanced Parkinson's disease. In our Phase 3 studies, 951 proved superior to oral levodopa/carbidopa in reducing motor fluctuations in this advanced population, and we believe our innovative new delivery system represents a potentially transformative improvement to current treatment options. We remain on track to submit our regulatory applications in the first half of this year in the U.S. and Europe, with both approval decisions anticipated in early 2023. And we expect to see Phase 3 data for QULIPTA in chronic migraine prevention later in the first quarter and plan to submit our regulatory applications in both the U.S. and Europe this summer, with approval decisions expected in the first half of 2023. So in summary, we remain focused on continuing to execute on our pipeline programs and anticipate numerous important regulatory and clinical milestones across all stages of our pipeline in 2022. This includes important indication expansion for on-market drugs and data readouts and regulatory actions for key late-stage assets, as well as proof-of-concept data from several early stage NME programs. With that, I'll turn the call over to Rob for additional comments on our fourth quarter performance and our 2022 financial outlook. Rob? Rob Michael -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Mike. AbbVie once again delivered outstanding performance while also advancing our strategic priorities. The strong results across our portfolio continue to support AbbVie's long-term growth outlook. Starting with fourth quarter results. We reported adjusted earnings per share of $3.31, up 13.4% compared to prior year and $0.05 above our guidance midpoint. Total adjusted net revenues were $14.9 billion, up 7.5% on an operational basis, excluding a 0.1% unfavorable impact from foreign exchange. The adjusted operating margin ratio was 49.3% of sales, an improvement of 240 basis points versus the prior year. This includes adjusted gross margin of 83.6% of sales, adjusted R&D investment of 12.1% of sales, and adjusted SG&A expense of 22.2% of sales. Net interest expense was $571 million, and the adjusted tax rate was 12.5%. Shifting to 2022. Our full year adjusted earnings per share guidance is between $14 and $14.20, reflecting growth of 11% at the midpoint. Excluded from this guidance is $4.74 of known intangible amortization and specified items. We expect adjusted net revenue of approximately $60 billion. At current rates, we expect foreign exchange to have a 0.8% unfavorable impact on full year sales growth. This revenue forecast comprehends the following approximate assumptions for our key products and therapeutic areas. We expect immunology global sales to grow double digits, including U.S. Humira growth of 8%, international Humira revenue of $2.6 billion at current exchange rates, Skyrizi global sales of $4.4 billion, and Rinvoq global sales of $2.7 billion. In hematologic oncology, we expect Venclexta global sales of $2.3 billion and Imbruvica global revenue of $5.4 billion. The Imbruvica forecast assumes market recovery in CLL, offset by share erosion from increased competition. For aesthetics, we expect global sales of $5.9 billion, including $2.6 billion for Botox Cosmetic and $1.7 billion from Juvederm. For neuroscience, we expect global revenue of $6.9 billion, including Botox Therapeutic sales of $2.7 billion, Vraylar sales of $2.2 billion, Ubrelvy sales of $800 million, and QULIPTA sales up $200 million with commercial access increasing rapidly in the first half of the year. For eye care, we expect global sales of $2.9 billion, including $700 million from Restasis, which assumes no generic competition in the first half of 2022. Lastly, we expect Mavyret global revenue of $1.7 billion. Looking at the P&L for 2022. We are forecasting full year adjusted gross margin of approximately 84% of sales, adjusted R&D investment of approximately $6.8 billion, and adjusted SG&A expense of approximately $12.7 billion. This guidance includes approximately $2.5 billion in expense synergies from the Allergan acquisition. We are forecasting the adjusted operating margin ratio to expand by 120 basis points to approximately 51.5% of sales. We expect adjusted net interest expense approaching $2.2 billion, our non-GAAP tax rate to be approximately 12.7%, and our share count to be roughly flat to 2021. Turning to the first quarter. We anticipate net revenue approaching $13.5 billion. At current rates, we expect foreign exchange to have a 1.3% unfavorable impact on sales growth. This revenue forecast comprehends the following approximate assumptions for our key therapeutic areas: immunology sales of $6.2 billion, hem/onc revenue of $1.7 billion, aesthetic sales of $1.3 billion, neuroscience revenue of $1.5 billion and eye care sales of $900 million. We are forecasting an adjusted operating margin ratio of approximately 51% of sales, and we model a non-GAAP tax rate of 12.4%. We expect adjusted earnings per share between $3.10 and $3.14, excluding approximately $1.22 of known intangible amortization and specified items. Finally, AbbVie's strong business performance and outlook continue to support our capital allocation priorities. We expect to generate adjusted free cash flow of approximately $24 billion in 2022, which is net of roughly $1 billion in Skyrizi royalty payments. This cash flow will fully support a strong and growing dividend, which we have increased by more than 250% since inception; continued debt repayment, where we expect to pay down just above $12 billion of debt in 2022 and estimate a net leverage ratio of 1.8 times by the end of the year. Our strong cash flow also allows for continued business development, with approximately $2 billion allocated annually to augment our pipeline with the most promising external technologies and innovative therapies. In closing, we are very pleased with AbbVie's strong results in 2021. And we expect to deliver robust performance in 2022 and over the long term. With that, I'll turn the call back over to Liz. Liz Shea -- Vice President and Head of Investor Relations Thanks, Rob. We will now open the call for questions. [Operator instructions] Operator, we'll take the first question. 