  OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Q4 2021 Welltower Inc. earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to your first speaker today to Mr. Matt McQueen, general counsel. Please go ahead.Matt McQueen -- General Counsel

 



 Thank you, and good morning. As a reminder, certain statements made during this call may be deemed forward-looking statements in the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. Although Welltower believes any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, the company can give no assurance that its projected results will be attained. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are detailed in the company's filings with the SEC. And with that, I'll hand the call over to Shankh.Shankh Mitra -- Chief Executive Officer and Chief Investment Officer Thank you, Matt, and good morning, everyone. I'll review the quarter, reflect back on 2021 on this year-end call, walk you through high-level business trends and our capital allocation priorities. John will provide an update on the operational environment for SHO and MOB portfolios, and Tim will walk you through our triple-net businesses, balance sheet highlights and first quarter guidance. 2021 was a year marked by high conviction capital deployment, partner and talent acquisition and a powerful inflection in our senior housing business.

 



 Our belief in the long-term demand thesis for the senior housing proved out as we witnessed significant occupancy growth starting in the spring of last year, which continued through the historically seasonally weak winter season. Just as importantly, in the second half of 2021, we began to see a significant shift in the pricing power. Interestingly, we found these pricing power during a period of relatively low occupancy levels. After all, what industry or asset class do you know of that is able to achieve pricing power with occupancy levels in the low 70% range. Low behold that pricing power continued to strengthen in Q4, and in the first quarter of this year despite the impact of Delta and Omicron. Same-store REVPOR grew 3.4% in Q4, following a year-over-year same-store revenue growth of 4.8%, one of the strongest quarter in the company's history. And even more encouraging is the revenue growth in U.S., exceeded 6% with the momentum accelerating through fourth quarter. John will walk you through the details in a moment. Though I am not happy with our subpar bottom line results due to increased expenses mainly from the Omicron induced labor crisis, I continue to believe we will see significant improvement throughout the year given the continued net hiring trends we're seeing from our operating partners. This assumes we don't experience a highly infectious variant. We can offset the higher cost of full-time employees just as we have done during the years prior to COVID, it is a significant presence of contract labor at surge pricing level that is a source of the issue. From a demand standpoint, we saw record interest in our product in Q4 that continued through January with inquiries up significantly from December. However, a meaningful number of tours got canceled or postponed as either the prospective resident or their family got COVID or a community that did not have enough employees to conduct the tour as there was a COVID crisis in the communities. However, the tours have picked up meaningfully in recent weeks, and we are starting to see strong sales activity, which should translate into higher net move-ins in next three to four weeks. If we are right about this, you may see occupancy growth exceed seasonal trends while occurring in an environment of strong rate growth. We project this will put us into the double-digit NOI growth range in Q1, only to accelerate further throughout the year.

 



 As disappointed as I am about the diminished bottom line flow-through in Q4 due to $30 million of agency costs, compared to only $5 million in Q1 of last year I continue to believe that our 2022 exit run rate and 2023 earnings power of this platform is unchanged. Moving to capital allocation. In 2021, we deployed $5.7 billion across great real estate with fantastic operator and at even a better price. The most incredible aspect of this story was the granular nature of execution with a median transaction size of $26 million. We're not believers in elephant hunting as larger transactions usually result in value accruing to the seller. As you know, we manage this company for our long-term shareholders to increase our share value. Q4 was no exception to this consistent trend. We have deployed $1.4 billion of capital in Q4 across 20 separate transactions with a median size of $24 million. I won't bore you with the details of every transaction, but I would be remiss not to mention a couple of them, which I'm particularly proud of, including a handful of trophy buildings in Boston and Florida at a very attractive basis. But perhaps the most exciting investment of the quarter was the formation of our partnership with Andy and Glenn at Quality Senior Living or QSL. It is hard to overstate how strong of a team Andy and Glenn have built from conceptualization of the product to development execution and ultimately, their operational excellence. For example, despite all the labor challenges that I've highlighted, QSL have used virtually no agency labor and their buildings are well occupied. Andy, who is one of the biggest users of our data analytics platform is embarking on a multiyear effort to expand the Blake brand with the full support of our platform behind him. I hope you are seeing a pattern here with how our data and predictive analytics platform attracts some of the best people in the business as we offer so much more than capital. This network effect of platform execution across multiyear partnership that were formed over the last few years will fuel our growth for years to come. As Delta and Omicron induce challenges, we had that ugly hit in Q4, capital deployment opportunity set only expanded, and that continued in Q1, which is seasonally the weakest quarter from a deal activity. With -- after a strong close of 2021, we have already closed an approximately $600 million of the investment over the last six weeks. And I'm pleased to report that our pipeline remains robust, highly visible and actionable. While the capital market backdrops remain volatile of late, driven primarily by the Fed headlines, we're well-positioned to fund our pipeline with well over $1 billion of equity and availability of liquidity in excess of $4 billion. We're proud of our capital allocation track record both deployment and sourcing. But if capital markets volatility continues, we will access different tools from our toolbox as we have done before. Lastly, I'm very proud to announce our new partnership with Reuben Brothers, which is buying Avery Healthcare, one of our largest operating partner. Reuben Brothers, founded by David and Simon Reuben is one of the largest family offices in the world, and is the owner of prime real estate and infrastructure, both in U.K. and globally. They are also a pioneer of investing in alternative real estate and infrastructure as an early investor and owner of Global Switch. Reuben Brothers share our optimism for the exceptional growth trajectory for healthcare and wellness infrastructure as society ages. We're particularly excited about the prospect of expanding the platform together as Reuben Brothers owns some of the most prime land and real estate in the U.K. Tim and I have said on this call many times that temporary degradation of cash flow doesn't necessarily mean the extraction of value. Avery which constitutes 16% of our same-store triple net NOI will be significantly delevered through this equity infusion from Reuben Brothers. Partnering with highly sophisticated global investors like Reuben Brothers, validates our view of the long-term value of this business despite Wall Street's obsession with point-to-time coverage. In conclusion, I'm very proud to of our execution in 2021 across operations, capital allocation and partnership. That stage is set for multiyear earnings growth as we find ourselves at the bottom of both secular and cyclical cycles with unparalleled platform built with advanced data analytics, 20 or so growth vehicles with different partners and talent to execute on it. The pandemic has been devastating for our entire ecosystem, but we have doubled down during this massive disruption given our high conviction investment thesis, you as our shareholders can rest assured that we'll not be resting on our laurels and that will continue to dig deeper and wider moat. With that, I'll pass it over to John. John?John Burkart -- Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer Thank you, Shankh. My comments today will focus on the performance of our management operating segments in the quarter. Starting with our medical office portfolio. In the fourth quarter, our outpatient medical segment delivered 2.4% same-store NOI growth over the prior year's quarter despite a 20 basis point decline in occupancy. We continue to see strong retention rates at 86% in the fourth quarter and with increasing construction costs and rising market rates, we will continue to push renewal rates in exchange and accept the reasonable level of increased turnover and related frictional vacancy as we maximize the value of the portfolio. Now turning to our senior housing operating portfolio. The strong demand-based recovery in the senior housing business continues to strengthen. The SHO portfolio same-store revenue increased 4.8% in the fourth quarter of 2021, representing the first full period of year-over-year same-store revenue growth since the beginning of the pandemic. Occupancy grew 90 basis points over the prior year's quarter. Again, the first year-over-year increase in occupancy since the beginning of the pandemic and the largest year-over-year gain for any quarter since 2016. Sequentially, the SHO portfolio spot occupancy increased approximately 70 basis points during the fourth quarter to 77.7%. Compounding these strong occupancy trends is a notable shift in pricing power. Over the second half of the year, operators have successfully raised and are again able to charge community raised rates and are, again, able to charge community fees, both of which were reflected in a 3.4% year-over-year increase in REVPOR during the quarter. And following an outsized increases on January and February renewals with little to no pushback, we expect further acceleration in REVPOR growth over the course of the year. Geographically, each of our markets Canada, the U.K. and the U.S. are showing improvement in same-store top line metrics through the quarter. Our Canadian portfolio, which has lagged the recovery posted a year-over-year revenue decline of 3% in Q4 2021. However, the revenue decline improved intra-quarter moving from a decline of 4.2% in October 2021 to a decline of 1.4% in December '21 compared to the prior year's respective months. Sequentially, the Canadian same-store portfolio grew at a revenue rate of 1.8% in the fourth quarter. In the U.K., our same-store revenue increased 7.8% during the fourth quarter on a year-over-year basis, accelerating from 7.1% growth in October of 2021 to 9% in December of 2021, compared to the prior year's respective months. Finally, in the U.S., where the majority of our portfolio is located, year-over-year revenue growth in the fourth quarter was 6.3%. The acceleration in revenue growth was particularly pronounced in the U.S., accelerating from 3.8% in October '21 versus the prior year's month to 9.1% in December. Despite these encouraging top line trends, expenses increased 8.8% year over year, driven largely by excessive agency cost. The combination of holiday time off and Omicron disruption led to an increase in agency costs in the quarter, almost 4.5 times agency expense versus the prior year's quarter. Excluding agency costs, expenses increased 5.3%. Stress and systems highlights opportunities and issues and the extreme stress in the healthcare system brought on by COVID has identified some opportunities to improve the value proposition for our hard-working healthcare workers. The agencies have been a temporary crutch, which will provide a short-term option for both operators and the healthcare workers. That said, the excessive use of agencies is truly short term in nature and the exceptional premiums that they charge as much as six times the base rate during the recent holiday period do not pass through to the agency employees who typically do not receive benefits either. The quality of life and their work experience is substantially less desirable than that of a permanent employee. Agency employees lack the connection to their coworkers and customers that they desire as they travel from site to site, city to city and state to state on a daily basis often away from their families. Additionally, agency employees are less efficient as they do not know the systems nor the processes of the operator or the site nor the specific customer requirement. Our operators have many workflows underway at this time to improve the value proposition for permanent employees, which were bearing fruit prior to the Omicron. Nonetheless, the results of these outsized expenses was a decline in same store NOI of 9.3% in the fourth quarter of 2021, but still marked an improvement from Q3 2021, with over 50% of operators delivering positive NOI growth for the period. The recovery continues to strengthen despite recent Omicron disruption, and we remain confident in our ability to drive significant NOI growth in 2022. Through January, agency labor expense has declined as staff cases have fallen. Agency labor expense is expected to moderate further through the first half of 2022 and declined substantially in the second half of 2022. The other disruption caused by Omicron was a record cancellation of tourists, which Shankh described. However, at this point, weekly staff cases are down 81% from their peak, including an 89% drop in the U.S., and we are seeing operations normalize. The disruption of tours and sales caused occupancy to fall about 20 basis points in January. However, with the high level of traffic, we expect that the continued occupancy gains will return and that we will regain lost occupancy by the end of the quarter. Here are some quotes from our operators about the strength of traffic and deposits. Digital inquiries were up 36% over 2019 in the fourth quarter and continued strong in January. And our four-week averages for inquiries, tours and deposits are the highest they've been since August of 2021, we are seeing week-over-week growth in deposits of 10%, the last four weeks running. We are experiencing the strongest January for inquiries in several years. And finally our inquiries from the last week alone have been the highest numbers we've ever experienced. In closing, I have shifted from full immersion in the business to planning in action. I'm even more excited about the future opportunities across the Welltower platform. We are leveraging our proprietary data analytics platform and operationalizing the data to drive results. This process is occurring right now as we have several workflows underway, which we expect to bear fruit in the immediate future, as well as many more workflows that we expect to drive our outperformance in the quarters and years to come. I continue to be appreciative of the warm welcome and excitement expressed by our operators as we leverage our combined real estate operating company and care experience to improve the customer and employee experience and drive financial results. Each operator has a unique expertise and opportunities. We have been working very well together and offering support where needed from implementing best practices to applying data analytics to improve their business. In one case, we identified a software tool over 25 years old. As they say, the '90s called and they want their beeper back. I'm confident there is a substantial opportunity to implement operational excellence across the board and bringing the basic back office and sales operations up to match the high quality of care the operators are delivering which will drive significant margin growth in the years to come. I'll now turn the call over to Tim.Tim McHugh -- Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Thank you, John. My comments today will focus on our fourth quarter 2021 results. Performance of our triple net investment segment in the quarter, our capital activity, a balance sheet and liquidity update, and finally, our outlook for the first quarter. Welltower reported fourth quarter net income attributable to common stockholders of a $0.13 per diluted share and normalized funds from operations of $0.83 per diluted share, relative to the guidance of $0.78 to $0.83 per share. Our results included approximately $18 million or $0.04 per diluted share of HHS funds and other out-of-period government grants that were not previously budgeted. Turning to our triple net lease portfolios. As a reminder, our triple-net lease portfolio coverage and occupancy stats reported a quarter in arrears. So these statistics reflect the trailing 12 months at 9/30/2021. In our senior housing triple-net portfolio, same store NOI increased 4.2% year over year, driven by improvements in rent collections on leases currently on cash recognition and the early impact of rental increases tied to CPI. We expect the impact of both these trends to accelerate in 2022. As rent collections improve, given that 20% of our leases are subject to API-based escalators. Trailing 12-month EBITDA coverage was 0.8 times. Looking forward, we expect coverages to inflect positively in the first half of 2022 as year-over-year improvement in fundamentals followed the positive trends expected in our senior housing operating portfolio. Next, our long-term post-acute portfolio generated negative 0.8% year-over-year same store NOI growth. However, similar to our senior housing triple net portfolio, we expect NOI growth to improve in 2022 through greater rent collections on leases currently in cash recognition, as well as CPI-based rent escalators. Trailing 12-month EBITDAR coverage was 1.29 times. Over the course of 2021, we completed $458 million of long-term post-acute dispositions at a blended cap rate of 8.7%. With an additional $108 million under contract for sale at year-end. As a result, our long-term post-acute portfolio represented just 5.2% of total in-place NOI at year-end versus 10.1% at the end of 2020. A 490 basis point decline driven largely by the exit of our Genesis relationship. And lastly, health systems, which is comprised of our ProMedica Senior Care joint venture with ProMedica Health System, had same-store NOI growth of positive 2.75% year over year and trailing 12-month EBITDAR coverage was 0.39 times. The sequential improvement in coverage was driven by the previously announced agreement to sell 25 assets that have been contributing negative EBITDAR. As of year-end, we completed the sale of '21 of those assets with the remaining four held for sale. Turning to capital market activity. We continue to enhance our balance sheet strength and position the company to capitalize our robust and highly visible pipeline of capital deployment opportunities by utilizing our ATM program to fund those near-term transactions. Since the beginning of the fourth quarter, we've sold 11.3 million shares via forward sale agreements at an initial weighted average price, $85.06 per share for expected gross proceeds of $961 million. We currently have approximately 11.1 million shares remaining unsettled, which are expected to generate future proceeds of $949 million. This is in addition to $220 million of expected property disposition and loan payoff proceeds. During the quarter, we also issued $500 million of 10-year unsecured debt maturing in 2032 with a coupon of 2.75%. Following similar discipline in our equity funding strategy, this is our third unsecured issuance in 2021, bringing full year issuance to $1.75 billion, with an average ratio of 9.5 years and a coupon of 2.6%. At year-end, when factoring in cash and restricted cash balances, our liquidity position exceeded the $4 billion of borrowing capacity on our line of credit. When combined with the previously mentioned $1.2 billion of combined unsettled ATM proceeds and expected disposition proceeds, we are in a very strong liquidity position heading into 2022. We ended the fourth quarter with 6.95 times net debt to annualized adjusted EBITDA, down slightly from last quarter. Leverage is impacted by the timing of $1.5 billion of net investment activity completed later in the quarter. If we run rate the impact of net investment activity completed in the quarter, pro forma net debt to adjusted EBITDA decreased to 6.75 times. We continue to be pleased with the momentum of our top line recovery in our senior housing operating portfolio. with portfolio spot occupancy ending the quarter at 77.7%, 70 basis points higher than the end of the prior quarter, but still 950 basis points below pre-COVID levels. The portfolio also sits 1,300 basis points below peak occupancy levels. Setting the stage for a powerful EBITDA recovery as occupancy upside and strong rate growth is coupled with significant margin expansion of a very depressed base. Lastly, moving to our first quarter outlook. Last night, we provided an outlook for the first quarter of net income attributable to common stockholders per diluted share of $0.17 to $0.22 per share, and normalized FFO per diluted share of $0.79 to $0.84 or $0.815 at the midpoint. This guidance takes into consideration approximately $6 million or $0.015 per share of HHS funds expected to be received in the first quarter. Excluding the HHS funds, the $0.80 per share midpoint of our first quarter guidance, represents a $0.01 sequential increase from an as adjusted $0.785 per share number for 4Q, which excludes $18 million of previously recognized HHS and out-of-period U.K. and Canadian subsidies recognized in the quarter. This $0.015 increase is composed of $0.025 from a sequential increase in senior housing operating portfolio NOI and fourth quarter investment activity and an offset of $0.01 increase of sequential G&A and income taxes. Underlying this FFO guidance is estimated first quarter total portfolio year-over-year same-store growth of 7%, driven by subsegment growth of outpatient medical, 1% to 2% growth; long-term post-acute, 1% to 2%; health systems, 2.75%; senior housing triple net, 5% to 6%; and finally, senior housing offering growth of approximately 15%, driven by revenue growth of 10%. Underlying this revenue growth is an expectation of approximately 420 basis points of year-over-year average occupancy increase. And with that, I will hand the call back over to Shankh.Shankh Mitra -- Chief Executive Officer and Chief Investment Officer Thanks, Tim. I wanted to conclude this call by addressing something that we usually don't talk about, and that is our comprehensive team. We have completed -- completely overhauled and upgraded our team, and this was a multiyear effort building out new areas such as breaktime analytics to create a truly scalable platform. With extremely low volunteer turnover, we continue to hire the best and the brightest to farther deepen our capital allocation expertise. Historically, the majority of the alpha we created have been through astute raising or deployment of capital. Over the last 15 months, though, we have also built out an industry-leading and frankly, a very significant development team under the leadership of Mike Fey and Ayesha Menon. The last piece of this puzzle is building out our operational excellence and asset management capabilities. This started with the hiring of John in 2021. John is building out a world-class team that will accelerate value creation for our shareholders for years to come. We have added a net 51 people last year and we're likely to add another 80 new colleagues in 2022. Many of you who follow our company closely understand that our asset platform is like a coil spring today. We spent heavily during the pandemic, but most of these assets are sitting with low occupancy and thus, cash flow which is about to be released and surge forward to realize its full value. Similarly, the people side of our business platform is also a coil spring today. You are only seeing them in G&A line, but their full contribution to the revenue line will be seen in 2023 and beyond. With that, operator, please open up the call for questions. 