  OperatorGood morning. The Roper Technologies conference call will now begin. Today's call is being recorded. [Operator instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Zack Moxcey, vice president, investor relations. Please go ahead, sir.Zack Moxcey -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



 Good morning and thank you all for joining us as we discuss the fourth quarter and full year financial results for Roper Technologies. Joining me on the call this morning are Neil Hunn, president and chief executive officer; Rob Crisci, executive vice president and chief financial officer; Jason Conley, vice president and chief accounting officer; and Shannon O'Callaghan, vice president of finance. Earlier this morning, we issued a press release announcing our financial results. The press release also includes replay information for today's call. We have prepared slides to accompany today's call, which are available through the webcast and are also available on our website. Now, if you'll please turn to page two. We begin with our safe harbor statement. During the course of today's call, we will make forward-looking statements, which are subject to risks and uncertainties as described on this page, in our press release and in our SEC filings.You should listen to today's call in the context of that information. And now, please turn to page three. Unless otherwise noted, we will discuss our results and guidance on an adjusted non-GAAP and continuing operations basis. For the fourth quarter, the difference between our GAAP results and adjusted results consists of the following items: amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, purchase accounting adjustments to commission expense, a Sunquest trade name and technology asset impairment related to the merger with CliniSys. And lastly, income tax restructuring associated with our pending divestiture of TransCore. Reconciliations can be found in our press release and in the appendix of this presentation on our website. And now, if you please turn to page four, I will hand the call over to Neil. After our prepared remarks, we will take questions from our telephone participants.

 



 Neil? Neil Hunn -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Zack, and good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining us. Let's turn to page four and review today's agenda. As usual, we'll start with our quarterly and full year highlights. We will then provide details regarding our segment performance, followed by sharing our first quarter and full year 2022 guidance. At the end, we'll leave plenty of time to address all your questions. Next slide, please. As we turn to page five, the main takeaways for today's call are: First, our strong finish to '21.

 



 Second, that we are set up very well for a solid 2022 organic performance. And third, we have substantial M&A capacity given our rapid deleveraging last year. As it relates to the fourth quarter and close to 2021, financial performance was excellent with double-digit growth in revenue, EBITDA, DEPS, and cash flow. Additionally, because of our strong cash performance last year, our balance sheet is in a great spot as we exceeded our deleveraging plans for the year. As we look toward our 2022 outlook, we have considerable tailwinds that help set up for a very strong year. Underpinning this outlook is our software recurring revenue growth momentum. Given strong market demand, continued innovation in new products and an increased shift toward our SaaS solutions, we exit 2021 with robust ARR growth that carries momentum into '22. In addition, our product businesses are experiencing strong demand and record levels of backlog, which provide these businesses with an unprecedented level of in-hand orders and revenue visibility heading into the year. Factoring all this together, we expect 6% to 8% organic revenue growth in 2022. In addition to this organic outlook, our balance sheet is well positioned to allow us to be more meaningfully offensive with M&A in 2022. So the table is set for us to have great 2022 and continue our long-term track record of double-digit cash flow compound. Now, let me turn things over to our CFO, Rob Crisci, to walk through our financial summary. Rob?Rob Crisci -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Neil. Good morning, everyone, and thanks again for joining us. Turning to page six, looking at our Q4 income statement performance. As Zack stated earlier, all the financials here are reported on a continuing operations basis unless otherwise noted. Both organic revenue and total revenue for the quarter increased 13% to a total of $1.51 billion. EBITDA grew 12% to $576 million. EBITDA margin was down 10 basis points versus prior year at 38.1%. That all resulted in adjusted diluted earnings per share of $3.73, which was above our guidance range. Free cash flow grew 4% in the quarter on top of last year's 23% fourth quarter growth. Cash conversion was once again very strong at 35% of revenue and 92% of EBITDA. Q4 was a nice finish to a very strong year and positions us well for a great 2022. Next slide. Turning to page seven, reviewing the Q4 results by segment. Neil will discuss the full year segment performance in more detail a little later, but we wanted to just highlight the Q4 results by segment here. All four segments grew double digit organically as our businesses executed very well and continued to win within their niche markets. application software segment grew 10% organically with broad-based strength throughout the segment. EBITDA margin increased to 43.8%. For Network Software, excellent 14% organic growth with EBITDA margin increasing to 52.3%. For measurement and analytical solutions, 15% organic growth was broad-based with double-digit growth at Neptune, medical products and our industrial businesses. EBITDA margin was 31.3% as our businesses continue to navigate supply chain challenges. Lastly, for process technologies, a nice rebound from last year's decline with 17% organic revenue growth and EBITDA margins of 31.2%. Next slide, turning to page eight, which is a summary of our full year 2021 financial highlights. For full year 2021, organic revenue growth was 9%. We benefited from both our strong organic growth and meaningful contributions from our recent acquisitions to achieve 19% total revenue growth. EBITDA grew 22% for the year to exceed $2.2 billion. EBITDA margin increased 90 basis points to 38.2%. Full year DEPS increased 23% to $14.18 and which was above the high end of our guidance range. Free cash flow performance was outstanding for the year with 19% growth to $1.8 billion. Our free cash flow represented 31% of revenue and 82% of EBITDA. Excellent cash conversion, which is, of course, a key component of Roper's business model and value creation flywheel. We are well positioned to continue our double-digit cash flow compounding moving forward. Next slide. Turning to page nine, which is the latest installment in our successful deleveraging story, including our discontinued operations, total operating cash flow for 2021 exceeded $2 billion. After capex and servicing of our dividend, nearly all of our excess free cash flow went to debt reduction. In total, we were able to reduce our net debt by $1.7 billion in 2021, which exceeded the deleveraging outlook we shared with you last January by about $200 million. We ended the year with net debt to EBITDA of 3.1 times. Subsequent to year-end, we closed the previously announced $350 million Zetec divestiture, which has further reduced our leverage. The closing of the TransCore divestiture expected for later this quarter will bring in over $2.1 billion of additional after-tax proceeds. We are pleased with our performance here as we once again demonstrated our ability to quickly delever after large acquisitions, reinforcing our commitment to our solid investment-grade ratings. So with that, I will turn it back over to Neil for the remainder of our prepared remarks. Neil?Neil Hunn -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Rob. Let's turn to page 11 and walk through the 2021 highlights for our application software segment. Revenues here were $2.38 billion, up 8% on an organic basis and EBITDA margins were 44.2%. Across this segment, we saw organic recurring revenue which is a touch north of 75% of the revenue for this segment increase 8% for the year. This recurring revenue growth is enabled by strong customer retention, continued migration to our SaaS delivery models, cross-selling activity and new customer adds. Across this group of companies, the financial strength was broad-based. To highlight a few companies, Deltek, our enterprise software business that serves the U.S. federal, contractor, architect, engineering and other services end markets, had another great year. Deltek had nice gains in both our government contracting and private sector end markets, gaining share at each and driving considerable SaaS adoption. Deltek continues to benefit by having favorable secular tailwinds. Turning to Vertafore, a great year, exceeding the EBITDA expectations that we outlined at the time of the acquisition in 2020. Vertafore had impressive demand from their enterprise customers as they continue to partner with P&C agencies to tech-enable their customer acquisition, quoting and underwriting workflows. Notably, Vertafore had record quarterly bookings in Q4, which only adds to their ARR momentum. Amy, to you and your team, congrats to a phenomenal start as part of the Roper family. During the fourth quarter, we combined CliniSys and Sunquest to create the largest global lab diagnostics and informatics business. Together, the businesses will begin integrating their go-forward product road maps and innovation efforts and operate under the CliniSys brand. Also of note, both CliniSys and data innovation set records by a wide margin for bookings activity in 2021. Finally, as it relates to this group, we recently completed the acquisition of Horizon Lab Systems, which adds public health, water and environmental laboratory cloud-based software to the global CliniSys product portfolio. Aderant continues to be a solid performer for Roper, taking share in '21 from our primary large law competitor. Also, starting in 2020 and gaining momentum last year, Aderant is seeing a meaningful shift toward our cloud offering, helping drive substantial increases in their recurring revenue stream. Finally, we completed a small tuck-in acquisition, American LegalNet, which will extend and enhance Aderant's court docketing software solution. Finally, Strata's combination with EPSI has worked out wonderfully well. Today, Strata partners with about half of the U.S. acute care hospitals to help them manage, forecast and plan their operating and capital expenses and continues to extend both market share and product cross-selling. Looking to the outlook for 2022 in this segment. We expect mid-single-digit growth that is driven by our ARR or recurring revenue momentum, making for a solid year for this segment. And with that, let's turn to our next slide. Turning to page 12, as a reminder, the financial performance for this segment, as well as in X2, MAS and PT are shown on a continuing ops basis. 2021 revenues in our Network segment were $1.34 billion, up 11% on an organic basis and EBITDA margins clocked in at 51.1% for the year. The exceptional organic growth performance in this segment was underpinned by very strong growth in recurring revenue, which is roughly 80% of the segment's revenue. The growth in margin performance in this segment was broad based and well distributed. As we dig into business-specific performance, our U.S. and Canadian freight match businesses were just amazing throughout 2021. Market conditions were very favorable, which led to record levels of network adds, especially on the carrier side. More so, the leadership team at DAT did a terrific job scaling infrastructure to meet the market's demand while maintaining aggressive new product innovation efforts, which led to higher ARPU as well. Over the longer arc of time, our freight match businesses continue to be well positioned to enable the digitization of the spot freight markets. Also, all of our other businesses in this segment saw increasing levels of ARR growth throughout the year, which helped set up for a strong 2022. To highlight a few, foundry did a terrific job of continuing to extend their product advantage by using AI ML to automate tasks within the media and entertainment postproduction workflows. In addition, foundry has benefited by the continued increases in content creation budgets for streaming, animation and theatrical releases. iTrade, our network food supply chain business, rebounded very nicely in 2021 following the 2020 COVID shutdowns. In addition to benefiting by food service reopening, iTrade was able to meaningfully expand their food supply chain network in 2021. iPipeline continues to benefit from the tech enabling of the life insurance distribution model. And our long-term care GPO, pharmacy software, and home health analytics businesses continue to benefit from the post COVID recovery and the longer-term demographic aging of America. Finally, both RFID and Inovonics had good years, improving in the second half, especially within their healthcare applications. Turning to the full year outlook. We expect to see high single-digit organic growth for this segment, driven by a combination of strong recurring revenue momentum and favorable market tailwinds. Please turn to the next slide. As we turn to Page 13, revenues in our MAS segment were $1.56 billion, up 8% on an organic basis. EBITDA margins for the segment were 33.1% for the year. Again, these results are on a continuing ops basis. Before getting into business-specific details, across this segment, demand continues to be very strong. As previously mentioned, product backlogs ended the year at record levels. Also, each of these businesses are navigating the current supply chain environment. Strong demand at Neptune continued throughout the year, picking up in the back half as Neptune's end markets continue to fully reopen. Also, the Neptune team continues to do a great job innovating their core product offering both in terms of the metering and the meter reading technologies. These innovative product advances helped set Neptune up for many great years. Verathon was very good last year. Remember, they had a great 2020, which was aided by COVID-related demand, but Verathon's 2021 was meaningfully higher than 2019, roughly 40% larger. Over the last two years, this team has innovated like crazy, going from zero to No. 2 in the U.S. single-use bronchoscope market, launching several new video or bronchoscope products and developing a new ultrasound core platform. Perhaps more importantly, in 2021, Verathon's largest product offering is now a mission-critical consumable medical product. Our other medical product businesses, especially NDI and CIVCO, recovered nicely in 2021 as healthcare spending started to normalize. These businesses enter 2022 with record levels of order backlog. Demand across our industrial business rebounded with better end market and capital spending conditions but somewhat hampered by supply chain challenges. As it relates to the 2022 guidance, we expect to see high single-digit growth for this segment, underpinned by strong demand and backlog levels, but somewhat constrained by the current supply chain environment. Net-net, we expect a very strong year for this group. Now, let's turn to our final segment, process tech. As we turn to page 14, revenues at our process tech segment were $499 million in 2021, up 8% on an organic basis. EBITDA margins were 32.2% for the year. These results are also reported on a continuing ops basis. The story here is we saw improving end market conditions across virtually every one of our businesses in this segment and very strong demand in the second half. Cornell continues to perform well for us. This is partially based on market conditions, but also based on Cornell's product innovation as they're seeing very nice demand tick up for their IoT connected pumping solutions and the share gains they're enjoying as a result of their niche focused go-to-market teams. Similar to that of our MAS businesses, these businesses are being impacted by supply chain challenges, but continue to navigate well through the issues. Across this group, the business has exited 2021 with record levels of order backlog. As we turn to the outlook for 2022, we expect mid-teens organic growth based on strong levels of backlog and solid market conditions. Now, please turn to page 16 as we'll walk through our 2022 guidance. For 2022, we're establishing adjusted DEPS guidance on a continuing ops basis of $15.25 to $15.55 Underpinning this DEPS guidance is organic revenue growth of 6% to 8% and a tax rate of 21% to 22%. As we said throughout the call, we feel quite bullish about our 2022 based on our 2021 recurring revenue growth and the momentum it carries into this year with strong product demand and the record levels of order backlog. As you look to the first quarter, we're establishing adjusted DEPS guidance to be in the range of $3.63 and $3.67, again, on a continuing ops basis. Now, some concluding comments, and we'll get to your questions. As we turn to page 17 and our closing remarks, we want to leave you with the same three points we started with: We had a strong '21, we are set up very well for a solid 2022 organic performance, and we have substantial M&A capacity heading into the year. As it relates to 2021, our revenues grew 19% to $5.8 billion and 9% on an organic basis. EBITDA grew 22% to $2.2 billion, which was 38.2% of revenue. Free cash flow grew 19% to $1.8 billion, 31% of revenue and 82% of EBITDA. Finally, we exceeded our deleveraging plan by reducing net debt by $1.7 billion and ending the year with 3.1 times leverage. As we discussed throughout this call, we are set up to have a very strong 2022. Our 2021 software recurring revenue growth provides significant momentum heading into the year. Additionally, our product businesses had and have broad-based demand and record levels of backlog. Taken together and further aided by favorable market tailwinds, we expect to see 6% to 8% organic revenue growth this year. In addition, we have reloaded our balance sheet and continue to have a highly active and engaged pipeline of M&A opportunities. We anticipate having about $5 billion of available M&A firepower over the course of 2022. As a result, we have a high level of conviction that will continue our double-digit cash flow compounding in 2022. And with that, let's open it up to your questions. 