
OperatorGood day and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Pinduoduo First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers' presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to our first speaker today, Mr. Jason Shu. Please take over.Jason Shu -- Investor RelationsThank you, operator. Hello, everyone and thank you for joining us today. Pinduoduo earnings release was distributed earlier and is available on the IR website at investor.pinduoduo.com as well as through GlobeNewswire services. So on today's call, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Chen Lei, will make some general remarks on our performance for the past quarter and our strategic focus going forward. Our VP of Strategy, David Liu, will then elaborate further on our specific strategic initiatives. Our VP of Finance, Tony Ma, will then take us through our financial results for the first quarter ended March 31st, 2021.Before we begin, I would like to refer you to our Safe Harbor statement in the earnings press release, which applies to this call as we will make certain forward-looking statements. Also, this call includes discussions of certain non-GAAP financial measures. Please refer to our earnings release, which contains a reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures to GAAP measures. Now it is my pleasure to introduce our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Chen Lei. Lei, please go ahead.Lei Chen -- Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Jason. Hello everyone and thank you for joining our first quarter 2021 results announcement. It has been over a year since the initial break of COVID-19. Since then, we have carefully moved toward normalcy while respecting the necessary precautions and occassional measures to tame down the threat of the coronavirus. After mostly staying in place over Lunar New Year holidays in February, Chinese consumers finally took a well-deserved break over the May Day holidays shopping and traveling around the country.With summer approaching, we hope that the global pandemic situation will continue to improve as more people receive their vaccinations. I would like to thank the merchants and logistics partners who work closely with us to serve our users throughout the period. Together, we created another industry first by staying open and serving users over the Lunar New Year. We provided users with cheer by ensuring that they could get what they required over the holiday and easily send presents and care packages to their loved ones back home with just a few clicks on our app.According to the State Post Bureau, the total parcel volume over the period from 11th to 17th February stood at 660 billion growing by 260% over the same period last year. We are proud to have contributed toward keeping up our users' spirit while they kept themselves, their loved ones, and their communities safe. Our overarching commitment to serving our users has helped us put yet another strong quarter. Our annual active buyers increased by 35.4 million from the December quarter to reach 823.8 million for the 12 months ending on 31st March, 2021.We continue to build trust and mindshare with our users. User activity on our platform continued to increase. Over the quarter, our MAU increased to 724.6 million representing 88% of our annual active buyers. Total revenues excluding revenues from merchandise sales was RMB17 billion, a year-on-year increase of 161%. Our growing scale gives us both greater capacity as well as responsibility to live up to our mission to benefit all.We constantly think about how we can best marshal our resources and reach to catalyze improvements and bring more benefit to society. Our direct access to over 800 million consumers and our understanding of them as well as our network of over 8.6 million merchants on our platform makes us uniquely well positioned to bring top minds from around the world together to develop practical solutions to real-world problems that our users encounter every day.As we work toward our goal of becoming the world's largest agriculture and grocery platform, we must also seize the golden opportunity to transport and modernize the agri-food system. We want to help consumers adopt healthier and more environmentally sustainable diets while improving all the links of the supply chain and cost structure of agriculture industry.And now, let me touch on two points. First, we are pursuing partnerships to answer questions on the future of food. We have just entered a research partnership to quantify the impact of plant-based meats on human health. Alternative proteins are a promising component of a more sustainable diet. It's useful to know how will it affect us. And this is not our first research partnership and it will certainly not be our last. For example, a year ago, we started a project to develop a more portable and low-cost test for pesticide residues. Upon commercialization, that project will improve food safety and quality thereby benefiting many people.Second, we are rethinking logistics systems and infrastructure. We have the privilege of being the only exclusively mobile commerce players of this scale in the world. This unique characteristics of Pinduoduo has helped us to become world's largest commerce platform by the number of paying users. This singular focus on mobile-only experience came about because we recognized back in 2015 the immense potential of ubiquitous mobile computing to drive change in consumer behavior and ushering a totally new era of interactivity among users.Similarly, with logistics systems and infrastructure, we are looking at how things can be done with a fresh pair of eyes with no preconceptions. Pinduoduo has a advantage in this area. We originate many parcels, over a third of daily parcels in China last year and have expertise in complex technological system design. We are already working on algorithm design, data analytics, and cold-chain logistics development and optimization. We have applied for some patents as well. We hope to roll it out widely in actual operations and help logistics providers achieve higher efficiency and lower cost. As we continue to grow, I believe that we can use our scale for good.As we search for solutions inside [Phonetic] logistics, we remain committed to becoming the world's largest agricultural and grocery platform. Our mobile-only and discovery-oriented platform as well as team purchase model are well-suited for items and daily essentials. We see strong demand for Duo Duo Grocery, which is giving consumers the chance to buy a greater variety of perishables directly from farmers and agri-merchants located in the region.We will continue to iterate our products and make grocery sources around the world where affordable and available to our growing number of users. We foresee Pinduoduo becoming an important force multiplier that enable -- that can truly make a meaningful difference in the world. At the same time, we remain committed to our social inclusion effort and support for the vitalization of rural communities. For any advancement to be truly durable, we must look out for all our stakeholders. It is critical that we partner and empower them with tech.This means that we will keep on helping farmers and agri-merchants operate better and earn more. We will continue to provide training for them to harness the full suite of tools on our platform to optimize sales and benefit from our platform's visibility into final demand. We will help them increase their productivity by working with local government and agronomics institutes to harness new technology. Since the beginning, we have brought approximately 100,000 new farmers back to their hometown and we have committed to training another 100,000 new farmers over the next five years. We want to be a catalyst in this virtuous cycle. Only when farmers and agri merchants earn more can they invest in greener agriculture.In building China's first agri-focused infrastructure, our priority remains partnering existing third-party service providers first and foremost on everything from cold-chain logistics, warehousing, sorting, and delivery. For Duo Duo Grocery, we focus on partnering local communities closely. We work with existing shops including mom and pop stores to serve as our pickup point enabling them to gain extra income. We also provide courses to them to aid their digital transition.In fact, since the start of Duo Duo Grocery, we have catalyzed the creation of millions of jobs up and down the entire supply chain. We hope that the system we build will truly benefit all for a long time to come. This is in line with our core value of Ben Fen of doing the right things. We hope that this helps you understand better where we are coming from and share our hope for a better tomorrow. Thank you. Let me now hand over to David.David Liu -- Vice President of StrategyThank you, Lei. Hello everyone. To echo Lei, our overarching commitment is serving our users. We're laser focused on understanding our users' constantly changing needs and working with our partners and merchants to fulfill them in a way that is respectful of the community and the environment. With our aim of becoming the world's largest agriculture and grocery platform, we want to help create food systems that are greener, healthier, more inclusive, and more resilient. We develop and assess all our initiatives against those objectives.Let me elaborate on how this has worked in three key fronts. First, we're gratified by our positive early foray into agriculture-focused logistics infrastructure system, Duo Duo Grocery. Our next-day self-pickup grocery service is creating many social benefits. It intelligently connects our users directly to local farmers and increases the variety of fresh produce they can purchase online. It lowers cost by reducing spoilage from storage and transport and improves the carbon emission and eliminates that from the last mile. Farmers earn more as well.Along the way, we create new economic opportunities within the communities by tapping our existing shops to serve as collection points and through third-party service providers and warehouses that we have built to support it. We're happy that the growth momentum for Duo Duo Grocery remains very strong. We continue to see an increasing number of farmers and agri-merchants as well as pickup points joining our platform. This will only emphasize the social benefits that Duo Duo Grocery can bring.We have also applied for patents for our proprietary cold-chain logistics network system that is aimed at minimizing the loss and quality degradation of agriculture products and other perishable products in transportation. This system applies novel technologies that can plan routes based on information of collection and distribution points, availability of cold-chain infrastructure and transit points among others. It is still early days, but we are optimistic that the solutions we develop and employ will bring very positive impact going forward.Second, we will introduce our consumer to manufacturer or C2M revolution to agriculture. We already enjoy a very good partnership with farmers and agri-merchants. More than 12 million farmers sell through our platform. This relationship has deepened with initiatives such as help the farmers live streaming session last year when COVID-19 struck. We also have longer-term partnerships to plant, operate, and sell better through Duo Duo Academy and Duo Duo Farms. It is time to elevate this partnership with C2M.Pinduoduo pioneered C2M and in the process recast how Chinese manufacturers think of their value in the supply chain. We have helped factories build a new generation of brands that is delivering both quality and value for money to our users. By aggregating demand and spending patterns of over 800 million users on our platform, we create useful insights for manufacturers. They become more responsive to market trends by making what consumers indicate they need to and want. C2M also cuts down waste and cost of distribution and marketing and provides better price for consumers.Our new brand initiative helped many export-oriented OEM partners survive the drought in international demand for their products during the COVID-19 pandemic. Agriculture will similarly benefit from C2M. Agriculture produce is diverse and unique. Much scale and effort go into cultivation. By helping farmers to sell directly to users on our platform instead of the multiple intermediaries, we give value to the diversity and uniqueness of their produce as well as sight over their final demand. We're now focused on helping more farmers to sell better by sharing market insights.Just as we have helped manufacturers, we help farmers more appraise their market information. This enables them to be more responsive to market demand and develop agriculture brands that meet the needs of the market. China is a treasure trove of agriculture and culinary delights. There are plenty of gems hidden in plain sight waiting to be discovered by millions of consumers across the country. We will lend these growers and producers a helping hand to better market their products and develop brand recognition.Third, we are making headway in tapping on science to improve the food system. As Lei mentioned, we are backing a first-of-its-kind study on the health impact of plant-based meats. There is growing recognition our current dietary patterns are neither healthy nor environmentally sustainable. Replacing meat with plant-based alternatives is a promising solution to both issues.When completed, the study will help consumers make informed choices on dietary transition and manufacturers refine their products correspondingly. The spirit of this partnership is very much in line with our earlier partnership to develop a more portable and lower-cost test for contaminants on produce, which will help improve food safety and consumer confidence. We will continue to actively look for collaboration opportunities on agri food tech with partners around the world.At the same time, we have also been active supporter of initiatives to apply the most advanced technology in agriculture. We're proud to have jointly organized the First China Agricultural Robot Innovation Competition. The competition was concluded with an award presentation last week, attracted over 195 participating teams to apply robotics to agriculture. We're proud to have supported this competition as robotics is at its early stage in agriculture in China, but holds a lot of promise.We are convinced that our holistic efforts will bring progress to our food systems and benefit stakeholders, including our users, farmers, and merchants, the communities we operate in, and the planet. Finally, even as we place a lot of emphasis on agriculture and food, we have not lost sight of the need to nourish the mind. In April, we launched Duo Duo Reading Month. Through our app, users could access classics like Moby Dick or Notre Dame de Paris and purchase them at discount. Famous historians and writers join our live streaming sessions to recommend books to readers.In conjunction with the inaugural China International Consumer Products Expo at Haikou earlier this month, we partnered with CCTV News to bring our 10 [Phonetic] billion program live streaming studio to Hainan. Through our live stream, users were transported to Hainan and learned about the specialty products, cuisine, and fruits as well as interesting items to offer at the expo. We'll continue to bring color and new experiences to our users through similar initiatives going forward. Let me now hand it over to Tony.Tony Ma -- Vice President of FinanceThank you, David. Now let me take you through our financial results for the first quarter 2021. We continue to see solid user growth in Q1 and are pleased with the progress we have made in building trust and winning mindshare with our users. Our annual active buyers for the last 12 months ending March 31st, 2021 increased to 823.8 million, up 35.4 million from the prior quarter. Our MAU in Q1 reached 724.6 million from the prior quarter. This is up 49% compared to the same quarter in 2020. Our MAU as a percentage of our annual active buyers was 88% in the quarter, our highest engagement record achieved for any first quarter.According to National Bureau of Statistics, during the Q1, total retail sales in China grew 34% and online sales of physical goods increased 24% from the same quarter in 2020. The number of express delivery parcels in Q1 grew 75%. A significant growth rate in both online sales of physical goods and parcel shipment volume reflected strong recovery in e-commerce activities from the low base in Q1 2020 due to the business interruption caused by the COVID-19 outbreak. We also saw less pronounced Chinese New Year holiday related seasonality in Q1 this year as more merchants stayed open in response to people staying put. We collaborated with merchants and logistics service providers to ensure uninterrupted order fulfillment and delivery during the quarter.In terms of P&L, our total revenues in the quarter ended March 31st, 2021 were RMB22.2 billion, up 239% from RMB6.5 billion in the same quarter last year. Excluding revenues from our 1P trials, our total revenues grew by 161% to RMB17 billion in Q1 2021. The main driver of this growth was our online marketing services. Online marketing services revenue was RMB14.1 billion this quarter, up 157% compared to the same period last year due primarily to continued increase in merchant activities. We continue to offer better advertising products and analytic tools to our merchants, educate them on how to best leverage these features and improve their services to their targeted users and thereby help them meet and exceed their ROI targets.As a result, we have seen merchants spending more and exploring new ways to engage with users and our users' browsing more and discovering more items of interest. We are pleased to see the growing endorsement by our merchants and our users. Our transaction service revenues this quarter amounted to RMB2.9 billion, which is up 180% compared with the same period last year. The increase in our transaction service revenues was due to two primary factors. Number one, the increase in our GMV in Q1 and number two, the service revenues that we recognized in connection with Duo Duo Grocery for which we provide fulfillment and other related services.We also recorded RMB5.1 billion in merchandise sales from our 1P trials in Q1 2021 as compared to RMB5.4 [Phonetic] billion in the preceding quarter. This 1P trial is meant to temporarily meet the demand of our users on products which our merchants cannot fulfill. Therefore, this number may fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter. Our strategy is unchanged and this will remain a very small part of the business.Now moving on to cost. Our total cost of revenues increased from RMB1.8 billion in Q1 2020 to RMB10.7 billion this quarter. The increase was mainly due to the costs and expenses attributable to 1P merchandise sales, higher cost of payment processing fees, cloud service fees, and delivery storage fees. Total operating expenses this quarter were RMB15.6 billion as compared to RMB9.1 billion in the same quarter of 2020.On total non-GAAP basis, operating expenses were RMB14.6 billion as compared to RMB8.3 billion in the same quarter a year ago. Our non-GAAP sales and marketing expenses this quarter increased 80% to RMB12.7 billion from RMB7.1 billion in the same quarter of 2020. This was mainly due to an increase in online and offline advertisement and promotion as we continue to invest in user engagement and mindshare. In the first quarter, we had an incentive program for merchants who could stay open and continue dispatching orders during the spring festival.We also recently marked the second anniversary of our hugely popular 10 [Phonetic] billion program, which has steadily expanded over time to cover all categories including agriculture products and fresh produce. In line with our platform's vision of helping to accelerate the transformation of the agriculture sector, we will continue to make it free for agriculture products and fresh produce to be featured in this program. At the same time, we will continue to refine and improve the quality of our 10 [Phonetic] billion program by raising the standards required for merchants to participate. Our 824 million users trust us to deliver great value and quality to them and we will constantly seek to improve to uphold their trust in us.On a non-GAAP basis, our sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of our revenue, excluding 1P trials this quarter was 75% as compared to 103% and 108% for the same quarter in 2019 and in 2020. The reduction in sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenue is a reflection of our economies of scale and our consistent efforts of sticking to a high standard of our benchmarks.On a non-GAAP basis, our general and administrative expenses were RMB161 million, an increase of 36% from RMB118 million in the same quarter of 2020 primarily due to an increase in headcount. Our non-GAAP research and development expenses were RMB1.7 billion, an increase of 55% from RMB1.1 billion in the same quarter of 2020. The increase was primarily due to an increase in headcount and the recruitment of more experienced R&D personnel as well as increase in R&D related cloud service expenses. On a non-GAAP basis, our R&D expenses as a percentage of our revenues excluding 1P contribution was 10% as compared to 17% for the same quarter last year.To sum up, operating loss for the quarter was RMB4.1 billion on a GAAP basis compared with operating loss of RMB4.4 billion in the same quarter of 2020. Non-GAAP operating loss was RMB3.2 billion compared with operating loss of RMB3.6 billion in the same quarter of 2020. Our non-GAAP operating loss as a percentage of revenue improved from minus 55% in Q1 2020 to minus 14% [Phonetic] in Q1 2021. Net loss attributable to ordinary shareholders was RMB2.9 billion as compared to net loss of RMB4.1 billion in the same quarter last year.Basic and diluted net loss per ADS were RMB2.33 compared with RMB3.54 in the same quarter of 2020. Non-GAAP net loss attributable to ordinary shareholders was RMB1.9 billion compared with RMB3.2 billion in the same quarter last year. Non-GAAP basic and diluted net loss per ADS were RMB1.52 compared with RMB2.73 in the same quarter of 2020. That completes the profit and loss statement for the first quarter.Our net cash flow used in operating activities was RMB3.7 billion compared with outflow of RMB567 million in the same quarter of 2020 primarily due to an increase in restricted cash outflow due to seasonality offset by an increase in online marketing services revenues. As of March 31st, 2021, the company had RMB83.4 billion in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. As of the end of April 2021, $756.4 million of our 0% convertible bonds due in 2024 have been converted into equity. This concludes my prepared remarks. Operator, we are ready for questions. Thank you.