  OperatorGood morning. My name is Steven and I will be a conference facilitator today. I would like to welcome everyone to the UPS investor relations first quarter 2022 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to our host, Mr. Ken Cook, investor relations officer. Sir, the floor is yours.Ken Cook -- Investor Relations

 



 Good morning and welcome to the UPS first quarter 2022 earnings call. Joining me today are Carol Tome, our CEO; and Brian Newman, our CFO. Before we begin, I want to remind you that some of the comments we'll make today are forward-looking statements within the federal securities laws and address our expectations for the future performance or operating results of our company. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, which are described in our 2021 Form 10-K and other reports we file with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. These reports, when filed, are available on the UPS investor relations website and from the SEC. For the first quarter of 2022, GAAP results include a net charge of $19 million or $0.02 per diluted share comprised of after-tax transformation and other charges of $43 million, offset by an after-tax gain of $24 million resulting from the curtailment of benefits in a Canadian retirement plan. Unless stated otherwise, our comments will refer to adjusted results, which exclude pension adjustments and transformation and other charges. The webcast of today's call, along with the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures, is available on the UPS investor relations website.[Operator instructions] And now I'll turn the call over to Carol. Carol Tome -- Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thank you, Ken, and good morning. This is my eighth earnings call at UPS. Since I joined the company, we faced a pandemic, social unrest, political unrest, the fallout from Brexit, and now a war. Through it all, I continue to be so impressed by the resiliency of UPSers and their commitment to moving our world forward by delivering what matters. I want to thank our team for their hard work and efforts in serving the needs of our customers, each other and our communities during these most trying times. Before I discuss our results, I'd like to address our situation in Ukraine. Our hearts are with the people of Ukraine, who are feeling the effects of this tragedy first hand. We have suspended all commercial operations in Ukraine, Belarus, and Russia. Where we can, we are supporting the humanitarian relief efforts, and our focus is on the safety of our people. Putting the issues in Eastern Europe aside, as we discussed in February. We expected the macro environment to be dynamic, and it was. Our average daily volume fell short of our plan due to several external factors that Brian will detail. But we remain focused on controlling what we can control. And looking at the first quarter, we were pleased with our results. Consolidated revenue rose 6.4% from last year to $24.4 billion, and operating profit grew 12.1% from last year to $3.3 billion. Consolidated operating margin expanded to 13.6%, which was 70 basis points above last year.

 



 All of our business segments delivered operating profit growth. Of note, our supply chain solutions businesses generated record operating profit of $481 million with a record operating margin of 11% driven by strength in forwarding and healthcare. We continue to pivot toward opportunity. We've made tremendous progress over the last two years. We are leveraging the power of our data to become much more agile under our better, not bigger, framework. We are investing in the capabilities that matter the most to our customers, and we are winning in the parts of the market that value our end to end network like SMBs, healthcare, B2B, and large enterprise accounts. How do we know we are winning? Because we gain market share.  Winning comes down to successfully executing our customer first, people-led, innovation-driven strategy. Looking at customer first. This is about creating a frictionless customer experience. Here we've made two significant enhancements to digitize the onboarding experience, making it easier for SMBs to ship with us. The first change I'll share is for our smallest customers. In the U.S., they can now go online at ups.com and suggest three questions and get a contract that includes pricing. This enables them to begin shipping in under two minutes instead of our old process, where they had to wait an average of 10 days to get started. The second enhancement is for larger SMBs. Here, we are leveraging best in class technology to enhance the experience for our customers and our salespeople. We've moved from a slow and manual pricing process to a new digital platform that we call Deal Manager. This platform, which will be fully deployed to all us SMB salespeople by the end of this month, operationalizes our data and applies pricing science to present the customer with the right price the first time. For our customers, this means they no longer need to submit cumbersome sample data just to get a quote. For our salespeople, they can close deals on the spot, making them more efficient and freeing them up to spend more time selling. And because this platform uses advanced analytics, the more we use it, the smarter it becomes. It's a key building block to our dynamic pricing. Our digital access program, or DAC, is another important SMB growth driver. In the first quarter, we created more than 500,000 new DAC customer accounts. That's more than three times the number of new accounts created in the first quarter of last year. What's more, near the end of the first quarter, we began shipping DAC packages that originated outside of the U.S. As of today, DAC is available in 27 countries around the world and we are continuing to add DAC partners, putting us well on our way to achieving our $2 billion DAC revenue target in 2022. Enhancements we are making are resonating with SMB customers. In the first quarter, the U.S. SMB average daily volume growth rate, including platforms, outpaced the enterprise volume growth rate. In fact, in the first quarter, SMBs made up 28.4% of our total U.S. volume, up 140 basis points from one year ago. Looking at our international and supply chain solution segments, the flexibility of our network allowed us to continue delivering for our customers within a dynamic environment. In many ways, this was one of our more challenging quarters as our international small package business faced tough year over year comparisons and demand was negatively impacted by ongoing disruptions due to the pandemic. But at the same time, we scurried to keep up with heightened demand in our forwarding and healthcare businesses. No matter what came our way, we kept delivering with outstanding service levels. Moving to people-led. As previously announced, in the quarter, we realigned our executive leadership team. First, Nando Cesarone, who has been leading our U.S. operations since 2020, assumed additional responsibility for U.S. sales and parts of engineering. This change gives us even closer to the customer, helping us better go to market as one UPS and enabling our teams to move even faster to unlock value for our customers and our shareowners. Second, Kate Gutmann assumed a new role, leading both the international and supply chain solutions segments, in addition to our healthcare business. This allows us to better serve our global customers with our full range of services and provides opportunity for synergies in both revenue and cost. Finally, we have an external search underway for a new chief digital and technology officer. I'm delighted with the candidates that have surfaced for this role and hope to fill the position soon, which brings us to innovation-driven. This is about driving higher returns from the capital we deploy. Here we are continuing to leverage the technology investments we've made to power our global smart logistics network. Throughout the quarter, we leveraged our network planning tools, automated facilities, and other technologies to optimize the network and run it with greater agility. These efforts, coupled with a laser focus on revenue quality, contributed to a 90-basis-point improvement in U.S. operating margin year over year. As we've discussed, we've turned productivity into a virtuous cycle at UPS. We have started the rollout of our RFID technology that we call Smart Package with the intent of completing 100 centers in 2022. This year, we will also begin the implementation of automated bagging, automated label applications, and robotic small sort induction. All this to drive increased productivity. As an innovation-driven company, we are marching down the path toward our goal of being carbon neutral by 2050. Here is one example. We have two data centers that drive our global integrated network. These data centers are now powered 100% by renewable energy sources. To give you some context, the power used to run these two data centers is the equivalent of the electricity needed to run 5,000 homes for one year. As we look ahead, we think the macro environment will be very dynamic, but we see many positives inside our business. We continue to deliver high service levels, we are gaining market share, we are more agile today than when I onboarded, and we are focused on controlling what we can control to achieve the financial targets we've laid out. Brian will share the details regarding our outlook, but let me end by reaffirming our 2022 consolidated financial goals. In 2022, we expect to generate about $102 billion in revenue, consolidated operating margin of approximately 13.7%, and we expect return on invested capital to be greater than 30%. We are confident in our outlook and our financial condition. As a result, we are increasing our share repurchases for 2022, taking the target up to $2 billion for the year. And now, I'll turn the call over to Brian.Brian Newman -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Carol, and good morning. In my comments, I'll cover four areas, starting with the macro environment. Then our first quarter results. Next, I'll cover cash and shareholder returns. And lastly, I'll provide an update on our financial outlook for 2022. As Carol mentioned, external factors resulted in a challenging operating environment in the first quarter. Early in January, omicron negatively impacted retail sales and pressured volumes. The impact of omicron subsided in February and volume growth turned slightly positive. Then late in the quarter, the combination of record high inflation, a surge in energy prices, COVID-19 lockdowns in Asia and geopolitical uncertainty resulted in our consolidated volume growth rates turning negative. Despite these external factors, we remained agile and delivered strong first quarter results by continuing to execute our strategy and quickly adjusting our network to match capacity with the needs of our customers. In the first quarter, consolidated revenue increased 6.4% to $24.4 billion. Consolidated operating profit totaled $3.3 billion, 12.1% higher than last year. Consolidated operating margin expanded to 13.6%, which was 70 basis points above last year. For the first quarter, diluted earnings per share was $3.05, up 10.1% from the same period last year. Now let's look at our business segments. U.S. domestic delivered strong first quarter results. Our success was driven by continued gains in revenue quality and by leveraging the agility of our network to control cost. We had planned for volume to be down slightly in the first quarter based on volume projections from a few of our largest customers. We expected to fill this gap with other enterprise volume, but market conditions did not support and our volume was lower than planned. Total average daily volume in the U.S. was down 3% or 611,000 packages per day versus the first quarter of last year, driven by a 7.4% decline in residential volume. Looking back to March 2021, stimulus checks arrived at many U.S. households and contributed to difficult year-over-year comps in the first quarter of this year. The decline in residential deliveries included a reduction in SurePost volume of about 312,000 packages per day. The decrease in residential volume was partially offset by a 3.6% increase in B2B average daily volume with growth from both enterprise and SMB customers. In the first quarter, B2B represented 43% of our volume, which was up from 40% in the first quarter of 2021. Even within the current environment, the execution of our strategy is continuing to drive improvement in customer mix. In the first quarter. SMB average daily volume, including platforms, was up 1.9% and SMB is made up 28.4% of U.S. domestic volume, an increase of 140 basis points over last year. For the quarter, U.S. domestic generated revenue was $15.1 billion, up 8%, which included the benefit of one additional operating day. Revenue per piece increased 9.5%, more than offsetting the volume decline in the first quarter. Together, fuel surcharges and base raise drove 820 basis points of the revenue per piece improvement with mix contributing the rest of the growth. Additionally, revenue per piece grew across all products and customer segments with ground revenue per piece up 8.4%. Turning to costs, total expense grew 6.9%. Total payroll and benefits, which included market rate adjustments, drove 390 basis points of the increase and fuel drove 230 basis points of the expense growth rate increase. The remaining expense growth rate increase was driven by multiple factors, including weekend expansion and depreciation. The investments we've made in our automated facilities, coupled with our productivity improvement initiatives, enabled us to eliminate more than 1,300 trailer loads per day compared to the same period last year, which contributed to the positive operating leverage in the quarter. The U.S. domestic segment delivered $1.7 billion in operating profit, an increase of $242 million or 16.5% compared to the first quarter of 2021. And operating margin expanded 90 basis points to 11.3%. Looking outside of the U.S, let me start by providing some information on our direct exposure to Ukraine, Belarus, and Russia. Revenue from these three countries represented less than 1% of our consolidated revenue in 2021. While the direct financial impact is not material to our business, we are closely monitoring the broader impacts across the global economy. Moving to our international segment performance. By leveraging the agility of our global network and focusing on revenue quality, international executed well in a challenging global market, navigating through increases in global inflation, a war, and COVID 19 disruptions. In contrast to the U.S., we planned for international volume to grow in the first quarter and it did not. Total average daily volume was down 256,000 packages per day or 6.7% in the first quarter. Part of the decline was due to tough comps from one year ago. We're looking at performance on a two-year stacked basis. Total international average daily volume was up 16.4%. In the first quarter of 2022, international domestic average daily volume was down 10.1%, representing nearly 80% of the decrease in international volume. Total export average daily volume declined 2.9% due to a combination of factors, including COVID-19 lockdowns in Asia. In response, we adjusted the network and were able to keep our operations moving in Asia and at the same time shifted capacity where it was needed to serve our customers globally. For example, average daily volume on the Europe to U.S. lane grew 10.7%. In the first quarter, international revenue increased 5.8% to $4.9 billion. Revenue per piece increased 10.5%, including a 710-basis-point benefit from fuel and a 680-basis-point benefit from revenue, quality, and mix, offset by a 340-basis-point negative impact due to a stronger U.S. dollar. Operating profit was $1.1 billion, an increase of 2.7%, and operating margin was 23%, down 70 basis points year over year. Now looking at supply chain solutions. In the first quarter, the segment delivered record operating profit in a dynamic environment. Revenue increased to $4.4 billion, up 2%, despite the divestiture of UPS freight, which accounted for $767 million of supply chain solutions revenue in the first quarter of 2021. Looking at the key performance drivers, forwarding revenue was up 25% and operating profit more than doubled by managing the buy sell spreads while global market demand continued to outpace supply. Our teams did an outstanding job helping our customers manage through this challenging market. Within forwarding, our truckload brokerage unit delivered strong operating profit growth driven by revenue quality initiatives. And our healthcare business delivered record revenue and operating profit results in the first quarter, led by pharma, clinical trials, and lab customers. In the first quarter, supply chain solutions generated an operating profit of $481 million and delivered a record operating margin of 11%, 180 basis points above last year. Walking through the rest of the income statement, we had $174 million of interest expense. Other pension income was $298 million. And lastly, our effective tax rate in the first quarter came in at 21.5%, flat to last year and lower than planned due to discrete items. For the full year of 2022, we expect our effective tax rate to be around 23%. Now let's turn to cash and shareholder returns. We are continuing to generate strong cash flow from our disciplined focus on capital allocation and bottom line results. In the first quarter, we generated $4.5 billion in cash from operations. Free cash flow for the period was $3.9 billion, a 5.5% increase year over year. And in the first quarter, UPS distributed $1.3 billion in dividends and completed $260 million in share buybacks. Which brings us to our outlook for the remainder of 2022. According to IHS, GP expectations for the full year have been lowered from previous forecasts. Global GP is now expected to grow 3.2%, and U.S. GP is expected to grow 3%. And the macro environment is expected to be bumpy for the remainder of 2022. We are continuing to pay close attention to macro elements, including COVID-19, upstream supply chain constraints, inventory and inflationary pressures, and the geopolitical environment. Despite this backdrop, we are reaffirming our consolidated financial targets for 2022, driven by our results in the first quarter and the momentum we are seeing in the second quarter. Consolidated revenues are expected to be about $102 billion, which takes into account the divestiture of UPS freight. Consolidated operating margin is expected to be approximately 13.7% and return on invested capital is anticipated to be above 30%. We expect our path to achieve these financial targets will be different than we shared with you in February. We have proven our ability to adapt in a dynamic environment, and we have many levers to pull that give us confidence in our ability to achieve our targets. In U.S. domestic, our revenue guidance is not changing. We anticipate revenue growth of around 5.5% with revenue per piece growing faster than volumes. In terms of volume, however, we anticipate volume growth rates will be lower than we originally expected. The volume growth rate in the first half of the year is expected to be negative and we expect it to improve in the second half of the year. Pricing is expected to remain firm and we'll continue to price based on the value we provide to our customers. Lastly, in U.S. domestic, we expect operating margins to expand around 50 basis points for the full year in 2022. In international, our revenue guidance is unchanged. Revenue growth is anticipated to be approximately 7.7%, driven by revenue quality initiatives. We anticipate volume will be lower than originally planned and given the value we offer our customers, we expect pricing to remain firm. Operating margin in the international segment is anticipated to be about 23.6%. In supply chain solutions, our revenue expectation is unchanged at around $17 billion, driven by our healthcare portfolio and forwarding. We expect ocean rates to moderate below 2021 peak levels. Operating margin is expected to be about 9.4%. As a reminder, we will lap the sale of UPS freight at the end of April. Turning to capital allocation. For the full year in 2022, we still expect free cash flow to be around $9 billion, including our annual pension contributions. Capital expenditures are still expected to be about 5.4% of revenue or $5.5 billion, which includes two 747-8 aircraft, two automated hubs, more than 3,700 alternative fuel vehicles, and additional technology investments. All of which will enable greater efficiency in our integrated network and move us further down the path to achieving our 2050 carbon neutral goal. And in 2022, we are planning to pay out around $5.2 billion in dividends subject to board approval. Regarding debt repayment, as of today, our plan is to repay $2 billion in debt at maturity this year. Lastly, in terms of capital allocation, we are doubling the amount of cash we plan to allocate to share repurchases to $2 billion in 2020, further rewarding our shareholders. We are executing our strategy and we will remain agile as we continue to navigate the dynamic macro environment. We are laser-focused on improving revenue quality, reducing our cost to serve, and disciplined capital allocation. And by controlling what we can control, we are confident in our outlook and our financial condition. Thank you. And, operator, please open the lines. 