
OperatorGreetings and welcome to Ameren Corporation's First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions]It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to your host, Andrew Kirk, Director of Investor Relations for Ameren Corporation. Thank you, Mr. Kirk, you may begin.Andrew Kirk -- Head of Investor RelationsThank you and good morning. On the call with me today are Warner Baxter, our Chairman, President, Chief Executive Officer; and Michael Moehn, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, as well as other members of the Ameren management team joining us remotely. Warner and Michael will discuss our earnings results and guidance, as well as provide a business update. Then we will open the call for questions.Before we begin, let me cover a few administrative details. This call contains time-sensitive data that is accurate only as of the date of today's live broadcast and redistribution of this broadcast is prohibited. To assist with our call this morning, we have posted a presentation on the amereninvestors.com homepage, that will be referenced by our speakers.As noted on Page 2 of this presentation, comments made during this conference call may contain statements that are commonly referred to as forward-looking statements. Such statements include those about future expectations, beliefs, plans, projections, strategies, targets, estimates, objectives, events, conditions, and financial performance. We caution you that various factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. For additional information concerning these factors, please read the forward-looking statements section in the news release we issued today and the Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors sections in our filings with the SEC.Lastly, all per share earnings amounts discussed during today's presentation, including earnings guidance are presented on a diluted basis unless otherwise noted.Now here's Warner.Warner L. Baxter -- Chairman, President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Andrew. Good morning, everyone and thank you for joining us. Hope you, your families, and colleagues are safe and healthy.Before I begin my discussion of our first quarter results and related business matters, I want to begin with few comments on COVID-19. It is hard to believe that we have now been addressing the challenges associated with this pandemic for over a year now. Needless to say, much has changed. However, one thing that has not changed, as a relentless focus on delivering safe, reliable, cleaner and affordable electric and natural gas service for the millions of people in Missouri and Illinois; they are depending on us.As I said during our year-end conference call in February, despite the significant challenges presented by COVID-19, I look to the future with optimism. In part, this was due to the aggressive distribution of vaccines throughout our country. I'm pleased to say that we are beginning to see the fruits of the incredible efforts by so many on the healthcare, government, public, and private sectors. COVID-19 cases are down significantly from earlier in the year, the restrictions have lessened. As a result, we are clearly seeing signs that the economy is improving on our service territory and across the country.My optimism was also driven by our coworkers' have consistently stepped up and addressed a multitude of challenges and capitalized on opportunities and the strong execution of our strategy that is delivering value to our customers, communities, and shareholders.Together, these factors contributed to our ability to get off to a strong start in 2021, which brings me to a discussion of our first quarter results starting on Page 4. Yesterday, we announced first quarter 2021 earnings of $0.91 per share, compared to earnings of $0.59 per share in the first quarter 2020. The year-over-year increase of $0.32 per share, reflecting increased infrastructure investments across all of our business segments, that will drive significant long-term benefits for our customers.The key drivers of first quarter results are outlined on this slide. I'm also pleased to report that we continue to effectively execute our strategic plan and remain on track to deliver within our 2021 earnings guidance range of $3.65 per share to $3.85 per share. Michael will discuss our first quarter earnings, 2021 earnings guidance, and other related items in more detail later.Moving to Page 5. Here, we reiterate our strategic plan. First pillar of our strategy stresses investing in and operating our utilities in a manner consistent with existing regulatory frameworks. This has driven our multi-year focus on investing in energy infrastructure for the long-term benefit of customers. As a result, and as you can see on the right side of this page, during the first three months of this year, we invested significant capital in each of our business segments, including our investment in wind generation.About regulatory matters, in late March Ameren Missouri filed a request for a $299 million increase in annual electric service revenue with the Missouri Public Service Commission. In addition, Ameren Missouri filed a request for $9 million increase in annual natural gas revenue with the PSC. While Michael will discuss the details of the request in a moment, I'd like to briefly touch on some of the key benefits our electric and natural gas customers in Missouri were seeing as a result of the investments reflected in these rate requests.We are now in the third year of Ameren Missouri's Smart Energy Plan, which is focused on strengthening the grid to infrastructure upgrades, adding more renewable generation, and creating programs to stimulate economic growth for communities across the state. Our grid modernization investments incorporates smart technology, including outage detection and restoration switches, as well as smart meters, which allow customers to take advantage of new rate options. These investments will deliver results to improve reliability and resiliency. For example, our circuits with new smart technology upgrades, we have seen up to a 40% improvement in the liability. Of course, we also remain committed to a cleaner energy transition for our customers and state. This is demonstrated through our recent acquisitions of two wind generation facilities located in the Northern Missouri, totaling 700 megawatts. In addition, our investments are stimulating economic growth for communities across the state.I'm pleased to say that 57% Ameren Missouri suppliers in 2020 are Missouri-based and 32% of a sourceable capital spend was with diverse suppliers. And we're doing all of these things, while keeping our customers' electric rates approximately 20% below the average and on the midwest states and across the country. At the same time, we remain very disciplined in managing our costs. As a result, if approved, the new electric rate requests will represent a 5.4% total increase over an almost five year period, the yearly average of approximately 1%. We will remain disciplined in managing our costs, while we build a stronger, smarter and clean energy system for our customers now and in the future.Moving now to Ameren Illinois regulatory matters. In January, we received a constructive rate order from the ICC, that resulted in a $76 million annual increase in gas distribution rates. New rates went into effect in late January. Our Illinois Electric business, we may have required annual electric distribution link filing, requesting a $64 million base rate increase. This filing is only the second requested increase in delivery service rates in six years. While Michael will touch on the details of our filing a bit later, I think it is important to note that for years, our Illinois customers have realized the benefits for our significant investments in energy infrastructure.Just performance based rate making began in 2012, liability has improved by 20% and over 1,400 jobs have been created. At the same time, electric rates are among the lowest in the country and in West, you know, approximately 3% below 2012 levels. This performance based framework has been a win-win for our customers and state of the Illinois. That is why we continue to strongly advocate performance based regulatory framework in the Illinois legislature.A strengthening to our discussion for the second pillar of our strategy. Enhancing regulatory frameworks and advocating for responsible energy and economic policies on page 6 As I discussed in our conference call in February, an enhanced version of the Downstate Clean Energy Affordability Act legislation was filed earlier this year, which in past would apply to both the Ameren Illinois Electric and Natural Gas distribution businesses. This legislation would allow Ameren Illinois to make significant investments in solar energy, battery storage and electric and gas infrastructure, to continue to enhance safety and reliability, as well as mid-transportation electrification.In order to benefit customers in the economy across Central and Southern Illinois. This important piece of legislation, but also require diverse suppliers been reporting for all electric renewable energy providers.Another key component of the Downstate Clean Energy Affordability Act, got a little off of performance-based ratemaking for Ameren Illinois. natural Gas and Electric Distribution businesses through 2032. The proposed performance metrics, I mean, show investments for aligned [Phonetic] and are contributing to the safety and reliability of the energy grid and natural gas systems, as well as the states vision for the transition to clean energy. Further, this legislation will modify the allowed return on equity methodology in each business to align with the average returns being earned but other gas and electric utilities across the nation.And as I noted a moment ago, this legislation bills from Ameren Illinois' efforts to invest in critical energy infrastructure into a transparent and stable regulatory framework. That has supported significant investment, approved the safety and reliability,and created significant new jobs. Our [Indecipherable] electric rates, well below the midwest and national averages. This spell also moved to State of Illinois closer to reaching this goal of 100% clean Energy by 2015. With all these benefits in mind, we are focused on working with key stakeholders to get this important legislation passed. To date, the Downstate Clean Energy Affordability act has received strong bipartisan support from members of the Senate and House. Currently, House Bill is 17..449 as 49 sponsors, and Senate Bill 311 has 21 sponsors. As I'm sure you know there are also several other energy-related bills being considered by the legislature. We will continue to be actively engaged with key stakeholders throughout the legislative session on this important energy policy matters. The spring session is currently set to end May 31st.Turning to Page 7 for an update on FERC regulatory matters. In April, FERC issued a supplemental notice of proposed rulemaking, on the electric transmission return on equity, incentive adder for participation in a regional transmission organization or RTO. And the supplemental notice that FERC deposits to limit the duration of the 50 basis point ROE incentive adder for companies that join an RTO to three years. FERC also proposes to eliminate the adder for utilities, that has been part of an RTO for three years or more, which would include Ameren Illinois and ATXI. Without this incentive adder, Ameren Illinois and ATXI with their current allowed base ROE of 10.02%.For perspective, every 50 basis point change in our FERC ROE impacts annual earnings per share by approximately $0.04. Needless to say, we are disappointed with the direction the FERC has taken with supplemental notice and strongly oppose to remove all the adder. From our perspective, the RTO participation adder is needed to compensate companies for assuming risk associated with turning over operational controlled assets to the RTO. The proposal is also inconsistent with the FERC stated policy goals and the intent of existing model to encourage RTO participation. We will continue to advocate for the RTO incentive adder and other project incentive adders proposed in the March 2020 NOPR. We will file comments on the supplemental of NOPR by the May 26th deadline. Of course, we are unable to predict the ultimate outcome or timing of this matter, as the FERC is under no timeline to issue a decision.Moving now to Page 8. FERC policy management more important because transmission investment is going to play a critical role in our country's clean energy transition. As we have discussed before, myself and other key stakeholders, including Ameren have been carefully assessing the transmission needs in the MISO footprint to ensure the overall reliability and resiliency of energy grid is maintained while companies execute the clean energy transition plans.Recently, MISO published several reports that outlines some of the preliminary thoughts on MISO's transmission needs in the future. This page summarizes a recent study that outlines a potential roadmap for transmission projects through 2039. Taking into consideration the rapidly evolving generation mix that includes significant levels of renewable generation based on announced utility integrated resource plans, state mandates, and goals for clean energy and our carbon emission reductions, among other things. But also note that MISO in the Southwest power pool were also working together to develop a similar valuation for transmission needed to support the transition across both regions. The bottom line is that significant regional and local transmission investments will be needed for the clean energy transition over the next 10 years to 20 years.For example, on the MISO's Future 1 scenario, which is a scenario that resulted in an approximate 60% carbon emission reduction below 2005 levels by 2039. MISO wants to make future transmission investment could amount to an estimated $30 billion in the MISO footprint. Further, Future 3 resulted in an approximate 80% reduction in carbon emission levels below 2005 levels by 2039. MISO's estimated Future 3 could result in an estimated $100 billion of transmission investment in the MISO footprint. To provide some context to this, during MISO's less regional transmission planning process, approximately $6.5 billion of multi-value project investments were made over the last 10 years or so. In light of continued focus on the clean energy transition in our country, we are actively working with MISO and other key stakeholders through the assessment and project approval process along with an appropriate sense of urgency, to ensure we maintain a safe, reliable, and resilient energy grid, and do so in an affordable fashion.Given our past success on executing large regional transmission projects, we believe we are well positioned to plan and execute potential projects in the future for the benefit of our customers and country. We believe certain projects outlined in Future 1 will be included in this year's MISO transmission planning process, which just got to be completed in the fourth quarter of 2021. We look forward to working with MISO and key stakeholders on this important planning process.Speaking of clean energy transitions, let's move now to Page 9 for an update on our $1.1 billion wind generation investment, plan to achieve compliance with Missouri's renewable energy standard, through the acquisition of 700 megawatts new wind generation at two sites in Missouri. Ameren Missouri closed on the acquisition of its first wind energy center, a 400-megawatt project in Northeast Missouri in December. In January, and Missouri acquired its second wind generation project, the 300 megawatt Atchison Renewable Energy Center located in northwest Missouri. Approximately, half the megawatts for the Atchison Renewable Energy Center are in service. We expect the remaining megawatts to be placed in service by September 30th.Turning now to Page 10 and an update on Ameren Missouri's Callaway Energy Center. Turning to return to full power as part of its 24th refueling and maintenance outage in late December 2020, Callaway experienced a non-nuclear operating issue related to its generator. A thorough investigation to this matter was conducted and the decision was made to rewind the generator stator and rotor in order to safely and sustainably return the energy center to service. The project is going well and we continue to expect the capital project to cost approximately $65 million.I'm also pleased to report that the insurance claims within capital project and replacement power have been accepted by insurance carrier, which will mitigate the impacts of this outage for our customers. We expect the Callaway Energy Center to return to service in July. As we have said previously, we do not expect this matter to have a significant impact on Ameren's financial results.Turning to Page 11. We are focused on delivering a sustainable energy future for our customers, communities, and our country. This page summarizes our strong sustainability value proposition for environmental, social and governance matters and is consistent with our vision in a way to a sustainable energy future. I've discussed several elements of our strong sustainability value proposition with you in the past. So in the interest of time, I will not go through all of these points again this morning.And we said that and moving to Page 12, you should know that we have already made significant progress on our sustainability efforts in 2021. Here, we highlight several key achievements to date this year. Beginning with Environmental stewardship in September, Ameren announced its transformational plan to achieve net zero carbon emissions by 2050 across all of our operations in Missouri and Illinois. This plan includes strong interim carbon emission reduction targets, a 50% and 85% below 2005 levels in 2013 and 2014, respectively.This plan is also at the heart of our updated Climate Risk Report, which is based on the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures, which we issued last week. I am pleased to report our plan is consistent with the objectives of the Paris Agreement and limiting global temperature rise to 1.5 degree Celsius.In terms of Social impact, I'm very excited to say that our efforts in this area continue to be recognized by leading organizations. Last week, DiversityInc announced Ameren is once again being Number 1 on the Top Utilities for diversity and inclusion, which we have been probably a part of since 2009. DiversityInc also ranked Ameren second on the Top 10 regional companies, as a top company for ESG among all industries. In addition, for the fifth year in a row we've been certified by a Great Place to Work. And finally, we are recognized as a best place to work for LGBTQ by the Human Rights Campaign.Moving to governance, our Board and management have established covenant structures that enable our focus on the ESG matters that drive Ameren strategy, mission, ambition, including the addition of ESG metrics into our executive compensation programs. In particular, our Board of Directors refined our executive compensation program by adding workforce and supplier diversity metrics for short-term incentive plan for 2021. In addition, we recently issued several social impact policies. Since our call in February, we've also issued several reports reflecting our sustainability efforts and advances. Just last week, we posted our 2021 sustainability report, which expands on ESG and sustainability topics and post 2020 ESG sustainability template. And for the first time, we published information using the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board on reporting framework connect our business activities to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. I encourage you to take some time to read more about our strong sustainability value proposition. You can find all of our ESG-related reports at amereninvestors.com.Turning now to Page 13. Environmental stewardship, social impact, and governance, our three pillars of our strong sustainability value proposition. Our final pillar is sustainable growth. Looking ahead, we have a strong sustainable growth proposition, which will be driven by a robust pipeline of investment opportunities of over $40 billion over the next decade. They will deliver significant value to all of our stakeholders by making our energy could stronger, smarter, and cleaner.Importantly, these investment opportunities exclude any new regionally beneficial transmission projects that I described earlier. All of which would increase the reliability and resiliency of the energy grid, as well as enable additional renewable generation projects. In addition, we expect to see greater focus from a policy perspective on infrastructure investments to support the electrification of the transportation sector. Our outlook through 2030 does not include significant infrastructure investments for electrification at this time either. Of course, our investment opportunities not only create a stronger and cleaner energy grid to meet our customers' needs and exceed their expectations, but they will also create thousands of jobs for our local economies.Maintaining constructive energy policies that support robust investment and energy infrastructure and the transition to a cleaner future in a safe, reliable and affordable fashion will be critical to meeting our country's future energy needs and delivering on our customers' expectations.Moving to Page 14. To sum up our value proposition, we remain firmly convinced that the execution of our strategy in 2021 and beyond will deliver superior value to our customers, shareholders, and the environment. In February, we issued our five-year growth plan, which included our expectation of a 6% to 8% compound annual earnings growth rate from 2021 through 2025. This earnings growth is primarily driven by strong rate base growth and compares very favorably with our regulated utility peers. Importantly, our five-year earnings and rate base growth projections do not include 500 megawatts of incremental renewable investment opportunities outlined in Ameren Missouri's Integrated Resource Plan.Our team continues to assess several renewable generation proposals from developers. We expect to file this year with the Missouri PSC for [Indecipherable] necessity for a portion of these plan renewable investments. I'm confident in our ability to execute our investment plans and strategies across all four of our business segments, as we have an experience and dedicated team to get it done. That fact coupled with our sustained past execution of our strategy on many fronts has positioned us well for future success.Further, our shares continue to offer investors a solid dividend, which we expect to grow in line with our long-term earnings-per-share growth guidance. Simply put, we believe our strong earnings and dividend growth outlook, results in a very attractive total return opportunity for shareholders.Again, thank you all for joining us today. I will now turn the call over to Michael.Michael L. Moehn -- Executive Vice President, Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Warner, and good morning everyone. Turning now to Page 16 of our presentation. Yesterday, we reported first quarter 2021 earnings of $0.91 per share compared to $0.59 per share for the year-ago quarter. Earnings at Ameren Missouri, our largest segment increased $0.22 per share due to several favorable factors. The earnings comparison reflected new electric service rates effective April 1st, 2020, which increased earnings by $0.10 per share.In addition, earnings benefited from lower operations and maintenance expenses which increased earnings $0.07 per share. This was primarily driven by the absence of unfavorable market returns that occurred in 2020 on the cash surrender value of our company-owned life insurance, as well as disciplined cost management. Earnings also benefited by approximately $0.04 per share from higher electric retail sales, driven by near-normal winter temperatures compared to milder than normal winter temperatures in the year-ago period. We've included on this page the year-over-year weather normalized sales variances for the quarter that show total sales to be comparable with Q1 2020, which was largely unaffected by COVID-19. We continue to see improvements in sales, as schools and businesses reopen and begin to increase their level of operation.Earnings were positively impacted by the timing of income tax expense, which we do not expect to impact full-year results, as well as the absence of charitable donations that were made in pursuant to the Missouri rate review settlement in March 2020. And finally, these favorable factors were partially offset by the amortization deferred expenses related to the fall 2020 Callaway Energy Center scheduled refueling and maintenance outage.Moving to other segments. Earnings for Ameren Illinois Natural Gas, were up $0.08 reflecting higher delivery service rates that were effective January 25th, 2021 incorporating a change in rate design, as well as the increased infrastructure investments and a lower allowed ROE. The first quarter 2021 benefit from the change in rate design is not expected to impact full year results. And Ameren Illinois Electric Distribution earnings increased $0.03 per share, which reflected increased infrastructure investments, and a higher allowed ROE under performance-based rate making of approximately 8.15% compared to 7.45% for the year-ago quarter. Ameren Transmission earnings were comparable year-over-year, which reflected increased investments that were offset by an unfavorable $0.03 impact of a March 2021 FERC order. This order related to an intervener challenge. Regarding the historical recoveries of material and supplies inventories in rates and will have no impact on the current formula rate calculation prospectively.And finally, Ameren Parent and other results were down $0.01 per share compared to the first quarter of 2022. The increased interest expense resulting from higher long-term debt outstanding, offset by the timing and income tax expense, which is not expected to impact full year results.Finally, 2021 earnings per share reflected higher weighted average shares outstanding.Before moving on, I'll touch on sales trends for Ameren Illinois Electric Distribution in the quarter. Weather normalized kilowatt-hour sales to Illinois residential customers increased 1.5% and weather-normalized kilowatt-hour sales to Illinois commercial and industrial customers decreased 1.5% and 2.5%, respectively. Recall, the changes on electric sales in Illinois, no matter the cause, do not affect our earnings, since we have full revenue decoupling.Turning to Page 17. I would now like to briefly touch on key drivers impacting our 2021 earnings guidance. We're off to a strong start in 2021. As Warner stated, we continue to expect 2021 diluted earnings to be in the range of $3.65 to $3.85 per share. Select earnings considerations for the balance of the year are listed on this page and are supplemental to the key drivers and assumptions discussed on our earnings call in February.I'll note that our second quarter earnings comparison will be negatively impacted due to a seasonal rate design change effective for 2021 and Ameren Missouri as part of the March 2020 electric rate order. This order call for winter rates in May and summer rates in September, rather than the blended rates used in both months in 2020. The second quarter results were also be negatively impacted by the absence of the impact of the 2020 FERC order approving the MISO-allowed base ROE at Ameren Transmission. Together, these two items are expected to reduce second quarter earnings by approximately $0.25 year-over-year. I encourage you to take this into consideration as you did all your expectations for our second quarter earnings results.Turning now to Page 18. Here we outline in more detail our recently filed Missouri electric rate review that Warner mentioned earlier. This reflects many benefits, including major upgrades to electric system reliability and resiliency for customers, as well as investments to support the transition to a cleaner energy for the benefit of the customers and local communities.Now, let me take a moment to go through the details of those filings. The request includes a 9.9% return on equity, a 51.9% equity ratio, and a September 30th, 2021 estimated rate base of $10 billion. This includes a test year ended December 31st, 2020 with certain pro forma adjustments through September 30, 2021. The requests include the continuation of the existing FAC and other regulatory mechanisms, along with a request to recover certain costs associated with the Meramec Energy Center, which is expected to retire in 2022, over a 5-year period from the date of the new rates become effective.As outlined on this page, the key drivers of our $209 million annual rate increase include; increased infrastructure investments made under Ameren Missouri Smart Energy Plan; impact in the transition to a cleaner generation portfolio, decreased weather normalized customer sales volumes, and a higher pension OPEB and tax amortization expenses, partially offset by lower operation and maintenance expenses.Moving to Page 19 for an update on other Ameren Missouri regulatory matters. In March 2021, we also filed a natural gas rate review. The details for the $9 million annual revenue increase request are outlined on this page. We expect the Missouri PSC decision in both our electric and natural gas rate reviews by February 2022, with new rates expected to be effective by March. Further, last October we filed requests with the Missouri PSC to track and defer in a regulatory asset certain COVID related costs incurred, net of any COVID related cost savings. In March 2021, the Missouri PSC approved this request, $9 million of net costs were incurred through March 31st, 2021. We recognized $5 million in the first quarter of this year and expect the remaining portion relating to late fees to be recognized when realized in rates beginning in early 2022. The timing to recover these costs will be determined as part of our pending electric and gas rate reviews.Moving now to Page 20 for an update on Ameren Illinois regulatory matters. Last month, we made our required annual electric distribution performance-based rate update file and requesting a $64 million base rate increase. Under Illinois performance-based rate making, Ameren Illinois is required to make annual rate updates to systematically adjust cash flows over time for changes and costs of service and a true of any prior period over or under recovery of such cost. Since this constructive framework began, Ameren Illinois has made prudent investments to strengthen the grid and reduce outages and it continues to do so. Major investments including the request or the installation of outage avoidance and detection technology, integration of storm-hardening equipment, adoption of clean energy technologies, and the implementation of new energy efficiency measures, including mobile-enhanced communications and assessment capabilities for electric field workers. The ICC will review our request in the months ahead, with a decision expected in December of this year and new rates effective in January of next year.Turning to Page 21 for a financing and liquidity update. We continue to feel very good about our liquidity and financial position. In February, Ameren Corporation issued $450 million of 1.75% senior unsecured notes due in 2028. The proceeds were used for general corporate purposes, including to repay short-term debt. We also expect both Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois to issue long-term debt in 2021.In addition, as we mentioned on the call in February, during the quarter we physically settled the remaining shares under our forward equity sales agreement to generate approximately $150 million -- $115 million. In order for us to maintain our credit ratings and a strong balance sheet while we fund our robust infrastructure plan, we expect to issue approximately $150 million of additional common equity during the balance of 2021 which is consistent with the guidance we provided in February.To that end, in May, we expect to establish an at-the-market or ATM equity program to support our equity needs through 2023. This future equity issuance will enable us to maintain a consolidated capital structure consisting of approximately 45% equity over time. The incremental natural gas and power purchases incurred due to the extreme cold in mid-February this year did not have a significant impact on our liquidity or ability to fund our future operations and investment. Ameren's available equity as of April 30th was approximately $1.3 billion, which includes $2.3 billion of combined credit facility capacity net of approximately $1 billion of commercial paper borrowings at the end of the month.Finally, turning to Page 22. We're well positioned to continue executing our plan. We're off to a solid start and we expect to deliver strong earnings growth in 2021 as we continue to successfully execute our strategy. As we look to the longer term, we continue to expect strong earnings-per-share growth driven by robust rate-based growth and disciplined cost management. Further, we believe this growth will compare favorably with the growth of our regulated utility peers. And Ameren shares continue to offer investors an attractive dividend. In total, we have an attractive total shareholder return story that compares very favorably to our peers.That concludes our prepared remarks. We now invite your questions.