
OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Diamondback Energy First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker, Adam Lawlis, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Adam T. Lawlis -- Vice President Of Investor RelationsThank you, Phyllis. Good morning and welcome to Diamondback Energy's First Quarter 2021 Conference Call. During our call today, we will reference an updated investor presentation, which can be found on Diamondback's website. Representing Diamondback today are Travis Stice, CEO; and Kaes Van't Hof, CFO. During this conference call, the participants may make certain forward-looking statements relating to the company's financial condition, results of operations, plans, objectives, future performance and businesses.

 



We caution you that actual results could differ materially from those that are indicated in these forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors. Information concerning these factors can be found in the company's filings with the SEC. In addition, we will make reference to certain non-GAAP measures. The reconciliations with the appropriate GAAP measures can be found in our earnings release issued yesterday afternoon.I'll now turn the call over to Travis Stice.Travis D. Stice -- Chief Executive Officer and DirectorThank you, Adam, and welcome to Diamondback's first quarter earnings call. Diamondback had a successful first quarter, continuing to build off the momentum generated in the back half of 2020. Operationally, we are hitting on all cylinders. We were able to effectively navigate a once-in-a-generation winter storm while keeping well costs and cash operating costs near all-time lows. We closed both the Guidon and QEP acquisitions in the first quarter and are very pleased with how the integration efforts are progressing. We are achieving our synergy targets ahead of schedule and in excess of the $60 million to $80 million of annual cost savings we highlighted when the deals were announced. Yesterday, we also announced three noncore asset divestitures for gross expected proceeds of $832 million.

 



By selling these noncore acreage positions in such a timely and opportunistic manner, we were able to take advantage of a strong A&D market and generate attractive cash returns for Diamondback shareholders. We anticipate using the combined proceeds from these noncore asset sales to accelerate debt reduction. As we discussed last quarter, even though oil demand has shown signs of recovery from the depths of the global pandemic, oil supply is still purposely being withheld from the market, primarily through the actions of OPEC+. As a result, we continue to believe we do not need production growth and will hold our pro forma fourth quarter 2020 oil production flat through 2021. Due to the complexity resulting from the timing of the QEP and Guidon acquisitions as well as the announced divestitures, we have instituted quarterly production and capital guidance for the first time.For the second quarter, we anticipate spending $350 million to $400 million in capital and producing 232,000 to 236,000 barrels of oil a day. This production range accounts for a full quarter of contribution from QEP's Williston asset and approximately two months of production from the announced noncore Permian asset sales. Looking at the full year of 2021, our free cash flow profile continues to improve. In the first quarter, we generated approximately $330 million of free cash flow, marking the third consecutive quarter of significant free cash generation. At current strip pricing and accounting for the Williston divestiture, we expect to generate approximately $1.4 billion in pre-dividend free cash flow this year at a reinvestment ratio of below 55%. In March, we executed a successful tender offer and refinancing of all of QEP bonds and one of Diamondback's existing bonds.This refinancing equates to $40 million of annual interest expense savings and extended our average debt maturity by three years. Today, we have three debt maturities that are callable before the end of this year: $191 million due later this year, $650 million due in 2023 and $432 million due in 2025. We expect to use cash on hand from internally generated cash flow as well as proceeds from our asset sales to retire these three tranches of bonds, reducing our absolute debt load and further strengthening our balance sheet. Now turning to ESG. We recognize the importance of operating with the highest level of environmental responsibility and continue to make progress on our ESG initiatives. We flared 0.75% of our gross gas production in the first quarter, a decrease of over 85% from 2019. Flaring is the biggest driver of our CO2 emissions.And while we are happy with our progress on our legacy acreage, we still have significant work to do on our recently acquired positions as we move to reduce our Scope one GHG intensity by at least 50% from 2019 levels by 2024. We've also committed to reducing our methane intensity by 70% over the same time frame. In the first quarter, we continued spending capital to retrofit our older tank batteries with air pneumatic devices as gas pneumatics account for 50% of our methane emissions. We also signed a contract to conduct quarterly flyovers of all of our tank batteries to more frequently check for equipment leaks, improving our maintenance practices. Our Net Zero Now initiative is also under way, which means every hydrocarbon molecule produced by Diamondback is anticipated to have 0 net Scope one carbon emissions from January 1, 2021 forward.

 



While we recognize we still had a carbon footprint, we have already purchased carbon credits to offset remaining emissions and ultimately plan to be a fast follower in investing in income-generating projects here in the United States that will more directly offset these remaining Scope one emissions. To finish, the first quarter was busy and productive. We generated substantial free cash flow, kept our capital and operating costs down, extended debt maturities, added Tier one inventory and divested noncore assets. All the while, our strategy remains the same: operate in a prudent and sustainable manner, spend maintenance capital to hold production flat and use future free cash flow to return cash to shareholders and reduce debt. With these comments complete, operator, please open the line for questions.