  OperatorGood day, and welcome to the Bristol-Myers Squibb 2021 second-quarter results conference call. Today's conference is being recorded. And at this time, I'd like to turn the conference over to Mr. Tim Power, vice president, investor relations. Please go ahead, sir.Tim Power -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



 Thanks, Catherine, and good morning, everybody. Thanks for joining us this morning for our second-quarter 2021 earnings call. Joining me this morning with prepared remarks are Giovanni Caforio, our board chair and chief executive officer; and David Elkins, our chief financial officer. Also participating on the call today are Chris Boerner, our chief commercialization officer; and Samit Hirawat, our chief medical officer and head of global drug development. As you'll be aware, we've posted slides to bms.com that you can use to follow along with -- for David and Giovanni's remarks. But before we get started, I'll read our forward-looking statements. During today's call, we'll make statements about the company's future plans and prospects that constitute forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors, including those discussed in the company's SEC filings.These forward-looking statements represent our estimates as of today and should not be relied upon as representing estimates as of any future date. We specifically disclaim any obligation to update forward-looking statements even if our estimates change. We'll also focus our comments on our non-GAAP financial measures, which are adjusted to exclude certain specified items. Reconciliations of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are available at bms.com. And with that, I'll hand it over to Giovanni. 

 



Giovanni Caforio -- Board Chair and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Tim, and good morning, everyone. I hope you're all staying safe and healthy. Now turning to Slide 4. Let me start by saying I am very proud of our second-quarter results and express my gratitude to our teams across the globe for their dedication and steadfast commitment to our patients. Through their work, we are continuing to make great progress to diversify and renew our portfolio and position Bristol-Myers Squibb for an even stronger future. During the second quarter, we delivered excellent results across the board, including strong sales growth due to solid commercial performance, positive clinical results in our mid- and late-stage pipeline, continued BD execution, and strengthened our financial position. The strength of our commercial execution this quarter was underscored by the performance of our key medicines, including the return of Opdivo growth and the uptake of our new launch portfolio. Over the last 18 months, we launched five new medicines with significant potential, and we are very encouraged by their performance to date. Clinically, we continue to deliver on the potential of our pipeline with significant mid- and late-stage clinical readouts and important regulatory actions across our therapeutic areas. The recent additions to our portfolio added diversification to our business and an opportunity to generate sustained growth over time. From a financial perspective, we saw double-digit growth for both the top and bottom line. And we are reaffirming our full-year revenue and non-GAAP EPS guidance.

 



 We continue to maintain a strong balance sheet and generate significant cash flow, allowing us to advance our disciplined capital allocation strategy. We remain focused on external business development opportunities to further strengthen our pipeline over the long term. This quarter, we executed two licensing deals, an anti-TIGIT bispecific antibody program with Agenus; and MORAb-202, a folate receptor alpha ADC with Eisai, both strategically aligned with our oncology franchise. Overall, I am extremely pleased with our progress in the quarter. Turning now to our execution scorecard on Slide 5. We have made tremendous progress year to date across our therapeutic areas. In oncology, we are strengthening our IO franchise and have returned Opdivo to growth through multiple clinical successes and excellent commercial execution. Earlier this year, we launched Opdivo in three additional indications, including first-line gastric cancer, where we are the first and only I-O agent. We anticipate additional launch opportunities and growth drivers for Opdivo to further accelerate the growth of the brand. We also see opportunities to expand our I-O portfolio through the fixed-dose combination of our LAG-3 inhibitor, relatlimab, with Opdivo. At ASCO last month, we announced impressive results for relatlimab, potentially the third I-O therapy for BMS, building on our leadership in the field and expanding the durability of our franchise. We have a broad development program underway in I-O to benefit more patients over time. Moving to hematology. We received approval in the U.S. for two cell therapies, Brian and Abaca, and demand for these products has been strong. Physicians recognize the value of these treatments and there is significant patient need. Building on existing indications for Brian we announced the first-ever positive Phase 3 plan data in second-line transplant eligible large B-cell lymphoma last month. This is an important result. For the first time, we have shown that our cell therapy treatment is superior to a well-established standard of care. The positive results demonstrate that we can benefit patients early in their treatment journey. We look forward to sharing more details on these results later this year. We also have iberdomide Phase 2 data in-house, which we are very pleased with and look forward to discussing with health authorities. The data are potentially the first step toward the establishment of a new backbone of treatment in multiple myeloma, offering a better option to benefit patients. We have made tremendous progress expanding our immunology franchise. Ducravacitinib, a first-in-class selective TYK2 inhibitor, has the potential to be the oral agent of choice. We expect to launch this potential new medicine in psoriasis in the second half of 2022. We have initiated our Phase 2 program in psoriatic arthritis. And we also look forward to Phase 2 data in ulcerative colitis later this year and in Crohn's disease and lupus in 2022 to further expand the potential of this molecule. We initiated our Phase 3 program for cendakimab in eosinophilic esophagitis. And last month in the U.S., we launched Zeposia in ulcerative colitis. Finally, turning to. We are encouraged by the top-line results we received this quarter for Mildexion, our Factor 11a inhibitor. We look forward to presenting the data at a medical meeting later in the year. Additionally, we are preparing to launch mavacamten for symptomatic obstructive HCM in the U.S. early next year. We are encouraged by the potential of these assets to strengthen the durability of our CV franchise. In closing, on Slide 6. Our steadfast progress gives me great confidence that we are well-positioned for growth. We are rapidly advancing a new launch portfolio of first-in-class or best-in-class medicines across therapeutic areas. We remain focused on driving in light product performance, executing on our launches, advancing early, mid- and late-stage pipeline opportunities, and continuing to take a disciplined approach to capital allocation. Our strong clinical performance further de-risks our launch portfolio. And as a result, our confidence in our ability to deliver the $20 billion to $25 billion in non-risk-adjusted revenue in 2029 continues to increase. Our continued strong financial performance and balance sheet enable us to diversify and strengthen our long-term prospects. As our sales force returns to the field and we welcome our remote teams back to the office, I'm excited by the opportunity to reconnect with our colleagues, stakeholders, and patients. I believe we have the strongest pipeline and launch portfolio in BMS' history. And I'm very excited about our future. With that, I'll turn it over to David to walk you through the financials. David?David Elkins -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Giovanni, and thank you all for joining our call today. Let me start with our top-line performance on Slide 8. I'm very pleased to discuss our strong double-digit growth this quarter driven by increased demand for our key medicines across the globe. Looking at the first half of the year, which normalizes for most of the COVID-related buying patterns we experienced last year, commercial performance was strong, up 9% year over year or 7% excluding currency. This robust performance demonstrates both our strong execution of our commercial teams as well as increased demand for our products. I'll now provide additional color on the performance of our key brands and new launches starting with Eliquis on Slide 9. This was another strong quarter for Eliquis, with global sales up 29% versus last year. Second-quarter growth benefited from a favorable year-over-year comparison as prior year included the unwinding of COVID-related buying patterns. When looking at the first half, to normalize for this dynamic, sales remained strong, up 18%. In the U.S., we saw strong demand, with total prescription growth of 14% versus prior year driven by market share gains, which continue to expect strong new-to-brand share growth for further translate to overall total prescription growth. As a reminder, when we look toward the third and fourth quarters, we expect similar dynamics from the Medicare coverage gap we've seen in previous years. Internationally, we had very strong demand across all key geographies as we further gained share as the No. 1 OAC in multiple markets and we continue to see additional room to grow. Overall, we remain very pleased with the execution of Eliquis around the world and expect to continue to grow Eliquis's share within a growing class. Now turning to Opdivo on Slide 10. Let me start by saying we're very pleased to deliver return to growth this quarter up 16% versus last year. While COVID recovery dynamics as well as approximately $40 million in U.S. inventory build contributed this quarter's growth, the brand's performance was largely driven by strong demand for both our core and our newly launched indications. In the U.S., sales were up 13% year over year as well as 14% sequentially, driven by launches in lung, RCC, and our upper GI cancers, which are all going well, and lung shares in the low double digits with positive momentum, and we are seeing use across all histologies. In RCC, our Opdivo plus cabo launch continues to do well, with Opdivo now the leading PD-1 first-line renal across both available regimen. In upper GI, we saw a very strong start with Opdivo plus chemo in first-line gastric cancer with CheckMate 649, which reached 25% to 30% share in just a few months based upon the strength of our data. The adjuvant Supageo launch, while still in early days, is off to a great start. Overall, we see upper GI as an important opportunity for Opdivo based on the breadth of offered indications and the fact that Opdivo is the only PD therapy approved for HER2-negative gastric cancer. Outside the U.S., we had another strong quarter, with sales up 13%, excluding the impact of foreign currency versus last year. Growth was primarily driven by demand of our new launches in lung and renal cancer. Results also benefited from a favorable comparison due to COVID-related impact last year. All in all, we're very pleased with Opdivo's performance and future growth outlook based on the positive momentum for our current launches, our future potential launches, including muscle-invasive bladder cancer and first-line esophageal, as well as potential expansion opportunities from clinical trials that we'll read out over time. Now turning to Slide 11 regarding our in-line multiple myeloma portfolio. Revlimid was up globally, primarily driven by demand for triplet-based therapies and increasing treatment duration. In the U.S., we are encouraged to see prescriptions nearing pre-COVID levels. PhRMA's global sales were up 15%, driven by continued strong demand for triple-based therapies and use in earlier lines. Now moving to our recent launches on Slide 12. We continue to be very pleased with our new launches. Beginning with Reblozyl, which generated $128 million in Q2 and increased 14% sequentially, as the bolus from the MBS launches continue to wind down, it's being replaced by underlying demand growth as expected. We continue to expect sustained growth in the second half of the year as we remain focused on treating new patients earlier in their treatment journey and ensuring they receive the most appropriate dose for sustained benefit. Moving to MS, which generated $28 million in the quarter. The MS launch continues to progress well, where symposia is the S1P of choice in terms of written prescriptions and where we continue to see high intent to prescribe metrics. We have also seen an acceleration in the conversion time from written prescriptions to commercially supplied product. Looking forward, we continue to focus on establishing symposium not only as the S1P of choice, but also the oral treatment of choice for MS. Beyond MS, we launched symposia in ulcerative colitis in the U.S. in early June. While early in the launch, we are very encouraged by physician receptivity to the product so far. Our plan is to focus on step-wise process of building volume by establishing demand for this differentiated oral-like biologic-like medicine while maximizing access over time. Turning to Onureg. The launch is also going well, with double-digit demand growth over prior quarter. We continue to expand the user base with physicians recognizing Onureg as the first and only FDA-approved treatment for AML patients in first remission with a demonstrated OS benefit. Second-quarter sales were impacted by reduced inventory, driven by our transition from bottles to blister cards. However, based upon the strength of the underlying demand trends, we expect to see sales rebound in the second half of the year. Remember that this is a new treatment segment where it will take time to shape and establish Onureg as a maintenance treatment. Looking at each of these products internationally, we are encouraged to see how these launches are going, and we look forward to driving growth to gaining access and reimbursement in additional markets over time. Now I'd like to turn to Slide 13 and discuss cell therapy. Demand for our two new differentiated cell therapy products has been strong. Starting with Breyanzi. We were pleased with our launch progress with Q2 sales of $17 million driven by strong execution and rapid site activation with more than 65 sites activated to date. Messages around our differentiated profile and outpatient utilization are resonating well, with high awareness among CAR-T treaters. Next, as it relates to Abecma, our first-in-class BCMA CAR-T, had sales of $24 million in the quarter led by very strong demand. We were able to leverage the site footprint of Breyanzi to accelerate site onboarding, an advantage of launching two CAR-T medicines simultaneously. Based on the significant unmet demand and differentiated profile, we have seen robust demand for this product beyond our current capacity, and we are looking hard to increase capacity over time. Looking forward, we continue to see meaningful long-term potential with our cell therapy franchise across both Breyanzi and Abecma as evidenced by the recent demand we've seen. Now turning to the next slide. a few points as we think about our launch portfolio overall. First, we are very encouraged with how each of these products are progressing at this point in the launch cycle. Together, they have already contributed $225 million this quarter and are approaching $1 billion run rate. Importantly, we review these products as having significant future potential. This gives us great confidence in our ability to diversify and renew our portfolio as we look forward. Now let me take you through a few line items on our P&L on Slide 15. Since we've already covered strong sales for the quarter, I'll focus on a couple of other key line items. First, gross margin decreased versus prior year, which is primarily due to foreign exchange and product mix. Operating expenses were higher than last year, particularly in MS&A due to higher launch and prelaunch investments across therapeutic areas as well as foreign exchange, which were partially offset by our realized synergies. Remember that at the same time period last year, our spend levels were lower than normal due to the initial wave of COVID. Effective tax rate was 16.9%, primarily driven by our earnings mix. And overall non-GAAP EPS increased significantly year over year, primarily driven by our strong top-line performance. Now switching gears to the balance sheet and our capital allocation on Slide 16. Our liquidity position remains strong, with over $13 billion in cash and marketable securities and strong cash flow from operations of $3.1 billion in the quarter. Our capital allocation priorities remain unchanged. During the quarter, we continued to strengthen the balance sheet while renewing and diversifying our portfolio through business development. As Giovanni mentioned, we executed two deals during the quarter that both complement, diversify our oncology portfolio, with the Genus and Eisei. As it relates to continued debt reduction, a $4 billion tender offer and additional $1.5 billion in maturities in the first half of the year demonstrate our commitment to strong investment-grade rating. As it relates to our share repurchases of the planned buyback of $3 billion to $4 billion this year, we have already bought back $3 billion to date, and we'll remain opportunistic as the year progresses. Now turning to our 2021 guidance on Slide 17. Following this quarter's performance, we are reaffirming our top- and bottom-line non-GAAP guidance for the year, which reflects significant growth over last year. From a full-year revenue perspective, we continue to expect growth in the high single digits. In terms of phasing for the remainder of the year due to Eliquis' coverage gap and on unwinding of Opdivo inventory that I noted earlier, we expect Q3 global revenues to be similar to Q2. However, we are encouraged by the strength in the business and expect full-year sales at the higher end of our guidance. We have updated our gross margin assumption to 80% for the full year, primarily due to product mix and the impact of foreign exchange. Moving to operating expenses. We are maintaining our full-year guidance on MS&A of low single-digit increase and on R&D of mid-single-digit increase. In terms of phasing for opex, we expect it to increase quarter over quarter at a similar pace to the first half of the year. Based on that and the strength of the business, we are reaffirming non-GAAP diluted EPS of $7.35 and $7.55 for 2021. This quarter, we remain pleased not just with our performance but also with the considerable progress we made in executing our launches and advancing our pipeline. I'll now turn the call back over to Tim and Giovanni for the Q&A.Tim Power -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thanks, David. Catherine, could we go to our first question, please? 