
OperatorGood day and welcome to Northern Trust First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded.At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Mr. Mark Bette, Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Mark Bette -- Senior Vice President, Director of Investor Relations

 



Thank you, Olivia. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to Northern Trust Corporation's first quarter 2021 earnings conference call. Joining me on our call this morning are Mike O'Grady, our Chairman and CEO; Jason Tyler, our Chief Financial Officer; Lauren Allnutt, our Controller; and Kelly Lernihan from our Investor Relation team.Our first quarter earnings press release and financial trends report are both available on our website at northerntrust.com. Also on our website, you will find our quarterly earnings review presentation, which we will use to guide today's conference call. This April 20th call is being webcast live on northerntrust.com. The only authorized rebroadcast of this call is the replay that will be available on our website through May 18. Northern Trust disclaims any continuing accuracy of the information provided in this call after today.Now for our Safe Harbor statement. What we say during today's conference call may include forward-looking statements, which are Northern Trust's current estimates and expectations of future events or future results. Actual results, of course, could differ materially from those expressed or implied by these statements, because the realization of those results is subject to many risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict. I urge you to read our 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for detailed information about factors that could affect actual results.During today's question-and-answer session, please limit your initial query to one question and one related follow-up. This will allow us to move through the queue and enable as many people as possible the opportunity to ask questions as time permits. Thank you again for joining us today.

 



Let me turn the call over to Mike O'Grady.Michael G. O'Grady -- Chairman, President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Mark. Let me join in welcoming you to our first quarter 2021 earnings call. Amid the ongoing public health crisis, I hope you and your families are healthy and well. At Northern Trust, we continue to operate in what we call resiliency mode, which means we are focused on providing our clients continuity of service, while the majority of our employees worldwide are working remotely.Before turning the call over to Jason to walk through the financials in detail, I wanted to offer some brief comments on our performance for the quarter. Our results for the quarter resulted in earnings-per-share growth of 9% versus the prior year, and a return on average common equity of 13.7%. Revenue was consistent with the prior year as declines in net interest income and trading-related revenue were offset by 6% growth in trust fees. The persistent low interest rate environment has pressured our net interest income as well as our trust fees as reflected by money market fee waivers. While overall year-over-year operating leverage was negative, the 6% growth in trust fees did produce one point of positive fee operating leverage, despite the impact of fee waivers, which reduced our trust fee growth versus the prior year by 5 percentage points.

 



The current quarter's results also benefited from an improved economic outlook, which drove a $30 million release of reserves for credit losses. Throughout the past year, our strong capital base and liquidity profile enabled us to support the needs of our clients. And this was demonstrated further during the first quarter, as we saw 10% sequential growth in average total deposits and 3% sequential growth in average loan balances.Throughout this challenging environment, we have effectively executed on initiatives to continue to drive organic growth within each of our businesses, one of our key strategic initiatives.Within Wealth Management, our digital marketing efforts in Northern Trust Institute had driven more conversations and engagement and we've experienced an increase in client engagement during the quarter.Within Asset Management, we have continued to see success and growth within ESG mandates with assets under management of $139 billion at quarter end and our quant active strategies have experienced strong relative performance providing us good momentum. In our Asset Servicing business, we continue to see organic growth during the quarter with the success being well diversified across regions, products and client segments.Moving forward, we remain focused on continuing to effectively navigate through the persistent low interest rate environment, focusing on driving greater efficiencies as well as continuing to grow organically in a scalable and profitable manner. Finally, I want to express my sincere appreciation for our employees, whose commitment, expertise, and professionalism throughout these extraordinary times continues to be exceptional.Now, let me turn the call to Jason to review our financial results in greater detail for the quarter.Jason J. Tyler -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Mike. Let me join Mark and Mike in welcoming you to our first quarter 2021 earnings call. Let's dive into the financial results of the quarter starting on page two. This morning, we reported first quarter net income of $375.1 million. Earnings per share were $1.70 and our return on average common equity was 13.7%. You can see on the bottom of page two equity markets performed well during the quarter. Recall that a significant portion of our trust fees are based on quarter lag or month lag asset levels in both the S&P 500 and EAFE Local had strong sequential performance based on those calculations. As shown on this page, average 1-month and 3-month LIBOR rates were stable during the quarter with modest declines.Move to page three and review the financial highlights of the first quarter. Year-over-year, revenue was flat with non-interest income up 5% and net interest income down 17%. Expenses increased 5%, while net income was up 4%. In the sequential comparison, revenue grew 4% with non-interest income up 5% and net interest income up slightly. Expenses declined 3% and net income increased 56%. Recall that the prior year -- the prior quarter included $66.9 million in expense relating to severance and occupancy charges. Excluding those charges, expenses were up 3% on a per -- on a sequential basis.The provision for credit losses reflected a release of $30 million in reserves in the quarter compared to a provision of $61 million in the prior year and a release of $2.5 million in the prior quarter. The release in the quarter was driven by continued improvement in the projected economic conditions and portfolio credit quality relative to the prior quarter.Return on average common equity was 13.7% for the quarter, up from 13.4% a year ago and 8.8% in the prior quarter. Assets under custody and administration of $14.8 trillion grew 36% from a year ago and increased 2% on a sequential basis. Assets under custody of $11.5 trillion grew 40% from a year ago and increased 2% on a sequential basis. Assets under management were $1.4 trillion, up 29% from a year ago and up 3% on a sequential basis.Let's look at the results in greater detail, starting with revenue on page four. First quarter revenue on a fully taxable equivalent basis was $1.6 billion, flat with the prior year and up 4% sequentially. Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees, representing the largest component of our revenue, totaled $1.1 billion and were up 6% from last year and 4% sequentially.Foreign exchange trading income was $79 million in the quarter, down 12% year-over-year and up 15% sequentially. The decline compared to a year ago was driven by lower volume and lower volatility, while the sequential performance was driven by higher volumes. The remaining components of non-interest income totaled $101 million in the quarter, up 16% compared to a year ago and up 9% sequentially. Within this, securities commissions and trading income declined 17% compared to a year ago, but was up 8% sequentially. The year-over-year decline reflected lower interest rate swap and transition management activity. The sequential performance was driven by strong growth within our core brokerage business, which includes our integrated trading solutions product.Other operating income totaled $55 million and was up 60% from one year ago and up 11% sequentially. The year-over-year growth was impacted by higher income in the supplemental compensation plans and a prior-year market value adjustment for a seed capital investment, partially offset by higher expense relating to Visa swap agreements. The growth due to the supplemental compensation plans had a related increase within our other operating expense. The sequential increase was primarily associated with lower expense relating to Visa swap agreements.Net interest income, which I'll discuss in more detail later, was $347 million in the first quarter, down 17% from a year ago and up slightly on a sequential basis.Let's look at the components of our trust and investment fees on page five. For our Corporate & Institutional Services business, fees totaled $621 million in the first quarter and were up 8% year-over-year and up 4% sequentially. Custody and fund administration fees were $446 million and up 13% year-over-year and up 6% on a sequential basis. The year-over-year performance was driven by new business, favorable currency translation, and higher transaction volumes. The sequential increase was primarily driven by favorable markets, new business and favorable currency translation.Assets under custody/administration for C&IS clients were $13.9 trillion at quarter end, up 36% year-over-year and up 2% sequentially. The year-over-year growth was driven by favorable markets, new business, and favorable currency translation. The sequential performance was driven by favorable markets and new business, partially offset by unfavorable currency translation. Investment management fees in C&IS of $116 million were down 4% year-over-year and down 7% sequentially. Both comparisons were impacted by higher money market fee waivers, partially offset by new business and favorable markets. Fee waivers in C&IS totaled $28 million in the first quarter compared to $11.4 million in the prior quarter.Assets under management for C&IS clients were $1.1 trillion, up 30% year-over-year and up 3% sequentially. The growth from the prior year was driven by favorable markets, client flows, and favorable currency translation. The sequential growth was driven by favorable markets and net flows. Securities lending fees were $18 million in the quarter, down percent year-over-year and up 4% sequentially. The year-over-year decline was driven by lower spreads, while the sequential performance was driven by higher volumes, partially offset by lower spreads. Average collateral levels were up 13% year-over-year and up 11% sequentially.Moving to our Wealth Management business, Trust, Investment and Other Servicing fees were $443 million and were up 3% compared to both the prior year and prior quarter. Fee waivers at Wealth Management totaled $22 million in the first quarter compared to $12 million in the prior quarter. Across the regions, both on a year-over-year and sequential basis, growth were impacted by favorable markets partially offset by higher fee waivers. Within Global Family Office, fees were lower year-over-year and sequentially and primarily reflected higher fee waivers, partially offset by favorable markets.Assets under management for our Wealth Management clients were $355 billion at quarter end, up 28% year-over-year and up 2% sequentially. The year-over-year growth was driven by favorable markets and client flows, while the sequential performance reflected favorable markets, partially offset by net outflows.Moving to page six, net interest income was $347 million in the quarter and was down 17% from the prior year. Earning assets averaged $141 billion in the quarter, up 27% versus the prior year. Average deposits were $126 billion and were up 33% versus the prior year, while loan balances averaged $34.2 billion and were up 6% compared to the prior year.The net interest margin was 1% in the quarter and was down 51 basis points from a year ago. The net interest margin declined primarily due to lower interest rates as well as mix shift within the balance sheet.On a sequential quarter basis, net interest income increased slightly. Average earning assets increased 7% on a sequential basis, while average deposits were up 10%. The net interest margin declined 5 basis points sequentially, partially due to the balance sheet mix shift and lower rates.Turning to page seven, expenses were $1.1 billion in the first quarter or 5% higher than the prior year and 3% lower sequentially. The prior quarter included a $55 million severance charge related to a reduction in force and an $11.9 million expense associated with an early lease exit arising from our workplace real estate strategy. Excluding these items, expenses were up 3% sequentially.Compensation expense totaled $519 million and was up 4% compared to the prior year and was down 1% sequentially. The year-over-year growth was driven by higher salary expense due to staff growth, prior year base pay adjustments, higher incentive expense, and unfavorable currency translation. Excluding the charge in the prior period, compensation was up 10% sequentially, primarily driven by higher equity and cash-based incentives. This quarter's equity incentives included $32 million in expense associated with retirement eligible staff compared to $34 million in the prior year.Employee benefits expense of $103 million was up 6% from one year ago and up 1% sequentially. The year-over-year increase is primarily related to higher retirement, medical and payroll withholding costs. The sequential increase was primarily driven by higher payroll withholding, partially offset by lower medical expense. Outside services expense was $196 million and was up 2% from a year ago and down 6% from the prior quarter. The year-over-year growth was driven by higher sub-custody, third-party advisor and market data costs, partially offset by lower data processing and consulting costs. The prior quarter included a $2.5 million charge. Excluding the charge, costs were down 4% primarily due to lower legal, consulting and technical services related costs.Equipment and software expense of $177 million was up 9% from one year ago and flat sequentially. The year-over-year growth reflected higher software support and amortization costs. Occupancy expense of $51 million were down 1% from a year ago and down 24% on a sequential basis. The prior quarter included an $11.9 million charge relating to an early lease exit. Excluding that charge, the category was down 8% on a sequential basis, driven by lower building operation costs and lower rent expense.Other operating expense of $72 million was up 16% from a year ago and relatively flat sequentially. The year-over-year increase was primarily driven by higher supplemental compensation plan expense and other miscellaneous expenses, partially offset by lower business promotion and staff-related costs.Turn to page eight. Our capital ratios remain strong with our Common Equity Tier 1 ratio of 12% under the Standardized Approach and 12.8% under the Advanced Approach. Our Tier 1 leverage ratio was 6.9% under both the Standardized and Advanced Approaches.During the first quarter, we repurchased 1.4 million shares of common stock at a cost of $136 million. We also declared cash dividends of $0.70 per share, totaling $151 million to common shareholders.The current environment continues to demonstrate the importance of a strong capital base and liquidity profile to support our clients' needs. We continue to provide our clients with the exceptional service and solution expertise they've come to expect. Our competitive positioning across each of our businesses, Wealth Management, Asset Management and Asset Servicing, continues to resonate well in the marketplace.Thank you again for participating in Northern Trust's first quarter earnings conference call today. Mike, Mark, Lauren and I would be happy to answer your questions. Olivia, please open the line.