  OperatorGood day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Keysight Technology fiscal second-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. My name is Holly, and I'll be your lead operator today. After the presentation, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator instructions] Please note today's call is being recorded today, Wednesday, August 18, 2021, at 1:30 p.m. Pacific Time. I would now like to hand the conference over to Jason Kary, vice president, treasurer, and investor relations.Jason Kary -- Vice President, Treasurer, and Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, and welcome, everyone, to Keysight's third-quarter earnings conference call for fiscal year 2021. Joining me are Ron Nersesian, Keysight's chairman, president, and CEO; and Neil Dougherty, our CFO. Joining us in the Q&A session will be Satish Dhanasekaran, chief operating officer; and Mark Wallace, senior vice president of global sales. The press release and information to supplement today's discussion are on our website at investor.keysight.com. Click on the link for quarterly reports under the Financial Information tab, where you will find an investor presentation along with Keysight's segment results. Following this call, we will also post a copy of the prepared remarks. Today's comments will refer to non-GAAP financial measures. We will also make references to core growth, which excludes the impact of currency and acquisitions or divestitures completed within the last 12 months.You will find the most directly comparable GAAP financial metrics and reconciliations on our website. All comparisons are on a year-over-year basis unless otherwise noted. We will make forward-looking statements about the financial performance of the company on today's call. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and are only valid as of today. The company assumes no obligation to update them. Please review our recent SEC filings for a more complete picture of risks and other factors. Lastly, I would highlight that management is scheduled to participate in upcoming virtual investor conferences hosted by Jefferies, Deutsche Bank, and Citi. And now I will turn the call over to Ron. 

 



Ron Nersesian -- Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Jason, and thank you, everyone, for joining us. Keysight delivered another quarter of excellent results. Solid industry dynamics are accelerating demand for our differentiated solutions, and we continue to capitalize on broad-based technology investment across a diverse set of growing markets. Today, I'll focus my comments on three key headlines. First, we delivered record Q3 orders, all-time record revenue, and our highest quarterly operating margin of the year. The durability of our business model was on full display as we continue to effectively navigate supply chain challenges. Second, Keysight's first-to-market software-centric solution strategy continues to yield consistently strong results. Since our launch in 2015 through our expected 2021 finish, we will have delivered 9% compound annual revenue growth and 16% annualized earnings growth, both well above our long-term commitments despite significant headwinds of trade restrictions and a global pandemic. Our investments are well aligned with the highest impact market opportunities as we continue to enable our customer success and deliver value to our shareholders. Third, given our outstanding performance year to date, we expect to achieve 2021 year-over-year revenue growth of 16% and EPS of $6.03, which represents 24% earnings growth at the midpoint of our guidance. We have strong momentum entering 2022, and our long-term revenue and earnings growth targets remain intact, and we expect to drive incremental margin expansion going forward. Now let's take a deeper look at our third-quarter performance.

 



 Record Q3 orders of $1.3 billion grew 23%. All-time record revenue also grew 23% to $1.2 billion. We delivered gross margin of 65%, operating margin of 27%, and earnings of $1.54, which was well above the high end of our guidance and represents 29% year-over-year earnings growth. Keysight continues to deliver outstanding growth despite year-over-year headwinds due to trade restrictions and ongoing supply chain disruption. Our growth rates are not only just a result of soft year-over-year comparisons but also reflect sustained multiyear above-market growth. For example, Q3 orders are up 18% and revenue was up 15% versus the same quarter in 2019 prior to the global pandemic. The strength and durability of our business model are delivering as expected. We see accelerated demand from our differentiated solutions from both existing and new customers. Our customer engagement throughout the pandemic has been strong with approximately 1,900 new customers added in 2020, which we would expect to exceed in 2021. Looking at our business segments, for the third quarter in a row, we reported double-digit year-over-year order and revenue growth across both segments and all regions, demonstrating the breadth and differentiated portfolio across a diverse set of end markets. Our Electronic Industrial Solutions Group achieved strong double-digit order and revenue growth across all regions, as well as its fourth consecutive quarter of record revenue. Continued investment in chipsets for 5G data center, cloud, and AI applications drove demand for our differentiated semiconductor solutions, resulting in another quarter of record orders and revenue. Investment also remains high in advanced technology nodes and capacity expansion for mature processes to address surge in global semiconductor demands. Our general electronics business achieved record Q3 orders and revenue. Four consecutive quarters of double-digit order and revenue growth demonstrate Keysight's breadth of contributions across multiple industries. Strength in the quarter was driven by investments in customers' broad-based digital transformation, industrial IoT, digital health, Industry 4.0, and advanced academic research. In automotive, record Q3 orders and all-time record revenue were driven by the ongoing macroeconomic recovery, acceleration in EV and AV technology investment, and manufacturing expansion to meet pent-up demand. As the trend toward autonomous vehicles gains momentum, Keysight remains focused on enabling next-generation technologies across the automotive R&D workflow. We recently announced a new cellular vehicle to everything, or CV2X, autonomous drive emulation solution, which provides a real-world environment emulator for in-lab testing to simulate realistic roadway scenarios. We continue to see steady demand for our EV and AV solutions, including automotive Ethernet compliance and cybersecurity test. Our Communications Solutions Group achieved record third-quarter orders and revenue and delivered double-digit order and revenue growth, despite trade restrictions that impacted one of our larger customers in China. Aerospace, defense, and government delivered record Q3 orders and revenue. Revenue grew double digits across all major regions. While benefiting from a soft prior-year comparison, growth was again driven by space, satellite, electromagnetic spectrum operations, 5G, and early 6G research applications. U.S. government and prime contractor investment was strong while internationally, Europe rebounded from a year ago, coupled with solid growth in Asia. Our Application Solutions strategy drove a significant win with a leading research institute in this quarter. Keysight's leading-edge integrated wireless and wireline test bed is enabling their next-generation terabit and 6G research. Our aerospace, defense, and government customers will also benefit from our differentiated services offering to enable their mission-critical program needs. In Q3, we entered into multiple U.S. prime contractor engagements for calibration and uptime services. Commercial communications achieved third-quarter record orders and revenue. Adjusted for the impact of China trade restrictions, commercial communications orders and revenue both grew double digits. Ongoing strength was driven by global 5G deployments and the rollout of new 5G chipsets and devices, O-RAN adoption, 400-gig and 800-gig Ethernet for data centers, and increased spending by service providers. Our collaboration with key 5G innovators remains strong as we continue to lead with new industry firsts. In partnership with Qualcomm, we were the first to achieve 10-gigabit-per-second 5G data connections. Keysight was also selected by Vodafone, along with other industry leaders such as Samsung, NEC, and Dell to deliver end-to-end cloud solutions for the deployment of Europe's first commercial O-RAN network. Sanjole, acquired earlier this year, had a strong quarter driven by expanding adoption of our WaveJudge wireless test system, which further enhances Keysight's 5G solutions for deployments. Keysight continues to enable next-generation wireline standards, such as 800-gigabit Ethernet. Our newly announced 800-gigabit Ethernet solutions saw strong demand within the quarter. In recent partnership with Cisco and Amphenol, we demonstrated high data rate multivendor interoperability, a key enabler of next-generation networks. The combination of our network application solutions from the Ixia acquisition and our leading physical layer bit array testers and oscilloscopes is driving new levels of customer insight and value. Our software and services solutions remain an important growth vector for Keysight. Higher-value services are driving differentiation while strengthening our competitive position. At greater than 30% of total revenue with ARR exceeding $1 billion, our growing mix of software and services is increasing the durability of our business model while reducing overall cyclicality. They are both contributing to Keysight's margin expansion with operating margins at or above the company average. Keysight's focus on operational excellence continues to drive our consistent execution, and our employees are critical to our success. Employee growth is a key component of the Keysight leadership model, and we view our high-performance culture as a competitive advantage. As such, we are honored to have our team in Malaysia recognized as the overall winner of the Employee Experience Awards by Human Resources Online. This award is in recognition of the innovative programs deployed in the Malaysia HR team to proactively engage employees and create positive experiences despite unprecedented pandemic-related challenges. Our employees in Malaysia have done an outstanding job under difficult circumstances since COVID restrictions were imposed and our production operations were impacted. To mitigate the risk of COVID-19 to employees, customers, and suppliers, Keysight implemented a vaccine program for both Keysight employees and their suppliers. Over 95% of our employees at the Malaysian facility are now vaccinated. In addition, vaccination rates at our large U.S. sites are above their local community averages. In summary, our momentum continues, and our strategy is generating strong results. We have a track record of consistent execution and delivering on our commitments. I am confident in our ability to capitalize on many growth opportunities ahead of us as we finish the fiscal year and look forward to 2022. Now I would like to turn it over to Neil to discuss our financial performance and outlook in more detail.Neil Dougherty -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Ron, and hello, everyone. As Ron mentioned, Keysight delivered another outstanding quarter as broad-based technology investment accelerated demand for our differentiated solutions, resulting in better-than-expected results in the quarter. Third-quarter revenue of $1.246 billion was above the high end of our guidance and grew 23% or 21% on a core basis. We achieved third-quarter orders of $1.310 billion, up 23% or 20% on a core basis. Excluding the impact of China trade restrictions, orders grew 29%. Turning to our operational results. We reported Q3 gross margin of 65%, which increased 60 basis points year over year. Operating expenses of $472 million were well managed despite higher variable compensation. Operating margin was 27%, up over 100 basis points. We achieved net income of $286 million and delivered $1.54 in earnings per share, which was above the high end of our guidance. Our weighted average share count for the quarter was 186 million shares. Moving to the performance of our segments. Our Communications Solutions Group, or CSG, achieved third-quarter revenue of $875 million, up 15%. CSG delivered gross margin of 66%, which increased 50 basis points year over year. Operating margin was 26%. Commercial communications revenue of $595 million increased 6%, driven by continued investments across the 5G life cycle and our leadership in emerging applications. As Ron mentioned, adjusting for the transient impact of unfavorable trade restrictions, commercial communications revenue grew double digits. Aerospace, defense, and government revenue of $280 million grew 39% and recorded double-digit growth across all major regions, led by U.S. and Europe. The Electronic Industrial Solutions Group, or EISG, generated another record revenue quarter of $371 million, up 48% or 44% on a core basis. Order and revenue strength was notable across all markets and regions as semiconductor, general electronics, and automotive solutions orders and revenue all grew strong double digits. EISG reported gross margin of 64% and record operating margin of 31%. Moving to the balance sheet and cash flow. We ended our third quarter with over $2 billion in cash and cash equivalents and reported cash flow from operations of $257 million and free cash flow of $217 million or 17% of revenue. Our capital allocation priorities are unchanged and remain focused on investments in organic growth, value-creating acquisitions, and share repurchase. Under our share repurchase authorization, during the quarter, we acquired approximately 570,000 shares on the open market at an average price of $140 for a total consideration of $80 million. Now turning to our outlook and guidance. We expect fourth-quarter 2021 revenue to be in the range of $1.250 billion to $1.270 billion, which represents 3% revenue growth at the midpoint. Full-year revenue at the midpoint of our guidance is $4.9 billion, representing 16% revenue growth. We expect Q4 earnings per share to be in the range of $1.59 to $1.65 based on a weighted diluted share count of approximately 186 million shares. Full-year earnings at the midpoint of our guidance is $6.03, representing 24% EPS growth. In closing, our expected 2021 revenue and earnings per share represent 7% and 13% compounded annual growth over the last two years since 2019. Both are not only above our long-term expectations but accomplished in the face of significant COVID-related disruption last year and the substantial negative effect of China trade restrictions. Our consistent execution demonstrates the resilience of our business and our ability to drive sustainable and profitable growth. Beyond 2021, our long-term revenue and earnings growth targets, as well as our financial model remain intact as we see continued opportunity for incremental margin expansion. With that, I will now turn it back to Jason for the Q&A.Jason Kary -- Vice President, Treasurer, and Investor Relations Thank you, Neil. Holly, will you please give the instructions for the Q&A? 