
OperatorGood day and thank you for standing by and welcome to the Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator Instructions]I'd now like to hand the conference over to your speaker for today, Mr. Brad Delco. Thank you, sir. Please go ahead.Brad Delco -- Vice President, Finance and Investor Relations

 



Good morning. Before I introduce the speakers, I would like to take some time to provide some disclosures regarding forward-looking statements. This call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as expects, anticipates, intends, estimates or similar expressions are intended to identify these forward-looking statements.These statements are based on J.B. Hunt's current plans and expectations and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause future activities and results to be materially different from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. For more information regarding the risk factors, please refer to J.B. Hunt's Annual Report on Form 10-K and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.Now, I'd like to introduce you to the speakers on today's call. This morning, I'm joined by our CEO, John Roberts; our CFO, John Kuhlow; Shelley Simpson, Chief Commercial Officer and EVP of People and Human Resources; Nick Hobbs, Chief Operating Officer and President of Contract Services; Brad Hicks, President of Highway Services; and Darren Field, President of Intermodal.At this time, I'd like to turn the call to our CEO, Mr. John Roberts, for some opening comments, John?

 



John N. Roberts -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Brad. Good morning and thank you for joining us today. The third quarter continued to present the momentum we spoke of during our last earnings call. We also see persistent irregularities in demand patterns substantially resulting from port, labor and inventory challenges with our customers. The congestion at key inbound port locations has further challenged the desired smoothing of supply chains in preparation for the upcoming holiday season.We find that the dialogue with our key customers reveals both a challenged labor market and a pent up need to increase the in-stock levels across the system. Planned additions to our container and trailing fleet and the expansion in contract services both Final Mile and dedicated should all contribute positively as these headwinds abate.The company is not insulated from the labor dynamics mentioned above for our customers. This year, we have reached all-time highs in the need for company drivers in all segments as well as openings we have on our office and field teams. We have done comprehensive and exhaustive research on our current compensation and benefits programs, along with our incentives plans to help better position our job going forward. Progress in closing the gaps for both driver and non-driver positions has been made during the quarter and we're optimistic these gaps will continue to shrink for us.

 



As our executives will discuss today, we're generally pleased with the performance of all segments. However, we do have ample room for improvement with the inventory flows and contractor model in our Final Mile business as well as in the utilization of equipment in the Intermodal. Even with these opportunities, we see our supply chain-focused services well-positioned and healthy for the long-term needs of our customers. We are also encouraged by the continued progress we see in the utilization of our 360 platforms and the productivity gains resulting from expanded usage across the company with our carriers and with our shippers.The past two weeks have returned us to the annual tradition of honoring our multi-million-mile drivers, who over many years accomplished the pinnacle of our profession. In Lowell, we have hosted two sessions for a total of over 100 drivers, reaching between 2 million and 5 million safe miles along with their families for a two-day celebration with our entire corporate team. We have been extremely careful to host these sessions following CDC guidelines. Nevertheless, we have done all of us a world of good to see our very best in-person again.The energy has been contagious and I am sure that it will carry us forward nicely. Please check out our website to see how we recognize these incredible men and women.I will now turn the call over to John Kuhlow for his comments. John?John Kuhlow -- Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice PresidentThank you, John. Good morning, everyone. Staying consistent with recent quarters, so I'll start by providing a couple of comments on our third quarter of 2021 from a consolidated perspective.Overall, we were pleased with our revenue growth over the prior year, which was up 27% and the result of improvements in all segments. Operating income increased 56% with mixed results from some segments that are the result of cost pressures from labor issues, but also due to the significant growth in implementing new contractual businesses that will be addressed in the segment discussions.Interest expense was consistent with prior year and we had a slight increase in our tax rate, resulting in earnings per share of $1.88 for the quarter, which is an increase of nearly 60% over the prior year. The impacts of labor shortages, network congestion and just general supply chain challenges are well known and they persisted in the quarter, again, straining our ability to service the demand and effectively utilize our assets, similar to what we experienced in the second quarter. Additional cost pressures in the quarter were primarily related to higher purchase transportation costs and other employee costs of incentive compensation and medical benefits.We ended the quarter with approximately $530 million in cash. At the beginning of the year, we had announced a heavy investment in equipment for 2021. While all orders remain in place, the constraints noted have limited our ability to in-service this equipment. Through unconventional means, including leasing our own private vessels, we are able to add just shy of 3,000 JBI containers and over 900 JBT trailers during the quarter, as well as having success in sourcing our tractor needs as a result of solid relationships with our equipment manufacturers.Considering these constraints, we are adjusting our expected capex spend for the remainder of 2021 and now expect our capex to approximate a little over $1 billion for the full year. We remain committed to obtaining capacity to serve our customers and continue our focus on obtaining the equipment ordered. While we haven't finalized plans for 2022 yet, our initial expectations are for capex to exceed 2021 levels, but will depend largely on the ability and timing too in obtaining the equipment. We purchased 50 million of our shares in the third quarter, bringing us to 135 million for the year and anticipate continuing buybacks on a more regular basis. We will continue to balance our cash outlay on equipment, dividends and buybacks for the remainder of the year as opportunities unfold, trending toward our targeted one-time's EBITDA leverage metric on a net basis.In recent quarters, we have updated you on cost directly related to COVID, which have principally been in the form of special bonuses for frontline employees and PTO for employees needing to quarantine. While we still incur these costs, we have now lapped quarters of providing this and, as such, there are no meaningful reconciliations to the prior year quarter. We continue to monitor the impacts of COVID focusing on the health and safety of our people or staying informed of state and federal mandates around vaccinations and other protocols.This concludes my remarks. And I'll now turn it over to Shelley.Shelley Simpson -- Chief Commercial Officer and Executive Vice President, People and Human ResourcesThank you, John. And good morning. My commercial update will focus on general market conditions, our updated thoughts around peak season and our preliminary planning for 2022. We will also give some updated thoughts on the progress we're making inside our J.B. Hunt 360 multimodal digital freight platform.We continue to see plenty of opportunities in the market to provide valuable services for customers needing comprehensive supply chain solutions. While fluidity across the supply chain remains challenging, we are working closely with our customers to develop and execute plans that get their freight delivered. We believe our ability to source capacity on the J.B. Hunt 360 platform continues to differentiate us and our go-to-market strategy and ensure customers find the most efficient way to move their freight.Capacity remains tight across all channels, as evidenced by elevated spot and contract rates across all modes of transportation. Further adding to fluidity challenges is the backlog of freight off the West Coast waiting to get unloaded at the ports. We share in these frustrations and are not immune to these impacts as some of our containers are also sitting out in the Pacific waiting to be unloaded. While peak season is upon us, we believe the bottlenecks on the West Coast are going to compact and even intensify further peak season capacity needs into November and December and are preparing ourselves accordingly.As we think about planning for 2022, we will turn our attention to leveraging our people, technology and equipment to not only optimize our customers freight, but even more important optimize their freight spend. Freight is moving inefficiently today at elevated truck and spot rates, which will be ripe for conversion to intermodal when we also have the full onboarding of our 12,000 new intermodal containers. While we remain focused on executing our peak season plans, we are also focused on positioning our customers to deliver on their budget for 2022 with the most efficient and cost-effective solution available and, again, we stand ready to meet the needs of our customers as we enter the New Year.We continue to be extremely encouraged by the trends we are seeing in our J.B. Hunt 360 multi-modal digital freight platform. Carrier and shipper user activity and engagement metrics continue to accelerate, providing further evidence in the value of being able to optimize and transact in real time in a more frictionless process.With regards to automation, we have completed the pilot of some of our automated tools for matching freight between shippers and carriers and have begun a thoughtfully paced rollout of the system to our personnel in the field. We expect to see additional productivity and service quality benefits over the next year as the system is fully rolled out and utilized.As we move forward, we remain focused on improving access, visibility and transparency on our platform, which we believe sets us up to achieve our mission statement, to create the most efficient transportation network in North America.Closing out my comments and similar to a message I shared with you last quarter, I remain extremely encouraged about our position to leverage our people, assets and technology to help our customers through their supply chain challenges. Those attributes, combined with our experience, tenured workforce and broad and expanding scroll of services is what I believe differentiates us in the market and why I believe customers continue to lean into us during these challenging times.That concludes my comments. And I'd now like to turn it over to Nick.Nick Hobbs -- Chief Operating Officer, Executive Vice President and President, Contract ServicesThank you, Shelley. And good morning. I will focus my comments on the performance of both our Dedicated Contract Service business, or DCS, and our Final Mile Service businesses, FMS. I'll also provide you an update from a general operational perspective on both the driver market as well as our ability to source equipment.In our dedicated business, we continue to see tremendous demand for a professionally outsourced fleet solutions propelled by the current market dynamics around driver and equipment availability. Our backlog and pipeline remained strong. I am extremely proud of the team's ability to execute this quarter, highlighted by the addition of 744 trucks in the quarter. This is the largest number of truck adds in any single quarter. As historically is the case, start-up cost did put pressure on margins in the quarter as we incurred costs before we begin to recognize revenue. But let me be clear, we are extremely pleased with these results as it sets the stage for solid growth and momentum as we roll forward.The new business we have been onboarding represents a broad and diverse mix of customer accounts across both industry verticals and geographies. While we in the industry are facing driver recruitment challenges, customers in most instances have been willing to support our out-of-cycle adjustments to support higher wages for our professional driving workforce.As I alluded to earlier, we continue to see strong demand for our service and, as an update, we have sold 1,899 trucks year-to-date as of September 30 or an incremental 734 trucks from my last update on our second quarter call.Now transitioning to our Final Mile Services update. We see solid growth opportunities in this market that is and will be supported by our ability to differentiate our service product. As a result, we continue to make investments in our people and processes to support our growth outlook. Relatively to some of our recent quarters, profitability was pressured as a result of several factors. Similar to dedicated, we experienced start-up costs in the quarter given the smaller base of business this had a disproportionate impact on our results. Additionally, our contract carriers are also facing labor challenges, particularly for the second seat in the delivery trucks, in addition to those at our customer warehouses.Finally, and as we discussed last quarter, supply chain issues are impacting product availability and in turn our ability to leverage our network to deliver goods, particularly in the appliance and furniture categories. We believe these challenges are mostly transitory. Going forward, we are encouraged by the new business we are onboarding and we are on pace for a record new year of sales. We continue to see a solid pipeline of both growth opportunities that we plan to capitalize on in the future. Our success will be largely dependent on our ability to differentiate the service experience for our customers' customer. And we remain committed to making the needed investments to achieve that differentiation.Finally, to close on some general operational updates, we have been extremely focused on our hiring efforts in the field to support our growth. As we have discussed in past quarters, we believe J.B. Hunt offers one of the most attractive driving opportunities, given the concentration of work in both local and regional applications, combined with top pay and career advancement opportunities. This is also true for our field managers and operations personnel. We have continued to make adjustments to wages and benefits to make our company even more attractive to those seeking a rewarding employment opportunity.Additionally, we have been working closely with our equipment providers in order to support our growth. We have had to hold trades of some of our equipment to support our pipeline, but continue to stay attentive to both maintenance cost and fuel economy as a result.That concludes my remarks. So I'll turn it over to Brad.Brad Hicks -- President, Highway Services and Executive Vice PresidentThank you, Nick. And good morning. I will focus my comments on the performance of Integrated Capacity Solutions and truck. I'd like to start off by recognizing all members of our ICS and JBT segments for how they continue to respond in the current environment to elevated demand trends. Our customers continue to present us with opportunities to deliver both truck and trailing capacity solutions and the team continues to respond very well in these demanding times.The experience of our people leveraging our technology platform and our physical assets continues to provide us opportunities to source and provide capacity for customers in what continues to be an extremely capacity constrained environment. The ability to source that capacity is enabled by our technology investments into our J.B. Hunt 360 platform and is complemented by our drop trailer pools with 360box, excuse me. We continue to invest in these areas as well as in our people to provide more solutions for our customers.I'll start with my comments on truck, or JBT. Revenue grew 87% year-over-year to $204 million. This is the first quarter the JBT segment has generated over $200 million of revenue since 2007. And we were able to accomplish this with approximately 60% fewer trucks versus that period. This is yet another example of our organization's focus on providing value-added solutions for customers, while maintaining our focus on scaling into large addressable markets with our desire for adequate returns on our capital.We believe our drop trailer capacity or 360box is the power only capacity sourced through our platform provides us an opportunity for sustainable growth. Our trailing capacity increased 20% versus the prior year and 11% from the end of the second quarter and the segment generated $14.7 million of operating income, the highest of any third quarter since 2006. Going forward, we will continue to stay disciplined on our desire to grow, while also focusing on driving greater network efficiencies particularly in our drop trailer network.Shifting gears to Integrated Capacity Solutions or our ICS segment, ICS delivered $666 million of revenue, breaking our prior quarterly record achieved just last quarter. Revenue grew 55% versus the prior year period, segment volumes grew 4% in the quarter, while specifically truckload volume growth was 14% year-over-year.The cost of sourcing third-party capacity remains elevated, which is a continuation of the same trends we have seen through the latter parts of 2020 and all of 2021. That said, gross margins did expand 150 basis points sequentially as a result of further scaling of our platform, implementation of higher contractual rates and robust spot opportunities. We believe the market dynamics could tighten even further in the fourth quarter as congestion across the supply chain is likely to compress the timing of peak season and intensify customer needs for capacity solutions right up to the holidays.Going forward, we will continue to invest to expand the capabilities and functions of our multi-modal digital freight platform for our carriers and customers as well as for our people to drive greater productivity and efficiencies in sourcing cost-effective solutions for our customers while giving carriers great visibility to the freight on our platform.In closing, we continue to see solid momentum across our JBT and ICS segments as evidenced by both segments delivering the strongest top-line growth across our scroll of services for the fourth consecutive quarter in a row. While much work has been done, there is still much to accomplish. But along the way, we will remain committed to our investments in our people and our technology platform that will drive waste out of system and help us deliver on our mission to create the most efficient transportation network in North America.This concludes my comments. I'll pass it over to Darren.Darren Field -- President, Intermodal and Executive Vice PresidentThank you, Brad. And good morning. I'm going to focus my comments on three items related to our intermodal business. First, I'm going to review performance in the quarter. I will also discuss network fluidity and our continuous effort to improve velocity and capacity for our customers. And finally, I will discuss continued investment in both people and the onboarding of our trailing capacity that we think is going to put us in a solid position to meet the tremendous demand we are seeing for our services and to further support and accelerate the truck to rail conversion opportunities.While demand for our intermodal services remains very strong, our volume performance in the quarter doesn't reflect that as fluidity challenges across our network continue to temper available capacity to serve that demand. As we discussed last quarter, we believe the core challenges around network fluidity for both our rail providers and customers center around the availability of labor and has continued to provide challenges across the entire supply chain.Volumes for the quarter were down 6%. And by month, volumes were down 7% in July, down 6% in August and down 5% in September. Improvements in rail network fluidity, particularly at the terminals and quicker turns of our equipment at customer locations, combined with the onboarding of the new containers would and will help us provide additional capacity.As we discussed last quarter, we implemented programs with our customers to encourage better utilization of our equipment, while protecting our need to generate appropriate returns on our significant investment in both people and equipment to support additional capacity. Importantly, these programs are designed to provide the benefit of additional capacity that results from gained efficiencies.I would say that the results from this program thus far have been mixed. We have seen some customer locations improve, while other locations have deteriorated, even in instances within the same customers' footprint. I would also say from our perspective, the results of the program have been mixed based simply on the fact that we would absolutely prefer to move more volume and provide more capacity for customers, which was not the case in the quarter. I believe this highlights the severity of the labor challenges across the supply chain. Box turns in the quarter fell sequentially to 1.62 versus 1.65 in the prior quarter, further supporting that view.We continue to be optimistic about the opportunities for long-term sustainable growth in our intermodal business. Customer demand continues to grow and our rail providers continue to view us as a solution to the current congestion challenges that are even more severe in the international intermodal market. Owning our own equipment, including power, trailing and chassis in our highly skilled driver and operations personnel are differentiated in the market, particularly around fluidity and service. This is further supported by our J.B. Hunt 360 platform that allows us to source capacity when rail congestion or restrictions hamper our ability to serve.In closing, Intermodal's value proposition remains strong as driver and labor challenges continue to plague the supply chain, combined with higher energy prices and the fact that an intermodal shipment on average is 60% less carbon intensive than the all truck alternative. We will continue to make investments to support the meaningful growth opportunities in the market. We expect to take delivery of our entire 12,000 container order by early 2022, setting us up to provide meaningful savings for our customers as we begin the next bid cycle.That concludes my prepared comments.