
OperatorHello, and welcome to McDonald's First Quarter 2021 Investor Conference Call. At the request of McDonald's Corporation, this conference is being recorded. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Mike Cieplak, Investor Relations Officer for McDonald's Corporation. Mr. Cieplak, you may begin.Mike Cieplak -- Corporate Vice President, Investor Relations OfficerGood morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us. With me on the call this morning are President and Chief Executive Officer, Chris Kempczinski; Chief Financial Officer, Kevin Ozan; and President of McDonald's U.S.A., Joe Erlinger.

 



I want to remind everyone that the forward-looking statements in our earnings release and 8-K filing also apply to our comments on the call today. Both of those documents are available on our website, as are any reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures mentioned on today's call with their corresponding GAAP measures.Following prepared remarks this morning, we will open a queue for your questions. [Operator Instructions] Today's conference call is being webcast and is also being recorded for replay via our website.And now I'll turn it over to Chris.Chris Kempczinski -- President and Chief Executive Officer

 



Thanks, Mike, and good morning, everyone. It was a year ago this week that we had our first earnings call of the COVID-19 pandemic. We had just begun to experience the closings, openings and constantly changing regulations that would come to define the past year.I said then that in the face of such enormous challenges, I was immensely proud of the entire McDonald's system. Franchisees, crew members, suppliers and company employees banded together and continued to feed in foster communities amid unprecedented change and disruption.My pride has only grown since then. Through the pandemic, we've seen the power of the McDonald's system and our franchise model at work. We are one of the world's most global corporation, but also one of the most local, serving tens of millions of customers each day across almost 40,000 local restaurants. That's our secret sauce. And it's hard to imagine how we would have adapted to the constantly changing circumstances of the past year if we were not a locally owned, locally managed system, rooted in the communities where we operate.That ability to adapt enabled us to build a system playbook that tapped into our operating prowess and synthesized learnings from individual markets. We put our customers and people first, and found ways to ensure their safety and security amid a global health crisis. We leaned into our historical strengths like our core menu and drive-thru to continue serving our communities, creating feel-good moments that were more welcome and needed than ever.

 



At the same time, we kept innovating in areas like digital and delivery to offer customers new ways to safely connect with our brand and deepen our ability to meet their personalized needs. And we used our marketing muscle to keep the golden arches shining brightly, reminding people of their enduring trust in our brand and our purpose to feed and foster communities.Importantly, we did it all with a commitment to transparency. Every step of the way, we gave our stakeholders a clear sense of what we were doing and why we were doing it. That communication was made easier by our refreshed values that captured the essence of the McDonald's system and how we operate.No matter where you are in the world, our McDonald's values serve as the glue that unites us and guides our every decision. We put our people and customers first. We open our doors to everyone. We do the right thing. We're good neighbors, and we get better together.Five simple statements that capture the essence of the company Ray Kroc founded over 65 years ago. Our renewed focus on these values has kicked off a virtuous cycle, energizing our workforce and attracting new leaders who embody these qualities and are inspired by our purpose. That includes Desiree Ralls-Morrison, who joined the team earlier this week as our new General Counsel.Turning to our business performance. Despite resurgences and continued operating restrictions in many parts of the world, I'm pleased to share that in the first quarter, global comp sales and revenues have already surpassed Q1 2019 levels. Not surprisingly, we expect McDonald's to deliver strong global comp sales and revenue growth against 2019 levels for the full year, reflecting the strength of our business and the pent-up customer demand we're seeing as markets reopen.Specifically in Q1, global comp sales for the quarter were up 7.5%, with each of our segments achieving positive comp sales. As we will hear in a moment from our U.S. segment President, Joe Erlinger, that improvement was largely driven by the U.S., with comp sales up 13.6% for the quarter.In Europe, we continue to face a tough operating environment, which is impacting recovery across some of our top markets in the IOM segment. Kevin will talk about our international performance in a minute.We remain laser-focused on achieving the sustainable growth plan laid out in Accelerating the Arches. Likewise, our three growth pillars, M, C and D, continue to serve as both a guide and an engine for our path forward. We are maximizing our marketing to stay relevant and find those connection points with customers that will pay off in a big way. We're also committing to our core menu, making the chicken, burgers and coffee our customers love even more delicious. In a moment, Joe will talk about the successful launch of the new Crispy Chicken Sandwich.Finally, we're doubling down on digital, delivery and drive-thru. We're creating a faster, easier, better customer experience. However, our customers want to interact with us, whether at the counter, through drive-thru window or on the app, dining in the restaurant or having that meal delivered to them. We will offer experiences they love and that we believe will keep them coming back.Over the past four years, we went from just over 3,000 restaurants offering delivery to now more than 30,000 restaurants for 75% of our global footprint. We're excited about our success with multiple 3PL partners, and we continue to innovate. That includes testing self-delivery models in select markets and identifying ways to improve restaurant operations for delivery so that the customer experience will get better and better.Drive-thru made McDonald's what it is today. The drive-thrus in 25,000 of our restaurants worldwide are a huge part of who we are and why we've been able to continue safely serving millions of customers each day this past year. And since the pandemic began, we've leaned into this competitive advantage by continuing to improve drive-thru service times by putting more emphasis on operations and reducing menu complexity.We also see digital as an important channel to improve speed and convenience, provide customers with more personalization and offer even better value. We have 40 million active app users in just our top six markets and millions more around the world.Our goal is to make sure that no matter how customers interact with us, they have a seamless and consistently enjoyable experience. One key lever in reaching our digital ambition is loyalty. In addition to France and a few other markets, which already have loyalty, we are currently piloting our new loyalty program, My McDonald's Rewards, in the U.S. and Germany, with plan to deploy later this year.What inspires me the most about our digital transformation is that we constantly have the opportunity and ability to become even more relevant in our customers' everyday routines. The power of our growth pillars come to life, not in isolation but in combination.The success of our famous orders program is a great example of how the three pillars, our M, C and D, are deeply interconnected, reinforcing and bolstering one another. And last week's announcement that we're partnering with super group, BTS, from South Korea to offer fans in nearly 50 countries their favorite McDonald's order, shines a powerful light on a simple truth: in every country where we operate from every walk of life and in almost every stage of life, you have your go-to McDonald's order.This is much more than your traditional promotional partnership. For one, it will harness the scale of McDonald's and the relevance of authentic fans like BTS. I think it's fair to say that few other brands have the cultural relevance and global appeal to pull off this kind of partnership. That's the power of brand McDonald's.Famous Orders takes that universal insight of everyone's unique go-to McDonald's order, celebrates our fans love of the core menu and brings it to life through digital activations. The BTS ARMY will soon experience the M, the C and the D of our plan in a way that authentically taps into their love of these two global icons. And it doesn't stop there. Whether it's through successful traffic-generating promotions like digital calendars in Australia or Germany, building on the strength of core equities with line extensions like Katsu Curry Chicken McNuggets and Grand Big Mac in the U.K., we're piloting the My McDonald's Reward loyalty program. We continue to deepen our connection with customers and create a consistent and enjoyable experience.Let's turn it over to Joe to tell us what that experience is looking like in the U.S. Joe?Joe Erlinger -- President, McDonald's USAThanks, Chris. Our U.S. business ended 2020 in a position of strength and that carried into the first quarter, delivering a 13.6% comp sales increase with double-digit positive comps across all dayparts. We exited Q1 with historically high average daily sales volumes and the record high operating cash flow our franchisees experienced in 2020 continued in Q1.While we have seen some benefit from consumers receiving government stimulus checks during the first quarter, our results are truly a testament to the hard work happening each day in our restaurants.I've recently been in our restaurants in Maine and Massachusetts, and you can feel the energy and excitement. Our franchisees and importantly, their restaurant teams are focused on keeping our crew and customers safe. In addition, they are delivering gold standard execution, especially around chicken and the 3Ds, and this has led to higher customer satisfaction scores.I want to give a special thank you to our owner operators and restaurant teams for all they've done during extremely challenging times.Our growth plans in the U.S. are rooted in the Accelerating the Arches strategy and focused on the MCD framework. As for our results, the quarterly performance is a product of the accumulation of what we've done over the past 12 months and not because of any one action we took during a quarter or a four-week marketing window.The values and brand-based decisions we've made, along with simplifying our menus, strengthening our digital business and recommitting to our core are having a multiplier effect. I've seen this recipe for success in several markets during my time overseas, and I'm confident that the right pieces are in place for our U.S. business to sustain results.Let me pull back the lens and give you some examples. Driving customer visits begins with committing to the core menu. Early in the pandemic, the U.S. business removed dozens of menu items. As a result of this focus, our drive-thrus got faster, margins grew and customer satisfaction improved. Put simply, our restaurants became easier to run and more profitable.Reducing complexity set the stage for the right investments in the core beginning last fall with Spicy Chicken McNuggets, which we brought back for a limited time in February. They drove customer excitement and comp sales growth during the quarter. Then in late February, we introduced our Crispy Chicken Sandwich line of three delicious new sandwiches, the beginning of our multiyear chicken journey.While the category is very competitive, we are so far exceeding our projections. We are selling substantially more chicken sandwiches compared to our previous chicken sandwich line and seeing strong unit movement, especially after 4:00 p.m.Our success is a demonstration of McDonald's at its best, with all three legs of the stool working together. First, we developed the platform and built the supply chain. We then align the system around the opportunity. And finally, we created engaging and exciting marketing, PR and social media plans nationally and across our 10 field offices. Today, we're learning from each other and working to transfer the success we're seeing in our top restaurants to all restaurants.We expect to refresh and sustain this platform and do so in a very culturally relevant way throughout the rest of 2021. At the same time, we doubled down on the 3Ds: digital, delivery and drive-thru.With COVID as the catalyst for a consumer behavior shift, we experienced an absolute surge in off-premise dining. We drove our digital sales mix and app usage. In the first quarter, we had nearly $1.5 billion in digital sales, which includes app, kiosks and delivery. And we now have over 20 million active app users with loyalty yet to come.We grew delivery to an all-time high in dollars and sales mix, and we continued to reduce overall experience times, especially impressive given the increased volume of business we'd experienced through the drive-thru.Chris mentioned the Famous Orders platform earlier. Nothing had a greater impact on our digital business than the introduction of this program last year. We've retained many of the digital customers acquired during those famous order promotions, and the U.S. business is very excited about the upcoming BTS meal, which continues to maximize our digital investments without adding any restaurant complexity. And with that foundation, we are well positioned heading into our loyalty program launch later this summer.When we built My McDonald's Rewards, our goal was to create a platform that elevated our brand, excited our customers and engaged our crew, and we did just that. In our two test-and-learn markets, Phoenix and New England, we're encouraged by the initial results. User adoption, as measured by guests ordering through the app, are up significantly since the test began. Frequency has increased. In fact, our loyalty customers are far more likely to return in the next 30 days compared to non-loyalty customers. And customer satisfaction is up. Customers love the personalized experience of being greeted by their first name.We've received overwhelmingly positive feedback from restaurant crew, not only on the program itself, but the ways in which we've trained them, for example, using digital simulations. Of course, as in any test, we've captured many learnings around training, operations and deployment that will help us maximize the impact when we launch this nationally.As I close, I want to reiterate that there is not one single reason for our success. The accumulation of our decisions, grounded in our values, returned the U.S. business to a place of brand relevancy for our customers and meaning for our people and has provided us a strong foundation toward sustained business growth.And now I'll turn it over to Kevin to talk about our international performance and our financial results.Kevin Ozan -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Joe. As Chris mentioned earlier, global comp sales and revenues for the quarter surpassed Q1 2019 pre-pandemic levels, largely driven by the U.S. For the quarter, global comp sales increased 7.5% with growth across all segments, and comps were up significantly in March as we started to lap the impact of COVID-19.In the IOM segment, comp sales were up 60 basis points in Q1. With widespread resurgences and ongoing government restrictions across Europe, including dining room closures and reduced operating hours, the segment has not fully recovered to pre-COVID levels. As a result of the restrictions, we saw varied performance across the markets.Strong results continued in Australia as customer mobility has mostly recovered and the country remains nearly COVID-free. The market benefited from sales of their new chicken line along with successful LTO line extensions on core burgers. And average check has continued to hold up with sustained growth in delivery and drive-thru sales and a shift into more core and premium menu items.Comp sales were positive for the U.K. and Canada for the quarter and surpassed 2019 pre-pandemic levels. Despite U.K.'s national stay-at-home order for nearly all of Q1 and Canada's recent surge in COVID infections, both markets have successfully leveraged the competitive advantages of our 3Ds to grow sales. And in France and Germany, comps were negative for the quarter, as dining rooms were closed and curfews were in place.Government restrictions are expected to ease somewhat in Q2, but we don't expect these markets to recover to pre-COVID sales levels until later in the year.Comp sales in the IDL segment were up 6.4% for the quarter, with growth across nearly all geographies. Performance was largely driven by positive results in China and Japan.In China, comps were up significantly for the quarter as we comped over COVID impacts from February and March last year. By leveraging their large digital members base, China ran compelling digital offers, contributing to results for the quarter as they continue on the path to recovery. In addition, China opened 150 new restaurants in Q1, keeping on pace to open nearly 500 new restaurants this year.Japan maintained momentum in Q1 with comps up 9%, and that's on top of over 5% growth last year as a strong balance of core, value and family related promotions resonated with customers.Looking ahead to Q2, we expect the U.S. to continue to outpace 2019 with two-year comp sales growth relatively in line with Q1. In the IOM segment, we expect the two-year growth rate to improve over Q1, but the segment will likely continue to lag 2019 until the second half of the year.Given our strong start to the year, we now expect full year systemwide sales growth in the mid-teens in constant currencies. But we continue to see pandemic-related stops and starts in markets around the world, impacting customer behavior and our business. So there's still some uncertainty.Turning to earnings. Adjusted earnings per share in Q1 was $1.92, up 27% in constant currencies. And adjusted operating margin was 41.9%, reflecting improved sales performance, higher other operating income and lower G&A costs compared to last year.Total restaurant margin dollars increased 10% in constant currencies, with improvement in both franchise and company-operated restaurant margins. Franchise margin dollars grew by over $170 million in constant currencies, mostly from the strong sales performance in the U.S. And company-operated margins in the U.S. were strong, as we continue to see top line growth driven from higher average check.As I mentioned last quarter, we expect the U.S. margins to moderate somewhat as check growth tempers and we reopen dining rooms.In the IOM segment, company-operated margins improved in Q1. With the ongoing impact of COVID on the segment, we don't expect to get back to full year pre-COVID margin levels this year. This is a result of near-term sales and cost pressures, but there's nothing structural to prevent us from returning to pre-COVID margins longer term.Turning to G&A. Chris and Joe both talked about the contributions from digital on our results, and we continue to invest in this important area to fuel growth. For the quarter, G&A was down 6% in constant currencies due to some onetime costs we incurred in the first quarter last year. As a result of our strong start to the year, we're now expecting higher incentive-based compensation. So for the full year, we expect G&A to be about 2.4% of systemwide sales. Because this increase to incentive-based comp just relates to current year performance, It will only impact this year's G&A.Our effective tax rate was 21.3% for the quarter, and we're still projecting a full year rate in the range of 21% to 23%, with some fluctuation across the quarters.And finally, foreign currency translation benefited Q1 results by $0.06 per share. Based on current exchange rates, we expect FX to benefit EPS by about $0.10 for Q2 with an estimated full year tailwind of $0.24 to $0.26. As usual, this is directional guidance only as rates will likely change as we move through the year.I'm pleased with our global recovery to date, even as we face resurgence of restricted operations around the world, and I'm confident that our Accelerating the Arches strategy will continue to drive growth in the business.Now I'll turn it back to Chris.Chris Kempczinski -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Kevin. I want to close by saying once again how proud I am of everything our system has accomplished and continues to do amid such difficult circumstances. If last year was about defining who we are, what we stand for and where we're going, this year is about execution and how we're going to get there.Every year, we check in with our staff to get their feedback on the work that's happening. In our latest survey results received last week, almost 90% of employees expressed strong confidence in our business. And just as importantly, they agreed that we were abiding by each of our core values. And just a few weeks ago, we held our Annual Leadership Summit, virtually bringing together our top 50 field and corporate leaders. Across each of our markets and among this leadership group, there was strong alignment against our Accelerating the Arches strategy and univesal recognition that our continues success depends on great execution.Back in November at our Investor Day, I said that distinctions between the corporate brand and the consumer brand are blurring. They are now two sides of the same coin, and you can't build an inclusive, family focused global consumer brand like McDonald's unless the corporation's actions give evidence to those attributes.That's why in February, we set five- and 10-year goals for increasing diversity and leadership across our corporation. Research has shown that businesses that prioritize DEI recruit and retain stronger talent, unlock greater innovative potential and bolster financial performance. And we're committed to making measurable progress in disclosing representation data to hold ourselves accountable for results by tying a portion of executive compensation to making progress in this area.Earlier this month, we also shared global brand standards designed to reinforce a culture of safety and inclusion. We want employees and customers to feel safe and protected. And it's critically important to be clear that violence, harassment and discrimination of any kind is not tolerated.All 39,000 McDonald's restaurants across the globe, including company-owned and franchised locations will be required to uphold these standards. We're continuing to put resources and tools in place to help restaurants implement these changes and ensure these standards are met. Beginning in January 2022, restaurants will be assessed in accordance with the applicable McDonald's market business evaluation processes.We understand that the way we show up in our communities and four stakeholders impacts the way customers see us and their trust in us. We have to make sure our values are the lived experience of everyone who interacts with our brand. We've seen powerful examples of service and dedication on display across the McDonald's system during the most difficult year we've ever experienced. Around the world, our people have embodied the belief that we must all pitch in and help one another. They take pride in that, and they should.While we all remain hopeful that this will be a year when life begins to return to some version of normal, we know the operating environment remains volatile. We expect that there will be stops and starts that impact results. But as we see, even during the most difficult moments last year, delicious feel-good moments from McDonald's remain high in demand.We will continue to lean forward and make bold bets in our future. I believe more strongly than ever, as I said in November, that this is the start of something new for McDonald's.As we continue to accelerate the arches, lead with our values and serve our customers and communities, I look forward to seeing what the McFamily can accomplish in the months ahead. And I look forward to seeing our global system come together in person next April in Orlando for our Global 2022 Worldwide Convention.And with that, we'll begin Q&A.