
OperatorWelcome to Franklin Resources Earnings Conference Call for the quarter ended June 30, 2021. Hello. My name is Hillary, and I will be your call operator today. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn your conference to your host, Selene Oh, Head of Investor Relations for Franklin Resources. You may begin.Selene Oh -- Head of Investor RelationGood morning, and thank you for joining us today to discuss our quarterly results. Statements made on this conference call regarding Franklin Resources, Inc., which are not historical facts are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements involve a number of known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from any future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. These and other risks, uncertainties and other important factors are just described in more detail in Franklin's recent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including in the Risk Factors and the MD&A sections of Franklin's most recent Form 10-K and 10-Q filings. Now I'd like to turn the call over to Jenny Johnson, our President and Chief Executive Officer.Jennifer M. Johnson -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Selene. Hello, everyone, and thank you for joining us today to discuss Franklin Templeton's results for our third fiscal quarter. Greg Johnson, our Executive Chairman; Matt Nicholls, our CFO; and Adam Spector, our Head of Global Distribution, are also on the call with me today. We hope that everybody is doing well. This past Saturday marked one year since we closed on our landmark acquisition of Legg Mason and its specialist investment managers. As we stated at the time, this is a growth story for our firm and our focus continues to be on delivering strong investment results for our valued clients. This commitment has been our North Star throughout the past year. Over the past 12 months, through the hard work and dedication of our employees, we've made significant strides bringing together the two firms and executing on our growth strategy.We have created a diversified business across asset class, vehicle, client type and region and we're well positioned in key growth areas where there is client demand, including alternatives, fixed income, SMAs and ESG investing. Early on, we redesigned a nimbler and more adaptable distribution model with a more region-centric sales approach, pushing our decision-making and resources closer to our clients, and the positive momentum we're seeing around sales flows shows that what we're doing is working. Our sales initiatives are resulting in deeper relationships and increased diversification in flows across funds, vehicles and asset classes. These factors have led to significant improvement in total net flows since the time of the acquisition. Our combined sales team has been actively cross-selling.In the U.S. alone, almost 6,000 financial advisors have deepened their relationships with Franklin Templeton through enhanced access to newly introduced capabilities. Specifically, this progress has led to growth in key areas of the business. Since the acquisition, we've grown alternatives by 15%, wealth management by 22% and SMAs by 25%. Above all else, we've been incredibly aligned in terms of culture and our focus on delivering strong investment results. Our efforts this past year have translated into a better, stronger Franklin Templeton. Turning now to our third fiscal quarter where our momentum has been building. Ending assets under management reached a record high of $1.55 trillion this quarter, and investment performance continues to strengthen across a broad array of investment strategies.Overall, results continue to reflect outperformance in fixed income, including Western Asset and Brandywine Global alternative asset strategies and global and international equity strategies across Franklin Templeton equities. Mutual funds with four or five star ratings by Morningstar increased to over 150 funds this quarter. Turning next to distribution highlights. We saw positive net flows into the majority of our specialist investment managers and Benefit Street Partners, Clarion, ClearBridge, Fiduciary Trust International, and Martin Currie, all reached record highs in assets under management. We were pleased to see a record $3.1 billion in net inflows to alternatives, and also that our fixed income net inflows returned to positive territory at $2.1 billion. We made progress diversifying our net flows across funds, vehicles and asset classes during the quarter, scaling smaller products and creating broader sources of revenue.For example, 15 of our top 20 funds with positive flows or products outside of our largest 20 funds, and each have an average AUM of less than $2 billion. In the U.S., our collective sales initiatives are yielding positive results with net flows during the quarter. Specifically, we saw net flows into U.S. retail, which is our largest distribution opportunity and in global financial institutions, our largest client opportunity. On the product development front, we launched the $1 billion pre-leverage Western Asset Diversified Income Fund. This was our largest ever fixed income closed-end fund IPO and illustrates the successful partnering of our SIMs investment capabilities with the combined reach of our distribution platform. Additional recent strategic developments include: the close of the acquisition of Diamond Hill's high yield-focused U.S. corporate credit mutual funds in July, adding $3.4 billion to assets under management; and the announcement of a merger of Benefit Street Partners Realty Trust with Capstead Mortgage Corporation, which will create the fourth largest publicly traded commercial mortgage REIT upon closing.Looking at our financial results. Our adjusted operating income increased by 3% to $601.2 million from the prior quarter, inclusive of the onetime impact of costs associated with the successful launch of the Western Asset closed-end fund that I just mentioned. And with $6.4 billion in cash and investments, the ongoing strength of our balance sheet enables us to invest with confidence in the business and make sure we're best positioned to be a leader in an ever-evolving industry. Finally, I want to thank all of our employees for their efforts this past year working under extraordinary circumstances. I'm extremely proud of what we've been able to accomplish on behalf of our clients. Now to your questions, operator?
OperatorWelcome to Franklin Resources Earnings Conference Call for the quarter ended March 31, 2021. Hello, my name is Denise, and I will be your call operator today. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. And at this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode.I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Selene Oh, Head of Investor Relations for Franklin Resources. You may begin.Selene Oh -- Head of Investor Relations

 



Good morning, and thank you for joining us today to discuss our quarterly results. Statements made on this conference call regarding Franklin Resources, Inc., which are not historical facts are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements involve a number of known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from any future results, expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. These and other risks, uncertainties, and other important factors are just described in more detail in Franklin's recent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including in the Risk Factors and the MD&A sections of Franklin's most recent Form 10-K and 10-Q filings.Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Jenny Johnson, our President and Chief Executive Officer.Jennifer M. Johnson -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Selene. Hello, everyone, and thank you for joining us today to discuss Franklin Templeton's second-quarter results. Greg Johnson, our Executive Chairman; Matt Nicholls, our CFO; and Adam Spector, our Head of Global Distribution, are also on the call with me today. We hope that everyone is well. We continue to operate our business effectively with over 95% of our employees working from home, broadly speaking, we are planning for a return to office in September, though our approach will be flexible and shaped by local requirement and the status of the pandemic in the countries where we do business.

 



We are encouraged by the number of vaccines that are now being distributed worldwide. Though the rollout rates obviously vary by country, the progress is very promising. Having said that, we have been deeply concerned by the suffering that has resulted from the surge in cases in India and other parts of the world. Our thoughts go out to our employees, to clients, who've been personally impacted by this terrible disease. Turning now to our second fiscal quarter. Today, we are pleased to report financial results that reflect our continued progress with revenue growth and margin expansion, resulting in a 6% increase in adjusted operating income to $581 million. Our financial flexibility remains strong, with cash and investments of $6.2 billion at March 31, net of $250 million of debt pay down in the quarter. After only two quarters as a combined company, we're experiencing organic growth in a number of key areas. We're now a more robust and diversified active management business, and we're encouraged and excited by our collective potential. Our merger has created a differentiated global firm which balances scale and specialization, and which we believe offers expanded opportunities for our stockholders, clients and employees, as well as the financial professionals with whom we partner.Turning to performance. We're seeing an improvement in performance across a broad base of investment strategies from the prior quarter. More than two-thirds of our strategy composites outperformed their respective benchmarks for the four key time periods. A number of our mutual funds rated four stars or five stars by Morningstar increased to over 140 funds this quarter. Turning next to distribution highlights. We're encouraged by the positive results of our new sales initiative and efforts with deep relationships. More clients purchased both legacy Franklin Templeton and the legacy Legg Mason strategies as demonstrated by our merger wins during this quarter. Our expanded distribution efforts drove an increase in gross sales of 32% from the prior quarter across a broad array of fund, vehicles, and asset classes led by US retail. Long-term inflows increased by $15.9 billion or 19% quarter-over-quarter to $99.4 billion, excluding reinvested distribution. Second-quarter long-term net outflows improved to $4.2 billion compared to $4.5 billion in the prior quarter. Importantly, if you exclude reinvested distributions, net outflows improved by over $10 billion.Our sales momentum continued with positive net flows in the Benefit Street Partners, Clarion Partners, ClearBridge, Fiduciary Trust International, Franklin Equity Group, Franklin Templeton Fixed Income, Martin Currie, Royce, and Western Asset. As we said on previous call, the firm has been focused on expanding our alternatives platform, and this quarter we did. Alternative strategies grew by $4 billion to $131 billion in assets under management, with contributions from real estate, private credit, and retail alternatives. Clarion Partners and Benefit Street Partners, both reached record AUM levels, and K2 Alternative Strategies also contributed to positive net flows. Fixed income inflows increased by 27% to $53.5 billion from the prior quarter due to positive contributions from a diverse group of fixed income strategies, including Core Bond, Core Plus, and Corporate. We are pleased that Western Asset experienced net inflows of almost $10 billion in the quarter, its highest level in over a decade. Equity inflows were $32.4 billion, consistent with the prior quarter, excluding reinvested distributions. We continue to see strong interest in our thematic equity strategies, and while it's still early days, we're seeing progress increase interest in our value strategies.As of this quarter's end, our institutional pipeline has increased with a combined total of won but unfunded mandates of $13 billion and is diversified across all asset classes. Aside from our specific results for the quarter, we are also pleased to release our Corporate Social Responsibility Report in April. We established clear goals and priorities for fiscal year 2021, ESG investing key among them and we continue to make important strides to keep our diversity inclusion efforts at the forefront. Before we open it up to questions, I'd like to thank our outstanding teams around the globe, that could give you more extraordinary work every day on behalf of our clients and firm, and they've done so this past year under challenging circumstances. I'm grateful for everything they do.

 



Now your questions. Operator?