  OperatorGood day, everyone, and welcome to EOG Resources third quarter 2021 earnings results conference call. As a reminder, this call is being recorded. At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to chief financial officer of EOG Resources, Mr. Tim Driggers. Please go ahead, sir.Tim Driggers -- Chief Financial Officer

 



 Good morning, and thanks for joining us. This conference call includes forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in our forward-looking statements have been outlined in the earnings release and EOG's SEC filings. This conference call also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures. Definitions and reconciliation schedules for these non-GAAP measures can be found on EOG's website. Participating on the call this morning are Ezra Yacob, chief executive officer; Billy Helms, president and chief operating officer; Ken Boedeker, EVP, exploration and production; Jeff Leitzell EVP, exploration and production; Lance Terveen, senior VP, marketing; and David Streit, VP, investor and public relations. Here's Ezra Yacob.Ezra Yacob -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Tim. Good morning, everyone. EOG is delivering on our free cash flow priorities. Yesterday, we announced an 82% increase to our regular dividend to an annual rate of $3 per share, a $2 per share special dividend and an update to our share buyback authorization to $5 billion.

 



 These cash return announcements reflect EOG's consistent outstanding performance and are the direct result of our disciplined approach to high-return investment. During the third quarter, we set new quarterly earnings and cash flow records. Adjusted net income of $1.3 billion or $2.16 per share and free cash flow of $1.4 billion. The strength of our current and future earnings and cash flow that supports both dividend announcements can be traced back to 2016. Amid a potentially prolonged low commodity price environment, we made a permanent upgrade to our investment criteria. Our premium hurdle rate was established not only to protect the company's profitability in 2016, but all future commodity cycles. The discipline to only invest in new wells that earn a minimum 30% direct after-tax rate of return, assuming a $40 oil price for the life of the well continues to improve our capital efficiency, profitability and cash flow. Our employees immediately embraced the challenge of this new investment hurdle. And by the second half of 2016, EOG was reinvesting capital and paying the dividend within cash flow. We have generated free cash flow every year since. From 2017 to 2019, we generated enough free cash flow to significantly reduce net debt by $2.2 billion, while also increasing the dividend rate 72%. We also expanded our inventory of premium wells by more than three times. While adding inventory that meets the minimum premium threshold increases quantity, our goal through technical innovation and organic exploration is to add higher quality inventory. Our employees, empowered by EOG's unique culture applied innovation and efficiencies to raise the return of much of the existing inventory while adding higher rate of return wells through exploration. The premium standard established in 2016 and the momentum that followed provided a step change in operational and by extension financial performance, which set the stage for the second upgrade to our reinvestment hurdle rate, double premium. Double premium, which is a minimum return hurdle of 60% direct after-tax rate of return at $40 oil was initiated during the depth of last year's unprecedented down cycle.

 



 That capital discipline enabled EOG to deliver extraordinary results in a $39 oil price environment last year. Using such stringent hurdle rates prepared the company not only for 2020 but for our stellar results this year. There is no clear indication of the impact premium and now double premium has had on our confidence in EOG's future profitability than the 82% increase to our regular dividend announced yesterday. Combined with the 10% increase made in February of this year, we have doubled our annual dividend rate from $1.50 per share to $3 per share. After weathering two downturns during which we did not cut nor to spend the dividend -- suspend the dividend, the new annual rate of $3 per share reflects the significant improvement in EOG's capital efficiency since the transition to premium drilling. Going forward, we are confident that double-premium will continue to improve the financial performance just like premium did five years ago. We are also confident in our ability to continue adding to our double-premium inventory without any need for expensive M&A by improving our existing assets and adding new plays from our deep pipeline of organic exploration prospects, developing high-return, low-cost reserves that meet our stringent double premium hurdle rate, expands our future free cash flow potential and supports EOG's commitment to sustainably growing our regular dividend. EOG's focus on returns, disciplined growth, strong free cash flow generation and sustainability remain constant. Just as our free cash flow priorities are consistent, so remains our broader strategy and culture, EOG's competitive advantage is our people and today's announcements are a reflection of our culture of innovation and execution. Looking toward 2022, oil market supply and demand fundamentals are improving but remain dynamic. While it's unlikely the market will be fully balanced by the end of 2021, we will continue to monitor macro fundamentals, as we plan for next year. We are committed to maintaining production until the oil market needs additional barrels. Under any scenario, we remain focused on driving sustainable efficiency improvements. We are well-positioned to offset inflationary price pressures to help keep our well costs flat next year. To summarize this quarter's earnings release in three points: first, our fundamental strategy of investing in high-return projects consistently executed year after year is delivering outstanding financial results. Second, we are still getting better. As we continue to expand our opportunity set to add double-premium inventory through sustainable well cost reductions and organic exploration, EOG is set up to improve performance even further. And third, we are well-positioned to execute our high-return reinvestment program in 2022 to deliver another year of outstanding returns. Here's Tim to review our capital allocation strategy and our free cash flow priorities. Tim Driggers -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Ezra. As we have been progressing premium in the last five years, our capital allocation decisions have been guided by a set of long-standing, consistent priorities. First is high-return, disciplined reinvestment. Our returns on capital investment have never been higher. However, market fundamentals remain the No. 1 determinant of when to grow. Second is the regular dividend, which we believe is the best way to return cash to shareholders. We have paid a dividend for 22 years without suspending or cutting it. At the new level of $3 per year, we can comfortably fund both the dividend and maintenance capex at $40 WTI. The combination of our low-cost structure, high returns and strong financial position will sustain this higher regular dividend. This resilient financial position is backstopped by our third priority, a pristine balance sheet with almost zero net debt. We remain firmly committed to a strong balance sheet. It's not conservatism. It's a competitive advantage. Fourth, we regularly review other cash return options, specifically special dividends and share buybacks. Yesterday, we declared a special dividend for the second time in 2021 and updated our share buyback authorization. Share buybacks have always been part of our playbook and will remain an opportunistic cash return alternative. We are cognizant of the challenges of successfully executing a share buyback in a cyclical industry. We know and expect there will be periods in the future when the stock will be impacted by macro factors such as the commodity cycle, geopolitical events and other unforeseen events like the COVID pandemic in 2020. The updated $5 billion authorization provides the flexibility to act and take advantage when the right opportunity presents itself. We believe our strategy for the use of other cash return options is well designed to deliver value through the cycle. Finally, we are not in the market for expensive M&A. It is simply a low return proposition. We can create much more value through organic reinvestment and our shareholders can do better with their excess cash. Our premium strategy generates back in their hands. Since our shift to premium in 2016, EOG has generated nearly $10 billion of free cash flow. With that cash flow, EOG has reduced debt $1.5 billion increased the cash balance by $3.6 billion and will have returned more than $5 billion to shareholders by the end of 2021. This is a significant amount of shareholder value driven by premium. Today, EOG is positioned to translate that value creation into even more cash returns to shareholders. In the third quarter, we generated a record $1.4 billion of free cash flow bringing our year-to-date free cash flow to $3.5 billion, which is equal to the total return of capital paid and committed this year to our regular dividend to special dividends and debt repayment. You can expect us to continue returning cash going forward. There might be times when we strategically increase or decrease the cash balance, but over time, the cash will go back to our shareholders. Here's Billy.Billy Helms -- President and Chief Operating Officer Thanks, Tim. As a result of the -- to the consistency of our operating performance, we delivered another quarter of outstanding results. I couldn't be more proud of the engagement of our employees and their culture of continuous improvement. Their execution of our 2021 plan has been near perfect. For the third quarter in a row, we produced more oil for less capital. That is we exceeded our production targets while spending less than our forecast for capital expenditures. Well productivity, driven by our double premium hurdle rate, continues to outperform, while our drilling and completion teams pushed the envelope on new sustainable cost savings and expand those efficiencies throughout our active operating areas. Examples include in-sourcing and redesigning drilling equipment, adopting innovative techniques to reduce nonproductive time, expanding super zipper completion operations and reducing sand and water sourcing cost. Our ability to continue to lower cost and deliver reliable execution quarter after quarter is tied to a common set of operating practices that together form a sustainable competitive advantage for EOG. First, we are a multi-play company with activity spread across four different basins in the U.S. As conditions change, we have the flexibility to shift capital between plays to optimize returns. Second, we are organized under a decentralized structure. Decisions are made by discrete focused teams closer to the operation rather than dictated by headquarters. Our culture is non-bureaucratic and entrepreneurial. We empower our frontline employees to make decisions, bringing them to drive innovation and efficiency improvements. Third, we have established strategic vendor relationships with our preferred service providers. We are typically -- we are not typically the biggest beneficiary of price reductions during downturns, but we also tend to not be on the leading edge of price increases during the inflationary periods. Fourth, we have taken ownership of the value-added parts of the drilling, completions and production supply chain by applying our operational expertise and proprietary technology to improve efficiency and lower cost. Examples include sand, water, chemicals, drilling fluids, completion design, drilling motors, the marketing of our products and much more. As a result, our operating teams have complete ownership of driving improvements in every step. And finally, we apply world-class information technology to every part of our operation. Our data gathering and analysis capabilities continue to improve, which we leverage to better manage day-to-day field operations for more efficient use of resources, as well as discovering new innovations. As a result of these strategic advantages, we are confident in achieving our target of 7% well cost savings this year. This is an incredible accomplishment given the state of inflation. And as we move into next year, we are on track to lock in 50% of our total well cost by the end of this year. We have locked in 90%-plus of our drilling rigs at rates that are flat to lower than 2020 and 2021. We've also secured more than 50% of our completion crews at favorable rates. While it's still early, the savings from these initiatives and other improvement efforts will continue to be realized next year, helping us offset the risk of additional inflation. And thus, we remain confident that we will be able to keep well cost at least flat in 2022. Now, here's Ken. Ken Boedeker -- Executive Vice President, Exploration and Production Thanks, Billy. Last month, we published our 2020 sustainability report. As detailed in this report, we are focused on reducing emissions in the field. Our flaring intensity rate decreased 43% in 2020 compared to 2019, which drove an overall 9% reduction in greenhouse gas intensity. We continue to make progress toward our goal of zero routine-flaring across all our operations by 2025 with our more immediate goal of 99.8% wellhead gas capture this year. We also made significant progress on methane last year, reducing our methane emissions percentage by one-third to less than one-tenth of 1% of our natural gas production. Since 2017, we've reduced our methane emission intensity percentage by 80%. Our sustainability report profiles the technology and innovation that contributed to these improvements and illustrates why we are optimistic about future performance on our path to net zero by 2040. Examples of how we are addressing emissions in the field include closed-loop gas capture, which helps us continue to reduce flaring. We're leveraging information technology and our extensive data analysis capabilities from both mobile platforms and our central control rooms to better manage day-to-day operations. In addition, we are piloting technology in the field such as sensors and control devices that complement our already robust leak detection program. These are just a few examples of the initiatives we have underway. Like all efforts at EOG, our sustainability strides are bottom-up-driven. Creative ideas to improve our ESG performance come from employees working in our operating areas every day. We have a long list of solutions we expect to pilot and profile in the future. Our record of significantly reducing our GHG intensity over the last several years speaks for itself. And we are committed to continuing to improve our emissions performance. Now, here's Ezra to wrap things up. Ezra Yacob -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Ken. Our record-breaking operational and financial results throughout this year and the cash return announcements we made yesterday deserved to grab some headlines. However, the real story behind our performance is consistency of strategy supported by our unique culture. At the start of the call, I said there is no clear indication of the impact premium and now double premium has had on our confidence in EOG's future profitability than the annual $3 per share regular dividend. And while establishing the premium standard back in 2016 shifted us into a different gear culminating in the magnitude of our cash return this year, our fundamental strategy executed year after year by employees united by unique culture, dates back to the founding of the company. That's ultimately what gives me confidence that EOG's best days are ahead. We are a return-focused organic exploration company that leverages technology and innovation to always get better, decentralized, non-bureaucratic. Every employee is a business person first focused on creating value in the field at the asset level. Our financial strategy has always been and remains conservative, not just to offset the inherent risks in a cyclical business, but to take advantage of them. We are committed to the regular dividend and believe it is the best way to create consistent and dependable long-term value for shareholders. We have a proven track record that our strategy works and going forward, investors can expect more of the same, consistent execution year after year. Thanks for listening. We'll now go to Q&A.  