  OperatorGood morning, and welcome to the Southwest Airlines third-quarter 2021 conference call. My name is Rocco, and I will be moderating today's call. This call is being recorded, and a replay will be available on southwest.com in the Investor Relations section. [Operator instructions] At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Mr. Ryan Martinez, vice president of investor relations. Please go ahead, sir.Ryan Martinez -- Vice President of Investor Relations Thank you, Rocco, and thank you, all, for joining us today. In just a moment, we will share some brief remarks and then open it up for Q&A. And on our call today, we have our chairman of the board and CEO, Gary Kelly; executive vice president and incoming CEO, Bob Jordan; executive vice president and CFO, Tammy Romo; executive vice president and chief commercial officer, Andrew Watterson; and president and chief operating officer, Mike Van de Ven. Just a few quick notes here. So first, we'll make forward-looking statements, which are based on our current expectations of future performance, and our actual results could differ substantially from those expectations. And second, we had a few special items in our first-quarter results which we excluded from our trends for non-GAAP purposes, and we will reference our non-GAAP results in our remarks today. So please see our press release from this morning and our IR website for more information on both topics. And just a reminder that we are hosting our investor day in New York on December 8, so stay tuned for more details on that.And we will go ahead and get started. So, Gary, over to you. Gary Kelly -- Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer Ryan, thank you very much, and good morning, everybody. Welcome to our third-quarter 2021 earnings call. After five quarters of pandemic weakness, we saw a dramatic recovery in terms of passengers, fares, and revenues. And obviously, that was very encouraging. It would have been even better, but for the Delta variant surge, which began to affect us in early August. Of course, the bounce in revenues came with a lot of bumps in the operation, though, as our historic staffing models left us short and caused us to miss our reliability plan for the quarter. And that required immediate attention and action for future schedules, which we have taken. So I would be the first to admit that things are messy. It is also very encouraging to see the earnings potential and especially considering that business travel is far from recovered to 2019 levels, and our capacity is not fully restored with 24 airplanes still sitting on the ground. It also illustrates that this virus and its effect on our business can be unpredictable and volatile. And the burden to manage through all of this falls to our people, and we've gone from not enough to do to too much to do in a very short period of time. And as a perspective, of course, I think we'd all take the latter scenario any day. It has been a huge challenge for our people, so I want to thank them. They are warriors. They have performed exceptionally well and especially considering the challenging circumstances. I am very proud of them and they remain and always will be my top priority. And with that, I'd like to turn the call over to our incoming CEO, Mr. Bob Jordan, who will give us a quick overview.Bob Jordan -- Executive Vice President and Incoming Chief Executive Officer  Thank you, Gary, and hello, everybody. It's good to be with you again. I'll touch on a few items before I turn it over to Tammy. The transition continues to go really well. As part of the leadership changes announced last month, our full senior team now reports to me, and they are the finest leaders in the industry and it's an honor to work with them. We're working together on long-term priorities and specific plans for '22 and we will share those in December. But one of my highest priorities is being with our people, and it's energizing to see their heart and their dedication and witness the incredible job that they do every single day despite the challenging operating environment. They are my heroes and it's an honor to stand beside them as we emerge from the pandemic and take advantage of our opportunities. As Gary said, we had terrific momentum at the beginning of the third quarter, especially leisure demand with traffic actually above 2019 levels. We were on a good trend on the corporate side as well. It was just off of a lower bottom. But resurging COVID cases cost the quarter about $300 million, and that aside, the quarter would have been solidly profitable. As cases have come down and subsided, booking trends have recovered nicely on both the leisure and the business front, and booking trends for the holidays are in line with 2019. As you know from the release, the key headwind for the fourth quarter, aside from just inefficiencies as we continue to ramp up is a significant increase in jet fuel prices. I do want to touch on the issues we experienced beginning October 8. Our challenges started with a widespread ATC ground stop and ground delay program that effectively shut down our Florida operation from that afternoon through the end of the day. Mike is going to talk more about this, but that caused a significant number of crews and aircraft to be out of position and then that took several days to recover. As a result, we inconvenienced thousands of customers and we further challenged our stellar employees. And I just want to apologize to both our customers and our employees. We just did not live up to your expectations. Before this, we were actually seeing very positive trends in our operational performance. And the key to continued improvement is getting staffed and continuing to invest in our operation, and we are absolutely laser-focused on both of those. Looking forward, our immediate goals are really basic: number one, to bulk up our staffing. We made tremendous progress. That remains short of what is needed, especially when we dip into staffing reserves. And therefore, we've continued to modestly trim our fourth and first-quarter schedules. Second, get back to our historic operational reliability and efficiency. The ramp-up of the business and the fits and starts caused by the COVID waves have made both of those very tough, as has the lack of network depth. Third, restore our customer service advantage, which starts with our people and the unrivaled hospitality that they deliver. And again, that is tough in the current operating environment. And fourth, continue to focus on our people and our culture. Our people are our advantage, and the last 20 months has been challenging to them collectively and individually. Our culture has sustained us through the pandemic, and it will power our advantage as we emerge from the pandemic. And while we have short-term issues to manage, I'll just tell you, I am very positive about our long-term opportunities. I'd also like to talk briefly and highlight our sustainability plans. Earlier this week, we announced a set of specific 10-year plans in support of our overall goal of becoming carbon neutral by 2050. It's important to our people, our customers, and above all, our planet that we are good stewards. As we grow over the next decade, that growth is planned with no incremental carbon emissions as compared to 2019 and carbon emissions per available seat mile falling by at least 20% by 2030 as compared to 2019. This progress occurs through a number of initiatives, but namely, a commitment to the more fuel-efficient Boeing 737 MAX 7 and 737 MAX 8 and accelerated retirements of our older, less fuel-efficient aircraft; a commitment to 10% sustainable aviation fuel by 2030; and in the near term, a carbon offset program that partners with our customers who are passionate about this. And our offset program will be the only one that provides both loyalty points and a dollar-for-dollar match. Above all, I'm just really proud of the work team that has done the work to pull this plan together so quickly, and I'm especially proud that our plan and our commitments are specific and they are time-bound. To wrap up, while we've made considerable progress from a year ago and are pleased with the recent improvement in travel demand trends, it is clear that 2022 will be another transition year in the pandemic recovery. The restoration of the network is a top priority in '22 and '23, but it will take time and it will be largely dependent on the pace of recovery of business travel and our ability to staff. Even with the anticipated cost headwinds in '22 related to significant inflation and productivity shortfalls, our primary goals next year are to deliver increased operational reliability, generate solid profits and margins and restore and grow the route network while reducing our carbon emissions intensity. And I look forward to sharing a lot more about all this and our '22 plans at our investor day on December 8. And with that, I will turn it over to Tammy. Tammy Romo -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Bob, and hello, everyone. I'll provide a quick overview of our overall financial results and some color on our outlook. On a GAAP basis, we generated a $446 million profit in third quarter or $0.73 per diluted share. And this was driven by the $763 million of PSP proceeds that offset a sizable portion of salary wages and benefits expenses. Excluding this temporary PSP benefit and other smaller special items, our net loss was $135 million or a $0.23 loss per diluted share. Our third-quarter results are clearly not where we need them to be, and we are disappointed by the step back in revenue trends as a result of the Delta variant. Even so, we are pleased our bottom line came in above expectations and improved sequentially from second quarter. And we currently have $16.2 billion of cash and short-term investments on our balance sheet. This is well in excess of our outstanding debt, and it is relatively in line with where we were at the time of July earnings before the impact of the Delta variant began. Overall, travel demand has proven to be more resilient today, and the overall impact of this variant has been much less than what we previously experienced since the pandemic began. Before I get into the specifics, I want to offer my thanks and appreciation to our employees. Their warrior spirits have been in full effect since the pandemic began, and I commend them for continuing to work together to combat this pandemic. I am also pleased for them that we were able to accrue additional profit sharing in third quarter as a result of our GAAP profit. Third-quarter available seat miles and nonfuel unit costs were within our guidance ranges, and I am pleased with our overall cost control throughout the quarter. Operating revenues were better than guidance, and that was primarily due to improving revenue and booking trends in the second half of September, soon after our last investor update as COVID-19 cases began to decline. And fuel cost per gallon was slightly better than guidance. We provided a lot of color for you in our press release regarding revenue and cost trends, as well as fleet plans, so I will just add a few additional thoughts. We had 4 points of notable cost pressure in the third quarter, and these 4 points were primarily due to premium pay, as well as other ramp-up costs. In terms of premium pay going forward, we currently anticipate that we will need less in fourth quarter as we have reduced our flight schedules to provide more staffing cushion. The reduction in premium pay provides a roughly 2-point unit cost tailwind from third to fourth quarter. Our two largest ongoing inflationary cost categories are salary wages and benefits and airport costs. These two categories alone are driving 3 to 4 points of unit cost inflation in fourth quarter on a year-over-two-year basis. First, on salary wages and benefits, which represents roughly 3 points of the unit cost pressure, we have higher-than-normal wage rate inflation, including the recent increase in the minimum hourly wage. It is a tight labor market, which is also putting pressure on wages. In addition, we should have nearly everyone back from extended leave by year end, and we are hiring across all work groups to support the current operation. Second on airport costs. By year end, we will have 18 new airports in our network. So our overall properties footprint has increased and we are experiencing rate pressure across the board. The rate increases we are anticipating continue to be much higher than inflation, especially in this environment. Our fourth-quarter trips are expected to be down 13% compared with fourth-quarter 2019, which underutilizes our space and exacerbates the inflation we're currently seeing. I expect better operating leverage from our airport facilities in the future as we are able to add depth and frequency back to our network over the next few years. Also in fourth quarter, we have 4 to 5 points of notable cost pressure above and beyond general inflation. These cost pressures are attributable to hiring, our vaccination incentive pay program, and lower productivity than historical norms. We expect cost pressures from lower productivity to persist in the near term and subside as we are able to restore the majority of the network. Even with these inflationary pressures, our fourth-quarter bottom-line outlook is trending better than third quarter, except for higher fuel prices. Fuel prices, even after factoring in higher hedging gains, are $0.26 higher in fourth quarter than in third quarter, which is roughly $120 million more in fuel expense sequentially. That said, our strong fuel hedge is currently expected to provide $0.18 of hedging gains here in fourth quarter. And underlying revenue trends have picked up, which is encouraging, even though we are expecting a loss for fourth quarter in this high fuel price environment. Our flight schedules are currently published through April 24. We have reduced our fourth-quarter capacity to down 8% on a year-over-year basis. And we currently expect our first-quarter 2022 capacity to be down 6% compared with first-quarter 2019. We currently have 72 firm orders and 42 options next year, and we will continue to evaluate option exercises as decision points arise. Regardless of our capacity plans next year, we continue to believe that taking the additional 2022 options will yield a positive net present value on aircraft replacement if we don't deploy them in the network. As far as other commentary on 2022, we will share more about our fleet and capacity plans and our financial outlook at investor day. And I'm looking forward to seeing you all there. So with that, I will turn it over to Andrew. Andrew Watterson -- Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer Thank you, Tammy. I'll provide some additional color on our revenue trends and outlook and point you to our earnings release for more detail. To sum up our third-quarter revenue performance, it was disappointing to take a step back on the revenue recovery trend we experienced from March through July. The impact of the Delta variant began impacting revenues around the beginning of August. And we saw slowing and inconsistent pass-through traffic and bookings, along with an increase in trip cancellations, through about mid-September. In terms of overall revenue loss, September bore the brunt of the impact, and we saw that across all geographies and for both leisure and business travel. As with prior waves, when we have a step down in demand, especially with the slide we saw in business demand in September, yields are tough to manage. However, we had better success in terms of maintaining load factors in the low 80% range for the third quarter. And the silver lining is that the overall impact from the Delta variant, estimated to be $300 million in Q3 and another $100 million in Q4, was less severe than what we experienced from prior COVID waves. As you may recall, operating revenues stalled down in the negative 60% range from September through February. So travel demand is much more resilient today than this time last year. While there's a lingering impact to fourth-quarter operating revenues from the Delta variant, revenue trends have improved substantially since mid-September. Trip cancellations have decreased and stabilized, and we've seen an increase in bookings across all geographies for both leisure and business. Operating revenues are currently expected to improve sequentially throughout the fourth quarter. The booking curve has normalized and bookings thus far for the holidays in November, December are healthy and supported by improving leisure demand. In fact, our overall booking curve is currently trending in line with 2019 levels for the holidays, which is encouraging. In terms of business travel trends, our managed business revenues were down in the lower 60% range in both July and August year over two year but took a step back in September to down 73%. However, this trend has reversed as we are experiencing steady improvements in business bookings thus far in October. Based on current trends, we expect managed business revenues to continue improving modestly in November and December and end at down roughly 60% by year end. This estimate is less optimistic than what we previously shared prior to the impact from the Delta variant as many corporations pushed back their campus openings until after the new year. But we remain cautiously optimistic about overall business travel improvement throughout year end, and we believe there is some pent-up business demand and there's a chance that we see a pick-up at a faster clip as we get into early 2022. We are now live on all three of our planned GDS platforms: Amadeus, Travelport and Sabre. We have now removed the friction from businesses working with Southwest, and we have a full array of distribution channels that they can choose from. Early indications from our GDS launch as we are gaining incremental volume through the GDS channel and seen a great response for Southwest fares through the GDS. As expected, we are also seeing some channel shift from our Direct Connect channel to GDS, which is perfectly OK, and sets us up for broader appeal to corporations through the channel of their choice. Turning to our new markets. They continue to develop well and overall performed in line with expectations in the third quarter. Hawaii markets were impacted more severely as travel warnings were issued against travel to the islands. However, all of these growth markets have shown improvement recently in line with the broad-based improvement we are seeing across the rest of the network. And lastly, our Rapid Rewards program continued to show progress in the third quarter with other revenues up 10% on a year-over-two-year basis. We remain convinced about the growth opportunities of Rapid Rewards and our co-brand portfolio which we recently expanded in terms of our credit card offerings. And with that, I'll turn it over to Mike. Mike Van de Ven -- President and Chief Operatiing Officer  Well, thanks, Andrew, and hello, everyone, on the call. We've had a challenging quarter operationally. It's clear that our industry ecosystem is still fragile. We're facing headwinds with hotel services, including food and transportation, airport services, like wheelchairs and concessions, match requirements for customers and our people, and still have a very challenging supply chain and hiring environment. And all of those things are impacting travel experience for our customers and for our employees. Our third-quarter operational results reflect that environment. And we have a number of employees making significant sacrifices to help us navigate through it, and I am extremely grateful to them for their support to engage in a very difficult arena. And they're just special warriors. We finished the quarter with a 71.7% on-time performance. And while that was fixed in the industry, those delays were generally less than 45 minutes, and our on-time performance at 60 minutes was 90.4%, which was fourth in the industry. We did have our best third-quarter bag handling performance in our history with, of course, the exception of last year when our bag volumes were slightly less than half of this year. And we continue to lead the industry with the lowest customer complaint ratio to the DOT. So while I am not satisfied with our overall results and we can and we will do better, our people worked very, very hard to take care of our customers. As we move forward, we are focused on a couple of targeted actions. First, we know that our on-time performance has been impacted all summer by a combination of high load factors and especially going into and out of our largest cities and the reduction in frequencies from our typical network. In fact, our largest cities experienced full airplanes coming in and out nearly every day, and they had much more extensive connecting activities, including bag volumes, than what we had seen pre-COVID. And those activities took more time to complete than we had scheduled for our turns. And given the heavy load factors, we tended to hold the flight for connections, given the reduction in frequencies and our inability to reaccommodate the customers. And that, of course, put pressure on our on-time performance, and that averaged roughly 66% from July through mid-August. So as the customer volumes declined mid-August through September and those activities lessened, our on-time performance improved to 80%. And that was a welcome improvement, but again, it was below our historical performance in that period. So in the near term, we have focused hiring efforts to increase staffing at the airports to give us more resources to handle those activities when our load factors increase over the holiday periods. And we're also better using our staffing tools to more accurately match our scheduled shift with those activities. So I expect both those additional resources and more focused staffing execution will boost our on-time performance going forward. And then for future schedules, we are looking at scheduling opportunities to move ground times around to places where it's most needed to keep our flat lines on time as long as this connection activity is expected. And a second -- in a separate but still related issue from on-time performance is balancing our schedule with our crew resources. All of our employees should expect to be able to bid their shift, they show up to work and it'd be the same as what they bid and then they get to go home as planned. And I've mentioned before that those staffing plans were based on various models that have assumptions in them for things like vacation and sick leave, open time or shift pickup rate, and the time it takes to fill open positions. And while we had adjusted those assumptions going into the summer to provide more staffing cushion, they just weren't enough to match the reality of the environment that we were operating through. And that was particularly impactful to our flight crews. Our sick trends were much higher than expected and our open time pickup rates were also impacted. And those were more pronounced on weekends, and we were routinely exhausting our reserves to cover those impacted flights. And that's what causes the crew reroutes and the unplanned overtime and the unscheduled overnights and all of that impacts our people. So it's a spiral that we just have to break. And to do that, we've adjusted our fourth-quarter flight schedules downward as previously announced. And we have new-hire flight attendants, along with pilots, returning from extended leaves that are coming back online in the fourth quarter. And those actions will boost our crew reserves to 20% for our pilots and around 26% for our flight attendants. We'll also expect our sick trends, which include COVID impacts, to begin to decline as this Delta variant begins to wane. So in summary, we continue to add staffing, and we've made schedule adjustments to both improve our on-time performance and add more staffing cushion to navigate through our current environment. And as our environment and our staffing and scheduling balance begin to stabilize, we'll be in a good position to begin restoring our network frequencies during 2022. So in closing, we've had our share of operational headwinds this year. I know the environment is full of stressors and distractions. And I just want to express my continued thanks to all those employees that have made significant sacrifices to take care of our customers and to support their co-Hearts. I know they have tremendous pride in our company, and the company is tremendously proud of them. And with that, Ryan, I'll turn it back to you. Ryan Martinez -- Vice President of Investor Relations Thank you, Mike. I believe we have analysts queued up. [Operator instructions] So Rocco, please go ahead and begin our analyst Q&A. 