  OperatorThank you for standing by, and welcome to Splunk's fourth quarter fiscal year 2022 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] Please be advised that today's call is being recorded. [Operator instructions] I would now like to hand the call over to Ken Tinsley, corporate treasurer and vice president of investor relations.Ken Tinsley -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you, operator, and good afternoon, everyone. With me on the call today are Graham Smith, Shawn Bice, and Jason Child. After market closed today, we issued our press release, which is posted on our investor relations website, along with supplemental material.  We also issued a press release regarding our new CEO. This conference call is being broadcast live via webcast.

 



 And following the call, an audio replay will be available on our website.  On today's call, we will be making forward-looking statements, including financial guidance and expectations such as our forecast for our first quarter and full year fiscal '23 and our future expectations of revenue growth, revenue mix, renewals, duration, RPO growth, cloud growth, bookings, cloud gross margin, total gross margin, operating cash flow, and the metrics we will report on and guide to in the future, as well as trends in our markets and our business, our strategies and expectations regarding our products, technology, customers, demand, and markets.  These statements are based on our assumptions as to the macroeconomic environment in which we will be operating and reflect our best judgment based on factors currently known to us, and actual results or events may differ materially.  Please refer to documents we file with the SEC, including the Form 8-K filed with today's press releases. Those documents contain risks and other factors that may cause our actual results to differ from those contained in our forward-looking statements.  These forward-looking statements are made as of today, and we disclaim any obligation to update or revise these statements. If this call is reviewed after today, the information presented during this call may not contain accurate or current information.  We will also discuss non-GAAP financial measures, which are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A reconciliation of GAAP and non-GAAP results is provided in the press release and on our website.With that, let me turn it over to Graham. Graham Smith -- Interim Chief Executive Officer and Chairman Thank you, Ken, and good afternoon, everyone. I'd like to begin by saying we are shocked and saddened by recent events in Ukraine, and we hope that the situation can be resolved quickly. While we don't have any Splunkers based in Ukraine, we do have friends and family members who are affected. We are monitoring the situation carefully, and we will prioritize employee safety and continue to serve our customers in Eastern Europe.

 



 And just to confirm, Splunk withdrew from the Russian market in 2019.  On today's call, I've got a lot to cover, Q4 results, a new Splunk CEO, the status of our business transformation, normalization of our financials and guidance strategy. I will be joined by president of products and technology, Shawn Bice, and of course, Jason Child.  Let's get started. When the CEO transition was announced back in November, the Splunk board put its trust in our outstanding team to execute a strong Q4, and I'm very happy to report that the team really delivered. Jason will get into more detail, but I'm delighted with our results. Annual recurring revenue, cloud ARR, cloud DBNRR, revenue, operating margin and operating cash flow were all strong.  In addition to a great Q4, I'm equally excited to announce the appointment of Gary Steele, a visionary technology executive and founding CEO of Proofpoint, as the next CEO of Splunk effective April 11. Gary has over 30 years of experience and a track record of successfully scaling SaaS operations and growing multibillion-dollar global enterprises.  Over the past two decades, he's led Proofpoint's growth from an early stage start-up to a leading Security-as-a-Service provider to some of the world's best-known organizations. Gary's software and cybersecurity expertise, deep understanding of recurring revenue models, operational focus and unwavering commitment to driving innovation and customer success will be invaluable to Splunk on our path of $5 billion and beyond. I know I speak for the whole board when I say how much we're looking forward to working with Gary and how excited we are to have him on the team.  In addition to this leadership update, we're also announcing that our president and chief growth officer, Teresa Carlson, will be leaving Splunk later this quarter to pursue other career opportunities. Teresa has made many important improvements to both go-to-market strategy and operations during her time at Splunk. I'd like to personally thank Teresa for her contributions and wish her the very best for the future.  Moving to our customer success, we had some exciting new expansion and renewal transactions during the fourth quarter, including Fred Loya Insurance, a new Splunk customer and one of the largest Hispanic-owned and operated companies in the U.S., who purchased Splunk Cloud with workload pricing to further safeguard its customers' data and automate security initiatives. Box, a provider of cloud content services, expanded their commitment to Splunk Cloud platform, while also adding Splunk application performance monitoring from our observability product group. One of the leading online travel platforms is migrating from Splunk Enterprise to Splunk Cloud platform, with workload pricing, allowing them to expand their application development, reduce costly downtime, drive timely new product releases and ensure optimal customer experiences as travelers discover and book hotels, flights and more.  The National Health Service in the U.K. expanded their use of Splunk Enterprise, Enterprise Security and ITSI across their cloud environment and are now using Splunk for synthetic monitoring to provide richer insights into the end-user experience for U.K. citizens accessing NHS digital apps.  And finally, one of Japan's largest auto manufacturers expanded its use of the Splunk Enterprise platform to speed up problem detection and decrease impact investigation and isolation times from hours to minutes, boosting efficiency by more than 90%.  Turning to our cloud business transformation. We are very pleased with our execution and progress in fiscal '22. Cloud represented 62% of our total software bookings compared with 50% in FY '21 and 35% in FY '20.

 



 We continue to make progress on improving cloud gross margin, and our workload pricing model has gained significant traction since its launch. In Q4, nearly all of our new cloud business was based on workload pricing. And at the end of the quarter, more than 40% of total cloud ARR was based on this model. We've also done a great job renewing and expanding thousands of Splunk customers during the year. Moving on to financials. As you know, there are two factors that significantly affect our revenue and bookings growth. The percentage of bookings from cloud and average term contract duration, both of which are driven by customer choice.  For FY '23, we anticipate our cloud bookings percentage will approach 70% for the full year, and we believe that average term contract duration has stabilized in the range of 18 to 24 months. Because the year-over-year changes for FY '23 will be less than the year-over-year changes for FY '22, the result would be a significant normalization of our financials. Jason will provide more details later. We're also making some changes to how we provide guidance going forward. We've heard from many of you that while ARR has been a useful operational metric during our business transformation, it's a point-in-time measure that's difficult to reconcile with revenue. Now, that our revenue growth is normalizing and is close to ARR growth, we've decided to provide only annual guidance for this metric, although we will report the ARR numbers for each quarter retrospectively.  We will also update our annual ARR guidance if and when appropriate. It's our expectation that by the end of fiscal '23, we will be able to dispense with ARR as a reported metric.  Before I hand the call over to Shawn, I want to close with this observation. When you walk into any network operations center or security operations center that is using Splunk, you see that our platform is central to our customers' day-to-day work. It's not out on the periphery. It's fundamental. It's core. That's why more than 95 of the Fortune 100 choose Splunk, and that's also why we continue to show such strong renewal rates.  I want to thank our customers and our partners for placing their trust in us. And of course, I'd like to personally thank all Splunkers for staying focus and executing so well in our most important quarter of the year. It's been my great honor to work with you over the past three and a half months. Now, I'll turn the call over to Shawn.Shawn Bice -- President, Products and Technology Thank you, Graham. It's a pleasure to join today's call, and I'm here to share some thoughts about Splunk's innovation. Splunk is mission-critical to our customers' operations, and we believe three things will grow our significance and opportunity in FY '23 and beyond.  First, customers want a platform they can build on. Second, customers want consistent security and observability across any cloud, on-prem or edge environment. They don't want disjointed siloed experiences. And third, customers don't want their data merely to be a record of what happened in the past. They want that data to make things happen in the business now.  Only Splunk offers the combination of an extensible data platform, integrated full stack observability and security and end-to-end coverage from multi-cloud to edge. We're building on that differentiation, and it starts with our flexible and scalable platform that supports an expansive set of use cases.  You can leverage Splunk built search and reporting, security and observability solutions, access more than 2,400 apps available on Splunkbase and build custom applications tuned to your specific needs. We have exciting platform improvements that we'll announce in June at. conf22, so we hope you'll join us for that.  With security, Splunk takes a fundamentally different approach than pure-play security vendors. We're able to do that because we have a massively scalable data platform with advanced analytics at our core. Our solutions are complementary to XDR capabilities, as XDR solutions only collect a subset of security data, leaving organizations open to threats hiding and missing data. With security fundamentally being a data problem, Splunk is best positioned to help protect organizations from ever-evolving threats across complex hybrid environments.  On the observability front, we've innovated to provide end-to-end visibility across infrastructure health, application performance and digital customer experience with contextually rich AI-powered investigations. We recently announced that customers can now integrate Splunk logs with broader observability telemetry data with Log Observer Connect. We are gaining significant market traction. And last month, we were named a leader in one of only two fast movers in the GigaOM Radar for application performance monitoring.  To sum it up, it's clear that digital transformation is accelerating and requires data-driven innovation. Innovation can't succeed without a foundation of security and resilience. With our extensible data platform, integrated security and observability and future vision, we are uniquely positioned to help organizations achieve all three of these critical outcomes.  We're excited about the opportunity ahead of us. Now, I'll turn it over to Jason for more on the numbers.Jason Child -- Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President Thanks, Shawn. Q4 was an excellent finish to a strong year. Most importantly, the significant financial headwinds related to our transformation are now largely behind us. For the full year FY '22, revenue growth accelerated from minus 5% to positive 20%. RPO bookings growth accelerated from minus 17% to positive 35%.  Operating cash flow returned positive, reaching $130 million from almost $200 million negative last year, and we expect all of these metrics will continue to improve in FY '23. To be clear, we are set up for the normalization of our core financial measures this year and beyond, dramatically simplifying our financial story.  We ended the year with total ARR of $3.12 billion, up 32% year over year and cloud ARR of $1.34 billion of 65%. We ended with 675 customers with ARR greater than $1 million, up 32%. And 317 of these customers had cloud ARR over $1 million, up 70% over last year. We continue to drive cloud adoption and developed migration strategies with our customers. As Graham said, cloud mix is likely to increase more gradually from this point.  Our full year cloud bookings mix was 62% for FY '22, and we estimate that it will approach 70% this fiscal year. This increase of roughly eight percentage points compared to the 12-percentage point gain we saw from fiscal '21 to fiscal '22.  Now that revenue is normalizing and average term contract duration is more comparable on a year-over-year basis, RPO bookings is becoming a better indicator of overall bookings momentum and will be an important growth metric going forward. Our confidence in bookings growth is based on the scheduled renewal of approximately $1.5 billion of annual contract value this year and a consistently high cloud DBNRR, which reached 132% last quarter. In Q4, RPO bookings was $1.4 billion, up 38% over last year.  On to the P&L. Q4 cloud revenue was $289 million, up 69% over last year, reflecting continued customer adoption of our cloud platform. Total revenues were $901 million in Q4, up 21% and significantly higher than planned due to more term contract volume and longer average ratio than we estimated. Professional services and education accounted for 5% of total revenues in the quarter.  On margins, which are all non-GAAP, cloud gross margin was 67% in Q4, up five points from last year, as we realized leverage from scale and elasticity of the platform. Total gross margin was 82%, down slightly on a year-over-year basis due to the greater proportion of revenue contribution from the cloud. Operating margin was 16% in the quarter, significantly better than planned due to our bookings and top line outperformance. Turning to guidance. With most of the heavy lifting on transformation behind us, we're entering the current year, FY '23, with the financial model normalizing. As Graham mentioned, we expect ARR, and revenue growth rates will converge this year. Going forward, we will continue to provide guidance on more traditional operating and profitability metrics, revenue, operating margin and cash flow. As Graham also noted, although we will maintain our full year ARR targets and update you quarterly on actual ARR throughout the year, we expect to retire ARR as a core metric at the end of fiscal '23.  We ended the year with 18 customers with ARR greater than $10 million, up from 10 last year, and all indicators point to continued strength in the demand environment. Based on this strength, we are maintaining our total ARR outlook of $3.9 billion and cloud ARR of at least $2 billion by the end of this fiscal year. We expect total revenues of between $3.25 billion and $3.3 billion, which will follow our seasonal trend of 40% first half and 60% second half.  On the expense side, we expect cloud gross margins to gradually expand toward 70% by the fourth quarter, as we continue to migrate our cloud customers to the newest version of our services. Improving cloud gross margin should drive expansion of total gross margin nearing 80% for the year. Non-GAAP operating margin should also expand to between breakeven and positive 2% as a result of expense leverage and strong revenue growth.  On the cash flow side, with our customer base now on annual billing cycles, our full year operating cash flow should rebound sharply to at least $400 million in fiscal '23. Near term, for Q1, we're expecting total revenues of between $615 million and $635 million with a non-GAAP operating margin of negative 20% to negative 25%, reflecting our normal Q1 seasonality.  In closing, Q4 was a great finish to the year. The demand environment remains strong, and with the impacts from our business transformation mostly worked through, our setup for continued growth with a much simpler financial model is excellent.  With that, let's open it up for questions. 