
OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. [Operator Instructions] Welcome to Avery Dennison's Earnings Conference Call for the First Quarter Ended April 3, 2021. This call is being recorded and will be available for replay by noon Pacific Time today through midnight Pacific Time May 1. To access the replay, please dial 800-633-8284 or 1-402-977-9140 for international callers. The conference ID number is 21969419.I'd now like to turn the call over to John Eble, Avery Dennison's, Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.John Eble -- Investor Relations

 



Thank you, Pema. Please note that throughout today's discussion, we'll be making references to non-GAAP financial measures. The non-GAAP measures that we use are defined, qualified and reconciled with GAAP on schedules A4 to A8 of the financial statements accompanying today's earnings release. We remind you that we'll make certain predictive statements that reflect our current views and estimates about our future performance and financial results. These forward-looking statements are made subject to the Safe Harbor statement included in today's earnings release. On the call today are Mitch Butier, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Greg Lovins, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.I'll now turn the call over to Mitch.Mitchell R. Butier -- Chairman, President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, John, and good day everyone. We are off to a strong start to the year with revenue up 11%, EPS up 45%, both well above expectations and strong free cash flow. The favorable results were driven by improving and broad-based volume and productivity gains across the portfolio as all three of our operating segments delivered strong sales growth and significant margin expansion. We experienced strong demand as many economies emerged from the depths of the recession amid rising confidence. This combined with both the structural and temporary productivity initiatives we've implemented drove a strong quarter. Now, while we are pleased with the results our strong performance comes at a time of continued uncertainty given the global health crisis and constraints within supply chains.

 



The current environment further reinforces our determination to remain vigilant in protecting the health and well-being of our team and agile to ensure we continue to meet our customers' needs. While the rate of COVID-19 infections declined in a number of countries, including the U.S. and optimism increases as vaccines roll out, much of Continental Europe has been in lockdown and other countries such as India and Brazil have experienced a significant rise in infection rates. Fortunately, the rate of new cases among the team remains relatively stable. In addition to the effects of the pandemic natural disasters such as the Texas winter storm and other factors, the microchip shortage being an example are constricting supply chains even further affecting our end markets and adding to inflationary pressures.Despite these supply chain constraints we've been able to deliver record volumes as our team has done a great job at leveraging our global network and scale to ensure we continue to meet customers' needs. Now, a quick update by business; Label and Graphic Materials posted strong topline growth for the quarter as demand for consumer packaged goods and e-commerce trends continued to drive strong volume in our Label and Packaging Materials business, while our Graphic and Reflective Solutions business rebounded faster than expected. LGM's margin was strong in the quarter ahead of expectations actually as the flow through from higher volume including strength in high value categories coupled with productivity gains enabled significant margin expansion. Retail Branding and Information Solutions delivered strong sales growth in the quarter, driven by both high value product categories particularly RFID and the core apparel business. The strong topline was driven by retailers and brands gearing up for a rebound in demand and to a lesser extent easier comps.Enterprisewide, Intelligent Label sales were up 40% ex currency and up 20% on an organic basis. As expected, the strong growth of our RFID business was primarily driven by apparel while outside of apparel we continued to see strong momentum building for new applications. As we outlined in detail at our Investor Day last month, we have a tremendous amount of opportunity in this space in apparel, food, logistics and more. And as you also heard, our focus is not only to be the world's leading RFID supplier. We are creating a broader Intelligent Labels platform to bridge the physical and digital worlds. As part of this, we are investing in digital identification technologies that enhance the ability to manage and store item level information.To this end, we recently announced two digital initiatives. One, the acquisition of a small software start-up ZippyYum, and the other being the launch of a Connected Product Cloud Platform start up atma.io. As for the bottom line, RBIS delivered significant margin expansion in the quarter driven by higher volume and productivity initiatives. Given the margin and growth profile of this business we will continue to ramp up our pace of investments in the segment, particularly in Intelligent Labels with an accelerated pace throughout the remainder of the year. Turning to Industrial and Healthcare Materials, the segment delivered strong sales growth in the quarter, driven by a significant rebound in demand for industrial products while we continue to make good progress toward achieving the long-term margin target for this business.

 



We continue to invest in this segment, including the acquisition of JDC Solutions, a small manufacturer of specialty tapes for use in a variety of high value industrial applications that we closed in March. Now, given our strong performance in Q1 and our revised expectations for the rest of the year we have raised our full year outlook and now anticipate topline growth of 9% to 11% ex-currency and earnings per share of $8.40 to $8.80. We are pleased with the continued progress we're making toward the success of all of our stakeholders. Our consistent performance reflects the strength of our markets, our industry-leading positions, the strategic foundations we've laid and our agile and talented team.We remain focused on our five key strategies driving outsized growth in high value categories, growing profitably in our base businesses, focusing relentlessly on productivity, effectively allocating capital, and leading in an environmentally and socially responsible manner. We are confident that the consistent execution of these strategies will enable us to achieve our long-term goals, including consistently delivering GDP plus growth and top-quartile returns. And once again, I want to thank our entire team for their tireless efforts to keep one another safe while continuing to deliver for our customers during this challenging period bringing a whole new level of agility and dedication to address the unique challenges at hand.Over to you Greg.Gregory S. Lovins -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks Mitch and hello everybody. As Mitch said, we delivered a strong start to the year with adjusted earnings per share of $2.40 above our expectations. This roughly 75% increase over prior year was driven by strong growth and productivity gains as well as an estimated $0.25 benefit from the combined impact from the calendar shift and pre-buys. Sales grew ex-currency 11% and 9% on an organic basis driven by strong broad-based demand as well as a modest benefit from easier comps as the pandemic began to impact our results in Q1 of last year. Given the strong revenue combined with productivity gains we delivered adjusted EBITDA margin of 16.5% and adjusted operating margin of 13.9% both up roughly 2 points.And we realized $19 million of net restructuring savings in the quarter, the majority of which represented carryover from projects we had pulled forward into 2020 and we continue to expect roughly $70 million from net restructuring savings this year. As Mitch mentioned, to begin the year, supply chain to remain tight and input costs have been increasing. As a result, raw material and freight inflation were above our initial expectations and we have continued to see cost rise as we entered the second quarter. We now expect mid to high single-digit inflation for the year with variations by region and product category. As we typically do, we will address this through a combination of both product reengineering and pricing.We've announced price increases in most of our businesses and regions across the world. And given the pricing announcements some customers accelerated orders into the first quarter ahead of pricing adjustments. We estimate the pre-buy benefit to Q1 was roughly 2 points of revenue growth and we anticipate this impact will largely come out of Q2. We generated $182 million of free cash flow in the quarter, up substantially compared to last year, primarily driven by improved working capital and higher operating results. Working capital as a percent of sales improved compared to prior year driven by better receivables and inventory turns. And our balance sheet remains strong with a net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio at quarter end of 1.6.Our current leverage position gives us ample capacity to continue executing our disciplined capital allocation strategy including investing in organic growth and acquisitions while continuing to return cash to shareholders. Last week, we announced that the Board approved a 10% increase to our quarterly dividend rate following the 7% increase last year. And in the quarter we paid $52 million in dividends and repurchased roughly 300,000 shares at an aggregate cost of $56 million. And as you know, we increased our pace of inorganic investments last year and we've continued on that front deploying $31 million for acquisitions in the first quarter, including JDC Solutions and ZippyYum. Now turning to segment results for the quarter; Label and Graphic Material sales were up 8.7% excluding currency and 7.6% on an organic basis driven by higher volume.Sales were up roughly 7% organically in Label and Packaging Materials with strong volume growth in both the high value product categories and the base business, partially offset by carryover price reductions. Graphics and Reflective sales continued to rebound nicely and were up 9% organically. Looking at the segment's organic sales growth in the quarter by region, North America and Western Europe sales were up low-single digits, while emerging markets overall were up mid-teens. The Asia-Pacific region grew roughly 20% led by growth in China and India. Although the recent surge in COVID-19 cases in India has heightened uncertainty in the region. And Latin America grew mid teens with particular strength in Brazil.LGM's adjusted operating margin increased 150 basis points to 16.3% as the benefits from strong volume including the benefit of the calendar shift in pre-buy and productivity more than offset higher employee-related costs and the net impact of pricing and raw material costs. Shifting now to Retail Branding and Information Solutions; RBIS sales were up 15% ex currency and 9.3% on an organic basis as growth was strong in both the high value categories and the base business. The core apparel business was up mid- to high-single digits as retailers and brands prepare for the stronger demand with particular strength in the value and performance channels. And as Mitch indicated, excluding currency, Intelligent Labels sales were up 40% and up 20% on an organic basis. Adjusted operating margin for the segment increased 440 basis points to 12.9% as the benefits from higher volume, lower receivables reserves and productivity more than offset higher employee-related costs and growth investments.Turning to the Industrial and Healthcare Materials segment, sales increased 18.8% excluding currency, and 16.3% on an organic basis, reflecting strong growth in Industrial categories particularly in automotive applications, which more than offset a modest decline in healthcare. Adjusted operating margin increased 190 basis points to 12.3% as the benefit from higher volume more than offset higher employee-related costs. Now, shifting to our outlook for 2021, while there is a continued high level of uncertainty from the pandemic and tight supply chains, we have raised our guidance for adjusted earnings per share to be between $8.40 and $8.80, a $0.75 increase to the midpoint of the range. The increase reflects the strong performance in Q1, as well as an increased outlook for organic sales growth for the balance of the year.We now anticipate 9% to 11% excluding currency sales growth for the full year above our previous expectation driven by both a higher volume outlook and the impact of higher prices. We've outlined some of the other key contributing factors to this guidance on slide 12 of our supplemental presentation materials. In particular, the extra week in the fourth quarter of 2020 will be a headwind of a little more than one point to reported sales growth and a roughly $0.15 headwind to EPS to 2021. We estimate Q1 benefited by roughly $0.15 based on the shift in the calendar and anticipate then a roughly $0.30 headwind in Q4.As noted earlier, we estimate the pre-buy benefit to Q1 was roughly $0.10 of EPS, which will come out of future quarters mainly Q2. And the anticipated tailwind from currency translation is roughly 2 points to sales growth and $25 million in operating income for the full year based on recent rates. And the majority of our 2020 temporary cost reductions have come back in at this point. The exception is our belt tightening costs, travel expenses for example, which have remained lower at start of the year with many of our employees still on lockdown or working from home.And we expect these costs to come back in later through 2021. And finally, given the increased outlook for earnings and working capital productivity, we're now targeting to generate over $675 million of free cash flow this year. So in summary, we delivered another strong quarter in a challenging environment and we remain on track to deliver on our long-term objectives to achieve GDP plus growth and top-quartile returns on capital, which together drive sustained growth in EVA.And now we'll open up the call for your questions.