
OperatorGood morning and welcome to Procter & Gamble's Quarter End Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]This discussion will include a number of forward-looking statements. If you will refer to P&G's most recent 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K reports, you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from these projections. As required by Regulation G, Procter & Gamble needs to make you aware that during the discussion the Company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures. Procter & Gamble believes these measures provide investors with useful perspective on underlying business trends and has posted on its Investor Relations website, www.pginvestor.com, a full reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures.Now, I will turn the call over to P&G's Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer, Jon Moeller.Jon R. Moeller -- Vice Chairman and Chief Operating OfficerGood morning, everyone. Joining me on the call today are Andre Schulten, Chief Financial Officer; and John Chevalier, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.Let me quickly summarize another strong quarter and then turn it over to Andre to provide additional perspective. Organic sales were up 4% on the quarter, up 10% two years stacked. Global market share was up 40 basis points. Fiscal year-to-date through three quarters, organic sales are up 7%. Core earnings per share are up 8% in the quarter, up 14% fiscal year-to-date. Free cash flow productivity over 100%. We're on track to deliver the top and bottom-line guidance we've raised twice this fiscal. We're increasing estimates for the third time for free cash flow productivity and cash returned to share owners, which Andre will take us through.One more very important highlight, a 10% dividend increase, which we announced last Tuesday. The team has been managing very successfully with priorities I'll describe again later through volatility, uncertainty, and some extreme challenges. COVID reopening in some markets, increased viral spread, renewed lockdown, and severe economic impact and others. Some family is [Phonetic] growing at very high rates, others essentially shut.FX and commodity volatility, event-specific challenges like the blockage of the Suez Canal, transportation demand mismatch with supply, market-specific dynamics impacting operations in countries like Argentina and Myanmar and Lebanon, and a very mild cough-cold season. That's just a very quick synopsis of strong top-line, bottom-line and cash results in a very challenging environment with a huge thanks to our team.For more perspective, Andre?Andre Schulten -- Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Jon, and good morning, everyone. As Jon said, the March quarter was another period of good top-line, bottom-line and market share growth along with strong cash generation and strong cash returned to share owners. Organic sales were up 4% for the quarter, volume in line with year-ago, 2 points of pricing, 2 points of positive mix.Organic sales growth was mixed across regions. Overall focused markets grew 5%, with strong growth in our two largest markets. US organic sales up 7%, and Greater China sales were up 22%. European focused markets were down 2%, largely due to the impact of lockdowns in the region. Japan was down 5%. Enterprise markets were, up 1% and were also mix within the region. Latin America, up 8%. Asia, Middle East, Africa, in line with year-ago quarter and European enterprise markets were down 4%.We delivered strong organic sales growth in most categories. Home Care up high teens. Oral Care, Hair Care and Skin and Personal Care, up high-singles. Family Care and Grooming up mid-singles. Fabric Care up low-singles. Feminine Care organic sales were down low-singles mainly due to market softness in Europe, but share trends remained strong in the region and on a global basis. Baby Care was down mid-singles mainly due to market softness in Europe and heightened competitive activity in China. Importantly, Baby Care all outlet value share in the US was up 130 basis points over the past one month and 80 basis points over the past three months.Personal Health Care organic sales were down mid-singles, driven by a very weak cold, flu season on top of difficult comparisons in the base period. US sales in the respiratory category were down more than 40% in this March quarter versus last year. Despite the weak category trends, BIP [Phonetic] share was up for the quarter.E-commerce sales were up at about 50% fiscal year-to-date with no noticeable change in shopping trends in the quarter. E-com sales represent 14% of our global sales. Aggregate market share growth of 40 basis points this quarter.Turning to earnings, core earnings per share were $1.26, up 8%. Currency-neutral core EPS also up 8%. Core margin was up 30 basis points, up 80 basis points, excluding currency impacts. Core operating margin was in line with prior year, up 30 basis points excluding currency impacts. We generated $4.1 billion in operating cash flow with free cash flow productivity at 106%. We returned $5 billion in cash to shareholders, $2 billion in dividends, and $3 billion in share repurchase.Last week, we announced a 10% increase in our dividend, reflecting strong results and confidence in our future. This is the 65th consecutive annual dividend increase and the 131st consecutive year in which P&G has paid a dividend. So three quarters into the year organic sales up 7%, with global value share growing, core EPS up 14%, ex-FX up 16%. Adjusted free cash flow productivity over 100%. $14 billion of cash returned to share owners, which is 120% of all-in earnings.Back to you, Jon.Jon R. Moeller -- Vice Chairman and Chief Operating OfficerAs shared in previous discussions, we've established three priorities that have been guiding our actions and our choices in this crisis period. First is ensuring the health and safety of our P&G colleagues around the world. Second, maximizing the availability of products we produce to help people and their families with their cleaning, health and hygiene needs. Third priority is supporting the communities, relief agencies, and people who are on the front lines of this global pandemic.These priorities are completely congruent with our strategic choices, which we remain confident in, and which are the foundation for balanced top and bottom-line growth and long-term value creation. We've focused our portfolio on daily use products in categories where performance plays a significant role in brand choice. In these performance-driven categories, we've raised the bar on all aspects of superiority, product package, brand communication, retail execution and value.Superior offerings delivered with superior execution drive market growth. Leading category market growth with superior offerings mathematically builds market share and builds business for our retail partners. We're continuing to invest in and behind superior offerings.We launched Dawn Powerwash just over a year ago. Its superior formula and unique spray technology provide powerful suds that cut grease on contact. Powerwash has become a welcome addition to consumers' dish care regimen, with so many more meals being cooked at home. Powerwash delivered around $150 million in year one sales and was a significant contributor to Dawn's US all outlet market share growth of more than 400 basis points over the period.Pampers Baby-Dry in the US took another step forward toward regaining superiority across all vectors. Baby-Dry recently launched innovation providing more absorbency, improved comfort, and better leakage protection for dry and healthy skin. Product graphics were refreshed with improved leakage protection cues and packaging was upgraded to introduce the claim, number one pediatrician recommended and hypoallergenic with no parabens or latex. Innovation includes improved in-store displays and online messaging to highlight the improved product packaging communication. It's still very early in the launch, as new products and packages just began shipping in the last month. And we're now just starting full commercialization, but this initiative represents an important step in reestablishing superiority in the mid-tier on Baby Care.Tide and Ariel are expanding their 2030 brand ambition for focus on decarbonizing laundry at every step from design, manufacturing, and distribution to consumer use and end of life, while maintaining superior cleaning performance. Ariel's new campaign, Every Degree Makes a Difference, advocates lower washing temperatures. Up to 60% of laundry's carbon footprint comes from heating the water in washing machines. Lowering the wash temperature is the single most important thing we can all do to reduce the environmental impact of laundry. To do this we continue to innovate to ensure superior performance in cold water.In China Hair Care two examples of premium innovation launched in the fast-growing conditioner and treatment segments, Pantene Quench Shot Masks, and three-minute Miracle have successfully attracted new consumers to the Pantene brand, as well as expanded the regiment of current Pantene shampoo consumers. These innovations have contributed to over 35% market growth in these segments online over the past 12-months. Greater China Hair Care organic sales were up mid-teens fiscal year-to-date and were up 25% this quarter, led by conditioners and treatments.The strategic need for investment to continue to strengthen the long-term health and competitiveness of our brands, the short-term need to manage through this crisis and the ongoing need to drive balanced top and bottom-line growth including margin expansion underscores the importance of ongoing productivity. We're driving cost savings and cash productivity in all facets of our business, up and down the income statement and across the balance sheet.Success in our highly competitive industry also requires agility that comes with the mindset of constructive disruption, a willingness to change, adapt and create new trends and technologies that will shape our industry for the future. In the current environment, that agility and constructive disruption mindset are even more important. Our new organization structure yields a more empowered, agile, and accountable organization with little overlap or redundancy, flowing to new demands, seamlessly supporting each other to deliver against our priorities around the world.These strategic choices on portfolio superiority, productivity, constructive disruption, and organization structure and culture are not independent strategies. They reinforce and build on each other. When executed well, they grow markets, which in turn grows share, sales and profit. These strategies were delivering strong results before the crisis, have served us well during these more recent volatile times and we believe will continue to serve us well post-crisis. We're optimistic about our post-crisis prospects and generally like our hand. We will undoubtedly experience some volatility as we move through the crisis and quarterly results will not move in a straight line and are more difficult to predict.In many countries, the number of COVID cases unfortunately are the worse they have been. Risk of supply chain disruption remains high. Channel closures will likely continue. There continues to be a social unrest and economic distress in many parts of the world that also affect the prospects for category growth. Against this challenging backdrop, we continue to hold ourselves to an expectation of continued growth, both top line and bottom line, and expect to be highly cash generative.With that context, back to Andre to discuss guidance.Andre Schulten -- Chief Financial OfficerSo with three strong quarters behind us and having raised guidance twice across all key metrics, we are maintaining our outlook for organic sales growth and core EPS growth for the fiscal year. We are increasing our outlook for adjusted free cash flow productivity and cash returns to share owners.We continue to expect organic sales growth in the range of 5% to 6% for the fiscal year. This outlook reflects continued volatility for both base period and current year dynamics, including a challenging fourth quarter base period in the US and in Greater China, and continued soft market conditions in Europe and in enterprise markets. Our core earnings per share guidance remains in the range of 8% to 10%. This bottom line outlook includes headwinds of approximately $150 million after-tax of foreign exchange and now more than $200 million after-tax of higher freight costs.Commodities are now forecast to be a headwind of approximately $125 million after-tax. This is a $400 million swing to the negative since our initial guidance for the year with much of this impact affecting our fiscal fourth quarter. As we stand today, our internal estimates for organic sales growth are above the mid-point of the fiscal year guidance range. On the bottom line, we're trending toward the mid-point of the core EPS range. We are again raising our target for adjusted free cash flow productivity from 90% starting the year to now over 100%.We expect to pay over $8 billion in dividends and are further increasing our outlook for share repurchase from up to $10 billion to approximately $11 billion, combined a plan to return about $19 billion of cash to share owners this fiscal year. This outlook is based on current market growth rate estimates, commodity prices and foreign exchange rates. Significant currency weakness, commodity cost increases, additional geopolitical disruptions, major production stoppages, or additional store closures are not anticipated within this guidance range.The commodity cost challenges we face this year will, obviously, be larger next fiscal year. We will offset a portion of this impact with price increases. Our Baby Care, Feminine Care, and Adult Incontinence businesses have announced price increases in the United States that would go into effect in mid-September. The exact timing and amount of increases vary by brand and sub-brand in the range of mid to high single-digits. As opportunities allow, we will close couple of price increases with new product innovations, adding value for consumers. We are analyzing raw material and foreign exchange impacts on other categories and markets, and we are assessing the need for additional pricing moves.Back to Jon for closing comments.Jon R. Moeller -- Vice Chairman and Chief Operating OfficerThanks, Andre. Our business exhibited strong momentum as I said earlier well before the COVID crisis. We've strengthened our position further during the crisis and we believe P&G is well-positioned to serve the heightened needs and new behaviors of consumers and our retail and distributor partners post-crisis. We will manage what could be a volatile short to mid-term, consistent with the strategy we've outlined many times and again, this morning, and against the immediate priorities of ensuring employee health and safety, maximizing availability of our products to serve cleaning, health, and hygiene needs, and helping society overcome the challenges of this crisis.We're stepping forward not back. We're doubling down to serve our consumers and our communities. We're doing this in our interest, in society's interest and in the interest of our long-term share owners.We look forward to talking with you through the quarter and look forward to having David join us on the year-end call in July when we will provide our initial outlook for fiscal '22.With that, we'll be happy to take questions.