  OperatorGood morning, everyone, and welcome to the Citizens Financial Group fourth quarter and full year 2021 earnings conference call. My name is Alan, and I'll be your operator today. [Operator instructions] Now, I'll turn the call over to Kristin Silberberg, executive vice president, investor relations. Kristin, you may begin.Kristin Silberberg -- Vice President of Investor Relations Thank you, Alan. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us. First, this morning, our chairman and CEO, Bruce Van Saun; and CFO, John Woods, will provide an overview of our fourth quarter results. Brendan Coughlin, head of consumer banking; and Don McCree, head of commercial banking, are also here and will discuss some of the exciting strategic initiatives that we have underway. We will be referencing our fourth quarter and full year earnings presentation located on our investor relations website. After the presentation, we'll be happy to take questions. Our comments today will include forward-looking statements which are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause our results to differ materially from expectations. These are outlined for your view on Page 2 of the presentation.We also reference non-GAAP financial measures, so it's important to review our GAAP results on Page 3 of the presentation and the reconciliations in the appendix. With that, I'll hand over to you, Bruce. Bruce Van Saun -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Kristin. Good morning, everyone, and thanks for joining our call. We are pleased with the financial performance we delivered for the fourth quarter and the full year. And we feel well-positioned to continue our own momentum through 2022. The investments that we've made to transform and reposition Citizens since our IPO are really bearing fruit. Our customer-centric approach, backed by a full range of product offerings and strong digital data and technology capabilities, has allowed us to gain market share, deepen relationships with customers, and develop sustainable growth opportunities. We've navigated the pandemic environment well, shifting to offense over the course of 2021 to accelerate our strategy, including five acquisitions, as we strive to build a unique and special top-performing bank. I'll comment briefly on a few of the financial headlines and let John take you through the details. For the quarter, our underlying earnings per share was $1.26, and our return on tangible common equity was 14.6%. Sequential operating leverage was 1.5%. That's 1.8% ex-acquisitions. And sequential growth in PPNR was a strong 6%. Beating our performance was an unbelievably strong quarter in our capital markets business, led by M&A and loan syndications. We felt a great business through hiring top talent in combination with several acquisitions, and our approach to market is really clicking. For the quarter, we were No. 1 in the league table for middle-market-sponsored transactions and No. 4 for overall middle market. We only had JMP results for six weeks of the quarter, but we're very excited about how they'll augment what we've already assembled. Our highlights for the quarter include strong sequential loan growth of 4% on a spot basis, 5% ex-PPP, while average growth was 2%. And that's 3% ex-PPP. Commercial growth and a pickup in line utilization were bright spots. And we entered 2022 with a good jump-off point. We did a nice job on expenses, pulling across our top efficiency saves to help offset higher incentive comp tied to revenues. And credit remains pristine as good as it gets. Our capital position remained strong with CET1 ratio of 9.9%, giving us a great deal of capital management flexibility in 2022. We have the capital and liquidity to fund the attractive loan growth we expect to see in 2022 while looking for selective acquisitions and ensuring strong returns of capital to shareholders. With respect to our guidance for 2022, we assume solid economic growth of around 4%, several Fed rate hikes, and improvement in loan demand. Our TOP 6 and TOP 7 programs should allow us to keep expense growth ex-acquisitions below 3%. And we're targeting 2% positive operating leverage, including the bank yield scheduled to close soon, and almost 5% ex-PPP impact. Credit is expected to continue to be highly favorable. And I'd expect our return on tangible common equity to move over 14% in the second half of the year, potentially reaching 15% in Q4. So, all in all, a very strong year of execution and delivery for all stakeholders by Citizens in 2021. And we feel we are well-positioned to do well in 2022 and continue our journey toward becoming a top-performing bank. I'd like to end my remarks by thanking our colleagues for rising to the occasion and delivering a great effort in 2021. We know we can count on you again in the new year. So, with that, I'll turn it over to John.John Woods -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Bruce, and good morning, everyone. First, I'll start with the headlines for the quarter. We reported underlying net income of $569 million and EPS of $1.26. Our underlying ROTCE for the quarter was 14.6%, which included the impact of a credit provision benefit. Revenue of 1.7 billion was up 4% linked quarter, given strong growth in fee income. Average loans are up a solid 3% in the quarter before the impact of PPP forgiveness, led by retail, which is up by 4% and 3% growth in commercial. Overall spot loan growth of 5% for the quarter, excluding PPP, provides good underlying momentum for loan growth this year. Linked quarter fee growth was 15% or 10% before acquisitions, including outstanding results in capital markets, driven by record M&A fees and loan syndications, as we've executed well and gained market share. And excluding the impact of the two commercial fee-based acquisitions we closed in the second half, we delivered underlying positive sequential operating leverage of approximately 2% this quarter with well-controlled expenses. We recorded a credit provision benefit of 25 million, which reflects strong credit performance and the improving economy. Our year-end ACL ratio stands at 1.51%, above our day one CECL level of 1.47%. We continue to have a very strong capital position with CET1 at 9.9% after returning $350 million to shareholders in dividends and share repurchases during the quarter. Next, I'll provide some key takeaways for the fourth quarter while referring to the presentation slides. Net interest income on Slide 6 is down 2% given lower net interest margin, partially offset by strong loan growth. The net interest margin was 2.66%, down 6 basis points, reflecting a reduced benefit from PPP forgiveness and lower-earning asset yields, given changes in loan mix and spread compression, partially offset by the impact of lower cash balances as we redeploy some of our excess liquidity into loan growth. We also made continued progress lowering our interest-bearing deposit costs, which are down 1 basis point to 13 basis points. On the bottom left side of the page, you can see we remained highly asset-sensitive at the end of the quarter, with an overall sensitivity of 10.1% to a gradual 200 basis-point rise in rates. At the end of the year, about 60% of our sensitivity is geared toward the short end, so we are well-positioned to benefit when the Fed begins to tighten. Referring to Slide 7, we delivered terrific fee results this quarter, demonstrating the strength and diversity of our businesses with outstanding results in capital markets, reflecting our long-term investments in the business and solid performance across other fee categories. We set a new record for quarterly capital markets with exceptional strength in M&A advisory and loan syndication fees amid a backdrop of good market activity. We continue to gain market share and have nice momentum as we enter 2022. We also delivered our best quarterly results of the year in FX and IRP, which are up 21% linked quarter, given an increase in currency transactions driven by robust M&A activity and an increase in client hedging given the outlook for rate rises. Mortgage fees declined in the quarter against a backdrop of strong competition and excess industry capacity. We saw ongoing pressure on gain-on-sale margins, particularly in third-party channels and seasonally lower production volume. Mortgage servicing income improved as our third-party servicing book grew 3% linked quarter to 90 billion. Card fees were stable as debit transactions in credit card spend continue to exceed pre-pandemic levels. Wealth fees also remained strong. Service charges and fees were modestly lower, reflecting the impact of Citizens Peace of Mind, our new customer-friendly deposit account feature. We are seeing these changes drive clear benefits and customer experience as customer satisfaction is up and call center volume is down since we implemented the changes. On Slide 8, expenses were well-controlled. Excluding the impact of the fee-based acquisitions that closed in the second half of the year, non interest expense was stable. And we drove the linked quarter operating leverage of about 2%. These results reflect higher incentive compensation tied to strong capital markets revenue and strategic investments, which was balanced by strong expense discipline and the benefit of top efficiency initiatives. Period-end loans on Slide 9 were up 4% linked quarter or 5% excluding PPP. We were pleased to see strong commercial loan growth, up more than 6% excluding PPP. Retail loans are also growing, up 4%. Average loans were up 2% and up more than 3% excluding PPP. Retail strength was driven by mortgage and auto. Commercial originations were very strong, exceeding pre-pandemic levels, led by corporate banking, subscription line financing, supporting deal-related activity, and asset-backed lending. After line utilization levels ticked up last quarter, we saw a larger increase of about 270 basis points to 35% on a spot basis this quarter, primarily driven by deal-related financing activity. We continue to expect a gradual recovery and utilization over the coming quarters as some of the issues holding back investment, such as supply chain challenges and labor shortages revolved. In addition, our period-end commitments are up a very strong 8%, which will benefit us as investment continues to pick up. On Slide 10, deposit flows continue to be robust, especially in low-cost categories. And our liquidity ratios remained strong. Average deposits were up 1% linked quarter and 5% year over year with strong growth in demand deposits, which now make up 32% of total deposits, up from 30% last year. Interest-bearing deposits were broadly stable as the continued run-off of higher cost term deposits was offset by growth in demand deposits in lower-cost categories. We continue to make good progress on deposit repricing with interest-bearing deposit costs down 1 basis point to 13 basis points during the quarter. Given the changing tone of the Fed and the potential that they may begin to tighten early this year, we thought it would be helpful to make a few points about how we see our deposit costs behaving in the next rate cycle. First, we have made significant improvements to our deposit-related capabilities since the IPO. Our enhanced data analytics capabilities allow us to optimize the deposit base by attracting more stable deposits with targeted offers and by employing more dynamic pricing. We also have the added lever of Citizens Access, which has proven to be a very efficient deposit channel. And we have strengthened our commercial offerings and invested in enhanced tools to drive higher operating deposits. Secondly, our mix of lower-cost deposits is much better with demand deposits now 32% of the book, compared to 27% at the beginning of the last rate cycle. And consumer CDs, which were at 14% of total deposits at the end of the last cycle, are now down to 3%, which is below peer levels. Also, note that the HSBC branch acquisition will add almost 8 billion or 5% to our core deposits when we close this quarter. Lastly, we have vastly improved our overall liquidity profile with a lower LDR and much lower deposit costs than when we entered the last cycle. When you add that all up, we are confident that our deposit base will be meaningfully lower than the prior cycle. Moving on to credit on Slide 11, we saw excellent credit results again this quarter. Net charge-offs were broadly stable at 14 basis points for the fourth quarter with good performance across the portfolio. Nonperforming loans decreased 6% linked quarter with continued improvement in commercial. Other credit metrics continue to improve as criticized loans were lower and internal ratings upgrades exceeded downgrades. Moving to Slide 12, we maintained excellent balance sheet strength. Our CET1 ratio remained strong at 9.9% at the end of the fourth quarter after returning $360 million in capital to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases, and closing the JMP acquisition. On the bottom right of the page, we expect a 22-basis-point impact at CET1 from the pending HSBC acquisition. And the ISBC transaction will be effectively neutral, given the stock to be issued in the deal. Shifting gears toward business strategy a bit, we thought it would be useful to have Brendan and Don discuss some of the exciting strategic initiatives that we have underway and how we are poised for strong and sustainable growth. Brendan, over to you.Brendan Coughlin -- Head of Consumer Banking Thanks, John. Good morning, everybody. On Slide 13, you can see, we've dramatically transformed the consumer bank since the IPO and have a strong foundation to propel us into the future. Let me share a few highlights. We're acquiring customers at a pace that far exceeds the pace of household formation in the U.S., nearly doubling our customer base from approximately 3 million at the time of our IPO to 6.4 million today. Further, our mobile engagement is up 15% year over year, closing gaps to peers and allowing to thin our physical network by another 8% this year, about 20% since our IPO. This enables us to reinvest in growth strategies. We've built one of the most diversified consumer lending businesses in the U.S., giving us a number of additional leverage for revenue growth and customer deepening that many of our peer banks lack. We've transformed our deposit book, repositioning our deposit mix quite significantly with strong DDA growth, which has really driven down our cost of funds by about 75% compared with the time of our IPO. Finally, while we have more work to do, our wealth business has been repositioned for growth. And our AUM is more than three times the size at the time of the IPO. So, five years ago, we were very much a traditional regional-only bank. We have strong momentum in the business, have broadly caught up with peers, and in a number of places, have built best-in-market capabilities that have led to differentiated growth rates. Moving on to Slide 14 and looking forward, we've prioritized several strategic initiatives that should help us deliver above-trend revenue growth, adding about 1 billion by the year five. First, we expect to leverage our acquisitions in the New York metro market to grow share and deepen relationships. We will pick up almost 1 million new customers who have been underserved, given that their current banks don't have the breadth of product capabilities that we have. There is strong upside if we can replicate in New York what we had done in our core markets, like Philadelphia and Boston. The second area is wealth, where we have a great opportunity as well. We recently attracted a new and strong leadership team with a long track record of industry success. Our regional footprint at our bank customer base is highly attractive and provides significant opportunity for sustained growth. Third, our Citizens Pay offering is unique among all the industry players in the fast-growing buy now, pay later space. We were early movers in this space, starting with the Apple partnership in 2015. We've built a very strong position, now with 44 partners. We've added industry verticals and have remained focused on getting marquee partners, providing good momentum and with a strong pipeline for 2022. Lastly, our national push will be led by our digital capabilities, and that includes our efforts to build on the Citizens Access launch in 2018 and the integration of our full range of products and services on a modern cloud-based platform. We'll continue to add products to the platform in '22 and will aim to drive improved customer deepening. We will also leverage the strategy to accelerate our technology transformation of our core bank as we ultimately aim to converge the operating platforms into one national digital-first structure. Now, let me pass it over to Don.Don McCree -- Head of Commercial Banking OK. Good stuff, Brendan. And let me shift to our commercial priorities, which are on Slide 15. We've added some great talent to the commercial bank on both the coverage side, as well as the product side. And we're able to do more for our customers over their life cycle than ever before. We've been near the top of the middle market league tables, helping corporate clients and private equity sponsors access capital through private and public debt and equity markets. And we've integrated our cash management with global market solutions well with our coverage teams. On the coverage side, we've been expanding geographically and moving upmarket into the mid corporate space, where it is critical to deliver deep industry expertise. Our JMP acquisition, which closed late last year, gives us a much broader and deeper corporate finance coverage in technology, healthcare, and financial services. Plus, we gain an equities business that is very well run, focused and highly regarded. And we're already seeing great cross-sell dividends off of it. As non bank lenders continue to take lending-to-market share from banks and private equity ownership of companies continue to increase, we've broadened our capabilities to better compete successfully in the new landscape. We will increase -- we will increasingly generate more fee revenue across our customer base, given these expanded capabilities. It's also worth noting that Willamette, the transaction we closed mid last year, dramatically expands our valuation services business with a very prestigious outfit. This capability is highly synergistic with our M&A and broader capital markets effort and has annuity-like qualities. So, you can see the success we've had in building and scaling up our businesses to deliver more than just traditional banking products to our clients. We are highly confident that this list will continue to drive sustainable and growing revenue streams. Over to you, John.John Woods -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Don. On Slide 16, you'll see some examples of the tremendous progress we've made against the key strategic initiatives that Brendan and Don mentioned and other work we are doing across the bank to better serve our customers and make Citizens a great place to work. We are very excited to see how our digital-first approach is increasing engagement with our customers and how this is all translating into a better experience and higher satisfaction. Moving to Slide 17, I'll touch on our top programs. Even as we intended to offense with our strategic initiatives and acquisitions, it is important to remember that a key to Citizens' success since out IPO has been our continuous effort to realize efficiencies and reinvest these savings back into our businesses so we can serve customers better. We've effectively wrapped up our TOP 6 program after achieving our targeted pre-tax run-rate benefits of approximately $425 million at the end of 2021. Now, we have launched TOP 7 with the goal of an exit run rate of about $100 million of pre-tax benefits by the end of 2022. We are really doubling back to mine areas where we have already been successful. For example, continuing our multi-year journey of digital transformation across consumer and commercial, looking at further organizational streamlining, accelerating and building on our next-gen tech initiatives, and doing more in the cloud. We're going to focus on ensuring our agile operating model and take another look at our vendor spend as well. Based on the work we've done so far, we feel confident that we can deliver on this new program. Moving to Slide 18, we've made a lot of progress on the ESG front last year, and we will continue to make meaningful progress in 2022. A few highlights were the launch of a new green deposits program to allow corporate clients to direct their cash reserves toward companies and projects that are expected to create a positive environmental impact. We adopted targets to meaningfully reduce our Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions. We have a strong commitment to social equity. And our colleagues continue a tradition of being highly focused on volunteering in our communities. To serve our clients better, we introduced new deposit account features that help customers avoid unexpected overdraft fees. And we immediately saw changes that indicate a meaningful improvement in customer experience. This should help attract and keep more customers with the bank. And now, for some high-level commentary on the outlook for full year 2022 on Slide 19. First, let me be clear that this is a stand-alone outlook that includes JMP and Willamette, which closed late last year, but does not include any benefit from our pending acquisitions of HSBC and Investors. The bottom-left corner of the page includes information that should help if you were trying to also layer in the expected contribution from these acquisitions in 2022. For 2022, we expect NII to be up 3% to 5%, driven primarily by mid-single-digit average loan growth. Excluding PPP, we expect NII to grow high single digits, driven by high-single-digit average loan growth. Average interest earning assets are expected to be up slightly as excess liquidity is deployed into loan growth. The rate scenario used in our outlook is based on the forward curve as of January 5th and includes three implied Fed rate hikes of 25 basis points each in April, July, and December. On the long end, we are planning for the 10-year treasury to be about 1.9% by the end of the year. The rate per benefit on net interest margin will allow us to more than offset the 2022 impacts from lower PPP forgiveness and swap revenue while presenting meaningful upside to NIM in 2023 and beyond. Fee income is expected to be up 4% to 7%, given continued strength in capital markets and wealth following record performances in 2021. Noninterest expense is expected to be up 5% to 6%, given the full-year effect of our commercial fee-based acquisitions, or up less than 3% excluding the impact of these acquisitions. We have included an expense walk on Slide 24 that lays out the drivers. Credit is expected to remain excellent, with net charge-offs broadly stable to down slightly and provision expenses less than net charge-offs. And we plan to continue operating with a CET1 ratio within our target range of 9.75% to 10%, which incorporates an anticipated increase in our dividend in the second half of the year. On the lower left of the slide, you'll see our expectations for the pro forma impact of HSBC and Investors with ETF accretion of about 5% based on consensus at the time of announcement and approximately 475 million in additional PPNR to our 2022 results. Importantly, we expect to deliver positive operating leverage of approximately 2% on an underlying basis for the year, including HSBC and Investors. And if you set aside the impact of PPP, that would be a very strong 5% uprate. Moving to Slide 20, I'll cover the outlook for the first quarter. We expect NII to be down about 1% despite solid loan growth, given a 20 million smaller contribution from PPP and an $18 million impact from lower day count. Including the impact from HSBC, NII will be broadly stable for the quarter. Average loans are expected to be up 2% to 3% with interest-earning assets broadly stable. Fees are expected to be down 8% to 12%, reflecting seasonally lower capital market fees than the record we delivered last quarter, as well as other seasonal impacts. Noninterest expense is expected to be up approximately 6% given seasonal compensation impacts and the full-quarter impact of the JMP acquisition. Net charge-offs are expected to be broadly stable with provision less than net charge-offs. And we expect our CET1 ratio to land at around 9.75%, including an impact of about 22 basis points from the HSBC transaction, which we expect to close mid-quarter. To sum up with Slide 21, we feel that we finished 2021 with a great quarter and enter 2022 with strong momentum. We have a winning strategy. We are building capabilities organically and through acquisitions that deliver value to our customers and growth for our shareholders. Our strong leadership team will continue to focus on execution in building a top-performing bank. With that, I'll hand it back over to Bruce.Bruce Van Saun -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer OK. Thank you, John. Operator, let's open it up for some Q&A. 