
OperatorGood morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Thermo Fisher Scientific 2021 third Quarter Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] I would like to introduce our moderator for the call. Mr. Rafael Tejada, Vice President, Investor Relations. Mr. Tejada, you may begin the call.Rafael Tejada -- Vice PresidentGood morning and thank you for joining us. On the call with me, today is Marc Casper, our Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer, and Stephen Williamson, Senior Vice President, and Chief Financial Officer. Please note this call is being webcast live and will be archived on the Investors section of our website thermofisher.com under the heading News and Events until November 12, 2021. A copy of the press release of our third quarter 2021 earnings is available in the Investors section of our website under the heading Financials. So, before we begin, let me briefly cover our Safe Harbor statement. Various remarks event we may make about the company's future expectations, plans and prospects constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the Safe Harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors, including those has caused in the company's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q which are on file with the SEC and available in the Investors section of our website under the heading Financials SEC filings.While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimates change. Therefore, you should not rely on these forward-looking statements as representing our views as of any date subsequent to today. Also during this call, we will be referring to certain financial measures not prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles or GAAP. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is available in the press release of our third quarter 2021 earnings and also in the Investors section of our website under the heading Financials. So with that, I'll now turn the call over to Marc.Marc Casper -- Chairman, President, and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Rafael. Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today for our third quarter call. We delivered another outstanding quarter, achieving exceptional financial performance while continuing to effectively execute our growth strategy to make Thermo Fisher Scientific an even stronger partner for our customers. As I reflect on the year so far three things stand out to me. Our proven growth strategy powered by our PPI Business System is driving outstanding financial performance. Our base business is performing very well and we are playing a leading role in our industry's response to COVID 19. And we continue to build on our trusted partner status with innovative new products and expanded capabilities to further enhance our unique customer value proposition. All of this gives me great confidence and a very bright future as we continue to create sustainable value for all of our stakeholders. I will get into more detail on these in my remarks later. But first, let me recap the financials.Our revenue in Q3 increased to $9.33 billion growing 9% year-over-year. Our adjusted operating income for the third quarter was $2.78 billion and our adjusted operating margin was 29.8% for the quarter. Finally, we increased adjusted EPS by 2% to $5.76 per share. So another outstanding quarter. Turning to our end markets. In Q3, market conditions were strong and our team executed well to deliver another fantastic quarter. Starting with pharma and biotech, we continue to have outstanding performance in this end market with growth of just over 20%, driven once again by strong market dynamics, our unique customer value proposition, and our leading role in supporting our customers across a wide range of exciting therapeutic areas, including our significant role in supporting COVID 19 vaccines and therapies. Our trusted partner status earned over many years with these customers continues to drive robust growth.In this end market, we saw a broad-based strength, including in our bioproduction, pharma services, biosciences, chromatography, and mass spectrometry businesses as well as in the research and safety market channel. And academic in government, we grew in the mid-single digits in the quarter with very good growth in biosciences and the research and safety market channel. Turning to industrial and applied, we grew in the mid-teens. In Q3, we had particularly strong growth in our electron microscopy business and in the research and safety market channel. Finally, in diagnostics and healthcare, we declined 11%. Performance in our base business was strong. Driven by immunodiagnostics, clinical diagnostics, and transplant diagnostics. The team also executed very well to support customers' COVID 19 testing needs, delivering $1.55 billion of revenue this quarter versus $1.8 billion in Q3 last year.Before I move on to our growth strategy, let me provide a few comments on our industry-leading role in the pandemic response. In the quarter, we generated $2.05 billion in COVID 19 response-related revenue. With the surge in the Delta variant, We saw strong testing demand around the world in Q3. We also played a very meaningful role in vaccines and therapies for COVID 19 generating just over $500 million in the quarter from these activities. The underlying demand for our product and service offerings used in the production and development of vaccines is very robust and over time we expect this demand to transition to non-COVID revenue. Our industry-leading response to the pandemic has enabled us to accelerate our growth strategy, strengthening customer relationships, and accelerate investments which contributed to our ability to raise our long-term core organic growth guidance to 7 to 9% as we communicated at our recent Investor Day.Let me now give you an update on our growth strategy, which consists of 3 elements. Continuously developing high-impact innovative new products, leveraging our scale in the high growth and emerging markets, and delivering a unique value proposition to our customers. Let me provide a few examples of how we're delivering on our growth strategy. Starting with innovation, we launched a number of new products across our businesses to further strengthen our industry leadership and enable our customers to accelerate scientific breakthroughs and make the world a better place. In our genetic sciences, business, we launched the Applied Biosystems QuantStudio Absolute Q Digital PCR System. This is the first fully integrated digital PCR system featuring simplified workflows and designed to provide highly accurate results in only 90 minutes. This system will help advance our customers' innovation efforts in areas like oncology and cell and gene therapy. In chromatography and mass spectrometry, we launched 3 new Thermo Scientific TSP plus triple, quadruple mass spectrometers to address the growing need for faster throughput and increased sensitivity across a range of applications in biopharma and applied settings including clinical research for largest molecules toxicology and safety, environmental analysis.We also have lots of Thermo Scientific Vanquish Neo UHPLC system and the Thermo Scientific PepMap Neo UHPLC Columns designed for use in proteomics, precision medicine, and translational research. Turning to the second pillar of our growth strategy, we continue to leverage our scale to create an outstanding experience for customers in high growth and emerging markets. This has contributed to the excellent performance, we are delivering across Asia Pacific where we delivered growth in the low double digits during the quarter. We continue to build our presence and capabilities in the region. During the quarter, we opened a bioprocesses design center in South Korea. This facility features laboratory and educational space and more than 100 instruments that support pharmaceutical research and manufacturing processes. This center will help our pharma and biotech customers advance their important work. Our performance across the region demonstrates that we're creating a differentiated experience for our customers and the significant investments we've made in these markets are few in growth.The third pillar of our growth strategy is our customer value proposition, and we continue to increase our capabilities and capacity to be an even better partner for our customers to help them achieve their goals faster and more efficiently. As I mentioned last quarter, we're executing on over $2.5 billion in CapEx this year. Let me give you a brief update on our progress. Building our pharma services capabilities in Q3, we brought additional capacity online to support vaccine and therapy production. And as part of the previously announced strategic partnership with CSL Limited, we assumed operating responsibility for our new state-of-the-art biologics site in Lengnau, Switzerland. The site will feature highly flexible bioproduction technologies, including single-use and stainless steel to provide a pathway from development to large-scale production as customers' needs evolve. To support growing demand in the biopharmaceutical industry, we announced plans to open a new bar production facility in Nashville, Tennessee to manufacture single-use technologies. The facility will be one of our largest SUT sites in the world. In addition, to support disease research and diagnostic testing, we announced our commitment to co-invest with the US government in building a state-of-the-art facility to manufacture pipette tips.The new facility will be looking in North Carolina and designed in line with Thermo Fisher Scientific's carbon neutrality goals. These investments in our value proposition demonstrate our commitment to our customers who rely on us as an essential partner in our work. Now, let me give you a brief update on capital deployment. We continue to successfully execute our disciplined strategy for capital deployment, which is a combination of strategic M&A and return capital to our shareholders. In terms of M&A, we are super excited for acquisition of PPD. The business is performing well. The regulatory process is on track and we expect to close by year-end. As a reminder, PPD will establish Thermo Fisher as a leader in the attractive and high-growth clinical research services industry and add highly complementary services for our fastest-growing end market. Integration planning is going very well. Financing is largely complete, and we're looking forward to welcoming our PPD colleagues to Thermo Fisher later this year.Before turning to our guidance, we update you on our progress we're making on our ESG initiatives. As the world leader in serving science, we know we have a responsibility to use our industry leadership position to make the world a better place and to that end, we continue to advance our sustainability and social impact initiatives. During the quarter, we committed to expand our use of ACT product labeling to include our entire cold storage portfolio by the end of the year. ACT labeling clearly details environmental impact of the product, empowering our customers to make sustainable choices and ultimately helping them achieve their own goals from environmental stewardship. Our 90,000 colleagues are also passionate about the difference they can make and our local site-based community action councils support a number of charitable and STEM education activities throughout the year. We have amplified our support of these efforts by investing an additional $15 million in our foundation for Science and we continue to support the historically black colleges and universities, to deliver accurate COVID-19 testing to students and staff helping to ensure Campus Safety and ability to confidently deliver in-person learning. With that, I'd like to review our guidance at a high level and then Stephen will take you through the details.As you saw in our press release, we are raising both our revenue and earnings guidance for the full year. This increase is a result of our strong Q3 operational performance in our base business and the continued strength of our COVID-19 response revenue. We're raising our revenue guidance by $1.2 billion to $37.1 billion, which would result in 15% revenue growth over 2020. In terms of adjusted EPS, we're raising our guidance by $1.30 to $23.37 per share, which represents 20% growth year-over-year. The 2022 guidance raise reflects the increased outlook for the core business and adds to the very strong outlook that we shared with you at our Investor Day. We're raising our 2022 full-year revenue guidance by $200 million to $40.5 billion and increasing our 2022 adjusted EPS guidance by $0.20 to $21.36. So to summarize our key takeaways from Q3, we executed very well to continue our growth momentum and delivered excellent revenue and earnings performance. Our business is performing very well and we continue to play a leading role in the pandemic response.We continue to expand our trusted partner status with innovative new products and expanded capabilities to further enhance our customer value proposition. And our exceptional performance in the third quarter enabled us to raise our outlook for the year and set us up for an even brighter future. With that, I'll now hand the call over to our Chief Financial Officer, Stephen Williamson. Stephen.Stephen Williamson -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Mark, and good morning everyone. Before we get into the details of the quarter, I'd like to begin with a quick reminder about the definition of core business. This is a term we introduced at our recent Investor Day. Core includes our base business in the vaccines and therapies response revenue and post-close will also include the PPD acquisition. So moving on to the details of the Q3, it was another excellent quarter. Let me provide a high-level view of how the quarter played out versus our expectations at the time of our last earnings call in July. We had a broad-based speed versus the prior guide. Revenue was $1.2 billion higher, driven by $900 million higher testing response revenue, $250 million higher core business revenue, and $50 million more favorable core FX. On our last earnings call, our guidance derisk testing response revenue and we said that if there were any additional opportunities to support customers' testing needs, we will be ready to do so and flow the benefits through our P&L. That's exactly what we did in Q3.In total delivering $1.55 billion of testing response revenue in the quarter. It was a great strength in the core business. In Q3, the Base Business Organic Growth was 10%, which is 3% or $190 million higher than included in our prior guide. Also in the core vaccines and therapies response revenue was $60 million higher than in that prior guide. It was $510 million for the quarter. So actual momentum on the top line. Our PPI Business System enabled us to generate excellent pull-through on the very strong top-line performance and at the same time execute really well on our significant growth investments and as a result, adjusted EPS in Q3 was $1.30 higher than included in that prior guide and the components this over achievements or $1 from testing response revenue, $0.20 from the core business and $0.10 from FX on the base business.Overall, another excellent quarter. Let me now provide some color on the Q3 performance. Beginning with our Q3 earnings results, as you saw in our press release, we grew adjusted EPS by 2% to $5.76. GAAP EPS in the quarter was $4.79, down 1% from Q3 last year. On the top line, our Q3 reported revenues were 9% year-over-year. The components of our Q3 reported revenue increase included 7% organic growth, a tailwind to 1% from foreign exchange, and 1% contribution from acquisition. As I mentioned, the Base Business Organic Growth in the quarter with 10%. Turning to our performance by geography during the quarter, North America was flat, Europe grew over 20%, Asia Pacific grew low double digits, China grew in the low single digits, and the rest of the world declined in the high single digits. The organic growth rates by geo skewed by the response revenue in the current and prior quarters as well as the scale of the impact of the pandemic on the base business in the prior year. Since our operational performance, Q3 adjusted operating income decreased 1%, and adjusted operating margin was 29.8%, 310 basis points lower than Q3 last year.In the quarter, our PPI Business System enabled us to deliver strong productivity, which is more than offset by unfavorable business mix and the ongoing strategic investments across our businesses, including investments in our colleagues all of these are being made to support our near and long term growth. Looking at the details of the P&L, total company adjusted gross margin in the quarter came in at 51.4%, 90 basis points lower than Q3 last year. The decrease in gross margin had similar drivers to those I just mentioned for our adjusted operating margin in the quarter. Adjusted SG&A in the quarter was 17.9% of revenue, an increase of 190 basis points for Q3 2020. Total R&D expense was approximately $350 million, representing growth of 19% versus Q3 2020 and reflects our ongoing investments in high-impact innovation to fuel future growth. Looking at our results below the line for the quarter and net interest expense was $119 million, $17 million lower than Q3 last year, largely due to lower average interest rates on our debt. Adjusted EBITDA income and expense was net income in the quarter of $9 million, $7 million higher than Q3 2020 mainly due to changes in nonoperating FX.Adjusted tax rate in the quarter was 14.2%, down 150 basis points versus Q3 last year due to the benefits of our tax planning initiatives. Average diluted shares were $397 million in Q3, $2 million lower year-over-year, driven by the share repurchases, net of option dilution. Turning to cash flow on the balance sheet, the cash flow performance enabled by our PPI Business System, continue to be very strong. Year-to-date cash flow from continuing operations was $6.9 billion, up 38% from the same period last year. Year-to-date free cash flow was $5.2 billion, up 27% from the same period last year and that's after investing $1.7 billion of net capital expenditure. This reflects the strong returns we're generating in the short term and investments we're making for the long term. We returned over $100 million to shareholders through dividends in the quarter. This reflects the 18% dividend increase we announced in February. And during the quarter we issued $1 billion in new debt as part of the pre-financing for the PPD acquisition. We ended Q3 with $12 billion in cash and $21.7 billion of the total debt. Our leverage ratio at the end of the quarter with 1.6 times, Gross debt to adjusted EBITDA, and 0.7 times on a net debt basis.Concluding my comments on total company performance, adjusted ROIC was 22.3%, up 740 basis points from Q3 last year as we continue to generate exceptional returns. Now provide some color on the performance of our four business segments. Similar to last quarters, I'll start with some framing thoughts on the impact of COVID-19 response in our segments. From a revenue standpoint, as was the case in the past quarters, the majority of our COVID-19 response revenue was recognized in Life Sciences Solutions with the remainder recognized in the party Products and Services and Specialty Diagnostics. From a margin standpoint, the impact of COVID-19 differed across the segments based on the scale of the response revenue and the different levels of profitability on that revenue. In addition, during the quarter, we continued to make strategic investments across all of our businesses. The size of those investments does not necessarily align with the COVID-19 response revenue in each segment that's but does skew some of the reported in the segment margin.Moving on to the segment details, starting with Life Sciences Solutions, Q3 reported revenue in this segment increased 9% and organic growth was 4%. In the quarter, we delivered very strong growth in our bioproduction and biosciences businesses. Q3 adjusted operating income in Life Science Solutions decreased 3% and adjusted operating margin was 48.9%, down 600 basis points year-over-year. In the quarter, we saw positive volume leverage, which is more than offset by strategic investments and unfavorable business mix. In the Analytical Instruments segment, reported revenue increased 11% in Q3, and organic growth was 9%. Growth in the segment this quarter was driven by the electron microscopy and chromatography and mass spectrometry businesses. Q3 adjusted operating income in Analytical Instruments increased 54% and adjusted margin was 17.8%, 500 basis points year-over-year.During the quarter, we delivered very strong volume pull-through and productivity, which is partially offset by the strategic investments we're making across this segments. Turning to Specialty Diagnostics. In Q3, reported revenue decreased by 5% and the segment declined organically by 5%. In the quarter, we saw a strong growth in our immunodiagnostics, clinical diagnostics, and transplant diagnostics businesses which is offset by lower COVID-19 testing revenue versus the year-ago quarter. Adjusted operating income decreased 22% in the quarter and adjusted operating margin was 22.7%, down 520 basis points from the prior year. In Q3, we drove positive productivity enabled by our PPI Business System. This is more than offset by unfavorable volume mix and strategic investments in the quarter. Finally, in the margin Products and Services segment, Q3 reported revenue increased 12%, organic growth with 10%.In the quarter, we saw very strong growth in all of our businesses in this segment. Adjusted operating income in the segment increased 8% and adjusted operating margin was 11%, which is 40 basis points lower than the prior year. In the quarter, we drove good volume pull through and productivity by our PPI Business System, which is more than offset by strategic investments. With that, let me now turn to our updated guidance and as Marc mentioned, we're increasing full-year guidance for both 2021 and 2022. For 2021, we're banking the Q3 beat and maintaining our prior guidance assumptions for Q4. Then for 2022, we're carrying over the base business and vaccines and therapies from Q3 2021 into the 2022 full-year numbers. This is making a strong beaten raised for both years, reflecting the continued excellent strength of the business. Let me now provide you with more details starting with 2021.In terms of revenue, we're raising our full-year 21 guidance by $1.2 billion to $37.1 billion and increasing our full-year organic growth outlook from 9% to 12%, an increase in the base business organic growth outlook for the full year from 12% to 13% and an increase in the COVID-19 response revenue for the year from $6.7 billion to $7.7 billion, which represents $5.8 billion of testing response revenue and $1.9 billion of vaccines and therapies response revenue. As I mentioned previously, there are no changes in the revenue assumptions for Q4 and our revised 2021 guidance. We're continuing to the same derisked approach to guidance for COVID-19 testing response revenue and continue to assume $450 million of testing-related revenue in Q4. And continue to be a range of outcomes for testing in the fourth quarter and for 2022, there are scenarios where testing demand could be higher than that included in our guidance. Should that be the case? We'll be well-positioned to support customer needs. And as we did in Q3 we'll flow the benefits of that through our P&L. But for now, we thought it was prudent to continue to take a derisked approach to the outlook. And as a reminder, there are four fewer selling days in Q4 21, but at the same period last year.Incorporating a very strong Q3 performance into the revised 21 guidance, we now expect adjusted operating margin for the full year will be approximately 30.4%, 70 basis points higher than both our prior guide and 2020. In terms of adjusted EPS by banking the Q3 beat, we're raising our full-year 21 adjusted EPS guidance by a $1.30 to $23.37 which would result in 20% growth over 2020. The revised guidance range and adjusted income tax rate of 14.3% in 2021, slightly higher than the prior guide to reflect the marginal tax rate on our increased profitability. The rest of the assumptions underlying the 2021 guidance remain the same and to call out a few of those, we've not included any operational benefits in 2021 for the acquisition of PPD which is assumed to close at the end of the year.We expect full-year net interest cost to be approximately $510 million. We're assuming net capital expenditures of approximately $2.5 to $2.7 billion and free cash flow of approximately $7 billion in 2021. Our guidance still includes $3.8 billion of capital deployment, which is $2 billion of share buybacks, $1.4 billion completed M&A and $400 million of capital returned to shareholders through dividends.I mean you have to make the full-year average diluted share count will be 397 million shares. Now moving on to the 22 guidance rates. As I mentioned, we're carrying over the base business and vaccines and therapies from Q3 21 into the 2022 full-year numbers. In terms of revenue, we're raising our full year 2022 guidance by $200 million to $40.5 billion. That reflects a $250 million increase in core revenue, offset partially by $50 million less FX tailwind for the year. The guidance for 2022 continues to see in core organic growth of 8% and $750 million of testing response revenue for the year. In terms of adjusted EPS, we're raising our full-year 2022 guidance by $0.20 to $21.36. As Marc mentioned, the 2022 guidance increase reflects the increased strength of our core business adding to the already very strong outlook for 2022 I shared with you at the recent Investor Day. So to conclude, we are delivering another excellent quarter. I mean, great position to achieve both at 21 and 22 goals. With that, I'll turn the call back over to Raf.Rafael Tejada -- Vice PresidentThank you, Stephen. Operator, we're ready to take questions.