
OperatorHello, and thank you for standing by for Baidu's Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]Now, I'd like to turn the meeting over to your host for today's conference, Ms. Juan Lin, Baidu's Director of Investor Relations.Juan Lin -- Director of Investor Relations

 



Hello, everyone, and welcome to Baidu's second quarter 2021 earnings conference call. Baidu's earning release was distributed earlier today and you can find a copy on our website as well as on newswire services. On the call today, we have Robin Li, our Co-Founder and CEO: Herman Yu, our CFO; and Dou Shen, our EVP in charge of Search and Feed. After our prepared remarks, we will hold a Q&A session.Please note, that the discussion today will contain forward-looking statements made under the Safe Harbor provisions of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations. For detailed discussions of these risks and uncertainties, please refer to our latest Annual Report and other documents filed with the SEC and Hong Kong Exchange. Baidu does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, except as required under applicable law.Our earnings press release and this call includes discussions of certain unaudited non-GAAP financial measures. Our press release contains a reconciliation of the unaudited non-GAAP measures to the unaudited most directly comparable GAAP measures and is available on our IR website at ir.baidu.com.As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. In addition, a webcast of this conference call will also be available on Baidu's IR website.

 



I will now turn the call over to our CEO, Robin.Robin Li -- Co-Founder, Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerHello, everyone. We delivered another solid quarter with Baidu Core revenue growing 27% year-over-year accelerated by non-advertising revenues with AI cloud growing 71% year-over-year in the second quarter. We are entering a new era where technology is becoming more powerful and we are benefiting from the deployment of technology to upgrade China's industrial competitiveness, digitize urban cities and improve mobility. As China plans for the next stage of growth, it rests upon us to recognize the need to align our business strategy with the environment that we're operating and the future that we want to build with our stakeholders. ESG highlights a shared future documentary to support China's pledge to achieve carbon-neutrality by the year 2060 and Baidu aims to reach carbon-neutrality by 2030 through the use of green data centers, smart office buildings and other means.In addition, we hope to improve urban traffic flows and lower carbon emissions for 100 metropolitan areas across China with our build-out of smart transportation and accelerate the switch to ADs for the mass through our investments in robotaxi and smart AD. Leveraging technology to serve a larger population to achieve inclusiveness is part of China's growth plan. In June, we introduced Apollo Moon, 5th generation of Apollo robotaxi vehicles that once again saw a 60% drop in costs per mile. With the rapid pace of autonomous driving technology advancement and cost efficiency improvement, Apollo robotaxi stands to become much cheaper than driver-for-hire ride hailing in the coming years, which will make robotaxi ride hailing much more accessible.

 



Baidu Health is another example of expanding resources to a broader population for improved living. We are enabling closed loop telehealth, online prescription and home delivery to free up hospital resources for critical treatments. Concurrently, we are helping hospitals find patients with specific illness that match their treatment specialties by leveraging our AI-powered Search and Smart Mini Program. We see great opportunities to use technology to advance sustainability and inclusiveness. As we go through our quarterly highlights, you will see other examples of how our AI paradigm is naturally aligned with these goals. This is due in part to our belief in using technology to build a better world.Turning to Q2 operational highlights. Our AI cloud continue to see strong growth. IDC once again ranked Baidu AI cloud the number one AI cloud provider in China in their 2020 report on public cloud. Over the past decade, ACE [Phonetic] has been the growth driver for China's cloud market, which sets up a strong foundation to implement AI solution that solve industry-specific problem and provide urban living upgrades. By differentiating with AI solution, we have the opportunity to provide repeat business with expanded applications and become a one-stop shop across selling -- cross-selling ACE and other services.In the past, we discussed empowering financial services, utilities and Internet media sectors with AI. Let me give you an example of how our AI cloud empowers the auto sector. We are helping Geely, a leading automotive manufacturer to develop a multi-year digitization plan, which entails: one, setting up their private cloud infrastructure; two, moving Geely's business on to cloud; three, leveraging Baidu AI solution to advance Geely's high-tech manufacturing capabilities such as IOV security and risk management; and four, enabling Geely to provide cloud services to their automotive suppliers and customers.Baidu AI is deployed into multifaceted environment. For example, Quanzhou, Fujian, a city of population of 8 million, implemented Baidu AI solution at its water treatment plant. Our smart monitoring capability was used to provide early detection of malfunctioned equipment, replacing labor-intensive patrolling, and a customized machine learning model was developed to predict water usage and dynamically adjust the water pressure of different water pipelines, cutting electricity needs by 8%. Our employees feel a sense of pride when natural resource is optimally managed and sustainability is indirectly advanced.In healthcare cloud, we have expanded into over 400 hospitals in 29 provinces and over 1,500 primary-care clinics in 11 provinces with leading solutions like our CDSS, resulting in rapid revenue growth at 245% year-over-year for the first half. According to IDC's June report, Baidu deep learning platform became the most widely used in China, surpassing Google. Our PaddlePaddle developer community reached 3.6 million, up 62% year-on-year and is adopted by 130,000 businesses. Baidu's large development community helped improve our machine learning models and [Indecipherable] our AI tools and technologies.Moving onto ACE smart transportation. As of June, Apollo has signed with 20 cities to provide ACE smart transportation up from five cities a year ago based on a contract amount of RMB10 million and above. Apollo also renewed agreements with nine cities to roll out their next phase of ACE smart transportation. Beyond urban roads, Apollo signed with Xiongan, Hebei to deploy V2X smart highway, enabling the city to remotely identify the need for highway maintenance, assess road closure for poor weather conditions and identify travelers who dodge toll terminals.Turning to autonomous driving. Apollo continue to see strong momentum. Level 4 testing on public road has reached 12 million kilometers or 7.5 million miles. Apollo has received 278 AD permits, reflecting AD piloting in dispersed geographic regions and under wide-ranging test scenarios.Apollo monetization. In Q2, Apollo Go ride hailing expanded into Guangzhou, our fourth city of operation and provided 47,000 rides to the public, up 200% sequentially. Customer satisfaction for Apollo Go has been high with user rating of 4.9 out of 5.0. As pointed out earlier, our 5th generation robotaxi vehicles saw another 60% drop in cost per mile compared to an average decrease of 62% in the first four generations of AD vehicles. We plan to roll out Apollo Go ride hailing across 30 cities over the next two to three years.On ASD, Great Wall Motors becomes the latest automaker to announced plans for ASD. Apollo Automated Valet Parking will be installed in their WEY Mocha SUV flagship due out later this year.On infotainment, DuerOS for auto has been installed in 1.8 million vehicles, up 265% year-on-year. 12 auto OEMs, the likes of Ford, GM, Toyota and Honda have signed with DuerOS for auto -- for installation in 17 makes. On DuerOS, Xiaodu continues to innovate the smart home device market.[Indecipherable] the only sound DuerOS smart assistant allows one to conveniently order fresh home delivery of flowers and other commonly used goods in a matter of seconds through conversational AI.China's elderly population is slated to exceed 300 million. Xiaodu smart displays connect elders with immediate senior community assistance and serve as a virtual companionship around the clock through conversational AI, improving their quality of life while allowing family members to monitor their loved one's house and safety from remote. During the June 18 e-commerce festival, Xiaodu Smart Display and Xiaodu Smart Path for education market topped the sales list in their respective category on leading e-commerce platforms like JD.com. Xiaodu is receiving high customer satisfaction selling well on higher price point product line and topping the lists on units sold demonstrating how hardware can be differentiated with innovative AI such as new input modalities and services.Turning to mobile ecosystem. In June, Baidu App MAUs reached 580 million, up 9% year-on-year and daily logged in users reached 77%. As an open in-app search app, Baidu App offers users instant replies on various topics. For example, daily telehealth consultation on Baidu Health surpassed 2 million in the second quarter, up 47% year-on-year. In addition, more than 8,000 industry experts spanning 14 other verticals such as legal, finance and fashion are able to instantaneously reply to user's search inquiries through our AI building blocks. When users seek specific information of service, Baidu Search has a distinct advantage.Managed Page now accounts for 40% of Baidu Core advertising, reflecting merchants opening storefronts on Baidu as opposed to operating their own sites. For example, a local moving company changed their search landing page to it's managed page and saw its daily orders doubled five weeks after adoption. Through Managed Page, users are able to browse its service, interact with the merchant, schedule a move and pay on deposit, all seamlessly on Baidu. Managed Page also monitors merchant activities on Baidu with AI for added personal safety. For example, a moving service entails strangers coming to your house.Before I turn the call to Herman, I'd like to congratulate him for his new role as Chief Strategy Officer of Baidu. Herman will continue to act as CFO until we find a qualified replacement. He will spend more time on company strategy and business development afterwards. Over the past four years, Herman has helped Baidu transform from a mostly search company to a leading and diversified AI company which demonstrated the business leadership, a holistic view of our business and a keen sense of the capital market. I'm confident in Herman's ability to help chart a course for our long-term growth and success in the age of AI.With that, let me turn the call over to Herman to go through our financial highlights.Herman Yu -- Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Robin. Hello, everyone. Welcome to Baidu's second quarter 2021 call. All monetary amounts used in my discussion are in renminbi, unless stated otherwise. Baidu's second quarter was -- Baidu's second quarter revenue was RMB31.4 billion or $4.9 billion, up 20% year-over-year, driven by the growth of Baidu Core revenue, which reached RMB24 billion or $3.7 billion, up 27% year-over-year. Non-advertising for Baidu Core reached RMB5 billion or 21% of Baidu Core's revenue. AI cloud revenue was RMB3.3 billion, up 71% year-over-year, which is an acceleration from the 55% growth last quarter.Our cloud growth is benefiting from the demand of enterprise customers looking to use AI to transform their industry and strengthen their leadership position; for example, customers from the Internet, media, from financial services, from energy and from manufacturing sectors. We are also benefiting from the urban cities seeking to adopt Apollo ACE smart transportation to modernize and digitize their transportation network. AI solutions and smart transportation are showing fast growth serving as a catalyst for our cloud to grow faster than the overall cloud market, with ACE being a smaller part of our cloud business.On intelligent driving and other growth initiatives. We continue to make advances in product development. By leveraging Baidu AI capabilities such as speech recognition and LP and computer vision in our strong Internet foundation, Xiaodu has become the leader in smart display globally based on shipments. Xiaodu speakers entered the smart home device market in 2018 competing on sub-100 product lines. Home devices equipped with AI features can be sold at much higher price points. For example, in May, we introduced Xiaodu Tiantian T10, a 10 inch smart display with karaoke features, at a MSRP of RMB1,699. Through our innovation, Xiaodu services revenue such as advertising and membership has grown five-fold from last year, now accounting for over one-tenth of Xiaodu's revenues. Xiaodu powered by DuerOS is transforming the smart speaker market from selling hardware to selling AI-powered features and services.Operating systems for the automotive industry is a much larger market. Apollo has an opportunity to leverage its leadership in autonomous driving and infotainment operating system to enable every passenger vehicle to be a smart vehicle. Just as Xiaodu transformed the home device market, Apollo hopes to leverage Baidu's capabilities in ASD and existing OEM channels to boost computing intelligence and transform the automated industry.Moving to online marketing. Q2 online marketing revenue was RMB19 billion, up 18% year-over-year. In-app advertising was solid, growing 26% year-over-year, partially offset by the slow growth of unit and PC ad revenues. Most of our top ad verticals continue to perform well. CPM saw double-digit growth, especially for in-app online marketing. iQIYI revenue was RMB7.6 billion, up 3% year-over-year. iQIYI subscribers reached 106 million in June which supports the large in-house production of entertainment blockbusters.Cost of revenue was RMB15.9 billion, up 21% year-over-year primarily resulting from an increase in TAC and cost of sales associated with new AI business. Operating expenses were RMB12 billion, up 30% year-over-year. SG&A for Baidu Core was up 40%, primarily due to an increase in channel spending and promotional activities, as well as increase in sales hiring, particularly as we look out for the next six to 12 months to grow our cloud and also our intelligent driving business.Non-GAAP operating income for Baidu Core was RMB6.5 billion or $1 billion and non-GAAP operating margin for Baidu Core was 27%. Adjusted EBITDA for Baidu Core was RMB8 billion were $1.2 billion and adjusted EBITDA margin for Baidu Core was 33%.Cash and short-term investments for Baidu Core as of June 30, 2021 was RMB167.7 billion or $26 billion. Free cash flow for Baidu, excluding iQIYI, was RMB6.9 billion or $1.1 billion. Baidu Core had approximately 36,400 employees as of June 30, up 24% from last year.Turning to Q3 guidance. For the third quarter, Baidu expects revenues to be between RMB30.6 billion and RMB33.5 billion, representing a growth rate of 8% to 19% year-over-year, which assumes that Baidu Core revenue will grow between 9% year-over-year and 20% year-over-year. The above forecast takes into consideration the current COVID-19 situation in China, which is evolving and business visibility is limited. The above forecast reflects our current and preliminary view, which is subject to substantial uncertainty.Before I turn the call back to the operator, let me summarize our second quarter results. Baidu mobile ecosystem continues to be strong. Baidu Core online marketing revenue was up 18% year-over-year in the second quarter with in-app marketing revenue growing 26% year-over-year. Baidu App MAUs reached 580 million, up 9% year-over-year and daily user logged in was 77%. Four years ago, we committed to strengthening our mobile ecosystem and deal with AI. Our Search and Feed is stronger now with AI building blocks and marketing cloud and non-marketing has become sizable and growing quite fast. We have delivered on our goals and we are very proud of our team for their strong execution.Many investors have inquired about the recent regulatory landscape. Governments generally favor fair competition and maybe even so when mobile Internet is well-penetrated. We see this being played across Europe and in the U.S. Search, fundamentally, is open. As exclusivity is forbidden for the largest players, this will allow more players in each Internet sector to exist, which gives consumers more choices and makes Search more useful.Some investors have asked about government incentives and special tax treatment. It's important that we elevate this to see the overall direction of China's development plan. Consumer Internet has been in China for -- since decades and the country is promoting new growth sectors such as Industrial Internet, V2X Autonomous Driving and the monetization of city governments. Thus, it will not be surprising if certain incentives for the older industries gradually decrease, while the new economy benefits from government incentives. We believe government policy will also be adjusted to support these new growth areas. Our new AI business is well-positioned in sectors of the new economy, such as AI cloud, smart transportation, autonomous driving, smart devices in AI chips.In the second quarter -- I'm sorry, Baidu returned $566 million to our shareholders under the 2020 Share Repurchase Program this year, bringing the cumulative repurchase from last year to $2.5 billion. We are excited about Baidu's future, excited about Baidu's durable Search and Feed business and our new AI business to support China's growth, while advancing sustainability and exclusiveness.On August 18, starting at 9:30 AM Beijing Time, we will be hosting Baidu World on CCTV. Please join us to follow the latest on our product development.And lastly, it's truly been a privilege to serve as Baidu's CFO and witness our growth initiatives like AI cloud solution, smart transportation, self driving solutions and smart devices developed into a fifth of Baidu Core business using the steady profitability of our Search and Feed to fund and accelerate Baidu's growth. I'm excited about my new role as CSO, which will allow me to spend more time thinking about technology opportunities.Operator, with that, let's now open the call to questions.