
OperatorGood morning, and thank you for joining Lincoln Financial Group's First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]Now I'd like to turn the conference over to the Vice President of Investor Relations, Al Copersino. Please go ahead, sir.Al Copersino -- Vice President, Head of Investor Relations

 



Thank you, Catherine. Good morning, and welcome to Lincoln Financial's First Quarter Earnings Call. Before we begin, I have an important reminder. Any comments made during the call regarding future expectations, deposits, expenses, income from operations, share repurchases and liquidity and capital resources are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations. These risks and uncertainties include those described in the cautionary statement disclosures in our earnings release issued yesterday, as well as those detailed in our 2020 annual report on Form 10-K, most recent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and from time to time in our other filings with the SEC. These forward-looking statements are made only as of today, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any of them to reflect events or circumstances that occur after this date.We appreciate your participation today and invite you to visit Lincoln's website, www.lincolnfinancial.com, where you can find our press release and statistical supplement, which include full reconciliations of the non-GAAP measures used on this call, including adjusted return on equity and adjusted income from operations or adjusted operating income to the most comparable GAAP measures. Presenting on today's call are Dennis Glass, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Randy Freitag, Chief Financial Officer and Head of Individual Life. After their prepared remarks, we will move to the question-and-answer portion of the call.I would now like to turn the call over to Dennis.

 



Dennis R. Glass -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Al. Good morning, everyone. Lincoln had a strong start to the year against an improving but still challenging environment. We have continued to execute our reprice, shift and add new product strategy, manage expenses, improve the customer experience and maintain a strong balance sheet. First quarter earnings were affected by elevated pandemic-related claims in our Life and Group businesses, though this was partially offset by another quarter of strong returns from our alternative investment portfolio.We are pleased with the earnings power Lincoln showed in the quarter and the outlook for our business is positive. Now let me touch on the major initiatives that are helping bolster our franchise and earnings power. First, as a result of our proactive and disciplined repricing actions, we are achieving targeted returns in each of our businesses. As a result of our reprice, shift and add new product strategy and the fact that several peers filed our repricing actions, our sales pipelines have begun to expand, and we expect continued sales recovery in the upcoming quarters.We're introducing eight new products in the first half of this year, which increased consumer choice, broadened the product portfolio and enabled our participation in more market segments. Our new product strategy also gives us a great deal of optionality. If interest rates remain low, our newly launched products will remain attractive given their strong consumer value propositions driven by their innovative product design. If rates continue to rise, in addition to these newer products, some offerings already on our show would once again resonate with consumers, and that would also be beneficial to Lincoln's sales results.

 



Second, we are focused on actions to increase productivity across our manufacturing, operations and distribution organizations while enhancing the customer and partner experience. We continue to report declining expense ratios in most of our businesses, while at the same time, investing in client-facing digital tools. Our demonstrated expense management capabilities will guide us as we start another meaningful expense savings program later this year.Third, we have successfully focused on improving the balance sheet. Both our RBC ratio and cash at the holding company have increased and remained above target, giving us the confidence to increase our share repurchase pace. Furthermore, as we evaluate risk transfer deals, we would expect for this to provide additional upside potential to our capital deployment if finalized. Now turning to the business segments. Starting with annuities.We continue to successfully leverage our industry-leading manufacturing capabilities to create new customer value propositions and expand our already broad product portfolio. Last year, we established ourselves as a leader in indexed variable annuities. This year, we are seeing growth in both IVAs and traditional variable annuities without living benefits, with total sales of nonliving benefit VAs up 44% versus the prior year quarter and 9% sequentially.Growth in these products, combined with continued market demand for guaranteed living benefits, led to total VA sales growth both versus the prior year quarter and sequentially. We had projected sales to begin the year at a similar pace to that seen in the fourth quarter and build over the course of the year as we benefit from products introduced both this year and last. And we are pleased to see that sales growth is ahead of our expected pace. In fact, this was the first quarter in a year that we saw sequential sales growth across all product categories in the Annuities business.While we experienced negative net flows in the quarter, this is a direct result of management's actions to maintain rigorous return standards and to allow us to continue to direct capital to the highest and best use. In 2021, we expect the earnings to continue to benefit from our high-quality in-force book that generates consistent cash flows and returns and provides excellent value for customers. In Retirement Plan Services, we once again reported strong results driven by our digitally optimized model. This model, where high tech enables high touch, differentiates us in the virtual environment.Our innovative product development capabilities are driving results, and we are excited about the continued success of our target date fund alternative, YourPath, as well as the recent launch of Income America, an innovative and simplified income solution for Retirement Plan participants. Although total deposits were down slightly compared to the very strong prior year quarter, we are optimistic looking forward given our robust sales pipeline.We reported positive net flows once again this quarter. And while flows can be lumpy, we expect this momentum to persist as we remain well positioned in our target markets. It was another excellent quarter for the retirement business, and we expect to benefit from the tailwinds of an improved economic backdrop, our ongoing investments in the customer experience, and our expanding set of solutions aimed at helping Americans secure their retirement.Within the Life Insurance business, we are positioning ourselves for growth through product innovation and distribution expansion. Sales in the quarter were flat, sequentially, but we expect will ramp up over the course of the year as we begin to reap the benefits of solutions we've recently launched into the market. We're seeing good momentum with some key new product rollouts. Our expanded VUL offerings continue to gain shelf space and our innovative MoneyGuard Market Advantage product is appealing to new market segments.Additionally, we are beginning to attract a broader range of advisors with nearly 1/4 being producers who had not previously sold a MoneyGuard product. These new products, coupled with our existing life offerings and the industry's strongest distribution force, position Lincoln for long-term success at attractive returns. Additionally, we are expanding our strong distribution network by adding our life insurance products to the shelf of a large P&C insurer where we have an existing annuity distribution partnership.We are seeing good early momentum, particularly with our TermAccel solution, which is a fully digital experience and is enabling us to reach a different customer segment. I'm pleased with the solid results the Life Insurance business reported. I'm also excited that Lincoln is introducing products with new value propositions that are resonating with customers and helping to drive future growth. Lastly, on Group Protections.Premiums rose more than 2% over the prior year quarter and nearly 7% sequentially, driven by improved persistency, price increases and organic growth resulting from the economic recovery. Sales in what is typically a seasonally smaller quarter were down versus the strong prior year quarter. However, underlying drivers were positive as 2/3 of our sales were employee paid products. As we communicated last quarter, we are taking actions to increase Group Protection margins.We are already seeing improved results as factors such as pricing actions, higher persistency and investments in our claim organization have put our margin, excluding the pandemic and excess alternative income, in the lower end of our targeted range. We continue to expect further expansion, building gradually toward the upper end of our 5% to 7% margin target. Briefly on investment results. As I mentioned earlier, our portfolio is performing quite well.Overall credit quality remains high and has continued to improve in recent years, driven by our high-quality new money purchases and proactive derisking. 96% of our fixed income assets are investment grade, with 59% rated A or higher. Our well-diversified commercial mortgage loan book has continued to perform well during the pandemic with virtually no credit losses and minimal loan modifications.Additionally, our alternatives performance was once again strong, driven by our portfolio construction that emphasized buyout and growth equity strategies, with a quarterly return of 8%, significantly exceeding our long-term target quarterly return of 2.5%. In closing, I would note, sales momentum is building at attractive returns, driven by new product introductions that resonate with our customer and expanded shelf space across distribution channels.Continued equity market tailwinds should boost earnings from fees on assets under management in the Annuities and RPS businesses. The outlook for the Life Insurance business is strong, as our new products are starting to take hold in the market. Group Protection's underlying profitability is experiencing an ongoing recovery. Expense savings initiatives will continue to contribute to earnings growth.And our robust balance sheet, high-quality investment portfolio, strong free cash flow generation and capital ratios, as well as the opportunity to execute risk transfer deals all leave Lincoln in an excellent position to fund expected sales growth while increasing our capital deployment. Based on these positive trends, 2021 is shaping up to be a successful year, and I expect will improve on this quarter's results.I will now turn the call over to Randy.Randal Jay Freitag -- Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Head of Individual LifeThank you, Dennis. Last night, we reported first quarter adjusted operating income of $350 million or $1.82 per share. There were no notable items within the current or prior year quarter. However, this quarter's result was impacted by a number of items. First, pandemic-related claims reduced earnings by $222 million or $1.15 per share. Second, results benefited from strong performance in the alternatives investment portfolio, boosting earnings by $84 million or $0.43 per share above target.Third, there was $11 million, or $0.06 per share of unfavorable tax adjustments. Finally, within the Other Operations segment, there was $11 million or $0.06 per share of expense variability related to elevated deferred compensation costs resulting from the increase in Lincoln share price during the quarter. Adding these items together, it was no doubt an extremely strong quarter that highlights our underlying earnings power. Net income totaled $225 million or $1.16 per share, with the difference between net income and adjusted operating income primarily being driven by $144 million noneconomic loss from variable annuity nonperformance risk.The VA hedge program performed exceptionally well with 99% effectiveness in the quarter. Moving to the performance of key financial metrics compared to the prior year quarter. Adjusted operating revenue increased 6%, with operating revenue growth in each of our four business segments. Average account values increased 15%. The expense ratio declined in all businesses, except Group Protection, where it remained flat. And book value per share, excluding AOCI, stands at $72.36, an all-time high. Now turning to segment results, starting with Annuities.Operating income for the quarter was $290 million compared to $261 million in the prior year quarter. The increase was primarily due to higher account values driven by growth in the equity markets as favorable alternative investment income was offset by $9 million of the unfavorable tax adjustment that I noted upfront. Average account values of $160 billion increased 16% year-over-year and 6% on a sequential basis, as equity market strength over the past year more than offset negative net flows.This contributed to a 7% increase in operating revenues in the quarter. Base spreads, excluding variable investment income, were down 18 basis points sequentially, primarily driven by noneconomic change in the spread calculation methodology. G&A expenses, net of amounts capitalized, decreased 3% from the prior year quarter, leading to a 100 basis point improvement in the expense ratio. Return metrics remained solid despite fewer fee days in the quarter, with return on assets coming in at 72 basis points and return on equity at 22.9%.Risk metrics on the VA book continued to demonstrate the quality of our in-force business, with the net amount at risk at 64 basis points of account values for living benefits and at 36 basis points for death benefits. Growing account values, a quality book of business, and expense discipline are all indicators of strong future performance from the Annuity business. Retirement Plan Services reported operating income of $57 million compared to $40 million in the prior year quarter, driven by higher account values, expense management and favorable alternative investment performance, which more than offset spread compression and $2 million of the unfavorable tax adjustment.Deposits totaled $2.6 billion and net flows continue to be positive with $347 million in the quarter, consistent with recent periods. These positive flows, combined with favorable equity markets, drove average account values up 18% over the prior year quarter. G&A expenses net of amounts capitalized were down 4% compared to the prior year quarter, driving a 320 basis point improvement in the expense ratio.Base spreads, excluding variable investment income, compressed 12 basis points versus the prior year quarter, back in line with our stated 10 to 15 basis point range as crediting rate actions take hold. The Retirement business started the year with strong results, including a 25 basis point ROA with continued momentum in flows and expense management serving as positive drivers going forward. Turning to Life Insurance. We reported operating income of $107 million.While down from $171 million in the prior year quarter due to the pandemic, these results were solid and reflect strong underlying business drivers. This quarter's earnings included $132 million of excess pandemic-related mortality, partly offset by $59 million of favorable alternative investment experience. Underlying earnings drivers continued to show growth, with average account values up 10% and average life insurance in-force up 8% over the prior year. G&A expenses net of amounts capitalized decreased 2% from the prior year quarter, leading to a 60 basis point improvement in the expense ratio.Base spreads declined two basis points compared to the prior year quarter, better than our five to 10 basis point expectation. Outside of the impacts from the pandemic, the Life Insurance business had a strong quarter and key growth drivers remain positive. We expect pandemic headwinds to decline over the course of the year as vaccines are more widely rolled out. This combination of underlying growth and improving mortality results positions us nicely for improved results looking forward.Group Protection reported a loss from operations of $26 million compared to operating earnings of $40 million in the prior year quarter, with the decrease driven by $90 million of pandemic-related claims, with 61 million of direct COVID-19 mortality, seven million of morbidity and 22 million of indirect mortality. This was partially offset by $6 million of favorable alternative investment experience. The reported total loss ratio was 86.8% in the quarter, one percentage point better sequentially as an increase in the life loss ratio was more than offset by improvement in the disability loss ratio.Excluding pandemic-related claims from both periods, the total loss ratio was 76.6% for the quarter, down 2.3 percentage points sequentially. Expense ratio remained flat year-over-year as increases in G&A expenses net of amounts capitalized related to investments we have made in our claims organization were offset by premium growth. Excluding pandemic-related claims, the business had solid results which, as Dennis mentioned, put us back in the low end of our target margin range.While pandemic impacts continue to be a headwind, we are optimistic about the outlook for the business as improving unemployment rates, coupled with vaccine rollouts, should provide tailwinds going forward. Turning to capital and capital management. We ended the quarter with $10.7 billion of statutory surplus and estimate our RBC ratio at 464%, up 13 percentage points from year-end. As a reminder, this includes 24 percentage points from noneconomic goodwill associated with the Liberty acquisition that we expect will go away by year-end.Cash at the holding company stands at $758 million, above our $450 million target as we have prefunded our $300 million 2022 debt maturity. We deployed $105 million toward five times this quarter, slightly above the $100 million we targeted. Given our strong capital position, improving capital market and health trends and our positive business outlook, we expect share repurchase in the second quarter to be approximately $150 million, in line with pre-pandemic levels.To conclude, this quarter's results included a large impact from COVID-19, but we expect these headwinds to abate over the remainder of the year. Looking past that, we see strong underlying earnings and several positives. Revenue growth in all four businesses, a positive outlook for sales looking forward, record end-of-period account provided a tailwind to earnings, continued strong expense discipline across the company and a strong capital position, which is contributing to our ability to invest in growth and increase our capital return to shareholders.With that, let me turn the call back over to Al.Al Copersino -- Vice President, Head of Investor RelationsThank you, Dennis and Randy. [Operator Instructions] With that, let me turn the call over to Catherine to begin Q&A.