  OperatorThank you for standing by. Good day, everyone, and welcome to the Boeing Company's first-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. The management discussion and slide presentation plus the analyst question-and-answer session are being broadcast live over the internet. [Operator instructions] At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I'm turning the call over to Ms. Maurita Sutedja, vice president of investor relations for the Boeing Company. Ms. Sutedja, please go ahead.Maurita Sutedja -- Vice President of Investor Relations Thank you, John, and good morning. Welcome to Boeing's first-quarter 2021 earnings call. I'm Maurita Sutedja. And with me today are David Calhoun, Boeing's president and chief executive officer; and Greg Smith, Boeing executive vice president of enterprise operations and chief financial officer. As a reminder, you can follow today's broadcast and slide presentation through our website at boeing.com. As always, we have provided detailed financial information in our press release issued earlier today. Projections, estimates, and goals we included in our discussion this morning are likely to involve risks, which are detailed in our news release, in our various SEC filings, and in the forward-looking statement disclaimer at the end of this web presentation. In addition, we refer you to our earnings release and presentation for disclosures and reconciliation of certain non-GAAP measures.Now, I will turn the call over to David Calhoun. Dave Calhoun -- President and Chief Executive Officer Yeah. Thank you, Maurita, and good morning, everyone. I hope you're all staying safe and healthy as we navigate this global pandemic. On behalf of Boeing, I want to share our heartfelt thoughts and support for those in India who are coping with the devastating and deadly impact of this most recent COVID-19 surge. If we think back to where we were a year ago as the impact of COVID-19 began to unfold, it's been quite a year. While it has been challenging, we saw the U.S. industry and government come together to support one another like never before. And thankfully, we view 2021 as a critical inflection point for our industry and a proof point for those -- for those public investments. While a full recovery is still likely and a few years away, we're seeing encouraging signs including progress on vaccine distribution in many countries and domestic travel recovery in certain markets. I remind everyone at the outset, we never imagined vaccines would be developed and distributed this early in the pandemic. We continue to adapt to new ways of conducting our business and remain dedicated to supporting our teammates and their families as well as our customers and the communities where we operate. So let me start with an update on the business on the next chart. Starting with the 737 program. As all of you know, we've identified electrical issues in certain locations in the flight deck of select 737 MAX airplanes. We are finalizing the plans and documentation with the FAA to outline the process required for operators to return their airplanes to service. Upon approval by the FAA, we expect the work to take a few days per airplane. Approximately 100 in-service airplanes are impacted. We will complete this same work on airplanes in our inventory. We have also paused deliveries while we address these issues, which will make our April deliveries very light. At this time, we expect to catch up on deliveries over the balance of the year. We recognize and regret the impact this has had on our customers' operations and are focused on ensuring that their airplanes are ready for the summer season. More broadly in the last several months, we've made important progress in safely returning the MAX to service worldwide. Since the FAA is ungrounding late last year, more than one 165 countries have now approved the resumption of MAX operations. We've delivered more -- more -- 85 MAX airplanes to customers, 21 airlines have returned their fleets to service, and we've safely flown more than 26,000 commercial flights, totaling more than 58,000 flight hours. We also recently received regulatory approval for the 8-200 variant of the 737, an important aircraft for our valued customer Ryanair. We now assume that the remaining non-U.S. regulatory approvals will occur this year, with approval in China most likely now in the second half of the year. As always, we will continue to work with global regulators and follow their lead in the steps ahead. Our first priority remains to assist our customers with returning their parked fleet to service. More than one-third of the previously parked fleet is now flying revenue-generating flights. We're also honored and encouraged by the orders from Southwest Airlines, United Airlines, and Alaska Airlines in the quarter along with an order last week from Dubai Aerospace Enterprise, and the trust our customers are placing in Boeing and in the 737 family. These orders underscore our customer's commitment to the continued modernization of their fleets with 737 airplanes that enable operational efficiencies such as improved fuel burn, which reduces carbon emissions, quieter engines that benefit the communities they serve, and excellent dispatch reliability to support on-time operations. At the end of the quarter, we had approximately 3,200 aircraft in our 737 backlog. We're currently producing at a low rate and expect to gradually increase the rate to 31 per month in early 2022 with further gradual increases corresponding with the market demand. We will continue to assess the production rate plan as we monitor the market environment and engage in customer discussions. The timing of remaining regulatory approvals will also determine our delivery plans and shape our production ramp-up. We will continue to communicate transparently with our supply chain to ensure readiness and stability. Turning to the 787 program. We resumed deliveries in March following rigorous testing and analysis and are closely coordinating with our customers. We will follow the FAA -- or the FAA has been involved every step of the way in this process. We've delivered a total of nine 787 since restarting deliveries last month with potentially a couple more by the end of this week. Based on what we know today, we still expect to deliver the majority of the 787 aircraft currently in inventory by the end of the year. We will closely monitor the market environment and keep you updated on the delivery progress. As we previously communicated, in March, we consolidated the 787 final assembly to Boeing South Carolina, which went smoothly. Also, we transition to a low-production rate of five by the end of the quarter. On the 777X program, we're working closely with global regulators on all aspects of development including our rigorous test program. Our team remains focused on executing this comprehensive series of tests to demonstrate the safety and the reliability of the airplane's design, and we're pleased with the progress that we've made to date. We're also providing regular updates to our customers and still anticipate that the first 777X delivery will occur late in 2023. As planned, we are transitioning the combined 777 and 777X production rate to two per month. We also continue to see strong freighter demand and are assessing our production plans to efficiently transition to the 777X. In addition to our commercial programs, we continue to deliver for our defense, space, and services customers. As we reach these program milestones, we're firmly grounded and guided by our core values -- safety, quality, and integrity. Let me highlight a few of these accomplishments. Our defense, security, and space team began production of the T-7A Red Hawk Advanced Trainer and achieved the first flight in delivery of the F-15EX to the U.S. Air Force, with a second aircraft delivering just last week. On the KC-46A Tanker program, the U.S. Air Force has begun demonstrating limited operational use for air refueling as well as cargo and passenger airlift operations and has safely conducted over 1,400 missions over the last six months. We also successfully completed hot-fire testing for NASA's Space Launch System, SLS rocket. Additionally, our global services team delivered the 50th 737-800 Boeing Converted Freighter and inducted our first EA-18G Growler for U.S. Navy modifications. We also continue to manage to COVID-19 disruption on our programs including impacts to the VC-25B program, where employee clearance constraints impede our ability to exchange mechanics when quarantines are required. In addition to operational and programmatic highlights, we've also maintained a significant emphasis on sustainability across the company and are making great strides. We're enhancing our sustainability disclosures and planning to release our first-ever global equity, diversity, and inclusion report, and our first integrated sustainability report later this year. Underscoring our commitment to the environment for the 11th year in a row, we're proud to have received the Energy Star Partner of the Year Award for sustained excellence and recognition -- recognition of our company's successful energy conservation practices. Now, let's turn to the next slide to discuss the industry environment. Our government services, defense, and space business have remained significant and relatively stable. While increased government spending on COVID-19 response is adding pressure to defense budgets in some countries, others are increasing spending on their security. Overall, the global defense market remains strong, and we continue to see solid global demand for our major programs. The strength of our defense portfolio is underscored by another strong quarter of BDS orders totaling $7 billion. The diversity of our portfolio will continue to help provide critical stability for us as we move forward. In the commercial market, we continue to see near-term market pressures due to COVID-19. However, many of our key long-term fundamentals remain intact. The recovery is gaining traction but remains uneven. We continue to anticipate the next six months will be very challenging for our airline customers and the entire industry. COVID-19 case rates are still high in many areas around the world and travel restrictions remain in place, putting significant pressure on passenger traffic especially in those affected markets. We're seeing some positive momentum, particularly in domestic travel. Consistent with what we discussed in prior quarters, the domestic market is leading the recovery, and in some cases, it is slightly outpaced our expectations. February domestic traffic was 51% below 2019 levels. Since then, it has picked up in some regions including the United States and China, and we anticipate continued momentum this spring. On the other hand, international operations remains extremely low. With February traffic still 89% below 2019, slightly behind our earlier expectations. Ongoing virus concerns and the absence of coordinated global policies on cross-border entry protocols have hindered the recovery in the international segment. Vaccine distribution remains the critical hurdle to a broad reopening. The active fleet is still around three-quarters of its previous size, with single-aisle activity levels slightly above twin-aisle. And although utilization rates and load factors are increasing in some areas, they are still below historic levels, which means airlines are flying less than 60% of their normal capacity at the global level. Regional dynamics such as case rates, government travel policies continue to influence passenger traffic and drive an uneven recovery profiles all around the world. The U.S. and China domestic markets are showing resilience with pent-up demand. U.S. airlines are seeing a significant increase in bookings for domestic and leisure routes. PSA throughput in April has been the highest we've seen since the onset of the pandemic with daily averages of approximately 1.4 million passengers, around 60% of 2019 levels. However, passenger traffic in other parts of the world such as Europe, parts of Latin America remains significantly lower due to new strains of the virus, lower vaccine penetration, and uncertainty about government reopening plans. As expected, the number of aircraft being retired from the active fleet keeps growing, with around 1,500 airplanes retired or announced to be removed since the onset of the pandemic. We anticipate this trend will continue as our customers focus on retiring their oldest and least efficient airplanes and replacing them with new airplanes that will be as much as 25% to 40% more fuel-efficient with commensurate emission improvements. The freighter market remains another bright spot with cargo traffic in February, 9% higher than 2019. Yields have remained very high, and more freighters are flying than before the pandemic due to limited belly cargo capacity from passenger airplanes. Over the long run, cargo demand will continue to be driven by global trade and GDP growth. Progress on vaccine dissemination and domestic passenger traffic in many countries continue to support our medium-term outlook and our belief in the long-term strength of the market. As we've shared previously and consistent with IATA and other industry groups, we expect passenger traffic to return to 2019 levels in 2023 to 2024. We still see the recovery in three phases. First, domestic traffic then regional markets such as intra-Asia, intra-Europe, and intra-Americas flights, and then finally, long haul – long-haul international routes. Therefore, demand for narrow-body aircraft is expected to recover faster while wide-body demand will remain challenged for a longer period. As we start to see positive signs in the resumption of domestic and international air travel, our confident travel initiatives have continued to partner with airlines, regulators, leading universities, and medical experts around the world to demonstrate the safety of air travel. Our confidence in air travel has been substantiated by -- by science, testing, and analysis based on a multilayered approach to keep our aircrews and passengers safe no matter where they're seated in the aircraft cabin. We've also -- we're also working with governments and industry associations to help ensure, when people decide to travel, they know what to expect. We encourage any new protocols that use data-driven risk-based approaches to minimize disease transmission risks between countries. Standardized and secure methods to verify traveler information should be part of any solution to safely expand international travel. As we move forward, testing mechanisms, progress on vaccine distribution, and coordinated global interactions will be the key drivers of the recovery. We're also monitoring the global trade environment, in particular, the U.S.-China relations, given the importance of the Chinese market to our near-term delivery profile as well as future orders, which influence future production rates. We will continue to engage with leaders in both countries to urge a productive dialogue, reiterating the mutual economic benefits of strong and prosperous aerospace industry. China represents 25% of the global growth in our industry over the next decade. In the commercial services market, we saw a stable demand in the first quarter. We're seeing some rebound from the bottom and we expect to see increased activity as airlines are preparing for the summer season. That said, we continue to anticipate it will take multiple years to reach previous demand levels and the recovery trajectory may be uneven. Additionally, accelerated retirements are lowering the age of the fleet, reducing services demand, and prolonging the recovery for commercial services. On the liquidity front, managing the liquidity continues to be vital for the aerospace industry until the market recovers. Despite the challenges and as we noted in our recently released current aircraft finance market outlook, there generally continues to be liquidity in the market for our customers to acquire new airplanes. In fact, 100% of Boeing deliveries in 2020 were financed by third parties. Financiers and investors understand the long-term value proposition of aircraft and the fundamental need to connect the world. As we see airlines adapt to these market realities, product differentiation and versatility will be key. Our product lineup is well-positioned to meet our customer needs. As we navigate this difficult time, we're not losing sight of our future. We've taken great care to ensure we have the team, the resources, and the investments necessary to meet our customer commitments, to drive our improvement initiatives, and innovate for the long term. In addition to our work on our current programs, we're also advancing technology that will define our next chapter. We anticipate that our investments will lead to next-generation aircraft that offer higher performance while being more fuel-efficient and easier to maintain and easier to reconfigure. We will continue to take the right action to adapt to the market impact of COVID-19 and position our business for the future by closely managing our liquidity and while driving long-lasting change to make our business leaner, sharper, and more sustainable. With that, let me turn it over to Greg.Greg Smith -- Executive Vice President of Enterprise Operations and Chief Financial Officer Great. Thanks, Dave, and good morning, everyone. Let's please turn to Slide 4. First-quarter revenue decreased to $15.2 billion primarily due to lower 787 deliveries and commercial services volume. This was partially offset by higher 737 deliveries and higher KC-46A Tanker revenue. Earnings in the quarter were also impacted by lower commercial airplane period costs, partially offset by lower tax benefits and higher interest expense. Income tax in the quarter primarily reflects a benefit from the impact of the pre-tax losses, largely offset by the adjustments to the valuation allowance and true-ups to the tax benefits recorded in 2020. Let's now move to commercial airplanes on Slide 5. Revenue was $4.3 billion driven by lower 787 deliveries, partially offset by higher 737 volume. Although commercial airplanes' operating margin continued to be under pressure, they performed in the quarter -- they improved in the quarter, excuse me, due to higher 737 deliveries, lower abnormal production costs compared to the same period in the prior year, and the absence of the first-quarter 2020 charge related to the 737 NG "pickle fork" repair costs. We delivered 58 737 MAX airplanes in the first quarter. We currently have approximately 400 737 MAX aircraft built and stored in inventory. As we previously communicated, we expect to have to remarket some of these aircraft and potentially reconfigure them. As you've seen by the recent orders, we're making good, steady progress on the remarketing effort. You may also recall right before the 737 MAX returned to service, we estimated around half of the approximate 450 aircraft we had in storage would be delivered by the end of '21 and the majority of the remaining by the end of the following year. That estimate is unchanged. Through the first quarter, we have delivered 85 737 aircraft from storage. And as Dave mentioned, the recent delivery pause will impact our April deliveries. We expect delivery timing and the production rate ramp-up profile remain dynamic given the market environment, customer discussions, and the remaining global regulatory approvals. There is no material change in our estimated for total 737 abnormal costs of $5 billion. During the first quarter, we expensed $568 million of abnormal production costs, which brought the cumulative abnormal cost expense to date to $3.1 billion. We expect the remainder of these costs to be expenses incurred largely in 2021. Our assessment of the liability for estimated 737 MAX potential concessions and other considerations to customers, as well as the expected cash impact timing, did not change significantly in the first quarter from our prior assessment. Cumulatively, we've accrued a $9.3 billion liability for the estimated potential concessions and other considerations. To date, we've reduced the liability by $4.9 billion through cash payments to customers and other forms of compensation, including $1.2 billion we paid this quarter. We have settlement agreements covering approximately $2.5 billion of the remaining liability balance of $4.4 billion. Turning now to 787. As we discussed, we resumed deliveries in March. We currently have approximately 100 787 airplanes in inventory. Based on what we know today, we still anticipate that we will deliver the majority of these airplanes during 2021. We are working with our customers to facilitate deliveries and continue to monitor the international long-haul recovery as we assess our delivery plans. Our latest assessment of the financial impact related to the inspections and the delivery delay -- delays has been included in our first-quarter closing position. As we've previously disclosed, the 787 program has near break-even gross margins due to previously announced reductions in production rates and program accounting quantity. If we are required to further reduce the accounting quality and or production rates or experience other factors that result in lower margins, the program could record a reach-forward loss in future periods. However, on a cash basis, the 787 unit margin has held up relatively well even at lower production rates as many underlying profitability drivers remain intact. Moving now to 777X that Dave mentioned, we still expect the first delivery of the 777X to occur in late 2023 and we are making good progress on our flight test efforts. We still expect that the peak use of cash for 777X program was in 2020 and that cash flow will improve as we get closer to EIS and begin deliveries in late '23. We anticipate the program to turn cash flow positive approximately one to two years after the first delivery. Given the significant headwinds that remain in the market, BCA margin progression will be highly dependent upon future production rates and will take time. However, we continue to take appropriate action and make foundational, lasting change through our business transformation efforts in order to help offset those headwinds as much as possible. Let's now move to defense, space and security on Slide 6. First-quarter revenue increased to $7.2 billion, and first-quarter operating margins increased to 5.6%, primarily driven by higher KC-46A Tanker revenue and the absence of charges related to the program in the prior period, partially offset by a pre-tax charge of $318 million on the VC-25B program which was largely due to COVID impacts and performance issues at our supplier. We received $7 billion in orders in the quarter including contracts for 27 KC-46A Tanker aircraft to the USA Air Force, 11 P-8 Poseidon aircraft to the U.S. Navy and Royal Australian Air Force, and six Bell Boeing V-22 Osprey rotorcraft to the U.S. Navy and U.S. Air Force, holding the backlog steady at $61 billion. Let's now turn to global services results on Slide 7. In the first quarter, global services revenue declined to $3.47 billion, and operating margins decreased to 11.8%, both driven by lower commercial services volume due to COVID-19. No notable asset impairments were booked in the quarter. During the quarter, BGF-1 key contracts worth approximately $53 billion, resulting in a backlog of approximately $20 billion. While services demand was relatively flat in comparison to fourth-quarter 2020, we expect the quarterly revenue trend to improve as we support increased airline operations, and more airplanes are flying as travel recovers. That said, given the dynamic environment, we can expect to see revenue trajectory vary from quarter to quarter. Despite the challenging environment, we continue to position our services business for the future and are evaluating our portfolio to ensure that we have the right solutions to help our customers and industry navigate the downturn and prepare for market recovery. These efforts are starting to take hold and positively impact our operating margin performance. Let's now turn to cash flow on Slide 8. Operating cash flow for the quarter improved to negative $3.4 billion, reflecting the timing of receipts and expenditures and higher 737 deliveries, partially offset by lower 787 deliveries and lower advance payments. Let's move now to Slide 9 to discuss our liquidity position. We continue to proactively manage our cash -- cash position and assess our liquidity through the pandemic. We ended the first quarter with strong liquidity including $21.9 billion of cash and marketable securities on our balance sheet and access to $14.8 billion from our newly increased bank credit facilities, which remain undrawn. We also continue to have access to the capital markets. Our debt balance remains stable at $63.6 billion at the end of the quarter. As part of our ongoing prudent liquidity actions, we refinanced $9.8 billion of our delayed draw term loan that was due in early '22 and expanded our revolving credit facility by $5.3 billion. These liquidity enhancement -- enhancing activities are in addition to the many actions we've discussed before, including suspending our dividend, reducing discretionary spending, matching 401(k) contributions and stock, prefunding pension with stock, and awarding most of our employees a one-time stock grant that will vest in three years in lieu of a merit increase. These actions reflect our continued de-risking strategy and are part of our balanced approach to ensure we proactively meet future obligations. We work hard in the past to maintain disciplined cash management while seeking opportunities to strengthen our balance sheet, and we will continue these efforts. Once cash flow generation returns to more normal levels, reducing our debt level will be our top priority. We built -- we believe we currently have sufficient liquidity and are not planning to increase our debt levels. However, we will continue to actively manage our balance sheet. Our investment-grade credit rating is important to us and we will continue to consider all aspects of our capital structure to strengthen our balance sheet. Let's turn now to the next slide to summarize. Our business environment remains dynamic. And while the commercial market recovery is gaining some traction and has been uneven and the path ahead is far from certain, we will continue to diligently work opportunities and monitor risk factors, including vaccination pace and case rates, along with passenger traffic recovery and the remaining 737 MAX regulatory approvals, and U.S.-China relations. As Dave mentioned, we're still awaiting 737 MAX regulatory approval from China and the timing of it will affect our 737 delivery plan. China is an important market for our commercial airplanes and order activity from China will affect our future production rates. As we've discussed, even as our industry begins to recover, we anticipate '21 will be another challenging year. However, based on what we know today, we still expect revenue earnings and operating cash to improve from 2020. Commercial deliveries will continue to be the single-biggest driver across all financial metrics. Revenue improvement from 2020 to 2021 will be driven mainly by higher 737 and 787 deliveries as we plan to unwind inventory and deliver from the production lines. Consistent with what we shared last quarter, we also expect improvement to our bottom line from 2020 to '21, primarily driven by higher commercial deliveries absent of 2020 charges, improved performance, and benefits from continued business transformation actions. These impacts will be partially offset by higher interest expense. Also bear in mind that our commercial business will continue to book significant abnormal production costs for the 737 program in '21. Similar to our revenue and earnings trajectories, we continue to expect 2021 operating cash flow to be much improved from 2020, driven by -- mainly by inventory burndown associated with 737 and 787 programs. While higher deliveries will be a tailwind, the timing of advanced payments and the burndown of access advanced payments, along with 737 customer settlement payments and higher interest payments will continue to be headwinds. We expect the first quarter was the most challenging quarter from a cash perspective and we expect that trend improve for the remainder of the year as we ramp up 787 and 737 deliveries in subsequent periods. However, there could be some timing variation quarter over quarter, so quarterly trajectory could be uneven. As discussed, our cash flow profile is heavily dependent upon obtaining the remaining 737 MAX regulatory approvals that commercial market recovery, and ongoing discussions with our customers on their fleet planning needs. In aggregate, we continue to expect 2021 to be a use of cash. We expect that continued improvement on the 737 MAX program due to lower customer considerations and higher delivery payments, as well as recovery and commercial services, will enable us to turn positive cash flow in 2022. The key watch items that I highlighted earlier will be the differentiator in our outlook trajectory. Given the dynamic environment, we continue to monitor the risks and opportunities to ensure we're well-positioned for the future. Over the past year, we've been keeping you updated on our extensive business transformation effort. We're continuing to closely examine all aspects of our operations to simplify and streamline everything we do and take billions of dollars out of our operating costs while driving our key efforts in safety, quality, and performance. We're doing this now so that we can emerge a leaner, sharper, and more resilient company as the market recovers and production rate increases in the future. We'll continue to execute a widespread set of changes over a multi-year period. I'm pleased that the strong progress we have shown in 2020 that is carried into '21 and is gaining momentum. We expect the majority of our efforts will result in lasting change that will drive long-term productivity, future margin expansion, and cash flow generation as our market continues to recover. And as we take action, we're ensuring that every step only further drives key efforts in safety, quality, and delivering on our commitments. We have a dedicated team focused on these efforts embedded in every business unit function to ensure we're continually improving in every aspect of our operations. This is an enduring effort that our entire leadership team is committed to driving forward in the future. And finally, as you know, last week, I shared my intent to retire from Boeing in July. I want to take a moment to thank the 140,000 great people of Boeing and all of our partners who have made my 30 years at the company so special. It has been a true honor and a privilege to work alongside all of you. I will cherish the relationships that I've been very fortunate to have here and over the years, and those include all of you in the financial community that had the opportunity to get to know so well over the last decade and beyond. At Boeing, I've been inspired every day by the incredible technology, products, and services we bring to the world. And while it's our products and our mission to get you excited, it's the great people at Boeing that make it all possible, and it is the people that I will miss the most. Over the next few months, I will be solely focused on a smooth transition of my responsibilities and then on to the next chapter in my career. I will always be cheering on Dave and the entire Boeing team from the sidelines. I'm confident in the long-term market opportunity ahead, The Boeing Company itself, and the team behind it. So with that, I'll turn it back over to Dave for some closing comments.Dave Calhoun -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Greg. Thanks for everything, as you know. On behalf of the board and the entire Boeing team, I want to thank Greg for his incredible contributions and his dedication to Boeing and its people. His remarkable leadership has made a significant and lasting impact for our company, for our customers, and for our stakeholders. Thanks to Greg's efforts, Boeing has -- also has had the benefit of very solid teams across the function that he oversees. People have gotten to know quite well. As we build on Greg's legacy, we're not searching for a new strategic direction. We will engage in a comprehensive and thoughtful search process for a world-class executive with the talent and skills commensurate with the high level Greg has set. This process will encompass executives within Boeing and across the external market. We're well-positioned for the future, and we will continue to transform our business to not just navigate through this pandemic but to ensure that we emerge stronger and more resilient for the long term. While there's no question that COVID-19 has had a profound impact on our industry, we view this year as a key inflection point and as positive signs begin to emerge. As governments around the world accelerate vaccine distribution, people are getting back to work and global economies are beginning to get back to business. And as they do, we are proud of our role in enabling travel to connect people, to connect businesses, and importantly, to connect cultures. As we face into the challenges at hand, we remain steadfast in our commitment to quality, safety, integrity, and transparency. Through it all, I am proud of how our team continues to stay focused on our customers and their important missions, and I'm confident in our future. With that, Greg and I will be happy to take your questions. Thank you. 