  OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to AT&T's first-quarter 2021 earnings call. [Operator instructions] And as a reminder, this conference is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Amir Rozwadowski, senior vice president, finance, and investor relations. Please go ahead.Amir Rozwadowski -- Senior Vice President, Finance, and Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, and good morning, everyone. Welcome to our first-quarter call. I'm Amir Rozwadowski, head of investor relations for AT&T. Joining me on the call today are John Stankey, our CEO; and Pascal Desroches, our chief financial officer. Before we begin, I need to call your attention to our safe harbor statement. It says that some of our comments today may be forward-looking. As such, they're subject to risks and uncertainties described in AT&T's SEC filings. Results may differ materially.Additional information is available on the investor relations website. And as always, our earnings materials are on our website. With that, I'll turn the call over to John Stankey. John? John Stankey -- Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thanks, Amir, and good morning, everyone. It's been about six weeks since our analyst and investor day. So the framework for what we'll cover today will be familiar to you. We have a consistent, deliberate, and clear approach to the way we run our business. From our market focus areas to our 2021 priority to grow customer relationships, with most U.S. households across these market focus areas, to our capital allocation plans. As you see in our quarterly results, our execution has been sharp, and we have momentum. We continue to grow our customer relationships with strong subscriber growth in Mobility, AT&T Fiber, and HBO Max. We also continued to invest both in capital spending and in content. Our ability to drive costs out of our business and deliver strong cash flows has allowed us to invest in strategic growth. However, as you can see from the results, we're investing wisely. We've been deliberate and intentional in allocating dollars where they generate returns. This supports the future of our business while also optimizing the returns on strategic opportunities across our portfolio. For example, cost transformation efforts in Mobility yield improved year-over-year profits, while we simultaneously invested to drive customer growth. Same at WarnerMedia, where EBITDA was down slightly even with significant increased investment in HBO Max. The restructuring and consolidation of our WarnerMedia business is driving cost savings in our studio operations, networks, sales force, and technology.

 



 Our transformation initiatives across the company are driving efficiencies and freeing up capital to invest in our growth areas, and there is more opportunity ahead of us. Our deliberate capital allocation plan allowed us to invest and sustain our dividend at current levels, which we believe is attractive. We're prioritizing cash after dividends to reduce debt. And we continue to monetize noncore assets as we refine our overall business focus, as you saw us do in the quarter, with our announced sale of a controlling interest in DIRECTV and our other video assets. Let's look at the progress we made in delivering on our market focus areas on Slide 4. Our customer growth was impressive across Mobility, Fiber, and HBO Max, and we're doing it the right way with a focus on growing profitability. In Mobility, we added nearly 600,000 postpaid phones in the quarter, our best net add first quarter in more than 10 years. Our subscriber momentum is strong, and we're taking share. Gross adds are up, and our average promotional spend per net add is significantly lower than a year ago. Our transformation program is enabling us to be competitive. At the same time, we're benefiting from a simplified go-to-market strategy, and optimized sales, and distribution channels. Mobility EBITDA was up more than 2%, and service margins increased 100 basis points despite a 2020 first quarter compare where roaming revenues were largely unimpacted. You put it all together, and I believe this demonstrates the formula works. AT&T Fiber net adds were strong and penetration levels continue to expand. We've added more than 1 million fiber subscribers in the last four quarters. IP broadband revenues grew nearly 5% in the quarter, and we're on pace to build out fiber to another 3 million consumer and business customer locations this year. HBO Max continues to deliver strong subscriber gains, fueled by the success of our day-and-date theatrical strategy and our steadily strengthening post-COVID content slate. In the U.S., we've added more than 11 million domestic HBO Max and HBO subscribers in the last 12 months. It's a premium offer with a premium ARPU compared to other streaming platforms. And subscription revenues in the first quarter grew about 35% globally for WarnerMedia's Direct-to-Consumer business. And we're on track to launch HBO Max internationally and introduce an AVOD product in June. Across the board, we're encouraged by our momentum and how our management team is executing against our singular priority to grow customer relationships in our market focus areas. With that, I'll turn it over to Pascal to discuss the specifics of our first-quarter results. Pascal, welcome, and the floor is yours.Pascal Desroches -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, John, and good morning, everyone. Let's begin with our consolidated results on Slide 6. We started the year with growing revenues, earnings, and cash flows. Revenues were up from a year ago, with gains in Mobility and WarnerMedia more than offsetting declines from video, legacy services, and FX. As a reminder, our communications segment has been recast to exclude our video business. For the quarter, communications EBITDA was essentially flat with the prior year. That demonstrates a marked improvement from the fourth quarter. Adjusted EPS for the quarter was $0.86. That's up more than 2% year over year. We also had a good start to the year with our cash flows. Cash from operations came in at $9.9 billion for the quarter. Free cash flow was $5.9 billion, with higher sales of receivables, lower capex, and interest. Our dividend payout ratio was about 63%. Capex was $4 billion. Gross capital investment was $5.7 billion. In addition, WarnerMedia's total cash content investment across all their business this quarter was $4.5 billion, slightly higher than last year. As we indicated at our analyst day, we are investing in our market focus areas, and we're seeing further validation of our strategy in the first-quarter results. Therefore, we edged up our gross capital investment expectations to the $22 billion range for the year. Additionally, we increased our expected vendor financing payments given our ability to negotiate favorable terms. Let's now look at our segment operating results, starting with our communications segment on Slide 7. Mobility continues to lead the way in our communications business. We saw a strong customer growth in our postpaid phone base, growing service revenues, growing EBITDA with expanding EBITDA service margin, and that's with continued headwinds facing our high-margin international roaming business that we estimate cost us about $100 million in EBITDA this quarter. Our simple direct postpaid phone offers continue to resonate with customers. And as John mentioned, our Mobility gross add share is increasing, and postpaid phone churn has stayed near record low levels. Cost transformation continues to be a big part of the story for Mobility. Our more efficient sales processes and streamlined operations are driving down costs. In fact, our average promotional spend per net adds is significantly lower than a year ago. Our cost efforts are also evident in business wireline. Cost management has helped expand EBITDA margins as customers transition away from higher-margin legacy services and products. But the product simplification and the resulting cost savings have been key to delivering solid EBITDA. Consumer wireline is another business in transition. We are moving quickly to expand our fiber footprint, and our results show you why that is crucial. We added 235,000 AT&T Fiber customers in the quarter. IP broadband ARPU grew 3.2% year over year. Our fiber penetration rate is more than 35% and growing. And total broadband net adds also increased. We expect this to be the trough in terms of year-over-year EBITDA growth. We expect trends to improve from here, driven by IP broadband revenue growth in the mid-single digits for the year. Let's move on to WarnerMedia, which is on Slide 8. WarnerMedia results are the first half of what we expect will be a transformational year for the business. Revenues were up nearly 10%. Higher direct-to-consumer subscription and advertising revenues drove the growth. And even with higher customer acquisition and content costs associated with HBO Max and higher sports costs, EBITDA was down only slightly. Advertising revenues were up more than 18%, driven by return of sports, especially the NCAA championship men's basketball tournament. Direct-to-consumer subscription revenues grew about 35%, reflecting the success of HBO Max. We now have 44.2 million domestic HBO Max and HBO subscribers and nearly 64 million worldwide subscribers. Average monthly revenue per domestic customer is just a little less than $12. And now we have 11 million customers who combine one or more connectivity products with HBO Max or HBO. The same-day release of movies in theaters and on HBO Max has been a success. It has provided theaters with a steady flow of content in a pandemic-challenged environment. And it's also been a great catalyst for subscriber growth at HBO Max. The success of Godzilla vs. Kong at both the box office and on HBO Max bears this out. It had the largest domestic box office of any other movie in the last year while also having the largest viewing audience of any other film or show on HBO Max since launched. And films such as Godzilla vs. Kong attract new retail customers who are staying because they enjoy other content on the platform. We're really looking forward to the introduction of our international and AVOD products planned for HBO Max later in June. We plan to have attractive price points for our AVOD offering and we expect to lean into our international launch reaching 60 additional markets by the end of the year. Our aim is to use our differentiated premium content offering to attract global customers. Now, let's go to Slide 9 for an update on our capital allocation liquidity. We made our $23 billion C-Band spectrum payments since we last talked to you in March. That drove net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio to 3.1 times. We expect this will be our peak leverage level. We're still on track to have a sizable reduction in debt by year-end through a combination of strong free cash flows and proceeds from asset monetization. We'll continue to focus on debt reduction. We expect our net debt to adjusted EBITDA to be around three times by year-end. We also continue to actively evaluate other asset monetization opportunities. Our treasury team has also been working tirelessly to lower our cost of debt. Our weighted average cost of debt is down 50 basis points year over year, driving about $150 million in lower interest costs in the first quarter. Our weighted average maturity for debt is 16 years at a weighted average cost of 3.8%. About 90% of our debt is at a fixed rate. So we feel we're well-protected in an increasing interest rate environment. Amir, that's our presentation. We're now ready for the Q&A.Amir Rozwadowski -- Senior Vice President, Finance, and Investor Relations Thank you, Pascal. Operator, we're ready to take the first question. 