  OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Q2 2021 Welltower Inc. earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to your first speaker today, Mr. Matt McQueen, general counsel. Please go ahead.Matt McQueen -- General Counsel

 



 Thank you, and good morning. As a reminder, certain statements made during this call today may be deemed forward-looking statements in the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. Although Welltower believes any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, the company can give no assurances that its projected results will be attained. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are detailed in the company's filings with the SEC. And with that, I'll hand the call over to Shankh for his remarks. Shankh?Shankh Mitra -- Chief Executive Officer and Chief Investment Officer Thank you, Matt, and good morning, everyone. I hope all of you and families are safe and healthy. Before I make some introductory comments on the state of senior housing and on capital allocation environment, I want to welcome John Burkart, our chief operating officer, to this call. John joined Welltower last week after an illustrious 25-year career at Essex.

 



 We believe he will make a tremendous long-term impact on our platform. Following my remarks, as usual, Tim will walk you through our operating and financial results. We're cautiously optimistic on the senior housing business as occupancy is starting to build, and we're encouraged by nearly 200 basis points of spot-to-spot occupancy growth in second quarter, which clearly exceeded our expectations. Momentum in the U.S. continued to be strong with leads generation returning to pre-COVID levels, resulting in a 280-basis-point occupancy gain in the quarter. and the U.K. remained resilient despite a rise in the Delta variant cases being driven by the younger cohorts. Though we are monitoring the situation closely, we have seen very little impact to the portfolio so far as the U.K. case counts more broadly appear to be decreasing rapidly after recent spike. While Canada was a drag on occupancy, we are witnessing some green shoots following a material decline in COVID cases. In fact, tours almost doubled in June from April and May in Canada as provinces have removed move-in restrictions and are now permitting in-person tours. For our overall portfolio, June was a particularly impressive month with move-ins exceeding 2019 level for the first time since the beginning of pandemic. I'm also encouraged that our operators were able to achieve these occupancy gains while holding rates, reflecting the need-based nature of our asset class and strong value proposition of this business. Year-over-year same-store REVPOR is up 3.2% across our assisted living properties, 2.8% across our independent living properties and 5.3% across our wellness housing communities. This trend in same-store REVPOR was primarily driven by our highest end luxury product in primary coastal markets. Having said that, I'll caution you that there is still significant uncertainty and many unknowns related to the path of COVID, and it is too early to signal an all clear.

 



 However, we're very pleased with the progress that we're making toward achieving the substantial embedded NOI growth in our SHO portfolio. Last quarter, we provided details of nearly $0.5 billion of NOI upside, which assumes a return to fourth-quarter 2019 occupancy and margin levels. We are pleased to report that we not only achieved $71 million toward this total goal in one quarter, but also added another $29 million of potential upside through the second-quarter acquisition and development deliveries. Going forward, we still have another $430 million of NOI upside in that business. Again, this only assumes a return to pre-COVID occupancy with potential upside from higher rates and return to frictional vacancy, which is mid- to high single digits. Turning to capital allocation. Last fall, when we had made a significant pivot from defense to offense, we made an explicit bet that consumers will return to this Nutrien business. With 400 basis points of occupancy ramp in U.S. from March trough with healthy rates, it appears that we're on the right side of that bet. Over the past three quarters, we have deployed $4 billion of capitals at extremely attractive pricing during a time when others were fearful. But we remain paranoid optimist and our humility and lack of complacency are pushing us to test our hypothesis and underwrite everything we look at with conservatism. And you can rest assured that we look at pretty much everything in our space. Therefore, we are only willing to pay a price per unit that does not require everything to go right for our owners to make a reasonable return. The second quarter was one of the best quarters in from a capital deployment perspective, having closed approximately $1.4 billion of gross investments. Q3 will likely top Q2, and we have anticipated that it will be another record quarter of investment activity for the company. We started Q3 with a bang. And so far in July, we have already closed $230 million of gross investments and expect our previously disclosed holiday transaction to close in third quarter as well. While it is fun to talk about large transactions like Holiday, which I'll get to in a minute, I want to point out that our core strategy and strength is granular transaction with a diverse group of our operating partners and is supported by our data analytics platform. Our COVID class, which I define as anything we bought since starting to offense in Q4 of last year, now exceeds $4 billion of gross investment activity, including Holiday across 37 transactions with 24 unique partners. In the U.S., that would, on average, be a $16.6 million per community or $161,000 per unit, which we believe represents a significant discount to replacement cost. The pipeline remained very strong with many owners and operators eager to join our operator and data platform. Let me give you some examples. First, I'm very pleased to announce that we'll expand our relationship with John Moore and his team at Atria while Lily and her team at Holiday will join our platform. We're buying 80 nearly identical Holiday independent living assets at more approachable end of senior living spectrum with an addition of six more combination AL/IL assets for a total consideration of $1.58 billion or $152,000 per unit. Our basis remains compelling even after our anticipated investment of $1.5 million to $2 million of capex per community to bring them to tomorrow standards. While these -- while the lease-up of this portfolio from the compelling basis should generate a double-digit unlevered IRR, we believe there are a few opportunities to enhance our return. Number one, our underwritten rent growth is 2.5% per year despite a heavy investment in the portfolio that will improve the asset quality and marketability. Our 2026 underwritten rent remains $700 to $800 below feasibility rent to make development pencil; two, we have a significant expansion opportunity in 10-plus assets, which we expect will generate a double-digit return on invested capital; three, the optimization of six AL buildings under Atria platform; and fourth, there are at least five higher and better use opportunities. And a couple of them are so significant that they may generate enough proceeds to pay for a significant portion of the capex investment for the whole portfolio. If we are successful in this effort, we'll have a completely renovated portfolio at roughly our going-in basis, which will enhance our IRR materially. Moving on from Holiday, I would like to make a few operator specific comments on this call. First, we continue to be encouraged by Jack Callison leadership at Sunrise. Jack is refocusing the organization as a premier senior living brand in North America. We are excited about this focused growth strategy and have brought Sunrise in to run a recently acquired community in the Philadelphia metro area. This is our first acquisition initiative with Sunrise in several years and believe we'll have many opportunities to grow together. In the U.K., Sunrise platform and portfolio will be acquired by Signature and Care UK. Signature is an existing Welltower operating partner, which runs our highest end communities in the U.K. We're tremendously excited to welcome Care UK. to our platform, which is one of the most well-respected and largest senior living operators in the U.K. with the addition of HC-One on the value end and Care UK. on the higher end, along with our existing operating partners, the barbell approach to portfolio construction that we have taken in the U.S., which is all -- which we always aspire to be in the U.K. is beginning to take shape. We're very excited about Care UK.'s technology and management platform. We are also thrilled to work on pathway living to Welltower's operating platform, which we believe opens another avenue for growth for us. Next, I'm excited to announce our expanded partnership with Oakmont Management Group, which is one of our strongest and best operating partners. This expanded partnership with Courtney and our team is expected to result in a nearly doubling of our client portfolio together in California. We're also embarking on a long-term exclusive development program together to meaningfully expand our relationship in the next decade. Fun fact, Oakmont is the first operator in our portfolio to return to the 90% occupancy mark post-COVID. A reflection of Oakmont's operating acumen and market strength. Finally, I'm excited to announce our new partnership with Chris Smith and his team at Aspect Health. We recapped Aspect's existing MOB portfolio in Connecticut and New York and entered into a long-term development partnership with Chris. We believe a combination of our data and operating capabilities with Aspect's relationships and development talent will create significant opportunities for growth for both the companies. We are already on our first development together, which will be a 60,000 square feet outpatient medical billing located at a very attractive market in the New York metropolitan area, the property will be master leased to a leading health system for 20 years and is expected to start construction early next year. Speaking of growth opportunities, I'm pleased to announce our continued growth with the Remnar organization. In the next -- in the second quarter, our partnership closed on the first building of a large development near Norman, Oklahoma with normal retail health system. The total development cost for Phase 1 of this multiphase development is expected to be in excess of $100 million, consisting of 181,000 rentable square foot of Class A outpatient medical facilities. Our significant MOB development platform pipeline, which is 100% leased, is now in excess of 1 million square feet and will create significant value for our shareholders in a very tight acquisition market. All of these operating and development partnerships make us the foundation for our core belief that centralized capital allocation and decentralized execution releases entrepreneurial energy while keeping cost and politics at bay. We are very proud that we have formed 50 new operators and development relationships since the beginning of pandemic, and we have a handful more in the works. The implication of our rapidly growing operator and developer platform are vast including a network effect, whereby addition of more operators create exponentially richer data set and thus stronger and attractive analytics platform. This dramatically enhances the informational advantage where already processes through our best-in-class data analytics platform, which forms the basis of our capital allocation decision. Needless to say, these relationships create foundation for significant capital deployment opportunities as each one of them are attractive growth vehicles on their own right. This Lollapalooza Effect of intertwining operating and data platform has created a wide and increasingly deeper moat for Welltower. As Tim will speak to you in a moment, we're very pleased with our progress to further strengthen our balance sheet and liquidity profile. More specifically, our sequential adjusted EBITDA growth of roughly $50 million indicates that we're on our way to deleverage organically as senior housing recovery unfolds. Overall, we are very happy with our execution so far in the year to create per share value for our shareholders. We're cautiously optimistic about the fundamental environment and excited about our opportunity set to acquire and develop talent, create new relationships and attract quality partners, which should result outsized, internal and external growth for years to come. After retooling our asset and portfolio operator and building a formidable data analytics platform and talent base and growing with conviction following two negative cycles superimposed on each other, resulting from oversupply and COVID, I'm happy to say that we're emerging as a partner of choice, an employer of choice and an investor of choice on the other side of this pandemic. With that, I'll pass it over to Tim. Tim?Tim McHugh -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Shankh. My comments today will focus on our second-quarter 2021 results, the performance of our investment segments in the quarter, our capital activity and finally, a balance sheet and liquidity update in addition to our outlook for the third quarter. At time of our last earnings call on April 29, we were six weeks into an occupancy recovery in our senior housing operating portfolio, which has seen total portfolio occupancy increase 67 basis points of March 12 lows or an average increase of 11 basis points per week. In the 13 weeks that have followed, we have seen the occupancy recovery accelerate, adding an additional 204 basis points through July 23, an average pace of 16 basis points per week, bringing the portfoliowide occupancy recovery since March 12 to 271 basis points. The recovery continues to be uneven across the portfolio, with the U.S. leading at 401 basis points since March 12, followed by the U.K. at 275 basis points. And lastly, Canada, which has seen a net decrease of 88 basis points over this time period. We believe these geographic discrepancies will normalize over time as the reopening of both Canada and the U.K. catch up to the U.S. Looking forward, despite the uncertainty around the path of COVID in the near term, particularly rather than new variants, we continue to both gain evidence that the vaccines are exceptionally effective at protecting our residents and staff from this evolving virus, and gain confidence that the permanent demand impairment thesis that surrounded the senior housing asset class to much of the last year and a half is becoming significantly less probable. Now turning to the quarter. Welltower reported net income attributable to common stockholders of $0.06 per diluted share and normalized FFO of $0.79 per diluted share versus initial guidance of $0.72 to $0.77 per share and our June guidance update of $0.75 to $0.79 per share, which included a $5 million benefit from HHS Provider Relief Funds. We ultimately recognize that $5 million benefit from HHS funds and also recognized an additional $4.9 million of reimbursement payments for similar programs in Canada and the U.K. After adjusting for the impact of these funds, our normalized FFO per diluted share in the quarter is $0.77. Now turning to our individual portfolio components. First, our triple-net lease portfolios. As a reminder, our triple-net lease portfolio coverage and occupancy stats are reported a quarter in arrears. So these statistics reflect the trailing 12 months ending 3/31/2021. Importantly, our collection rate remained high in the second quarter, having collected 95% of triple-net contractual rent due in the period. In our senior housing triple-net portfolio, same-store NOI declined 2.7% year over year. As leases that were moved to cash recognition in prior quarters continue to comp against prior-year full-contractual rent received and trailing 12-month EBITDAR coverage was 0.89 times. As I've stated in the past, the timing and slope of the recovery in our senior housing portfolio will dictate whether or not disruption from COVID to underlying fundamentals generates a short-term liquidity issue or solvency problem for our triple-net operators. Over the first four months of recovery, we observed occupancy and EBITDA trends within this portfolio that are in line with our U.S. and U.K. operating portfolios. As these recovery trends strengthened, the solvency risk for operators has decreased in tandem. And our continued strong cash rent collection in the quarter is the best evidence we have of this. The value of the collateral that sits behind many of our lease agreements, continue to allow us to work with our operators to enhance near-term liquidity without impairing the value of Welltower's real estate position. Next, our long-term post-acute portfolio generated negative 1.1% year-over-year same-store growth and trailing 12 months EBITDAR coverage was 1.29 times. In the quarter, we transitioned 40 of the 51 planned Genesis transition assets to new operators, including nine PowerBack assets transitioned to ProMedica with the remaining 11 scheduled to transition in the third quarter. 35 of these assets are expected to be disposed of in the third quarter. With the expected third-quarter Genesis dispositions and the $75 million sales in LTAC portfolio in the quarter, Welltower's percentage of in-place NOI generated from long-term post-acute segment will be reduced to 5.6% and Genesis Healthcare will represent less than 90 basis points of total company in-place NOI. Lastly, health systems, which is comprised of our ProMedica Senior Care joint venture with the ProMedica Health System had since NOI growth of positive 2.7% year over year, and trailing 12-month EBITDAR coverage was 1.25 times. Turning to medical office. Our outpatient medical segment delivered 2.2% year-over-year same-store growth due to improved platform profitability and increased property level expense recoveries. Occupancy in our same-store portfolio ended the quarter at 94.8%, a 20-basis-point sequential increase versus first quarter. The strong growth was driven by executed new leasing totaling 178,000 square feet, our highest quarter since the fourth quarter of 2019 and supported by 94% retention in the quarter as consistent renewal activity was paired with reduced vacancies. Also during the quarter, we delivered one purpose-built medical office building with the Maimonides Medical Center in Brooklyn along with two recently converted state-of-the-art MOBs in Charlotte with Atrium Health. These buildings totaled 449,000 square feet of fully occupied space with highly credited health systems. Now turning to our senior housing operating portfolio. Before getting into this quarter's results, I want to provide some color on the recently announced transfer of the Sunrise U.K. operating platform to two local operators, Signature Senior Lifestyle and Care UK. We're excited to take this opportunity to deepen our local operator relationships. The Sunrise U.K. portfolio consists of 46 predominantly private pay properties located primarily in Southern England. The portfolio is being split largely by geographic focus. The properties located in Greater London moving to Signature, a premium operator. With it Welltower has had a relationship since 2012. And the rest of the property is moving to Care UK a new member of the Welltower operating family and the fourth largest independent care home operator in the U.K. with a focus on the private pay market. Turning to government grants. In the quarter, we received approximately $5 million from the Department of Health and Human Services, CARES Act Provider Relief Fund. As we've done in past quarters, these funds are recognized on a cash basis, and as such, will flow through financials in the quarter they are received. We are normalizing HHS funds out of our same-store metrics, however, along with any other government funds received that are not matched to expenses incurred in the period they are received. In the second quarter, approximately $9.3 million of reimbursements normalized out of our same-store senior housing operating results. Now turning to results for the quarter. Year-over-year same-store NOI decreased 17.6% as compared to 2Q 2020, driven by a 670-basis-point decrease in year-over-year average occupancy. The COVID-related decline in occupancy that began in March of 2020 came to a halt in mid-March of this year and portfoliowide occupancy increased by approximately 230 basis points from March 12 to the end of June, with 190 basis points taking place in the second quarter. The start of the occupancy recovery and the accompanying operating margin expansion has created an inflection point for bottom-line results. The sequential same-store NOI increased 11.2% from the first to the second quarter. Sequential same-store revenue was up 1.8% in Q2, driven primarily by a 40-basis-point increase in average occupancy and sequential monthly REVPOR increase of 1.3%. With respect to expenses, total same-store expenses decreased 40 basis points sequentially and declined 2.9% year over year. I'll focus on the sequential change, and this is more relevant to trend in the current operating environment. The 40-basis-point sequential decline in operating costs was driven mainly by lower COVID costs as case counts remain near zero for all the second quarter, after spiking meaningfully in the first quarter. Costs were also driven lower sequentially by seasonal utility costs as the spring and early summer have lower utility costs relative to Q1. The net result of the resilient rental rates and rebounding occupancy combined with a decrease in total expenses was a sequential margin improvement in our same-store pool of 180 basis points to 21.2%. Looking forward to the third quarter and starting with July quarter-to-date data we have already observed, we've experienced a 40-basis-point increase in occupancy through July 23, with the U.S. and U.K., up 60 and 30 basis points, respectively, while Canada is flat. Despite the strength of the recovery so far, particularly in the U.S., we remain cautious on projecting an acceleration in trends from the second quarter to the third quarter. Given the continued lack of historical precedence with which to forecast and also uncertainty around COVID variants. Despite seeing promising resilience in our U.K. portfolio over the last month as a surge in the Delta variant infections among the general population has not been echoed among our resident population, there remains uncertainty, particularly around how national and local authorities may react in the coming months if the surge continues or accelerates in our other geographies. On a spot basis, we are currently projecting an approximately 190-basis-point increase in occupancy from June 30 through September 30. We expect monthly REVPOR to be up 1% to 1.5% sequentially and up 2.5% year over year. Lastly, we expect total expenses to be up 1.5% to 2%, sequentially driven by a combination of occupancy-driven labor utilization and seasonal utility costs, offset slightly by continued declines in COVID costs. The net result of the sequential changes will be expected flow-through margins in the mid-60s inclusive of the seasonal utility increase and mid-70s normalizing for the seasonality of utility costs. Turning to capital market activity. In June, we expanded our existing unsecured credit facility to $4.7 billion after closing on a $4 billion unsecured revolving line of credit, which replaced our previous $3 billion revolver. The revolving facility bears interest at LIBOR plus 77.5 basis points, representing a 5-basis-point improvement from pricing under our previous revolver. The facility was reported by 31 incumbent in new banks and highlights the incredible support of our banking partners. On June 28, we completed the issuance of $500 million of senior unsecured notes due January 2029, bearing interest at 2.05%. Proceeds from the offering were used to pay down borrowings on our revolving line of credit and to pay down the remaining balance of our COVID term loan put in place in April of 2020. Additionally, in the quarter, we extinguished $674 million of senior unsecured notes due 2023 using proceeds from our March 25, 2021, bond issuance, improving our weighted average maturity across senior unsecured notes to 8.2 years. We continue to enhance our balance sheet strength and position the company to efficiently capitalize our robust and highly visible pipeline of capital deployment opportunities by utilizing our ATM program to fund those near-term transactions. Having sold 20.1 million shares since the beginning of the second quarter via a forward sale agreement at an initial weighted average price of approximately $80 per share for expected gross proceeds of $1.6 billion. Since the beginning of the year, we have sold a total of 22.3 million shares of common stock via forward sale agreements, which are expected to generate a total of $1.8 billion in proceeds, of which 5 million shares were settled during the second quarter, resulting in $372 million of gross proceeds. As capital deployment opportunities continue to materialize, we will look to fund those opportunities while maintaining ample liquidity and balance sheet flexibility. We ended the second quarter at 6.8 times net debt to adjusted EBITDA, 6.88 times when adjusting out $5 million of HHS funds received in the quarter. This HHS adjusted 2Q '21 leverage number represents a 0.25 times decline from the prior quarter's 7.13 debt-to-EBIT adjusted for HHS. Last quarter, I highlighted the impact that the recovery in senior housing fundamentals would have on underlying EBITDA and cash flow-based leverage metrics. We are encouraged to see this trend take shape as a 15% sequential improvement in EBITDA contribution from senior housing operating drove the entirety of the HHS adjusted improvement in debt to EBITDA. With total portfolio occupancy sitting at 74.6% at quarter end, 12.6% below pre-COVID levels and approximately 16.6% below peak levels achieved prior to last decade supply wave, we believe the stage is set for powerful EBITDA recovery as occupancy upside is coupled with margin expansion of a very depressed base. Lastly, moving to our third-quarter outlook. Last night, we provided an outlook for the third quarter of net income attributable to common stockholders of per diluted share of $0.44 to $0.49 and normalized FFO per diluted share of $0.78 to $0.83. This guidance does not take into consideration any further HHS funds or similar government programs in the U.K. and Canada. So when comparing it sequentially to our second-quarter normalized FFO per share, it would be better to use the as-adjusted $0.77 per share number I mentioned earlier in my comments, which excludes the out-of-period benefits of those programs as well. On this comparison, the midpoint of our third-quarter guidance $0.805 per share represents a $0.035 sequential increase from 2Q. This $0.035 increase is comprised of a $0.03 per share increase from our senior housing operating portfolio, driven by an increase in sequential average occupancy and expected reduction in COVID costs. A $0.02 per share increase from strong net investment activity, highlighted by the expected closing of the Holiday senior living portfolio during the third quarter, results in dilution from dispositions related to our previously communicated reduction in exposure to Genesis. And a $0.005 increased NOI from recently converted developments, mainly two fully leased MOBs in Charlotte, North Carolina and Brooklyn. These increases are offset by a $0.01 per share increase in sequential G&A, driven mainly by new hires and a $0.01 dilution from shares settled in the second quarter. And with that, I will turn the call back over to Shankh.Shankh Mitra -- Chief Executive Officer and Chief Investment Officer Thank you, Tim. I want to conclude by expanding on a theme that I mentioned before. We're engaged in two small transactions with two other REITs in our sector that are not material to any company that's involved. We're buying a handful of assets in one transaction and selling a handful of assets in other transaction. The dollar involved are too small to mention on -- to be mentioned on this call. But I bring them up as I think they reflect a new era of collaboration among public REITs. Both of these transactions will result in favorable outcomes for all of our respective shareholders on a transactional basis. But what's important to focus is an emerging theme among public REITs, the life doesn't have to be a zero-sum game. With that, operator, we'll open it up for questions. 