  OperatorGreetings and welcome to Lumen Technologies second-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded, Tuesday, August 3, 2021. It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Mike McCormack, senior vice president, investor relations. Please go ahead, sir.Mike McCormack -- Senior Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you, Franz. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us to the Lumen Technologies second-quarter 2021 earnings call. Joining on the call today are Jeff Storey, president and chief executive officer; and Neel Dev, executive vice president and chief financial officer. Before we begin, I need to call your attention to our safe harbor statement on Slide 2 of our 2Q 2021 presentation, which notes that this conference call may include forward-looking statements subject to certain risks and uncertainties.

 



 All forward-looking statements should be considered in conjunction with the cautionary statements on Slide 2 and the risk factors in our SEC filings. We will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures reconciled to the most comparable GAAP measures that can be found in our earnings press release. In addition, certain metrics discussed today exclude costs for special items as detailed in our earnings material, all of which can be found in the Investor Relations section of the Lumen website. With that, I'll turn the call over to Jeff.Jeff Storey -- President and Chief Executive Officer Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining today's call. It's an exciting day for Lumen, and we have a lot to cover. I'll begin today's call with our recently announced transactions, including the just announced sale of a portion of our legacy local exchange business to Apollo. I'll then ask Neil to review a few second-quarter highlights as well as provide a preliminary view of the expected effects of these transactions on Lumen's financial profile. And of course, we'll reserve time for your questions at the end of the call. So let's jump in. Last week, we announced the sale of our Latin American assets to Stonepeak at a value of $2.7 billion, representing an approximately nine times multiple of the Latin American business' 2020 estimated adjusted EBITDA. There are more details about this transaction in the release materials, but the simplest way to think about LATAM is that we will transfer ownership of substantially all our LATAM-based customers and assets to Stonepeak, and are entering into a services agreement with Stonepeak to continue to serve the needs of our enterprise customers based outside the region.

 



 Subject to customary regulatory approvals, we expect this transaction to close in the first half of 2022. I'm also pleased to share that we have agreed to sell our legacy local exchange business in 20 states to Apollo for $7.5 billion, representing a multiple of approximately 5.5 times our 2020 estimated adjusted EBITDA. In short, with this transaction, we are transferring to Apollo all our legacy local exchange assets in 20 states, along with the consumer, small/medium business, state and local government, education and wholesale customers served by those assets. Lumen will retain ownership of our non-local exchange fiber assets in those 20 states, including our long-haul fiber and the enterprise CLEC assets. Lumen will also retain our legacy local exchange assets in another 16 states. In the transferred markets, the service needs of Lumen's enterprise and government customers will be met under a network services agreement to be entered into with Apollo. Subject to customary regulatory approvals, we expect this transaction to close in the second half of 2022. I'm very pleased with the valuations we were able to achieve for these 2 sets of assets. On the whole, our retained markets have significantly higher fiber penetration, population density, enterprise demand and overall growth opportunity than the transferred assets. We have spoken about the sum of the parts analysis of Lumen. And I believe multiples of 5.5 times for these 20 states and nine times for LATAM should shine a bright light on the relative value of our retained business. Don't get me wrong, the 20 states we're selling to Apollo are good markets with quality assets, talented employees and excellent customers. As we looked at these states, though, we knew that we were unlikely to prioritize investments in these markets ahead of our other opportunities in Enterprise and Quantum Fiber. After closing of this transaction, approximately 70% of our remaining mass market footprint is well suited for Quantum Fiber investment. This transaction will allow the transferred assets to get the higher level of investment we know they can sustain, and we are committed to partnering with Apollo to help them realize their vision for these markets. As I mentioned on our analyst day back in April, we have worked very hard over the past three years to transform our company, both financially and operationally.

 



 We committed to driving growth over the Lumen platform and continue to transform the business. These transactions are fully aligned with that strategy, and we believe will drive future growth as we meet the needs of the fourth industrial revolution, for enterprises and consumers alike. Undertaking these transactions allows us to simplify our business, deliver differentiated products to a higher percentage of our customer base and target our capital investments to drive higher growth and more attractive long-term returns on both the Lumen platform and through our Quantum Fiber investment. Of course, the transactions create pressure as well. While the sale of the consumer assets is expected to have a positive effect on our product mix day one after close and an improved growth profile going forward, the high levels of cash flow these markets generate will be free cash flow dilutive in the near term, even at these strong valuations. Even so, we are confident that these transactions are right for our business over the long term and will improve the growth profile of our company. Neel will cover some of the operational financial impacts but let me take a moment to speak to the implications of these transactions to our capital allocation strategy. First, we absolutely expect to accelerate the pace of our growth investments in Quantum Fiber. By retaining the 16 states we have, fiber-based consumer and mass market services remain a huge opportunity for us and we have built a differentiated offering with Quantum Fiber, enabling an all-digital customer experience that uniquely positions us among mass-market broadband providers. As Neil will discuss, our Quantum Fiber results are bearing this out as we saw another quarter of net adds for our fiber and higher-speed offerings continuing results from previous quarters. The jury isn't out on this one. When we invest in consumer fiber, we take share and we drive profitable growth. As I mentioned, upon closing the Apollo transaction, approximately 70% of our remaining mass market footprint will be the sort of urban and suburban markets that are best addressable with Quantum Fiber solutions. We are developing an accelerated build plan, and we'll share those details as they're finalized. What we can tell you today is that while we remain strategic and disciplined in our approach, we expect to build faster and with more scale in the markets that we prioritize for Quantum Fiber investment. We also believe we have a unique opportunity to grow our Enterprise business by leveraging our expansive fiber network to provide essential transport services and further penetrating our on-net buildings, utilizing our edge computing network to move critical workloads closer to the source of data and the use of data and expanding the capabilities of the Lumen platform and enabling greater digital consumption of our services for all of our customers. I'm the first to acknowledge that we're not yet seeing the pace of growth that we expect from these initiatives, but we remain confident in the opportunity and are streamlining our focus and further investing to drive that growth. Second, I expect we will manage our balance sheet to remain more or less leverage-neutral over the next few years as we accelerate investment into our growth initiatives. Longer term, I believe the previously articulated leverage range is the right one for our business. But I'm prepared to allow the timeline to achieve that range to extend as we work through this investment cycle. Further, beyond fully investing in the growth of our business, we're mindful of being opportunistic in considering share repurchases. We are not choosing share repurchases over funding growth. Even as we scale the Quantum Fiber build and the Lumen platform investments, we expect to have excess capacity to consider opportunistic share repurchases if we can do so at multiples that will be accretive to long-term share value. To that end, we've also announced today approval by our Board of a $1 billion buyback program. Lastly, the dividend. We have long stated that we believe return of cash in the form of a dividend is an appropriate capital allocation vehicle in a business like ours. However, with these transactions, the profile of our business is changing and will change rapidly going forward as we lean into investing for growth and continuing to rationalize the portfolio. I do realize that will put pressure on our dividend after we close these transactions and the further we get into our investment program. But as of now, we are not faced with that trade-off decision, and we'll continue to balance the return of cash to shareholders through dividends and buybacks while we accelerate our investment in Enterprise and Quantum Fiber growth. Let me provide a small bit of color on my views on the second-quarter results. While we worked hard to get these transactions announced, we remain very focused on driving performance in those areas that we believe provide the best opportunity for growing revenue and strong returns. That said, our second-quarter revenue trends were sluggish. We've talked about the slow sales in the fourth quarter and the beginning of the first quarter as a result of COVID and delayed decision-making. Since then, we've seen good sales growth sequentially and believe our growth initiatives across the Lumen platform will help us improve our revenue trends as we move forward. Before I turn the call over to Neel, let me offer a few points in summary. We're excited about the 2 transactions we've announced. We're pleased with the valuations that have also done these transactions to drive investment and operational focus within the remaining business, sticking to the strategy we discussed since launching Lumen and Quantum Fiber last fall. At 5.5 times on the ILEC business and nine times adjusted EBITDA on the LATAM business, we believe the valuations highlight and support our view of the sum of the parts for the remaining business. While we already operate one of the world's most extensive and powerful fiber infrastructure, we will continue to invest in growth via the Lumen platform, cloud edge initiatives and to accelerate deployment of Quantum Fiber. We believe the recently announced transactions were executed at excellent valuations, and are aligned to our strategy of streamlining our business to those markets on which we are best able to profitably invest in growth. With that, I'll turn the call over to Neel to provide a few more details on the quarter and some of the expected effects from the announced transactions. Neel?Neel Dev -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Jeff, and good afternoon, everyone. I want to leave ample time for your questions on our announced transactions so I will briefly review our second-quarter results. Let me begin with our financial highlights in our earnings presentation. For the second-quarter 2021, we delivered solid adjusted EBITDA and expanded margins year over year. Cash flow remains very robust, providing the opportunity to ramp investment in our key growth areas in the second half of the year. However, given our spending in the first half, we are reducing our capex guidance to be in the range of $3.2 billion to $3.5 billion. And accordingly, we are adjusting our free cash flow expectation to $3.1 billion to $3.3 billion for the full-year 2021. As Jeff mentioned, our Board has approved a $1 billion share buyback program over two years, with which we will be opportunistically buying back shares. Turning to second-quarter revenue by sales channel. Total revenue in the second quarter declined 5.2% on a year-over-year basis to $4.924 billion. Normalizing for the sale of our correctional facility business in the third quarter of 2020, our revenue would have declined 4.9%. It is important to remember that year-over-year metrics were meaningfully affected by the surge in demand for voice collaboration and conferencing in the second quarter of last year, making comparisons less relevant. From a sequential perspective, total revenue declined by 2.1%, primarily driven by lower sales in the last couple of quarters. Moving to business segment. In the second quarter, total business revenue declined 2% sequentially and 5.2% on a year-over-year basis to $3.522 billion. Normalizing for the sale of the correctional facility business, the decline was 4.9%. Within our business segment, IGAM revenue declined 0.9% sequentially and 2.6% on a year-over-year basis. The year-over-year decline was primarily driven by higher usage in the prior year period related to COVID. Within IGAM, compute and application, IP and data and fiber infrastructure services were flat sequentially driven by improvement in sales and installs. Large enterprise declined 0.6% sequentially and 4.3% on a year-over-year basis. Compute and application services and fiber and infrastructure services both grew sequentially. Mid-market enterprise declined 4.7% sequentially and 9.7% on a year-over-year basis. Sequential performance was impacted by strong nonrecurring revenues we highlighted last quarter. This sales channel was also impacted by the previously noted sale of the correctional facility business. Wholesale declined 2.6% sequentially and 5.5% on a year-over-year basis. As a reminder, the first quarter of this year benefited from carrier settlements. Our overall business segment revenue performance continued to be impacted by delayed decision-making by enterprise customers in the current environment. While year-over-year comparisons this quarter were affected by the pandemic-related surge in voice services last year, we are seeing stabilization in sequential trends. Moving to business segment revenues by product categories. Compute and application services for the enterprise channels grew sequentially and was flat year over year. We expect compute and application services, which includes cloud edge and our newer Lumen platform offerings, to provide additional growth with increased market traction. IP and data services for enterprise channels declined both sequentially and year over year as increased demand for IP and work-from-home solutions were offset by continued delayed decision-making for enterprise hybrid network deployments. Fiber infrastructure services for enterprise channels grew year over year. Sequential performance was impacted by strength in nonrecurring revenues for equipment and professional services in our mid-market channel last quarter. Voice and other services in the wholesale channel continue to be managed for cash, with legacy voice declines in line with our expectations, but year-over-year comparisons were impacted by higher COVID-related usage in the year ago quarter that I just mentioned. As with the first quarter, market conditions in the second quarter remained challenging. As Jeff mentioned, we are not pleased with our revenue performance year to date, and have a solid plan to improve our revenue trajectory as the economy reopens and our new initiatives take hold. Turning to mass markets, second-quarter 2021 revenue declined 2.2% sequentially. During the quarter, we added 31,000 Quantum Fiber customers, reaching a total of 746,000. Our mass markets fiber broadband revenue grew 30% year over year this quarter. Fiber-based broadband revenue now represents 17% of mass market's broadband revenues compared to 13% in the year ago quarter. Turning to adjusted EBITDA. For the second quarter of 2021, adjusted EBITDA was $2.109 billion compared to $2.135 billion in the year ago quarter. We expanded adjusted EBITDA margins during the quarter, growing 170 basis points year over year to 42.8%. As we continue to direct incremental operating expense investments toward key growth areas of the company, we were able to more than offset those investments with our ongoing focus on operational transformation savings. Capital expenditures for the second quarter of 2021 were $646 million. As we have mentioned, a significant portion of our capital is success based. And with the lengthening sales cycles, we were able to calibrate our capital spending to the current environment. As previously mentioned, we have adjusted our capex expectations lower for the full year, with an expectation that the second half spending will be higher than the first half as we start to ramp our mass market investments, and business decision-making accelerates. In the second quarter of 2021, the company generated free cash flow of $1.044 billion, and we have adjusted our full-year 2021 guidance for free cash flow as a result of lower capital spending year to date. During the second quarter, we continued to make progress on our deleveraging initiatives by reducing net debt by more than $700 million. We issued $1 billion of lower coupon debt during the second quarter to refinance more than $1.2 billion of debt. On a year-over-year basis, we have reduced net debt by $2.3 billion. Moving to the financial outlook for 2021. Other than the previously mentioned capital expenditures and resulting free cash flow changes, all other guidance metrics remain unchanged. We remain confident in our adjusted EBITDA target of $8.4 billion to $8.6 billion. Moving on to our announced transactions, both today with Apollo for part of our ILEC footprint and last week with Stonepeak for our LATAM business, I would like to provide you with some high-level financial impacts that should help inform your modeling as you look past the expected closings in 2022. With respect to the LATAM divestiture, we estimate our 2020 revenue related to the transaction at approximately $800 million; estimated adjusted EBITDA, a little over $300 million and capital expenditures of about $200 million. The estimated adjusted EBITDA includes costs to operate the business on a stand-alone basis and also elimination of noncash revenues and resulting EBITDA consistent with the proposed sale. These impacts predominantly affect our IGAM channel. In terms of the ILEC transaction, we estimate our 2020 revenue related to the divested assets at approximately $2.5 billion; estimated adjusted EBITDA of $1.4 billion; and capex of about $400 million, excluding CAF. Similar to LATAM, these estimates include revenue and costs to operate the business on a stand-alone basis. As far as revenue associated with this transaction, about 70% of the revenue is mass markets, and the remainder roughly split between wholesale and enterprise channels. In terms of the product mix, about 50% of the revenue is for voice and other product category, and the remainder are largely mass market broadband revenues. As with any carve-out, we do expect some dissynergies, but we are also confident that we can address those with our focus on cost transformation initiatives. Upon the closing of both transactions, Lumen's NOLs will be substantially utilized, and we will become a cash taxpayer. As Jeff mentioned, we will manage our debt profile to ensure that the transactions are leverage-neutral. And our long-term target leverage of 2.75 to 3.25 net debt to adjusted EBITDA remains unchanged. In summary, we have made significant progress this quarter in optimizing our business with a clear focus on positioning Lumen to capitalize on the growth opportunities. We expect business segment trends to improve, driven by our Lumen platform initiatives as enterprise decision-making accelerates. And we are very excited about the investment and growth opportunity in our mass markets fiber business. With that, we'll open it up for your questions. 