
OperatorGood morning and welcome to IPG Photonics 3rd Quarter 2021 Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded and webcast. At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to your host, Eugene Fedotoff, IPG's Director of Investor Relations for introductions. Please go ahead, sir.Eugene Fedotoff -- Director of Investor RelationsThank you, Rob and good morning everyone. With us today is IPG Photonics' Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Eugene Scherbakov and Senior Vice President and CFO, Tim Mammen. Statements made during the course of this call that discuss management's or the company's intentions, expectations, or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include the impact of COVID-19 pandemic on our business and those detailed in IPG Photonics' Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2020 and other reports on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Copies of these filings may be obtained by visiting the Investors section of IPG's website or by contacting the company directly. You may also find copies on the SEC's website. Any forward-looking statements made on this call are the company's expectations or predictions as of today, November 2, 2021 only. The company assumes no obligation to publicly release any updates or revisions during such statements. For additional details on our reported results, please refer to the earnings press release, earnings call presentation, and Excel-based financial data workbook posted on our Investor Relations website. We will post these prepared remarks on our Investor Relations website following the completion of this call.

 



With that, I will now turn the call over to Eugene Scherbakov.Eugene Scherbakov -- Chief Executive OfficerThank you. Eugene, and good morning everyone. We are deeply saddened by the passing of Valentin Gapontsev, the Founder and Executive Chairman of IPG.This is a tremendous loss for the company and the broader photonics is community. We have benefited greatly from his technical innovations and strategic reason. Because of his reason and area lengthens work finally have become cost effective, reliable, and effective tools that have mass applications in global industrial production enabling automation, efficiency, and development of new products. He was recognized as a father of the fiber laser industry and a great entrepreneur. Following his footsteps, we will continue to focus on innovation and internally in manufacturing and research and development capabilities the highest quality components and the most reliable products. At IPG, we are also exploring new markets and applications where fiber laser can replace existing laser and non-laser technologies by improving efficiency and productivity or enabling technological breakthrough for our customers. Our technology is playing well in the major micro brands and include investments in electrical vehicles and renewable energy as well as focus on energy efficiency, industrial automation and miniaturization which are transforming the way products are created. As a part of our strategy, we have been diversifying the way from the high competitive more cyclical cutting market in China and our results this quarter demonstrated successful execution of this strategy. We are pleased to deliver as a 3rd-quarter revenue and EPS at the top end of our guidance. Results were driven by strong growth in welding market, 3D printing, and as well as the a semiconductors and number of other products and applications. Demand for IPG laser continued to improve in North America and Europe. This does welding and cutting applications showed strong growth. We have also seen increased orders and business activities in Japan. These geographies continue to recover from pandemic and so increased investment in new factories and automation. We are benefiting from widespread investments in electric vehicles production globally. Our lasers are used in a variety of welding for cutting and printing applications for EV battery manufacturing. We are also seeing opportunity for laser welding in EV motor assembly and body in wide applications. These investments are likely to continue for the next three, five years as automotive manufacturers address they need for EV batteries and newer technologies in order to meet aggressive global carbon emission standards. We are excited about the increased demand we are seeing in the measures product and applications which contributed just under 30% of our total revenue this quarter with record sales in lasers and medical and strong growth in high power pulse lasers. Both A&B and high power pulse lasers are benefiting from increased investment in EV battery capacity worldwide. Our medical products are rapidly gaining adoption and both our laser and IPG disposable fibers are considered as the new gold standard in the industry. We, that our medical business, we will continue to grow significantly potentially doubling the size over the next two to three years. One of our newest products is hand-held laser which gets launched earlier this year with widespread interest and gaining significant traction in welding community. We launch our new and improved version of LightWELD in September. It also has cleaning capability in addition to percent welding parameters. Some customers may choose LightWELD just for clean feature, as it can save time, money, and reduce cost of consumables. [Indecipherable] highlight of our presentation [Indecipherable] this year. And we have signed agreements with nationwide distributors that catering hundreds of welding retail stores in the United States. We expect to sell thousands of lightWELD system in the next three to five years. As expected, we saw softer demand conditions in China cutting markets during the 3rd quarter. The continuation of moderated demand environment driven by widespread supply chain issues, high shipping cost, and power shortage as well as a more aggressive price competition from local manufacturers negatively impacted demand for cutting applications in China during this quarter. At the same time, we are seeing record demand in welding in China as a result of strong sales in EV battery applications and increase in the near from market in the 3D printing. In several cases, we saw customers are coming back to IPG after lower cost local suppliers did not meet customer quality and technical support expectations. We continue to benefit from our vertically integrated product model which enables technological advantage while minimizing the supply chain disruptions. Currently, we have been seeing some impact on our and our customer duration from ongoing supply chain issues worldwide, which we were able to successfully overcome this quarter. As we announced earlier, the board selected John Peeler as the Non-Executive Chair. John has served as lead and Independent Director since 2017, and his appointment provides continuous stability as we have worked together well over the years. This appointment continues to separate [Indecipherable] that started in May 2021, and I look forward to working with John and his [Indecipherable]. With that, I will turn the call to Tim to discuss financial highlights in the quarter and 4th quarter outlook.

 



Tim Mammen -- Senior Vice President & Chief Financial OfficerThank you. Eugene, and good morning everyone. My comments generally will follow the earnings call presentation which is available on our website. I will start with the financial review on Slide 3. Revenue in the 3rd quarter was $379 million, which increased 19% year-over-year and 2% sequentially. Third quarter GAAP gross margin was 49%, an increase of 100 basis points year-over-year. Compared with the year ago period, the increase in gross margin was driven primarily by lower inventory provisions and a reduction of unabsorbed manufacturing expenses as a percent of sales. GAAP operating income was $102 million, and operating margin was 26.9%. Third quarter net income was $75 million or $1.40 per diluted share. The effective tax rate in the quarter was 26%. As a reminder, last year's results were negatively impacted by a goodwill impairment charge of $45 million. During the quarter, we recognized an after-tax foreign exchange gain of $2 million or $0.04 per diluted share, primarily related to the depreciation of the Euro and Chinese yuan. Exchange rates relative to the US Dollar had been the same as one year ago, we would have expected revenue to be $9 million lower and gross profit to be $6 million lower. Moving to Slide 4, sales of high power CW lasers decreased 4% year-over-year and represented approximately 47% of total revenue. Sales of ultra high power lasers of 6 kW or greater represented 51% of total high-power CW sales. Medium power laser sales increased 109% on growth in cutting, welding, 3D printing, and semiconductor applications. QCW laser sales increased 8% year-over-year on a higher demand for marking, engraving, and drilling applications. Pulse laser sales including high power pulse lasers increased 69% year-over-year with strong growth in foil cutting applications for EV battery manufacturing, solar cell applications as well as higher sales of our infrared lasers for marking and cleaning. System sales increased 56% year-over-year with improved revenues for Genesis and IoT and a ramp up in lightWELD sales. Other product sales increased 58% year-over-year, benefiting from higher sales in medical and beam delivery. Examining our performance by region on Slide 5, revenue in North America increased 55% year-over-year driven by materials processing with growth in welding and increased sales of high-power lasers for cutting applications. We also saw record quarterly revenue in medical, as our products continue to gain acceptance. System sales improved in the 3rd quarter with both laser and non-laser systems posting strong revenue growth. In Europe, revenue increased 50% year-over-year driven by accelerated demand in cutting and welding applications as well as strong growth in marking and additive applications. Our revenue in China decreased 7% year-over-year in the 3rd quarter representing approximately 36% of total sales. Soft sales of high-power lasers in cutting applications more than offset higher demand in welding applications, high power pulse lasers for foil cutting and growth in marking and additive applications. Sales in Japan were up 11% and revenue in the rest of Asia increased 15% year-over-year. Moving to a summary of our balance sheet and cash flow on Slide 6. We ended the quarter with cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments of $1.5 billion and total debt of $35 million. Strong operational execution resulted in cash provided by operations of $102 million during the quarter. For our cash deployment, capital expenditures were $40 million in the 3rd quarter and we expect capital expenditures to be between 130 million and 150 million for the full year. During the quarter, we repurchased 200,000 shares for $36 million and bought approximately another 135,000 shares so far in the 4th quarter. Commenting on our outlook for the next quarter, 3rd quarter book to bill remained above 1. We expect stable demand in North America and Europe and continue to see growth opportunities in welding and high-power cutting in North America and Europe, foil cutting and welding applications for EV battery production across many geographies as well as opportunities in solar cell manufacturing, medical procedures, and advanced applications. We also see lightWELD sales continue to gain traction. However, sales in China will be down sequentially in the 4th quarter due to soft demand in cutting applications, uncertainty due to supply chain issues and power outages that may impact demand for our products as well as ongoing competitive pressures. For the 4th quarter of 2021, IPG expects revenue of 330 million to 360 million. The Company expects the 4th quarter tax rate to be approximately 25% excluding any discrete items. IPG anticipates delivering earnings per diluted share in the range of $1 to $1.30 with approximately 54 million diluted shares outstanding. I would like to remind you the financial guidance provided this quarter continues to be subject to greater risk and uncertainty given the COVID-19 pandemic and its associated impacts to the global business environment, supply chain, public health requirements, and government mandates. Please refer to the Safe Harbor passage of today's earnings press release for more details on risks and uncertainties associated with our forward-looking statements. And with that, we'll be happy to take your questions.