
OperatorGood morning, my name is Christie and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Viatris 2021 Second Quarter Earnings Call and Webcast. All participant lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you, I will now turn the call over to Melissa Trombetta, Head of Global Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Melissa Trombetta -- Head of Investor RelationsThank you, operator. Good morning everyone. Welcome to Viatris' second quarter 2021 earnings conference call. Joining me on this call are Viatris' Chief Executive Officer, Michael Goettler; President, Rajiv Malik; Chief Financial Officer, Sanjeev Narula; Chief Accounting Officer and Controller, Paul Campbell; and Head of Capital Markets, Bill Szablewski.

 



While some of us are in remote locations, I would ask for your patience should we encounter any technical difficulties. During today's call, we will be making forward-looking statements on a number of matters including our financial guidance for 2021. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause future results or events to differ materially from today's projections.Please refer to the earnings release that we furnished to the SEC on Form 8-K earlier today for a fuller explanation of those risks and uncertainties and the limits applicable to forward-looking statements. We also posted supplemental slides on our website at investor.viatris.com. Viatris routinely posts information that may be important to investors on this website and we use this website address as a means of disclosing material information to the public in a broad, non-exclusionary manner for purposes of the SEC's regulation fair disclosure.We also will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures including free cash flow and adjusted EBITDA. We will reference such measures in order to supplement your understanding and assessment of our second quarter 2021 financial results and financial guidance for 2021. Non-GAAP measures should not be considered a substitute for or superior to financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. The most directly comparable GAAP measures as well as reconciliations of the non-GAAP measures to those GAAP measures are available in our second quarter 2021 earnings release and supplemental earnings slides as well as in the investors section of our website.In addition, solely to supplement your understanding and assessment of our second quarter 2021 financial performance, we have provided in our earnings release and supplemental slides and will discuss during today's call certain financial measures relating to the second quarter of 2020 including combined results of legacy Mylan and the Upjohn business with indicated adjustments which do not reflect pro forma results in accordance with ASC 805 or Article 11 of Regulation S-X. Such measures also do not reflect the effect of any purchase accounting adjustments.

 



Let me also remind you that the information discussed during this call except for the participants' questions is the property of Viatris and cannot be recorded or rebroadcast without Viatris' express written permission. An archived copy of today's call will be available on our website and will remain available for a limited time. With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Michael.Michael Goettler -- Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Melissa and good morning and thank you all for joining us on our second quarterly earnings call at Viatris. I'm pleased to say that the strong execution we showed in the first quarter has continued into the second quarter. We are performing at or above the upper-end of our own expectations across the entire business, all four of our commercial segments, all three of our product categories, our manufacturing operations, our R&D and our enabling functions and thereby laying a solid foundation for future performance.Today's strong results are not only a testament to the flawless execution of our colleagues who've quickly come together as one Viatris team, but also validate the vision and the strategy we had in combining the two legacy organizations. The combination brought together two highly complementary high-quality investment grade companies creating an even stronger, more powerful, unique and differentiated global platform focused on empowering people worldwide to live healthier at every stage of life by ensuring patient access to safe, effective, and high quality medicines.

 



Mylan brought Viatris portfolio diversity, a rich R&D pipeline, strong internal scientific capabilities, and proven integration expertise and Upjohn provided strong iconic brands, a global commercial engine and scale in critical markets. The result is an even stronger, future-ready, and resilient platform with enhanced global scale and geographic reach, a sustainable, diverse and differentiated portfolio and pipeline, a powerful operating platform and strong commercial capabilities with significant future potential, and the power to generate strong and sustainable cash flows. And today marks the second consecutive quarter in which we have demonstrated our ability to drive the value of this combination and we remain confident in our outlook.Now let me dive into the quarter. In the second quarter, we reported total revenue of $4.58 billion, adjusted EBITDA of $1.68 billion, and free cash flow of $470 million. For the first half of the year, meaning quarter one and quarter two combined, we have generated $1.27 billion in free cash flow, more than half of our initial guidance for the full year. Free cash flow generation continues to be our North Star.Our unique global platform has the ability to consistently generate substantial free cash flows and we anticipate significant increases in the coming years, driven by continued strong performance, a reduction in one-time costs, and continued improvements in cash flow conversion. And given how critical cash flow is to our long-term financials, our strategy and commitment to shareholders, the Board has also made it one of the key metrics of management's short and long-term compensation.But performance extends not only to our commercial segments, but also to our operations. Even in the midst of a COVID-19 pandemic and our ongoing supply network optimization efforts, we have seen customer service levels that are at or above historic peaks and I continue to be impressed with our internal R&D engine and scientific capabilities. In July, we received a historic approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for the industry's first-ever interchangeable biosimilar product in the U.S., Semglee or insulin glargine.We are extremely proud of this achievement, which will help broaden access to this important diabetes medicines for patients, for physicians, for payers, and for providers. And as you know from what's said by FDA and policy makers throughout the government, there is significant interest in this approval and what it can mean for patients and the healthcare system overall, both now and in the future.The interchangeable assembly product, which will allow for substitution for the reference product at the pharmacy counter, will be introduced before the end of the year. But Semglee is not the only advantage in our pipeline this quarter, with regard to our biosimilar and complex products pipeline, we're making steady progress across multiple programs, which Rajiv will discuss in more detail.Overall, we generated $224 million in new product revenue and we continue to be on track for $690 million in new product revenue for the full year. This high level of performance enables us to continue to deliver on our commitments. We've paid down $1.15 billion in debt year-to-date and we are well on track to achieve $6.5 billion in debt repayment by 2023. In June, we returned value to shareholders by paying our first quarterly dividend of $0.11 per share and the Viatris Board has declared another $0.11 per share dividend for the next quarter and we are on track to achieve $500 million in synergies this year and on track for at least $1 billion by the end of 2023.On last quarter's earnings call, I said that we would reassess guidance for the full year. Based on our strong first and second quarter performance, I'm pleased to report that we are raising our guidance across revenue, adjusted EBITDA, and free cash flow which Sanjeev will discuss in more detail. We have strong momentum going to the second half of the year and we will be once again open to reassessing financial guidance at the end of the third quarter. Also, on last earnings call, I stated that we see $6.2 billion in adjusted EBITDA as a true floor of our business going forward and with the momentum we have, this is now clearer than ever.We also continue to make good progress in our rigorous bottom-up strategic planning effort. By better understanding how our portfolio will evolve over the next several years and looking at all the strategic levers at our disposal, we will be better able to serve patients, provide increased access to medicine and unlock value for our shareholders and that work will complete toward the end of the year.Lastly and as I've already mentioned, I cannot emphasize enough the impressive R&D engine and scientific capabilities that we have. As we prepare to deliver our strategic plan, you can fully expect that we'll continue to add high value assets to our pipeline and further leverage our scientific expertise and R&D platform. With that said, now let me turn it over to Rajiv for more details about our segment results, pipeline progress and restructuring and integration efforts. Rajiv?Rajiv Malik -- PresidentThank you, Michael and good morning everyone. We had another strong quarter and are very pleased with the positive momentum across our entire business driven by strong commercial performance supported by excellent customer service levels, continued scientific execution of our diversified pipeline including a historic first approval of an interchangeable biosimilar to insulin glargine.This was achieved while we continue to successfully integrate, restructure, and navigate the COVID-19 pandemic. Our performance would not be possible without the dedication of our global workforce and I would like to thank them for their continued commitment.Over the next several slides, I will walk you through the performance in each of our segments and product categories. I will be making certain comparisons to the combined LOE adjusted second quarter 2020 results on a constant currency basis as well as comparisons versus our expectations as included in our initial guidance.Beginning on Slide 6, each of our segments and product categories delivered a strong performance. When excluding the impact of Japan's Lyrica and Celebrex LOEs as seen on the bottom left-hand side of the slide, net sales were up 4% this quarter as compared to the combined LOE adjusted quarter two 2020 results. Our brand business grew by 3% year-over-year and performed better than our expectations.We are pleased to report that our global biosimilar grew by 40% this quarter while our overall complex generics and biosimilars category declined by 8% year-over-year mainly due to anticipated competition on certain products in our complex generics portfolio. Our global generics business grew by 8% year-over-year and performed better than our expectations.We delivered $224 million for new launches in the second quarter and as we look ahead, we remain on track to meet our $690 million target in 2021. We believe that the diversity of our portfolio and commercial reach positions us well to balance the impact of any changes in the market and eliminates our reliance on any one product or geography. Accordingly, we expect our base business to continue to perform strongly.Turning to Slide 7, our developed markets segment grew by 2% year-over-year. This was primarily driven by brands like Yupelri, Dymista, and Creon. Our Thrombosis portfolio also performed better than expected, which continues to highlight our ability to effectively manage and grow established brands and expand our presence in the hospital segment. Our biosimilars performed strongly with 47% growth this quarter, which helped offset the negative impact of the previously anticipated competition to Wixela and Xulane.Our generics portfolio also performed better than our expectations primarily driven by our U.S. injectables portfolio as well as favorable COVID-related buying patterns in Europe. Having said that, we see our biosimilars portfolio driving continued growth while offsetting anticipated competition in our complex generics space.Moving to the next slide, our emerging markets segment delivered 12% year-over-year growth and performed better than our expectations. Brands like Viagra and Lyrica drove strong performance as certain countries started recovering from COVID. Our better than expected results of our generics business was helped by certain COVID-related products.The next slide shows that our JANZ segment grew 6% year-over-year and performed in line with our expectations. Our brand portfolio of products like Lyrica and EpiPen primarily contributed to the strong performance of Japan. We continue to be pleased with the growth of our generics business in JANZ especially the contribution from our expanded authorized genetics offering including authorized generics to Lyrica and Celebrex. It should be noted that approximately half of the overall generics growth is due to the termination of our collaboration with Pfizer from the prior year.The next slide is our last segment slide and shows that our Greater China business once again delivered a strong performance, which was better than our expectations. Our retail channel showed double-digit growth and our hospital channel performed better than our expectations while managing the impact of VBP and URP. The 3% year-over-year decline was driven by anticipated VBP implementation of Celebrex and Zoloft. As we look at the rest of the year, we anticipate the full year to be better than our original expectations although we see that second half being softer than the first because of the implementation of URP.Now turning to Slide 12, which highlights our proven track record of introducing several first to market complex products. Breaking down barriers goes beyond best-in-class science and right from day one, our cross-functional team of R&D, regulatory, legal, medical, and policy experts work diligently and collaboratively with regulators, partners, and other stakeholders to seek and create pathways to clear hurdles that enables access. It can take on an average seven to nine years from development to regulatory approval given the highly complex nature of these molecules.Getting to the finish line requires tremendous perseverance, tenacity, and an unwavering commitment to patients. The success stories of receiving the first approval for our COPAXONE 40 milligram, ADVAIR, NEULASTA, HERCEPTIN, SYMBICORT and most recently, the first interchangeable biosimilar through the LANTUS give us great confidence that we are well positioned to deliver on our pipeline. We intend to leverage our deep scientific capabilities to further expand access to the complex products for patients.I will now walk you through some key pipeline updates, starting on Slide 30. As it relates to our biosimilars key pipeline, I would like to take a moment to echo Michael's remarks and applaud the efforts of so many Viatris colleagues who played a huge role in achieving this historic FDA approval of the first interchangeable biosimilar, Semglee. We look forward to launch this exciting opportunity before the end of the year.Moving to Aspart, a pre-approval inspection from FDA of Biocon's manufacturing facility in Malaysia is now scheduled for the end of this quarter. Scientifically, we believe we are on track to achieve interchangeability for Aspart which should further expand our portfolio of interchangeable insulins. We remain on schedule for a submission in quarter four of this year for Eylea. Our program for BOTOX is progressing well and we have a meeting scheduled with the FDA in September of this year to align on our path forward.Moving to biosimilar to Avastin, while we have no open scientific questions with FDA, our U.S. approval has been impacted by the delay in a pre-approval inspection due to COVID travel restrictions. The same product has been approved by TGA, MHRA and several other regulators. As you will see on the next slide, we continue to make steady progress on our complex products program and have some important upcoming milestones. We submitted our 505(b)(2) application to FDA for our Levothyroxine Oral Solution in June as planned.For our Meloxicam, we expect an IND submission with Phase 2b study planned for quarter four this year. We are excited with the progress of our new low dose formulation of Xulane and we plan to initiate our clinical dosing for our Phase 3 program in September. We also continue to make comprehensive progress on our complex injectable pipeline. We are happy to report that we are first to file on paliperidone once three months product equivalent to INVEGA TRINZA on the 546 milligram and 829 milligram strengths. The remaining strength of 410 milligram and 273 milligram have already been submitted and are pending acceptance from FDA.Before I conclude, I would like to touch upon our integration and restructuring activities. Since closing the transaction almost nine months ago, our teams have been hard at work to ensure no business disruptions. We remain on track to realize $500 million of cost synergies this year and confident in our overall plans to achieve at least $1 billion of cost synergies by 2023. Let me now turn the call over to Sanjeev. Thank you.Sanjeev Narula -- Chief Financial OfficerThank you and good morning everyone. As Michael and Rajiv mentioned, we had another strong quarter with better than expected revenue, adjusted EBITDA, and cash flow generation. These results demonstrate the underlying strength of our business and the momentum we have going into rest of the year. In slides ahead, I will make comparison to prior year Mylan stand-alone, combined adjusted for Viatris and the factors that are leading to an increase in our 2021 guidance.On slide 17, we have summarized our results versus prior year on a reported basis, which reflects Mylan stand-alone results for quarter two 2020. Moving to Slide 18, we've highlighted the drivers in the quarter compared to combined adjusted Q2 2020 results. This chart reflects the sum of Mylan's stand-alone results and Upjohn's carve out financials for a period of April 1st, 2020 to June 30th, 2020 adjusted for certain LOEs and transaction-related items including divested products in connection with the combination.A few key comments on this slide. Beginning with Lyrica and Celebrex LOE, while we continue to see anticipated decline versus last year, our commercial teams have done a nice job in managing rate of erosion as the generic penetration levels have come in better than our expectations. Adjusting for LOEs, operationally, total net sales in the quarter were up 4%. This growth was driven by strong demand across Yupelri, Dymista, the Thrombosis portfolio, Viagra, and the new product revenue.Base business erosion was driven by price declines in our generic business and was in line with our expectation and also anticipated competition across three of our complex products. For example, competition in Wixela, Xulane and Perforomist contributed to base erosion in the quarter. This erosion was partially offset by 40% growth of our global biosimilar portfolio. For the year, we continue to expect base business erosion to be approximately 3% to 4%.As compared to Q2 2020, COVID had a positive impact in the quarter primarily due to full recovery in China and partial recovery in emerging market in Europe. Given the evolving COVID situation for the remainder of the year, we currently expect a slower recovery than originally anticipated across key markets. Lastly, with respect to foreign exchange, the weaker dollar relative to key currencies such as euro and Chinese renminbi provided an approximately 4% tailwind compared to our combined adjusted 2020 results.Moving to Slide 19 which bridges adjusted EBITDA. In the quarter, we had a higher run rate of inventory write-off, which had a negative impact on our gross margin. We don't expect this level of write-offs to continue in the subsequent quarters. As mentioned previously and as expected, base business erosion was predominantly driven by competitive pressure on high margin complex products and to a lesser extent, anticipated price decline across the rest of the portfolio in North America and Europe. As you look at gross margin, it is down slightly on a sequential basis. This is primarily driven by anticipated product mix and the higher inventory write-offs. Integration and restructuring activities remain on track and SG&A was in line with our expectations.Turning to Slide 20, for quarter two 2021, free cash flow generation was strong and better than expected at $470 million. As I highlighted during quarter one, free cash flow declined versus quarter one due to increased one-time cash costs, interest payment in Q2, and increased operational working capital and capex. I'm encouraged by higher than expected adjusted EBITDA to cash flow conversion and year-to-date cash flow of approximately $1.3 billion. This is net of approximately $800 million in one-time cost. The results reflect the organization focus and company's commitment to cash flow and we are seeing an early benefit from cash flow improvement initiatives.Turning to balance sheet. Year-to-date, we have reduced our debt by approximately $1.2 billion, which reflects a repayment of June $2.2 billion maturity, partially offset by lower than anticipated increase in our short-term balance. In the quarter, cash was used for the European thrombosis transaction and dividend payment to the shareholders. We also extended our $4 billion revolving credit facility to a five-year term and for the first time incorporated the option to include sustainability metrics, consistent with our future corporate ESG goals.Moving to Slide 22, based on underlying strength of our business, we're raising our full-year 2021 guidance for total revenue, adjusted EBITDA, and free cash flow. The expected increase in revenue was driven by stronger performance in the underlying business. This includes the lower than previously anticipated full-year impact of URP in the Greater China region, year-to-date tailwind from foreign exchange rate, lower generic penetration for Lyrica in Japan, and sustained strength from brand.Partially offsetting these positive trends include anticipated competition in North America, low generic volume in emerging market and slower COVID recovery. As a result of increased topline expectation and margin pull-through on these items, we are also raising our adjusted EBITDA guidance. This includes SG&A investment that is now expected to bring us to the high-end of the range of 20.5% to 21.5% as a percentage of total revenue. Free cash flow guidance has also been increased as a result of higher adjusted EBITDA, lower cash taxes, and continued cash flow improvement initiatives. With respect to key metrics underlying our financial guidance, which are largely unchanged, we have lowered our adjusted effective tax rate to be in the range of 17% to 18% due to the favorable mix of income across our tax jurisdictions.Now with a few comments on second half phasing. We now expect second half revenue to be slightly lower than first half. This is primarily driven by anticipated competition is select brands and complex generics and expected lower sales of COVID-related products. With respect to Greater China, we anticipate slightly low revenue as a result of VBP and URP timing. Moving to adjusted EBITDA, while the strength in the base business continues, we also expect competition to negatively impact gross margin slightly in the second half of the year.In addition, we are assuming R&D and SG investment to sequentially pickup, which we expect will help fuel long-term sustainability and growth of the business. We're also expecting the second half free cash flow phasing will be impacted by timing of capital expenditure. The underlying strength and momentum we see in business and solid execution gives us confidence in the outlook for the back half of 2021 and I believe positions us for a solid starting point heading into 2022.As we mentioned previously, we expect one-time cash costs to decrease significantly over next two years to historical Mylan [Phonetic] level of approximately $500 million. With the momentum we have built and what we can see to date, our three-year cash outlook makes us highly confident that we will meet our stated objectives of potential dividend growth, $6.5 billion of debt pay down by 2023, and increased financial flexibility for the company going forward. Overall, I'm very pleased with the execution I've seen and our ability to deliver on our commitments. With that, let me open the call for Q&As. Operator?