  OperatorGood morning, and welcome to the American Airlines Group first quarter 2022 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. [Operator instructions] And now I'd like to turn the conference over to your moderator, head of investor relations, Mr. Scott Long.Scott Long -- Head of Investor Relations Thank you, Katherine. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the American Airlines Group first quarter 2022 earnings conference call. On the call this morning, we have our CEO, Robert Isom, and our CFO, Derek Kerr. Also, on the call for the Q&A session are David Seymour, Vasu Raja and a number of other senior executives.

 



 Robert will start the call this morning with an overview of the first quarter and our priorities for the year. Derek will follow with the details on the quarter and our operating plans and outlook going forward. After Derek's comments, we'll open the call for analyst questions, followed by questions from the media. [Operator instructions].Now, before we begin today, I must state that today's call contains forward-looking statements, including statements concerning future revenues, costs, forecast of capacity and fleet plans. These statements represent our predictions and expectations of future events, but numerous risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ from those projected. Information about some of these risks and uncertainties can be found in our earnings press release that was issued this morning, as well as our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2022. In addition, we'll be discussing several non-GAAP financial measures this morning, which exclude the impact of unusual items. A reconciliation of those numbers to the GAAP financial measures is included in the earnings press release, which can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website. A webcast of this call will also be archived on our website. The information we are giving you on the call this morning is as of today's date, and we undertake no obligation to update the information subsequently. Thank you for your interest and for joining this morning. And with that, I'll turn the call over to our CEO, Robert Isom. 

 



Robert Isom -- Chief Executive Officer and Chief Recruitment Officer Thanks, Scott, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. We're going to keep our comments brief this morning. I'm a strong believer that the results speak louder than words, and I'm confident in the results the American Airlines team will produce. Now, let's start by thanking our team. Day in and day out, they're on the front line, taking care of our customers, no matter what comes our way. And we've certainly seen a lot come our way over the past two years. The American Airlines team has worked hard to position us well for the recovery, by simplifying our fleet, modernizing our facilities, fine-tuning our network, developing new partnerships, rolling out new tools for our customers and team, and hiring thousands of new team members, all that while flying the largest airline in the world. I'm excited to see their work pay off for all of our constituents, our customers, certainly, the communities we serve, our team, and notably, our shareholders. It's an honor for me to have the trust of our team and to succeed Doug Parker as CEO and to begin in this position as the industry rebrand and our company returns to profitability. I'm extremely grateful for the opportunity. It's a fantastic time for the industry and for American Airlines in particular.

 



 For the year ahead, we are resolute in achieving two key goals above all else, running a reliable operation and returning to profitability. Our team is up to the challenge, and we've already seen a lot of great progress. So let's talk about financials first. This morning, America reported a first quarter GAAP net loss of $1.6 billion. Excluding net special items, we reported a net loss of $1.5 billion for the quarter. Despite the quarterly loss in a difficult January and February due to the effects of Omicron, March results were markedly different. In March, we saw what's possible, with surging demand brought on by reduced infection rates, relaxed restrictions and tremendous pent-up demand for people to travel. Despite a sizable increase in the cost of fuel during March, American achieved our first monthly net profit, excluding special items, since July of 2021. Demand is as strong as we've ever seen it. American produced revenues of $8.9 billion in the first quarter, including industry-leading passenger revenues of $7.8 billion. Domestic leisure travel continued to lead the way, far surpassing 2019 levels of traffic and revenue in the month of March. In addition, we saw strong quarter-over-quarter improvement in corporate and government travel with revenue for this segment as a percentage of 2019 increasing 27 percentage points from January to March. System business demand is now about 80% recovered, with small to medium business revenue approaching a full recovery and corporate revenue now around 50% recovered. Corporate bookings are the highest that they've been since the onset of the pandemic, and we expect that to continue as more companies reopen their offices. We anticipate overall business revenue to be around 90% recovered in the second quarter. And finally, demand for international travel also picked up considerably during the quarter as travel restrictions were lifted in certain parts of the world. Long-haul international revenue was around 50% recovered in the first quarter and around 60% recovered in March. So there's still a lot of revenue upside as business and international travel continue to return. The American team has done an incredible job of setting up the airlines to take advantage of the rebound, pointing our network to where our customers want to fly, establishing partnerships in more challenging areas and making sure efficiency is top of mind. As a result, we're very optimistic about the continued recovery and expect to be profitable in the second quarter based on current demand trends and fuel price forecast. Turning to reliability. American ended 2021 with our strongest operating performance in the company's history. We're committed to maintaining that momentum in the first quarter, and we did. Despite two difficult winter storms in Dallas/Fort Worth, the team delivered a solid operating performance in the first quarter, leading the industry in on-time departures and finishing a close second at on-time arrivals. And they did so while flying a considerably larger schedule than our next largest competitor. More importantly, for the month of March, in the mid-peak spring break demand and high load factors, we delivered our best-ever combined March completion factor. Our operation in DFW and Charlotte, our two largest hubs, met or exceeded our expectations and delivered their best on-time performance and completion factor in years. As a result of our team's hard work, our likelihood to recommend scores continue to track in line with plan and are near the top of our post-merger performance. Running a reliable operation this summer will be critical to the continued recovery, and we have taken numerous steps to ensure we are well prepared to deliver for our customers. Our summer planning began last year as demand returned, and we haven't slowed down. American has 12,000 more team members in place to support the operation this summer than in the summer of 2021. We've already welcomed more than 600 new pilots this year, exceeding our goal. And we will continue to aggressively recruit, hire and train across all departments to develop the best pipeline of talent in the industry. We're ready for the summer, and we have sized the airline for the resources we have available. Again, we sized the airline for the resources that we have available. We've also made targeted investments in people, technology and resources that are yielding promising results for our team members and customers. So before I hand it over to Derek, I want to say that I'm really excited about the future of our industry and the future of American Airlines. There's still a lot of revenue upside going forward, given industry revenues are still off from their historical relationship to GDP, barriers to demand are falling and business and international trends are promising. There are also certain industry constraints on growth in the near term, notably related to pilot and aircraft supply. And at American, we have completed a $1.3 billion cost reduction program. And our unit cost performance will improve throughout the year as utilization approaches historic levels. No airline is better positioned to operate in this environment than American Airlines because of our fleet, our network and everything our team has accomplished over the past two years. And with that, I'll turn it over to Derek.Derek Kerr -- Vice Chairman, Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Robert, and good morning, everyone. Before I review the results, I want to acknowledge Doug for his more than 20 years as an airline CEO. Doug's leadership revolutionized the industry and laid the foundation for American success going forward. I also want to thank the American Airlines team. Their hard work and commitment to our customers and each other is truly extraordinary. This morning, we reported a first quarter GAAP net loss of $1.6 billion, or a loss of $2.52 per share. Excluding net special items, we reported a net loss of $1.5 billion or a loss of $2.32 per share. Revenue in the first quarter outperformed the initial expectations we outlined on our last call, despite flying less capacity than planned due to winter weather events that affected our largest hubs. Our first quarter revenue recovered to 84% compared to the same period in 2019 versus our original guide of 78% to 80% recovery. Demand recovery from the Omicron variant was swift. And while leisure demand remains very strong, as more companies return to their offices, business demand is growing quickly. On the cost side, in addition to the efficiencies we've spoken about previously, we remain focused on keeping our controllable costs down, ensuring we are a more efficient airline as we return to normalized levels of capacity and utilization. In fact, in the face of increased fuel prices, we were profitable for the month of March, excluding net special items, due to our strong revenue performance and cost efficiencies. Our fleet remains the youngest and most fuel-efficient among the U.S. global network carriers. This month, we completed our narrow-body fleet harmonization project. It covers more than 500 aircraft and will ensure a consistent product and better experience for customers, along with the improved revenue generation and unit cost production associated with the new seating configurations. In the first quarter, we took delivery of nine Airbus 321neos and reactivated seven previously stored Boeing 737-800s. We also inducted eight dual-class regional aircraft and parked three 50-seat Embraer 145s. As previously disclosed, we made several updates to our fleet order book and the timing of future deliveries, allowing us to better meet the demand strength in domestic and short-haul international markets. We previously announced our plans to exercise purchase options on 737 MAX-8s. 15 of these options are scheduled for delivery in 2023 and 15 in 2024. Additionally, with the continued uncertainty associated with our 787 deliveries, we are now planning for the delivery of only seven 788s in 2022, all after our summer schedule, with the remaining six 788 aircraft being delivered in 2023. The four 789 aircraft previously planned in late 2023 are now planned to be delivered in 2024. With these changes, our expected total aircraft capex is $1.8 billion in 2022 and $2.2 billion in 2023. We ended the first quarter with $15.5 billion of total available liquidity, significantly higher than our initial forecast due to ATL build of $2.3 billion in the quarter. We generated operating cash flow of $1.3 billion and free cash flow of more than $350 million in the first quarter. Deleveraging our balance sheet remains a top priority, and we are committed to significant debt reduction in the years ahead. Even in this volatile environment, we remain on track with our target of reducing overall debt levels by $15 billion by the end of 2025. During the quarter, we made $344 million in scheduled debt payments and completed $317 million in open market repurchases of our $750 million unsecured senior notes maturing in June. To date, we have reduced our overall debt levels by $4.1 billion from our peak levels in the second quarter of 2021. We expect to make $1 billion of scheduled debt payments in the second quarter, which includes the remaining outstanding balance of the unsecured senior notes. Lastly, with cost-efficient financing secured for all aircraft deliveries through the third quarter of this year, we are now beginning to evaluate financing options for the fourth quarter and first half of 2023. As we look at the second quarter, we expect to be profitable despite the expectation of continued elevated fuel prices. Pretax margins are expected to be between 3% and 5% for the quarter based on the current demand trends and our fuel price forecast. Based on current demand assumptions, we expect total revenue to be 6% to 8% higher versus the second quarter of 2019 on 6% to 8% lower capacity. That would be the first time we have produced total revenue greater than 2019 since the start of the pandemic. In fact, if we hit the midpoint of this revenue guide, the results would be the highest quarterly revenue in the company's history. On this revenue strength, we expect total revenue per available seat mile to be 14% to 16% higher in the second quarter versus the same period of 2019. We expect our second quarter CASM, excluding fuel and net special items, to be up between 8% and 10%. Our current forecast for the second quarter, which we pegged on Tuesday, assumes fuel between $3.59 and $3.64 per gallon, an increase of more than 60% versus the price of fuel in the second quarter of 2019. In the near term, the demand environment is strong, but margins are lower than they otherwise would have been given the recent run-up in fuel. Longer term, this industry has proven that it has the ability to recapture increases in the cost of fuel and be profitable at elevated fuel prices. We believe this time is no different. As for full year 2022 capacity, we now expect to be recovered to 92% to 94% of 2019 levels. The reduction in full year capacity from our prior guide is largely due to 788 delivery delays that I touched on earlier. This capacity guidance is, of course, subject to future demand environment and fuel prices. Consequently, with this lower level of capacity, we now expect our full year CASM, excluding fuel and net special items, to be up between 8% and 10% versus 2019. In conclusion, with the actions we have taken and the commitment of our team, we remain very well positioned. We remain focused on running a reliable operation and returning to profitability, which we expect to happen in the second quarter. With that, we'll open up the line for analyst questions. 