  OperatorLadies and gentlemen, welcome to the Cognizant Technology Solutions third-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] Thank you. I would now like to turn this conference over to Mr. Tyler Scott, vice president, Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir. You may begin your presentation.Tyler Scott -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, operator, and good afternoon, everyone. By now, you should have received a copy of the earnings release and the investor supplement for the company's third-quarter 2021 results. If you have not, copies are available on our website cognizant.com. The speakers we have on today's call are Brian Humphries, chief executive officer; and Jan Siegmund, chief financial officer. Before we begin, I would like to remind you that some of the comments made on today's call and some of the responses to your questions may contain forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to the risks and uncertainties as described in the company's earnings release and other filings with the SEC. Additionally, during our call today, we will reference certain non-GAAP financial measures that we believe provide useful information to our investors. Reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures, where appropriate, to the corresponding GAAP measures can be found in the company's earnings release and other filings with the SEC.With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Brian Humphries. Please go ahead, Brian. Brian Humphries -- Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thank you, Tyler. Good afternoon, everyone. We executed well in the third quarter, delivering revenue of $4.7 billion, up 11.8 percent year over year or 11 percent in constant currency. Bookings growth, a key leading indicator, accelerated to 24 percent year-over-year growth in the third quarter. Our book-to-bill ratio of 1.2 times revenue on a trailing 12-month basis underscores our commercial momentum. I'm grateful to our teams around the world for their resourcefulness in meeting our client commitments despite a challenging labor market. We delivered solid sequential adjusted operating margin expansion in the third quarter as we offset the cost of increased hiring with cost discipline elsewhere. I'm also pleased with our progress against our key strategic initiatives. For example, third-quarter digital revenue grew 18 percent year over year. Digital represents 44 percent of our overall revenue mix. We expect this percentage to grow in future periods, positioning Cognizant for both top-line momentum and margin expansion. Moreover, the intimacy of our c suite engagement increases as we serve clients in their digital transformations. Better than expected growth in our nondigital business impacted our digital mix progression but is, nonetheless, a welcome outcome. During the third quarter, we saw continued strong top-line momentum in our digital business operation's practice, reflecting our differentiated offerings for digital natives or BPaaS leadership position in healthcare and our strength in intelligence process automation solutions. We recently announced Cognizant Neuro, a simpler and more effective way for clients to achieve the full potential of intelligent process automation and speed time to results. Everest Group, a leading industry analyst firm, recently recognized Cognizant Neuro as an exciting development to enable automation at scale.

 



 Moving to industry segments. Financial services' ongoing recovery were continued with a growth of 4.3 percent year over year in constant currency, in line with our expectations. We posted strong double-digit growth year over year in constant currency in products and resources and in communications, media, and technology. Within products and resources, we continued to deliver excellent growth in manufacturing, logistics, energy, and utilities, as well as across retail, consumer goods, and travel, and hospitality, which have recovered to pandemic levels. In communications, media, and technology, we continue to lead with our digital engineering capability to win transformation deals while leveraging our alliances to be a premier cloud transformation partner. In healthcare, we had another solid quarter, achieving 9.8 percent constant currency growth. Momentum in life sciences continued. Demand across payers remained strong and we're beginning to see an uptick in demand across providers as they look to digital technologies to help reduce operating costs and strengthen new channels for delivering care. Our products business saw continued double-digit growth in Q3. We're expanding our footprint in the healthcare market and adding new growth members on our platforms. We're also well underway with our digital transformation of our products, including the launch of our connected interoperability solutions to help clients provide secure, real-time data access, and meet compliance deadlines. We're proud of the work we're doing in partnership with clients like Parkland Community Health Plan. Parkland was looking for better ways to meet the growing needs of its medically underserved populations in Texas and to better manage its health insurance claims, member transactions, and network of physicians and hospitals. Our TriZetto QNXT Core Administration platform, delivered in a BPaaS model is enabling delivery of care management, claims processing, member services, provider services, and quality on a single platform, thereby enhancing care coordination and member experiences. Our healthcare business is a hugely strategic asset. I'm pleased with the progress we've made accelerating growth in healthcare and I'm optimistic in our future prospects as healthcare companies modernize their business to address the need for enhanced client experiences, including virtual care solutions. Let's turn now to strategy, including our digital ambitions. I remain bullish on both the macro demand environment and Cognizant's growing momentum in digital. Clients continue to accelerate their investment in digital operating models to improve their customer and employee experiences and modernize their operations through data automation and cloud. While most companies have launched digital initiatives, few have made the shift to a fully digital operating model. Cognizant is now one of the few global firms that can serve clients across all stages of their digital transformation from modernizing their technology foundation to implementing agile workflows. This is in part a result of investing approximately $3 billion in mergers and acquisitions over the past few years to broaden our portfolio while strengthening our relationships with hyperscalers and key partners. A good client example is Cabot Corporation, a global leader in specialty chemicals and performance materials, who recently engaged us to help transform their digital operating model. We'll be providing application development and maintenance, as well as infrastructure and operations services, and enabling Cabot to create and enhance digital experience that drives value for its customers and employees. Scaling our international operations is another strategic priority. And during the third quarter, we grew bookings and revenue solidly in both Europe and the Rest of World with a highlight being 19 percent constant currency revenue growth in the United Kingdom. We remain optimistic on our international market prospects and aim to accelerate growth as we invest in our talents, brand, partnerships, and operations. Global biopharma leader, Sanofi, has selected Cognizant as a strategic partner to deploy an omni-channel customer engagement model. The solution will enable their customer-facing teams to engage with healthcare professionals via new digital channels to provide them with personalized content and also suggest next best actions. Cognizant deployed the cloud-based CRM, integrated marketing automation, and intelligence data platform to the first 18 markets in just eight months. And For Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs, the UK government's tax authority, we're providing broad technology expertise across its Pega technology stack and enabling Pega application development and operational support that will facilitate case management and customer service applications. Moving on now to the intensifying competition for talent across multiple industries. The demand-supply imbalance in our industry remains particularly acute. Third-quarter voluntary attrition reached 33 percent on an annualized basis or 24 percent on a trailing 12-month basis. As a reminder, when we measure attrition, we count the entire company, including trainees and corporate across IT services and BPO. Despite elevated attrition, we increased our net headcount in Q3 by over 17,000 sequentially, which speaks to the tremendous work and effectiveness of our recruitment team. Given our focus in recent years on accelerating fresher hiring in India, we've made meaningful progress in addressing our pyramid. In the fourth quarter, we expect to make offers to 45,000 new graduates in India for onboarding in 2022. Retention and recruitment have our leadership's full attention. We are continuing our comprehensive program to support our associates' career growth and engagement through a range of initiatives that include committed annual increases, an evolved approach to promotions, job boards so associates can easily explore open leadership roles companywide, abundant new training and development programs, sustained communication with our commitment to belonging and inclusion across our company and to society more broadly, and the continuing pursuit of an ESG agenda, which shows special meaning for our associates. To this point, earlier this year, we published our first ESG report and set out on a path to reduce our emissions and increase our energy efficiency. Last week, we announced Cognizant's commitment to achieve net-zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. We plan to achieve this net-zero goal through ongoing investments in renewable energy, building on our initial success in India where a quarter of our energy has come from renewable sources since 2020. We will also be investing in new energy-efficient technologies across our offices and data centers globally. In addition, we will extend our expertise in cloud IoT and AI to help clients meet their sustainability goals. In closing, while the industry faces an unprecedented competition for talent, during the third quarter, we attracted a record number of employees to Cognizant and stayed focused on delivering against our client commitments and our strategic repositioning. We are bullish on the industry and on our growing commercial momentum. Jan and I look forward to discussing Cognizant's future with you at our November 18th investor briefing. With that, I'll turn the call over to Jan, who will cover the details of the quarter and our financial outlook before we take your questions. Jan, over to you.Jan Siegmund -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Brian, and good afternoon, everyone. Our Q3 revenue was $4.7 billion, representing growth of approximately 12 percent or 11 percent at constant currency. Revenue growth was led by digital, which grew 18 percent and represented 44 percent of total revenue for the quarter. As Brian mentioned earlier, our digital business operations practice area is also growing strongly. Year-over-year growth includes approximately 300 basis points of growth from our recent acquisitions. Moving on to segment results where all growth rates provided will be year over year and constant currency. Financial services revenue increased approximately four percent, in line with our expectations. We continue to make steady progress as we reposition this business and have seen recent improvements in bookings and pipeline. We continue to expect modest growth for this segment for the full year. Health care revenue increased approximately 10 percent, again driven by strong performance in both our healthcare and life sciences businesses. Revenue growth within our healthcare business was primarily organic and demand for our integrated software solutions remains strong. We also remain very pleased with our life sciences business, which grew double digits organically year over year Products and resources revenue increased approximately 18 percent, driven by the six consecutive quarters of double-digit growth in manufacturing, logistics, energy, and utilities. Retail and consumer goods and travel and hospitality also grew double digits year over year with both sectors experiencing healthy demand for digital services as they recover from the impact of the pandemic in 2020. Segment growth also included approximately 600 basis points from inorganic revenue. Communications, media, and technology revenue grew 19 percent, of which approximately 500 basis points of growth was attributable to recent acquisitions. Organic growth was led by our technology business, where our work with digital native clients has continued to drive growth in our core portfolio. From a geographic perspective, North America grew approximately 10 percent year over year, driven by demand from healthcare, life sciences, manufacturing, logistics, energy, and utilities, and technology. Growth in North America also included the benefit of recently completed acquisitions across segments. Revenue outside of North America grew approximately 16 percent year over year in constant currency, led by growth in the UK. We're also experiencing strong growth in Germany and Australia, driven in part by our recently completed acquisitions of ESG Mobility and Servian, respectively. Now, moving on to margins. In Q3, our GAAP operating margin was 15.4 percent, and adjusted operating margin was 15.8 percent. Adjusted operating margin excludes the impact from the legal settlement, which if approved by the court, will resolve the previously disclosed 2016 securities class action lawsuit. On a year-over-year basis, adjusted operating margin declined approximately 10 basis points. Continued elevated attrition resulted in higher subcontractor, recruiting, and other delivery costs. Additionally, our recently completed acquisitions negatively impacted our margin and we continue to invest in SG and A to drive and support organic revenue growth and modernize our core IT and security infrastructure. These headwinds were partially offset by savings from our cost initiatives in 2020 and 2021. Our GAAP tax rate in the quarter was 25.6 percent and our adjusted tax rate was 26 percent toward the high end of our full-year guidance. Diluted GAAP EPS was $1.03 and adjusted diluted EPS was $1.06. Now, turning to the balance sheet. We ended the quarter with cash and short-term investments of $2.4 billion or net cash of $1.7 billion. Free cash flow of -- in Q3 was $897 million, representing approximately 165 percent of net income and in line with our expectations. Year to date, free cash flow of $1.5 billion represents over 90 percent of net income. DSO of 72 days increased by one day sequentially and is flat with the prior-year period. Management remains keenly focused on this metric and it is a key lever for free cash flow conversion in the future. During the quarter, we repurchased 1.3 million shares for $100 million under our share repurchase program and returned $127 million to shareholders through our regular dividend. Year to date, we have returned over $1 billion to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends, in line with our previously disclosed capital allocation framework. During the quarter, we also spent cash of $57 million on acquisitions, bringing the year-to-date spend on acquisitions to over $700 million. Turning to guidance. For Q4, we expect revenue in the range of $4.75 billion to $4.79 billion, representing year-over-year growth of 13.5 percent to 14.5 percent, or 13.3 percent to 14.3 percent in constant currency. Our guidance assumes currency will have a favorable 20-basis-points impact and inorganic contribution of approximately 310 basis points. As a reminder, Q4 2020 revenue was negatively impacted by the $107 million charge related to our proposed financial services contract exit, which is expected to benefit Q4 2021 year-over-year growth compared by approximately 250 basis points. At the midpoint of our Q4 revenue outlook, we expect full-year revenue of $18.5 billion, representing 11.1 percent growth or 9.8 percent growth in constant currency. With that, we are guiding toward the high end of our prior full-year guidance. Our outlook assumes currency will have a favorable 130-basis-points impact and includes 330-basis-points contribution from inorganic revenue. Our guidance also assumes continued momentum across healthcare, CMT, and products and resources, and a modest growth in financial services for the full year. Moving on to margins. Our full-year adjusted operating margin outlook is unchanged at approximately 15.4 percent. As I mentioned earlier, elevated attrition is leading to increased costs in certain areas, including recruiting and subcontractor costs in addition to higher wages for lateral hires. We also continue to invest significantly in our people through increased compensation, rolling quarterly promotions for billable associates, and training. As a reminder, our annual merit increase for the majority of our associates is effective October 1. This will impact our Q4 margin and imply the sequential decline in adjusted operating margin from Q3. To partially offset these headwinds, we continue to moderate the pace of our nonstrategic SG and A spend. This leads to our full-year adjusted EPS guidance, which is $4.02 to $4.06, compared to the $4 to $4.06 previously. Our full-year outlook assumes interest income of approximately $30 million, compared to $25 million to $30 million previously. Outlook assumes average shares outstanding of approximately $528 million and a tax rate of 25 percent to 26 percent. Both share count and tax rate are unchanged from our prior outlook. Finally, we continue to expect free cash flow will represent approximately 100 percent of net income for the full year. With that, we will open the call for your questions. 