  Bryan Gill Well, good morning, and welcome to today's conference call for the PNC Financial Services Group. Participating on this call are PNC's chairman, president, and CEO, Bill Demchak; and Rob Reilly, executive vice president and CFO. Today's presentation contains forward-looking information. Cautionary statements about this information as well as reconciliations of non-GAAP measures are included in today's earnings release materials as well as our SEC filings and other investor materials. These materials are all available on our corporate website, pnc.com, under investor relations. These statements speak only as of January 18, 2022, and PNC undertakes no obligation to update them. Now I'd like to turn the call over to Bill.Bill Demchak -- Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thanks, Bryan, and good morning, everybody. As you've seen, we had a strong fourth quarter and full year for 2021. We successfully completed the conversion of BBVA USA early in the fourth quarter and have been running hard as one bank since then. The transaction continues to meet or exceed our deal projections, and Rob will give you some of those details. I'm especially pleased by our ability to announce, close, and convert a transaction of this size inside of 11 months. Challenges notwithstanding, we had the talent, the technology and the strategy to accomplish this, and to combine our organization in a way that will provide growth opportunities for years to come. The acquisition positions us with a coast-to-coast presence. And along with our continued organic growth strategies, including our recent expansion into Las Vegas, we now have a presence in all of the top 30 U.S. markets. We're excited about the opportunity this presents. And we are confident in our ability to generate growth by executing on our Main Street relationship-based model. That said, we recognize that we have a lot of work to do in building out the new and expansion markets, which will be our primary focus in 2022. BBVA obviously impacted our results for the full year, and Rob will walk you through the details. Excluding BBVA, we generated record revenue, highlighted by strong non-interest income, with broad-based contributions across our commercial and consumer businesses. We also maintained outstanding credit quality and a very strong capital position. While we continue to opportunistically deploy some of our excess cash into higher-yielding securities throughout the year, we remain well positioned with substantial excess liquidity to capitalize on a rising interest rate environment.

 



 Our reported results for the fourth quarter reflected the impact of almost $440 million of BBVA integration costs. Excluding these, we generated nearly $1.6 billion of net income and solid returns. Importantly, excluding the impact of PPP loan forgiveness, we saw decent underlying loan growth trends and some uptick in utilization rates, which is very encouraging, as Rob will discuss in more detail. Critical to our long-term success has been the quality and stability of our talent. And we pride ourselves as being an employer of choice, given the recent dynamics of the substantially increased competition for talent. In part due to the great resignation, we experienced greater wage pressure during the fourth quarter, and I expect that to persist into the coming year. Naturally, we'll look to offset these increases with our continuous improvement efforts, which include driving further automation and rethinking core processes. We continue to invest in technology to enhance our capabilities in an increasingly digital world. Customers are looking to their financial providers to offer innovative tools that help them manage their money in ways that are faster, smarter and more convenient, whether that be expanded use cases for Zelle, where transaction volumes are up 50% or low cash flow. For example, by providing account transparency and control, low cash mode has substantially reduced customer overdraft fees and related complaints. I'll close by thanking our employees for their hard work and steadfast commitment to our customers and communities. Because of our employees, we had a remarkable year and are well positioned to serve all of our stakeholders in 2022 and beyond. And with that, I'll turn it over to Rob for a closer look at our results, and then we'll take your questions. 

 



Rob Reilly -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Bill, and good morning, everyone. Our balance sheet is on Slide 5 and is presented on an average basis. Overall, year-over-year balance sheet growth was primarily driven by the acquisition of BBVA USA. Loans grew 18%. Investment securities increased 49%, and deposits grew 26%. Looking at the linked quarter changes, loans for the fourth quarter were $289 billion, a decline of $2.4 billion or 1%. Excluding $4.7 billion of PPP forgiveness activity, loans grew $2.3 billion or 1%. And I'll cover the drivers in more detail over the next few slides. Investment securities increased $7 billion, or 6%, as we maintained higher purchasing activity throughout much of the quarter. Accordingly, cash balances at the Federal Reserve declined by $5 billion. On the liability side, deposit balances declined $1.6 billion, as higher commercial and consumer deposits were offset by runoff deposits related to the strategic repricing of certain BBVA USA portfolios during the third quarter, and that negatively impacted fourth quarter average balances. However, on a spot basis, total deposits as of December 31 increased $8 billion, or 2%, reflecting the continued strong liquidity positions of our customers. At year-end, our tangible book value was $94.11 per common share and our CET1 ratio was estimated to be 10.2%, which are both substantially above the pro forma levels we anticipated when we announced the deal. During the quarter, we returned approximately $1.1 billion of capital to shareholders via common dividends of $500 million and share repurchases of $600 million. Given our strong capital ratios, we continue to be well positioned with significant capital flexibility going forward. Slide 6 shows our average loans and deposits in more detail. In the fourth quarter, loans declined $2.4 billion, as growth in commercial and consumer loans was more than offset by a decline in PPP loans of $4.7 billion. Excluding the impact of PPP, commercial loans grew by $2.2 billion or 1%, driven by growth in corporate banking and asset-based lending. During the fourth quarter, we continue to see a slow and steady increase in utilization rates within our Corporate and Institutional Banking business, and along with that expanded pipelines. Taken together, these factors are driving our expectations for higher loan growth in 2022. Consumer loans increased modestly linked quarter, as higher residential real estate balances were mostly offset by lower home equity and auto loans. Finally, as I mentioned, PPP loans continued to decline due to forgiveness activity. And as of December 31, $3.4 billion of PPP loans remained on our balance sheet. Average deposits of $453 billion declined by $1.6 billion linked quarter for the reasons I previously mentioned. Overall, our rate paid on interest-bearing deposits remained stable at four basis points. Slide 7 details the change in our average securities and federal reserve balances. As rates increased at the end of the third quarter and throughout the fourth quarter, we continue to opportunistically add securities to our portfolio, primarily U.S. treasuries. As a result, securities balances averaged $128 billion in the fourth quarter, an increase of $7.2 billion or 6% compared to the third quarter of 2021 and now represent 26% of interest-earning assets. We continue to have substantial excess liquidity, with Fed cash balances averaging $75 billion during the fourth quarter, which we believe positions us well for a rising rate environment. As you can see on Slide 8, fourth quarter 2021 reported EPS was $2.86 and which included pre-tax integration costs of $438 million. Excluding integration costs, adjusted EPS was $3.68. As expected, during the fourth quarter, we incurred essentially half of our total anticipated deal integration costs, which reduced revenue by $47 million and increased expenses by $391 million. With the announcement of the acquisition, we've now incurred approximately 95% of the total $980 million expected integration costs, including $120 million of write-offs for capitalized items. Excluding the impact of integration costs, linked quarter revenue was down $31 million or 1%. Expenses increased $48 million, or 1%, and pre-tax pre-provision earnings declined $79 million, or 4%. The fourth quarter provision recapture was $327 million, reflecting continued improvements in the economic environment. Net income, excluding pre-tax integration costs of $438 million, was $1.6 billion in the fourth quarter. Now let's discuss the key drivers of this performance in more detail. Turning to Slide 9. These charts illustrate our diversified business mix. Total revenue for the fourth quarter of $5.1 billion decreased $70 million linked quarter, reflecting lower non-interest income. Net interest income of $2.9 billion, was up slightly, primarily a result of higher securities balances. Net interest margin was stable at 2.27%. As I mentioned, integration costs reduced non-interest income by $47 million, which included $19 million of lease exit costs, $17 million of treasury management fee waivers, and $11 million of overdraft waivers. Fourth quarter fee income, excluding integration costs, was $1.9 billion and declined $39 million or 2% linked quarter. Looking at the detail. Asset management fees increased $3 million, or 1%, primarily related to higher average equity markets. Consumer services grew $12 million, or 2%, due to higher brokerage and credit card revenue. Corporate service fees increased $14 million, or 2%, reflecting higher loan syndications activity as well as continued elevated corporate advisory activity. Residential mortgage non-interest income declined $46 million, driven by lower RMSR valuation adjustments and loan sales revenue. Service charges on deposits decreased $22 million, primarily a result of converting BBVA USA customers to PNC's product in [Inaudible] draft pricing structure. Other non-interest income, excluding integration costs, was stable linked quarter, as the impact of a $1 million positive Visa derivative fair value adjustment in the fourth quarter compared to a negative adjustment of $169 million in the third quarter was offset by lower private equity revenue. Turning to Slide 10. Our fourth quarter expenses were up by $204 million, or 6% linked quarter. The growth was primarily driven by $156 million increase in integration expenses. Excluding the impact of integration expenses of $391 million, non-interest expense increased $48 million, or 1%. The growth was largely within personnel costs driven by higher employee benefits expense, an increase in our minimum hourly rate of pay as well as elevated incentive compensation related to strong fee activity. We had a 2021 goal of $300 million in cost savings through our continuous improvement program, and we successfully completed actions to achieve that goal. Looking forward to 2022, our annual CIP goal will once again be $300 million. Importantly, as of year-end 2021, we completed all of the actions that will drive $900 million of savings related to the BBVA USA acquisition, which we expect to be fully realized in 2022 and is reflected in our expense guidance that I will provide in a few minutes. Our credit metrics are presented on Slide 11. Non-performing loans of $2.5 billion decreased $48 million or 2% compared to September 30 and continue to represent less than 1% of total loans. Total delinquencies of $2 billion on December 31 increased $516 million, or 35%. Obviously, this was a large increase. However, it was primarily driven by BBVA USA conversion-related, administrative and operational delays, which we expect will largely be resolved within the first half of 2022. Net charge-offs for loans and leases were $124 million, an increase of $43 million linked quarter. Commercial net charge-offs declined $5 million, offset by an increase of $48 million in consumer. Inside of the higher consumer net charge-offs, auto grew $28 million and other consumer increased $13 million, reflecting conversion-related impacts as well as seasonality. Our annualized net charge-offs to average loans continues to be low and in the fourth quarter was 17 basis points. And during the fourth quarter, our allowance for credit losses declined $471 million, reflecting continued improvements in the economic environment. At quarter end, our reserves were $5.5 billion, representing 1.92% of loans. In summary, PNC reported a strong fourth quarter, which concluded a successful 2021. And we're well positioned for 2022 as we continue to realize the potential of our coast-to-coast franchise. In regard to our view of the overall economy, we expect strong growth over the course of 2022, resulting in 3.5% GDP growth. We also expect four 25 basis point increases in the Fed funds rate in 2022. Beginning in May, followed by additional increases in June, September and December. Looking ahead, our full year guidance for 2022 includes the impact of 12-months of BBVA USA results compared to only 7-months in 2021. Taking that into account our outlook for full year 2022 compared to 2021 results is as follows. We expect average loan growth of approximately 10% and 5% on a spot basis. We expect total revenue growth to be 8% to 10%. We expect expenses, excluding integration expense, to be up 4% to 6%. And to be clear here, this includes five additional months of BBVA USA operating expenses, which equates to a full year increase of approximately $500 million. And we expect our effective tax rate to be approximately 18%. Based on this guidance, we expect we will generate solid positive operating leverage in 2022. Looking ahead at the first quarter of 2022, compared to the recent fourth quarter 2021 results, we expect average loan balances, excluding PPP, to be up approximately 1% to 2%. We expect NII to be down approximately 1% to 2%, reflecting two fewer days in the quarter, and a decline of approximately $75 million in PPP-related interest income. We expect fee income to be down 4% to 6%, due to seasonally lower first quarter client activity as well as elevated fourth quarter fees in certain categories. We expect other non-interest income to be between $375 million and $425 million, excluding integration costs as well as net securities and lease activities. Taking our guidance for all components of revenue into consideration, we expect total revenue to decline approximately 3% to 5%. We expect total non-interest expense, excluding integration costs, to be down approximately 4% to 6%. And during the quarter, we expect to incur $30 million of integration expense. Finally, we expect first quarter net charge-offs to be between $100 million and $150 million. And with that, Bill and I are ready to take your questions. 