  OperatorGood day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the MSCI third-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded. I would now like to turn the call over to Salli Schwartz, head of investor relations and treasurer. You may begin.Salli Schwartz -- Head of Investor Relations and Treasurer Thank you, operator. Good day and welcome to the MSCI third-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. Earlier this morning, we issued a press release announcing our results for the third-quarter 2021. This press release, along with an earnings presentation we will reference on this call, as well as a brief quarterly update, are available on our website, msci.com, under the investor relations tab.

 



 Let me remind you that this call contains forward-looking statements. You're cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made and are governed by the language on the second slide of today's presentation. For a discussion of additional risks and uncertainties, please see the risk factors and forward-looking statements disclaimer in our most recent Form 10-K and in our other SEC filings. During today's call, in addition to results presented on the basis of U.S.GAAP, we also refer to non-GAAP measures, including, but not limited to, organic operating revenue growth rates, adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA expenses, adjusted EPS, and free cash flow. We believe our non-GAAP measures facilitate meaningful period-to-period comparisons and provide insight into our core operating performance. You'll find a reconciliation to the equivalent GAAP measures in the earnings materials and an explanation of why we deem this information to be meaningful as well as how management uses these measures in the appendix of the earnings presentation. We will also discuss run rate, which estimates at a particular point in time the annualized value of the recurring revenues under our client agreements for the next 12 months, subject to a variety of adjustments and exclusions that we detail in our SEC filings. As a result of those adjustments and exclusions, the actual amount of recurring revenues we will realize over the following 12 months will differ from run rate. We therefore caution you not to place undue reliance on run rate to estimate or forecast recurring revenues. Additionally, we will discuss organic run rate growth figures, which exclude the impact of changes in foreign currency and the impact of any acquisitions or divestitures. On the call this morning are Henry Fernandez, our chairman and CEO; Baer Pettit, our president and COO; and Andy Wiechmann, our chief financial officer. [Operator instructions] With that, let me now turn the call over to Henry Fernandez. Henry? 

 



Henry Fernandez -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Salli, and thank you also for everything you have done for MSCI for the last two years. Hello, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. Our organic revenue growth of more than 20% and excellent performance more broadly this quarter is further evidence of the accelerating demand we are seeing across MSCI. It also validate the investment that we have already executed on, including those we identified at investor day earlier this year. In my 25 years leading MSCI, I cannot remember a time when we have seen so much demand for our products and solutions and has so many attractive opportunities. As the investment industry continues to transform, our clients are turning to MSCI to create standards and offer solutions across market cap and non-market cap indices in both equity and fixed income, risk management products and services, factor models, ESG ratings and data, climate data and analytics and insights and tools for managing private assets. Let me just give you a few examples where demand for our solutions is off the charts. In climate, we see interest exploding across our client base for data, tools, models, and solutions within every asset class and across every aspect of the investment process. Ultimately, we want MSCI's climate offerings to be the common language that capital markets participants use to discuss climate. We want to help market participants navigate the largest-scale reallocation of capital in history as industries and global economies begin to decarbonize. You will therefore see us to continue to invest heavily in our climate offerings. You would also see us leading key strategic initiatives in the world which are focused on impacting the global transition to a net-zero economy.

 



 We recently hosted global asset owners, asset managers and policymakers at the MSCI Global Investing Conference, our flagship client event. This year, we focused the discussion in that conference on climate in the lead-up to MSCI's involvement at the UN COP26 Conference in Glasgow next week. In September, MSCI joined Mark Carney, the U.S. -- the UN representative for climate, in playing a pivotal role in establishing the Net Zero Financial Services Providers Alliance. Collectively, the alliance members will give asset owners, asset managers, banks, insurance companies, companies, and other financial institutions the information they need to pursue decarbonization strategies and help the world reach net zero by 2050. MSCI is well positioned to be a key driver of the critical global dialogue regarding climate change. We already have long-term, deep strategic relationships with global asset owners, asset managers, and other key market participants. And we have a well-established and growing leadership within ESG. To that end, I'd like to talk about ESG separately from Climate. We continue to invest in comprehensive securities coverage for MSCI's ESG ratings. This includes the entire MSCI ACWI universe for equities, consisting, of course, of developed and emerging markets included in the MSCI equity indices as well as equity derivatives. It also spans across fixed income, especially corporate bonds, but also including munis, structured products, and sovereign bonds. In addition to ESG ratings, we're also enhancing our ESG models and data architecture to provide clients with more granular data. In addition to carbon emissions and governance metrics, we hear strong interest in having more data on social factors, perhaps not surprisingly given ongoing social justice issues and broader appreciation for the impact these considerations can have in creating or destroying shareholder value. In ESG, we're also investing in our sales and client service organization in order to serve a variety of needs across every part of the investment process, including from corporates and their advisors. Demand in ESG is truly on fire, and you will see us continue to invest heavily in this area. Another area where we see relentless demand for our offering is in custom indices. We highlighted this area during our February investor day, and interest from our clients has been accelerating even since then. Investors are increasingly looking for custom-built indices where they can choose their own universe, weightings, screening, hedging, and other characteristics. This demand is likely to explode in the area of direct indexing. MSCI has already made a number of investments to this end, and we will increase our base of investments to meet this accelerating demand for custom indices. Another area of renewed focus and high demand is our Factor franchise, which this quarter, topped $300 million in run rate, up more than 11% year over year. We continue to innovate in content, enhance our front-office workflows and expand our distribution through partners and newer software applications. I will now provide a quick note on the wider operating environment for us. Our clients are engaged. They're feeling optimistic despite some of the concerns we all hear about inflation, rising rates, potential economic slowdown as a result of COVID, and even political and geopolitical issue. We see that optimism continuing and translating into higher demand for our products and services. We believe that we have never had a more attractive set of opportunities across MSCI as we see today. With that, I'll turn over the call to Baer Pettit, my partner in this business for more than 21 years. Baer?Baer Pettit -- President and Chief Operating Officer Thank you, Henry, and greetings, everyone. In my comments today, I'd like to unpack the enormous opportunities that Henry described as well as some of the associated Triple-Crown investing actions that have continued to fuel our strong growth. Our pace of new product and technology development is faster than it has ever been as we race to meet client demand. First, related to our products and services on climate change, we now have a run rate that totals more than $35 million in this category, well over double our footprint from last year. Our range of offerings and capabilities is expanding rapidly. We believe it is still very early days in what this franchise can ultimately be. At our recent MSCI Global Investing Conference, investors spoke with us about the need to holistically measure net zero progress in their portfolios and for individual corporate issuers. MSCI recently launched Climate Lab, a first-in-kind visualization dashboard that combines our climate data with MSCI's analytical risk and portfolio management capabilities. We have made a series of investments to build comprehensive Scope 1 and Scope 2 data sets on thousands of issuers, which will now serve as the basis of better understanding the Scope 3 data of companies which comes from their supply chains. Additionally, MSCI's analytics platforms are powering Climate Lab portfolio analysis capabilities, offering the first at-scale portfolio reporting in the market. This is critical for our clients to meet TCFD and SFTR requirements. Our newly launched Implied Temperature Rise metric is another way that we are bringing transparency to net zero alignment goals. The Implied Temperature Rise is derived from a given company's existing activities and their specific future pledges from which we create a common measure of comparison for alignment to climate goals. This forward-looking estimate allows investors to set decarbonization targets and support engagement on climate risk at both the company and the portfolio level. ITR is available for nearly 10,000 issuers and is aligned with recommendations published by the TCFD portfolio alignment team. We also just launched carbon footprinting of private equity and debt funds, a new service from Burgiss and MSCI. This offering enables private equity LPs and GPs to measure and monitor the greenhouse gas emissions of their portfolios based on data estimates for over 15,000 companies in more than 4,000 active private equity and debt funds. Next, I'd like to speak about our ESG franchise, which remains a distinct enormous opportunity that enables our success in climate. As you can see from the numbers, our ESG business continues to grow at an extremely attractive rate, driven by heavy client demand as we rapidly expand the universe of data sets we can offer as well as modernize the data consumption interfaces for our clients. With 63% year-on-year run rate growth in our firmwide ESG and climate franchise, which now totals $312 million, it is critical that we keep ahead of client demand with investments in this complex and ever-evolving category. Besides the need to cover an increasing universe of securities and issuers and the demand for sales and service across numerous client segments globally, we also have increasing demand for such categories as corporate governance factors and quantitative diversity metrics and various other qualitative indicators. I'd now like to address index, which continues to be a huge growth engine for MSCI. Besides the resilience of our market cap franchise, we continue to see strong growth across ESG and climate in Factor as well as in new categories such as thematics. We think of our non-market cap indexes collectively as investment thesis index. As the traditional barriers between active management and index investing break down, we're seeing large demand for innovation in investment thesis indexes of all kinds. One manifestation of this is in our custom index business, where investors of all types are in search of solutions they view as matching the market opportunities they see. MSCI has established the standard in defining the investment opportunity set based on our robust investment framework and rules-based methodologies. But clients want to tailor this opportunity set to create and manage portfolios, combining their investment thesis with MSCI's expertise in analyzing markets and in index construction. As of the end of the third quarter, subscription run rate growth for our custom and special index solutions have grown 18% year over year. This is an area we believe will continue to have strong demand and where you will thus see us continue to invest. We will soon be launching a beta version of MSCI Index Builder, a web-based application that allows users to design, test, and subscribe to custom indexes directly from the site. Index Builder will deliver greater speed and control to our clients as well as further modernize their experience with MSCI indexes. I also wanted to make a few brief comments related to our fixed income franchise. We have made meaningful investments to bolster our data single security analytics and range of fixed income instrument coverage in order to enhance our portfolio management analytics offering. We are seeing very attractive growth, albeit from a small base, year over year. With regard to our Fixed Income Index franchise, we have licensed a number of important clients for product creation during the third quarter. And in keeping with our strength in ESG, the AUM in fixed income ETFs linked to MSCI Bloomberg Barclays indexes totaled nearly $27 billion, up 122% year over year. Before I turn the call over to Andy, I'd like to provide an update on our acquisition of Real Capital Analytics, or RCA, which we recently closed. As you may recall from our announcement of the transaction in August, we view RCA as meaningfully accelerating MSCI's Private Asset strategy. Commercial real estate property values have already been an important component of MSCI's Real Estate product offerings. Now with RCA's rich transaction and pricing data, we see a wealth of use cases that we could integrate into cash flow models, liquidity models, asset allocation tools, and many other solutions. Early client feedback has been quite positive as MSCI has also meaningfully extended key front-office capabilities such as due diligence, deal sourcing, and transaction data. The RCA acquisition has also significantly bolstered our real estate research capabilities. Looking ahead, I'm confident the investments we are making today will well position us to capture even greater opportunities in the future. We are capitalizing on the volume and velocity of client demand for our offerings, and we will continue to make investments in the context of our rigorous Triple-Crown framework. Let me now turn the call over to Andy. Andy?Andy Wiechmann -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Baer, and hi, everyone. The results for the quarter reflect the enormous demand that Henry and Baer spoke about, which is translating into strength across most parts of our business. We had the best third quarter on record for both companywide recurring net new sales and for total recurring subscription sales in both our index and ESG and climate segments. We also saw a record quarter in firmwide nonrecurring sales following strong performance in nonrecurring sales in both Q1 and Q2. This strength has been driven by wins in index from sales associated with license and usage fees related to prior periods, derivatives licenses, and our data packages. I would highlight that these sales tend to be somewhat lumpy by nature, and we would expect nonrecurring sales in Q4 to be lower. Across client segments, we saw a strong organic growth with sales from both established and newer client segments as well as resilient or improved retention rates. Asset managers and asset owners, which now together comprise nearly $1 billion of our subscription run rate, collectively grew approximately 11% organically. And looking forward, our sales pipeline across products and regions and intensity of client engagement continue to be quite healthy. From a firmwide perspective, the 12% organic subscription run rate growth benefited from strength across segments. Index subscription run rate growth was more than 11% year over year, our 31st consecutive quarter of achieving double-digit growth. This continued momentum is fueled by outsized growth in our investment thesis index modules, particularly in areas like ESG and climate, which witnessed 44% year over year run rate growth, as well as within higher-growth client segments like wealth management and hedge funds, which experienced index subscription run rate growth of 17% and 28%, respectively. Analytics recorded more than 6% revenue growth and approximately 5% run rate growth, with particular strength in equity portfolio management tools and fixed income portfolio management tools. It's also important to underscore that our analytics capabilities are helping to fuel growth in key areas across the company, such as our factor indexes and many of our climate risk and reporting offerings. The ESG and climate segment had another tremendous quarter, growing 53% in revenue and 46% in run rate as we continue to see enormous demand across solutions, across asset classes and across client segments. Within all other Private Assets,we're particularly excited about the larger opportunities in front of us with the addition of RCA, which added $74 million in run rate. Given these opportunities, we expect to be making investments in the near term to integrate the business. When combined with the existing Real Estate business, these investments, together with some employee retention expenses that are not excluded from adjusted EBITDA, as well as the reallocation of certain internal costs of this segment, will result in annualized adjusted EBITDA margin for the All Other segment likely closer to the mid-teens next year. Within asset-based fees, we continue to see healthy cash inflows into equity ETFs linked to MSCI indexes, which offset lower market levels over the quarter. We saw particularly strong flows into ETFs linked to our U.S. and developed markets ex U.S. indexes. And from a product standpoint, ETFs linked to MSCI ESG and climate equity indexes drew cash inflows of nearly $18 billion during the quarter, continuing to capture the majority of market share in global ESG and climate equity ETF flows. The period-end basis points were 2.57 basis points as we saw support from these strong flows into higher-fee products based on our investment thesis indexes. Solid operating performance and notably strong revenue growth drove nearly all of the adjusted EPS growth in the quarter. This top line growth was offset by a higher tax rate this quarter versus last year's third quarter as well as higher interest expense year over year. Turning to our balance sheet. We ended the quarter with a cash balance of approximately $1.3 billion after funding the RCA acquisition, executing a $700 million notes offering and redeeming $500 million in higher coupon notes. With this strong capital position, we remain focused on reinvesting in our business as a first priority. This will continue to be an area, as you have been hearing about from Henry and Baer, including custom, ESG, and climate and other investment thesis indexes in Private Assets. It will also be in data and technology infrastructure that underpins our ability to meet clients' evolving needs as well as in the coverage organization that allows us to continue tapping into newer client segments and geographies, in addition to better serving our existing clients. We will also continue to selectively pursue opportunistic MP&A and share repurchases with an eye toward maximizing returns to shareholders. We have been actively pursuing both partnerships and potential acquisitions in key strategic growth areas at a faster pace than in the recent past. In addition to acquiring RCA, we recently partnered in the Burgiss acquisition of Caissa, which is strategic both for Burgiss and MSCI, and we have made and may continue to make very small bolt-on acquisitions and investments. Additionally, I would note that cash currently available for repurchases is about half the total cash balance given both global minimum operating cash balances and the timing and cost of accessing excess overseas cash balances. Turning now to our updated guidance, which we published earlier this morning. Our increased adjusted EBITDA expense guidance range primarily reflects an estimated $19 million of incremental expenses associated with RCA for full-year 2021, which includes $3.6 million incurred in Q3. This also includes a few million dollars of transaction-related expenses that we will not exclude from adjusted EBITDA expenses. The increased guidance for operating expenses includes the $19 million of incremental adjusted EBITDA expenses associated with RCA in addition to an estimated $7 million of transaction-related expenses and nearly $10 million of intangible amortization, both excluded from our adjusted metrics. Our narrowed tax rate range takes into account our latest view on a number of discrete items and the fact that we are currently expecting a higher effective tax rate in the fourth quarter than in the prior two quarters. Our lower free cash flow range is nearly all attributable to approximately $110 million in cash tax payments incremental to what we previously expected to make. The majority of which will occur in the fourth quarter. We currently expect these accelerated tax payments to reduce future tax payments. Importantly, our collections remain quite strong, as does the underlying performance of the business. In summary, as both Henry and Baer have noted, we are seeing very strong levels of demand for our offerings across the company. We have a great operating environment to finish 2021 and are excited for the tremendous opportunities we see ahead of us in 2022 and beyond. Before we open it up for questions, I wanted to thank Salli for her enormous contribution to MSCI. This will be her last earnings call as part of MSCI, and her final day will be November 19. After which, Jisoo Suh will be our point person for any investor-related inquiries and questions. We will miss Salli greatly as she's been a key leader for us on so many initiatives over the last few years. We're very sad to see her leave, but I look forward to watching her many successes in the future. And with that, operator, please open the line for questions. 