
OperatorWelcome to Signature Bank's 2021 Second Quarter Results Conference Call. Hosting the call today for Signature Bank are Joseph J. DePaolo, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Eric R. Howell, Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer. [Operator Instructions]It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to Joseph J. DePaolo, President and Chief Executive Officer, you may begin.Joseph J. DePaolo -- President and Chief Executive Officer

 



Thank you, Nicole. Good morning, and thank you for joining us today for the Signature Bank 2021 second quarter results conference call. Before I begin my formal remarks, Susan Lewis will read the forward-looking disclaimer. Please go ahead, Susan.Susan Turkell Lewis -- Investor RelationsThank you, Joe. This conference call and oral statements made from time to time by our representatives contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that are subject to risks and uncertainties. You should not place undue reliance on those statements because they are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties relating to our operations and business environment, all of which are difficult to predict and may be beyond our control.Forward-looking statements include information concerning our future results, interest rates and the interest rate environment, loan and deposit growth, loan performance, operations, new private client team hires, new office openings, business strategy and the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on each of the foregoing in our business overall. As you consider forward-looking statements, you should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. They involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. These factors include those described in our quarterly and annual reports filed with the FDIC, which you should review carefully for further information. You should keep in mind that any forward-looking statements made by Signature Bank speak only as of the date on which they were made.

 



Now, I'd like to turn the call back to Joe.Joseph J. DePaolo -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Susan. I will provide some overview into the quarterly results, and then Eric Howell, our Chief Operating Officer, will review the Bank's financial performance in greater detail. Eric and I will address your questions at the end of our remarks.The success of Signature Bank's single-point-of-contact service model has resulted in yet another quarter of significant growth. During the past several years, the Bank has grown dramatically and transformed organically. We set and achieved specific goals of becoming asset sensitive increasing both credit and geographic diversification, while continuing to grow core deposits. As a result, we shifted to asset sensitivity -- sensitive from liability sensitive, with 38% of our loan portfolio now variable rate. We reduced our CRE concentration from nearly 600% to 345% of capital. Our loan to deposit ratio, which peaked at 104% has moved to a low 64%. Additionally, we entered new markets with the hiring of veteran bankers for our West Coast private client banking offices, while continuing to increase deposits across our New York operations. The speed at which we achieved these objectives organically is extraordinary within the banking industry. It clearly demonstrates the power of our founding single-point-of-contact entrepreneurial model.

 



Throughout the second quarter of 2021, we saw the same strong growth trends we witnessed during the past several quarters. Our record deposit growth of $11.6 billion emanates from all our business units and teams within the institution, demonstrating the broad-based strength of our franchise. Record core loan growth of $3.6 billion was driven by a well-established Fund Banking Division, and we put more cash to use than ever before through a record growth of $2.7 billion in our securities portfolio. Our strong growth profile, coupled with the expansion of fee income and contained expenses, led to a third consecutive quarter of record net income and strong return on common equity of more than 13%. We continue to focus on the pure organic growth that has made this institution successful.Now, let's take a look at earnings. Pre-tax, pre-provision earnings for the 2021 second quarter were a record $308.6 million, an increase of $60.6 million, or 24.5%, compared with $247.9 million for the 2020 second quarter. Net income for the 2021 second quarter was a record $214.5 million, or $3.57 diluted earnings per share, compared with $117.2 million, or $2.21 diluted earnings per share reported in the same period last year. The increase in income was predominantly driven by substantial asset growth of $36.5 billion over the last 12 months as well as the decrease in the provision for credit losses, which was substantially impacted by COVID-19 in the second quarter of 2020.Looking at deposits, deposits increased a record $11.6 billion or 15.7%, $85.6 billion this quarter, while average deposits grew a record $11.9 billion. This quarter's growth was driven by the digital asset banking team, which grew deposits $6.3 billion. The specialized mortgage banking solutions team, which grew by $1.2 billion. Our Venture Banking Group, which increased nearly $400 million. The West Coast banking teams grew nearly $200 million. And our New York banking teams, which grew over $3.6 billion, including 10 teams that each exceeded $100 million for the quarter.Since the end of the 2020 second quarter, deposits increased a remarkable $35.3 billion or 70.3%, and average deposits increased $33.4 billion. During the quarter, non-interest deposits increased $6.1 billion to $28.7 billion, which represents a high 33.5% of total deposits. Our deposit growth, plus capital raises as well as earnings retention led to an increase of $36.5 billion or 60.5% in total assets, since the second quarter of last year. That's the equivalent of acquiring the top 50 US bank, but we did it completely organically. We believe this is by far the most efficient use of capital.Now, let's take a look at our lending businesses. Core loans or loans excluding PPP during the 2021 second quarter increased a record $3.9 billion by 8% to $52 billion. For the prior 12 months, core loans grew $9 billion or 20.7%. The increase in loans this quarter was again driven primarily by new, and it's a keyword, new Fund Banking capital call facilities. We are well positioned in all our lending businesses to capitalize on opportunities based upon our pipeline and recovering economy.Turning to credit quality, the portfolio continues to perform well. Let me first point out the Bank's COVID-19 related non-payment modifications continue to trend positively. As of year-end 2020, they were $1.3 billion; at April 15th, they were $983 million; and as of July 15th, they are now $309 million, or 0.6% of total loans, that went from year-end at $1.3 billion to slightly above $0.3 billion. We knocked off $1 billion in non-payment modifications.Non-accrual loans were $136.1 million, or 25 basis points of total loans compared with $133.7 million, or 26 basis points for the 2021 first quarter. Our past due loans remained within the normal range, with $30 to $89 [Phonetic] past due loans and $94.8 million [Phonetic], and our 90-day plus past due loans remained at a very, very low $2.3 million.Net charge-offs for the 2021 second quarter decreased to $15.3 million or 12 basis points of average loans, compared with $17.9 million for the 2021 first quarter. The provision for credit losses in 2021 second quarter declined to $8.3 million, compared with $30.9 million for the 2021 first quarter. This brought the Bank's allowance for credit losses to 0.94%, and the coverage ratio stands at a healthy 378%. I would like to point out that excluding very well secured fund banking loans and government guaranteed PPP loans, the allowance for credit losses ratio would be much higher at 1.41%.Now, on to the expanding team front, where we continue to realize success. In the 2021 second quarter, Bank on-boarded two private client banking teams on the West Coast as well as the SBA lending team, which is one of our two new lending initiatives we announced earlier in the quarter.At this point, I'll turn the call over to Eric, and he will review the quarter's financial results in greater detail.Eric R. Howell -- Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Operating OfficerThank you, Joe, and good morning, everyone. I'll start by reviewing net interest income and margin. With our emphasis on growing net interest income for the second quarter reached $457.2 million, an increase of $50.7 million, or 12.5% from the 2021 first quarter. That is an annualized growth rate of 50%. Net interest margin declined 8 basis points to 2.02% compared with 2.1% for the 2021 first quarter. The entire decrease was due to massive excess cash balances from significant deposit flows, which impacted margin by 55 basis points. Again, we are focused on net interest income growth and not the margin.Now let's look at asset yields and funding costs for a moment. Interest earning asset yields for the 2021 second quarter decreased 17 basis points from the linked-quarter to 2.37%. The decrease in overall asset yields was again driven by the massive excess average cash balances, which grew $6.6 billion to $23.7 billion during the quarter. Yields on the securities portfolio decreased 16 basis points linked quarter to 1.72% due to lower reinvestment rates as well as the bank investing in floating rate securities and our portfolio duration decreased to 2.92 years, which is due to a decline in rates at the end of the quarter. We were opportunistic throughout the quarter, as we saw windows in which to invest, and therefore, we were able to increase the securities portfolio by $2.7 billion.And turning to our loan portfolio. Yields on average commercial loans and commercial mortgages increased 4 basis points to 3.58%, compared with the 2021 first quarter. Excluding prepayment penalties from both quarters, yields increased by 5 basis points.Now, looking at liabilities. Our overall deposit cost this quarter decreased 7 basis points to 27 basis points, due to the low interest rate environment as we gradually lower our relationship based deposit rates. We anticipate this downward trend to continue in the coming quarters, albeit at a slower pace. During the quarter, average borrowing balances decreased by $276.4 million and the cost of borrowings decreased by 12 basis points to 2.8%. The overall cost of funds for the quarter decreased 9 basis points to 38 basis points, driven by the reduction in deposit costs.And on to non-interest income expense. With our focus on growing non-interest income, we achieved growth of $10.7 million or 84.5% to $23.4 million, when compared with the 2020 second quarter. The increase was mostly due to a rise in fees and service charges and net gains on sales of loans. Non-interest expense for the 2021 second quarter was $172 million versus $151.9 million for the same period a year ago. The $20.1 million or 13.3% increase was principally due to the addition of new private client banking teams and operational support to meet the Bank's growing needs. And despite our significant team hiring and margin compression from substantial cash balances, the Bank continues to gain operating leverage. And as a result, the efficiency ratio improved to 35.8% for the 2021 second quarter versus 38% for the comparable period last year.And now turning to capital. All capital ratios remain well in excess of regulatory requirements and augment the relatively low risk profile of the balance sheet, as evidenced by a common equity Tier 1 risk-based ratio of 10.03% and total risk-based ratio of 12.72% as of the 2021 second quarter. Given our robust total risk base ratio, we redeemed $260 million of subordinated debt at a rate of 5.3% on April 19th, which will further reduce our interest expense in coming quarters.And now I'll turn the call back to Joe. Thank you.Joseph J. DePaolo -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Eric. The collective strength of our franchise led to an unbelievable quarter of record deposit growth, record core loan growth, record pre-tax, pre-provision earnings, and record net income. Bottom line, we delivered another strong quarter and we are well positioned for the future. We have been bullish on New York City since the onset of the pandemic. Really it is going to take some time to return to pre-pandemic activity levels. But it is encouraging to see the vibrancy returned to this great city and country. It's great to see Broadway Show selling tickets again. Restaurants at full capacity, busy streets and most importantly, my colleagues in the office. We look forward to a continued recovery and a bright future for Signature Bank.Now, we are happy to answer any questions you might have. But before I turn the call over to Nicole, I just want to encourage everyone listening, please get vaccinated.Now, I'll turn the call over to Nicole.