  OperatorWelcome to the Fiserv 2022 first quarter earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, today's call is being recorded. At this time, I will turn the call over to Shub Mukherjee, senior vice president of investor relations at Fiserv.Shub Mukherjee -- Senior Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you, and good morning. With me on the call today are Frank Bisignano, our president and chief executive officer; and Bob Hau, our chief financial officer. Our earnings release and supplemental materials for the quarter are available on the investor relations section of fiserv.com. Please refer to these materials for an explanation of the non-GAAP financial measures discussed in this call, along with the reconciliation of those measures to the nearest applicable GAAP measures.

 



 Unless otherwise stated, performance references are year-over-year comparisons. Our remarks today will include forward-looking statements about, among other matters, expected operating and financial results and strategic initiatives. Forward-looking statements may differ materially from actual results and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. You should refer to our earnings release for a discussion of these risk factors.And now, over to Frank. Frank Bisignano -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Shub, and thank you all for listening in as we share our results for the quarter and highlight the progress against our growth agenda. As you know, we serve as the operating system for commerce and money movement across our client base of banks, credit unions, fintechs, and businesses ranging from SMBs to mid-market to large enterprises. We help our clients grow by extending our platform to capture new services and new money flows. Our relentless pursuit of innovation for our clients has placed us on the list of the world's Most Innovative Companies by Fast Company for the second consecutive year.

 



 We've entered 2022 with strong momentum. We delivered 11% total company organic revenue growth in the first quarter. We expanded adjusted operating margin by 60 basis points to 32%. We also achieved 20% adjusted EPS growth to $1.40. We attained $40 million of actioned revenue synergies in the quarter, reaching $520 million since the merger, 87% of the increased commitment of $600 million for the five-year period following the merger, and now expect to hit that goal by the end of this year. As we shared with you on our year-end 2021 earnings call, we concluded our cost synergy program, having actioned the promised $1.2 billion of synergies since the closing of the merger. As we invested to accelerate growth, free cash flow came in at $603 million. The outperformance on the top and bottom line versus our full year guidance ranges puts us in a good position to meet or exceed our full year outlook. As we evaluate the year ahead, we believe it is prudent to leave our 2022 guidance unchanged, given the uncertain macroeconomic backdrop with high inflation, rising interest rates and geopolitical issues looming. Accordingly, we are maintaining our 2022 outlook for organic revenue growth of 7% to 9% and adjusted earnings per share in a range of $6.40 to $6.55, representing growth of 15% to 17% for 2022. Now, turning to our business strategy. Fiserv solutions are geared toward merchants and financial institutions, including fintechs. Starting with merchants, we are transforming from selling merchants individual point solutions to offering operating systems, Clover for small to medium-sized merchants and Carat for large enterprises. This operating systems approach expands the size of our total addressable market and makes us more valuable to our customers. We grow and create value in three ways. First, attracting more merchants to our operating systems.

 



 Second, expanding the relationship we have with our merchants by encouraging adoption of more software and services modules. And third, benefiting from the organic growth of our existing customer base. Turning to our financial institution clients. We remain steadfast in our commitment to continuously innovate for our clients and broaden our total addressable market. In early April, we closed the acquisition of Finxact, a leading developer of cloud-native banking solutions. We have already seen a tremendous amount of interest in the platform from existing and new clients. We believe this acquisition will augment our ability to enrich and accelerate the delivery of digital solutions to existing clients, as well as broaden our client base to include large financial institutions and fintechs through banking as a service and embedded finance opportunities. We advanced our strategic focus on data and analytics. This quarter, we announced partnerships with Equifax, Finicity, and MX, which will utilize our vast and highly valuable real-time data to create insights to strengthen and create new offerings across fraud, risk and marketing. While early in the journey, we expect data and analytics to be a new growth driver for us. Next, diving deeper into our performance in the quarter by business segment. Let me start with merchant acceptance. We posted a very strong organic revenue growth of 20% year over year. Global merchant volume and transactions grew 11% and 8%, respectively. Our global active merchant accounts grew 6% year over year in the first quarter, continuing a positive trend since the start of 2021. Results were strong across all regions. North America was led by strength in SMBs, particularly within the restaurant vertical, as well as strength in enterprise verticals such as travel and petro. Spending across EMEA was strong in the quarter as restrictions were lifted in the U.K. and The Netherlands in early January, followed by Ireland, Poland, and Germany later in the quarter. Travel was particularly strong, followed by restaurants and hospitality. Our merchant business in LatAm was also very strong in the quarter. We've made significant progress in on-boarding merchants through exclusive merchant acquiring mandate from Caixa in Brazil with 140,000 merchants currently on-boarded. In just one year since signing the agreement, we are also expanding our presence rapidly in Mexico and Colombia. Spending trends in APAC were very strong as key markets such as India and Australia continue to resume normalcy, fueling discretionary spend in verticals such as travel, retail and restaurant. In addition to the cyclical rebound, the region has continued to win and implement new business. Moving to our merchant operating systems. Clover and Carat continue to gain significant traction with clients. Clover's global revenue grew 39% in the quarter, driven by volume growth of 39%, as well as close to 200 basis points of sequential growth in software and services penetration of revenue to 15%. We continue to make progress on our vertical focus. Starting with restaurants. The integration of BentoBox into Clover is well underway, and the early proof points in both lead conversion rate and ARPU are all very positive. Within the services and retail verticals we are offering merchants leading solutions to address key business functions through a combination of pre-installed apps and tailored vertical SaaS offerings. Carat, the omni-commerce operating system for enterprise clients, grew revenue 20%. We saw broad-based growth across verticals, including travel, government, technology and quick-serve restaurants. In the quarter, we had some impressive wins across omni and e-com acquiring, including a card-not-present acquiring mandate for the leading fantasy sports player, DraftKings, an extension of our long-standing omnichannel partnership with Chick-fil-A, a mandate for fast food brand Jersey Mike's Subs. Within new payment flows, Carat's leadership and digital payouts continues with the doubling of disbursement volume processed in the quarter. During the quarter, we extended our contract with Coinbase to support their launch of an NFT marketplace. We are making rapid inroads into the high-growth markets such as payment facilitators and platforms. The November acquisition of NetPay gives us a differentiated solution in the market, including fully managed on-boarding, risk and funding services to support these high-growth platform businesses. We have seen rapid growth in this end market with new clients signing nearly doubling transactions in the past year. Finally, before closing out the merchant segment, an update on the progress of our point-of-sale lending offering. Our strategy all along has been to leverage our position as the operating platform for businesses, small, medium and large, to offer a range of buy now, pay later options. We are simplifying the merchant experience through an integration into the Carat operating system for large enterprises and enabling BNPL app downloads through the Clover app market for small and midsized businesses. By enabling our clients to easily connect to BNPL providers of their choice, we are making it possible for them to offer their customers in-demand payment options in an easy-to-manage cost-effective way. Moving to payments and network segment. Organic revenue grew 5% in the quarter. This growth was enabled by a variety of drivers for cross-sell business lines. Our North American credit active accounts on file grew 10% versus Q1 of last year. This growth was driven by new business on-boarding and our favorable credit environment. We fully ramped Genesis Financial onto our platform in the quarter, which along with the on-boarding of Atlanticus last year, marked the on-boarding of two of the three major credit processing mandates we announced in 2020. We had solid growth in our debit networks, STAR and Accel, and debit processing businesses, driven by new wins despite the stimulus-induced tough growth comparisons in the year ago. We've seen impressive growth in engagement metrics across our FIs, driven by market-leading digital solutions like CardHub, SpendTrack, our loyalty platform and our AI-based fraud system. These surrounds not only greatly enhance the competitiveness of our credit and debit card processing offering but also serve to drive more cards into our debit network and more opportunities for Fiserv to offer risk and fraud, digital banking and account processing solutions, demonstrating an attractive flywheel effect. We continue to see growth in digital payments driven by Zelle, which posted transaction growth of a strong 40% in the quarter. Finally, while we still see softness in our bill payments business, sequential growth rates continue to improve as we create new use cases like bill pay for fintechs, including crypto digital wallets, and enter long-term renewals with large clients, notably U.S. Bank and Regions Bank. Additionally, this summer, we will launch a revamped bill pay interface to elevate the customer experience. Looking ahead, our sales and product pipeline gives us confidence in our ability to grow the payments segment in the 5% to 8% medium-term organic revenue range. Our client wins in the quarter support this momentum. We signed a long-term renewal with a highly valued client, Synchrony, spanning across issuer processing, bank services and merchant acquiring, reinforcing our commitment to providing best-in-class solutions to our clients. We continue to win credit processing mandates globally. In the first quarter, we signed a new installment loan provider, Flexiti Financial, in Canada. The debit wins in the quarter included a processing win extending our relationship with KeyBanc, and an integrated debit processing, network and digital surround solutions win with Heritage Federal Credit Union, a $900 million asset size client. These wins showcase the breadth and reach of our debit processing capabilities, spanning from smaller credit unions to some of the nation's largest financial institutions. We also continue to show the power of our enterprise offering and our competitive advantage when working with fintechs. This quarter, we signed an enterprise agreement with a new digital financial services company across bank services, credit and debit processing and output services. We will also fully on-board Bread Financial, previously known as Alliance Data, for card processing in the second quarter of this year. The tailwinds from our large-grade implementations, recent debit wins like KeyBanc this quarter, Chime and Great Southern over the last couple of quarters and the investments in our digital surround solutions gives us confidence of continued growth in payments and network segment. Moving to the financial technology segment. We posted strong organic revenue growth of 6% in the quarter. We had 12 core wins in the quarter, including four competitive takeaways. Sales of digital surround solutions continue to grow at a healthy clip, driven by the increased digital focus of our financial institution clients and the success of Abiliti, our modern online and mobile banking platform. Sales to existing clients help us deepen the penetration of our fully integrated digital surrounds, such as CardHub, Zelle, and SpendTrack, thereby creating stickier clients. The competitive landscape continues to evolve quickly, and we believe that our fintech strategy combined with Finxact's modern core capabilities positions us uniquely to offer a full stack of offerings aimed at expanding the addressable market for embedded finance and banking as a service. The linchpin of our fintech strategy is our open finance initiative. In the third quarter of 2021, we launched our new developer portal called the Developer Studio, a platform for exposing our microservice APIs for the developer community with the goal of becoming the destination of choice for the embedded finance ecosystem, including card issuing and processing, merchant and core banking integrations. Our banking as a service capability enables financial institutions to expose modern fintech solutions to their client base to increase engagement and relevance while extending their reach into new market segments. Our banking as a service capability is also a turnkey solution for fintechs and merchants wanting to offer banking and payment services. We believe we are best positioned to power the ongoing revolution in banking as a service and embedded finance due to our footprint of community financial institutions and breadth of banking and payment capabilities. Now, let me pass the discussion to Bob for more detail on our financial results.Bob Hau -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Frank, and good morning, everyone. I'll cover some additional operating detail on our three segments. If you are following along on our slides, I'm starting with our financial metrics and trends on slide four. As Frank said, we started off the year strong. Total company organic revenue was up 11% in the quarter with growth across all segments, led by the merchant acceptance segment, which grew 20%. Total company adjusted revenue grew 10% to over $3.9 billion. Our adjusted operating income was up 12% to $1.2 billion, and adjusted operating margin expanded 60 basis points to 32%, in line with our expectations. As a reminder, we delivered 360 basis points of margin expansion in the year-ago quarter, resulting in 420 basis points of expansion over the last two years. We reaffirm our outlook to deliver at least 150 basis points of adjusted margin expansion for the year. First quarter adjusted earnings per share increased 20% to $1.40. Free cash flow was $603 million for the quarter, resulting in a conversion rate of 65%, driven by a combination of, first, increased capital expenditures in the areas of technology and integration of newly acquired capabilities. Second, increased working capital investment, driven by revenue growth, including growth in anticipation revenue in Latin America. Third, increased hardware inventory to minimize any potential disruption to our clients given the supply constraints. And finally, timing factors impacting cash from one quarter to the next. We reaffirm our outlook to achieve 95% to 100% free cash flow conversion for the full year. Now, looking to our segment results, starting on slide five. Organic revenue growth in the merchant acceptance segment was a very strong 20% in the quarter. Adjusted revenue growth was 18% year over year. Global merchant volume and transactions grew 11% and 8%, respectively. Excluding the loss of a processing client mid last year, global merchant volume and transactions grew 15% and 10% in the quarter, respectively. Clover, our operating system for small and medium-sized businesses, continues to build on the strength of its product offering to attract and retain more merchants and expand relationships with them. In the quarter, Clover posted a strong 39% revenue growth, and quarterly GPV was $49 billion or $197 billion on an annualized basis, 39%. Our ISV volume in the quarter through Clover Connect grew 51% year over year. We signed 44 ISVs this quarter. Carat, our omni-commerce operating system for enterprise clients, grew revenue 20% in the first quarter. Adjusted operating income in the acceptance segment increased 21% to $470 million, and adjusted operating margin was up 70 basis points to 28.4% as we balanced efficiency gains with continued investment for growth. In the quarter, we completed the sale of certain merchant contracts from an Alliance joint venture that we disclosed last year. As we shared with you on the fourth quarter 2021 earnings call, the impact of this sale is estimated to be under 50 basis points of total company adjusted revenue. It is fully contemplated in our full year 2022 outlook. Turning to slide six. The payments and network segment posted organic revenue growth of 5% in the quarter, within our guided range of 5% to 8% for the year. As expected, our credit issuer solutions business saw strong growth, driven by the growth in credit active accounts on file, as well as the impact of new clients coming onboard. Our debit processing and network businesses continued to perform well, driven by the compelling value proposition of our digital surrounds even as debit transaction growth decelerated to 3% year over year against a very difficult year-ago comparison. Consumer demand for account-to-account and P2P offerings continued with all transactions up 40%, and the number of clients live on Zelle was up 57% in the quarter. The offsets in the quarter were the prepaid business, which faced very tough stimulus-driven year-ago comps and bill pay. Adjusted operating income for the segment was up 7% to $625 million, and adjusted operating margin was up 110 basis points to 42.5% in the quarter. Turning to slide seven. The financial technology segment organic revenue grew 6% in the first quarter, including 100 basis points from periodic revenue. Adjusted operating income was up 12% in the quarter to $275 million, resulting in adjusted operating margin expansion of 200 basis points to 35.4%. The adjusted corporate operating loss was $122 million in the quarter, in line with the average of the last four quarters. The adjusted effective tax rate for the quarter was 17.3%, 10 basis points higher than last year. The 2022 adjusted effective tax rate should continue at the same quarterly pacing as last year and is expected to be approximately 21% for the full year. Additionally, we returned $500 million to shareholders through share repurchases this quarter. We have more than 37 million shares of repurchase authorization remaining. Total debt outstanding was $21 billion on March 31, and the debt-to-adjusted EBITDA ratio decreased to 3.0x as we approach our target leverage level. Turning to a new slide, slide eight. We highlight our balance sheet performance and capital allocation results over time. We've made meaningful strides to lower our debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio by over half turn from Q1 last year and a full turn since the merger. Over the last two years, we've generated $7 billion of free cash flow and have allocated $4.9 billion toward a combination of M&A and share repurchases, representing 5% of shares outstanding. Additionally, we have deployed $2.1 billion over that time toward debt repayment and integrations, both of which are expected to significantly decline as we completed the integration of the First Data and Fiserv merger at the end of last year and approach our goal of under three times debt to adjusted EBITDA leverage. This will allow us to allocate even more capital to value-creating acquisitions and share repurchase. Finally, turning to slide nine. Although we outperformed on adjusted revenue and EPS for the first quarter, we feel it's prudent to keep our 2022 outlook unchanged. Given that it is still early in the year and the macroeconomic backdrop remains uncertain. With that, let me turn the call back to Frank.Frank Bisignano -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Bob. I am very proud of the results we've accomplished this quarter. As diversity and inclusion continues to be at the top of our CSR agenda, we are focused on ensuring alignment and investment into our employee and community engagement strategies. In the first quarter, in addition to the Fast Company most innovative recognition I mentioned earlier, Fiserv was named as a 2022 Great Place to Work in Argentina, Uruguay, Colombia and Mexico. For the second consecutive year, Fiserv has been designated by VETS Indexes as a five-star employer. In addition, our Nenagh technology center in Ireland has been recognized as a Great Place to Work for the fourth consecutive year. Fiserv has activated several initiatives in response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine, including financial grants for our associates, direct donations to local not-for-profit organizations and other humanitarian programs for civilians displaced in the region. We've also activated a matching donation campaign in support of American Red Cross efforts. A quick note that our 2021 CSR report will be finalized and published in the coming weeks. As I close, I would like to thank all 40,000-plus hardworking associates around the world for working relentlessly to service our clients and you, our shareholders. With that, operator, please open the line for questions. 