
OperatorGood afternoon. My name is Rita, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Southern Company Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Scott Gammill, Investor Relations Director. Please go ahead, sir.Scott Gammill -- Investor Relations Director

 



Thank you, Rita. Good afternoon, and welcome to Southern Company's Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. Joining me today are Tom Fanning, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Southern Company; and Drew Evans, Chief Financial Officer. Let me remind you that we will be making forward-looking statements today in addition to providing historical information. Various important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements including those discussed in our Form 10-K, Form 10-Qs and subsequent filings. In addition, we will present non-GAAP financial information on this call. Reconciliations to the applicable GAAP measure are included in the financial information we released this morning as well as the slides for this conference call, which are both available on our Investor Relations website at investor.southerncompany.com.At this time, I'll turn the call over to Tom Fanning.Thomas A. Fanning -- Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Scott. Good afternoon, and thank you all for joining us today. Drew and I will cover our usual business updates in a few moments, but first, let me provide an update on Vogtle Units three and four. Unit three hot functional testing is complete. Through testing, we have validated the operation of critical primary and secondary systems at full temperature and pressure and demonstrated that the design basis is sound. The completion of hot functional testing marks the last major milestone before fuel load and represents a significant step toward placing Unit three in service. Though the duration of high functional testing was longer than we originally anticipated, we remain committed to getting it right for all aspects of the project. Taking into account the length of hot functional testing for Unit three, the remaining activities for both units and recent productivity trends, we now project placing Unit three in service during the second quarter of 2022, and Unit four in service during the first quarter of 2023. From a cost perspective, Georgia Power's share of the total project capital cost forecast increased by $460 million, largely driven by our updated schedule, recent productivity trends and replenishment of contingency to fund expected future risks. As a result, Georgia Power recorded an after-tax charge of $343 million during the second quarter. With Unit three hot functional testing complete, our next and final major milestone for Unit three is fuel load. We project fuel load to occur sometime near year-end 2021 or early in 2022. As we approach fuel load, our commitment to get it right remains our top priority. As the operator of these units, safety is our paramount objective and we strive to meet first-time quality standards prior to significant testing and operations activities.

 



We will not sacrifice those commitments to meet schedule or milestone dates. The scope and time required for the work remain to prior to fuel load includes: one, completion of the nuclear fuel systems and the associated documentation, or paper, as I referred to it in the past. Two, completion of remediation work and additional work identified during hot functional testing. Three, completion of the work necessary to implement our plant support systems. And four, a reduction in productivity levels consistent with recent site performance. The Unit three ITAAC's middle and review process is ongoing and continues to follow our construction and testing activities on site. To date, 208 ITAAC have been submitted to the NRC. We will submit the remaining 191 as we approach fuel load. Recently, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission conducted a special inspection of electrical quality issues that we had identified earlier this year and the remediation efforts that are underway. The on-site inspection is complete, and we expect the NRC's report to be published within a couple of months, though that exact timing will, of course, be determined by the NRC. Turning to Unit four. Direct construction is now approximately 84% complete, and we achieved initial energization in May. Our revised construction productivity assumptions are consistent with recent trends. And as I mentioned, we now project an in-service date during the first quarter of 2023 for Unit four. Our updated time line for Unit four is reflective of several factors. First, Unit four has experienced a slower-than-expected recovery from our COVID-19-related staffing reductions in early 2020. Recall, at the time the staffing reduction disproportionately impacted Unit four as we shifted our focus to Unit three critical path work front.Recall, we reduced the density of personnel on the site and effectively moved people from Unit four to Unit three. Second, Unit three's time line leading up to enduring hot functional testing delayed our plans to transition resources to Unit four. More recently, we have staffed Unit four independently as work on Unit three continues. And third, over the past three months, the growing economy and demand for skilled labor has impacted our ability to attract and retain electricians. And as a result, we experienced higher-than-expected attrition. Attaining the necessary levels of craft labor to meet construction milestones for Unit four has been more challenging than expected. In recent weeks, we have seen positive staffing trends, driven in part by offering the enhanced electrician compensation, which has helped to mitigate further schedule impacts. Construction completion for Unit four has averaged 1.4% per month since the start of this year. To achieve in November 2022 in-service, we estimate Unit four would need to average 1.9% construction completion per month. And to support a first quarter 2023 in-service, Unit four would need to average construction completion of approximately 1.3% per month for the rest of this year. Looking now at costs, the $460 million pre-tax charge recorded during the second quarter reflects the scheduled updates for both units including updated assumptions for construction activity and support resources as well as replenishing the contingency for potential cost risk associated with completing both units. In conclusion, while the timing of Unit three hot functional testing took longer than originally expected, I am encouraged by the success of the test. Even so, with completion of this enormous milestone, we still have a lot of important work ahead of us to get to fuel load. For Unit four, we are focused on progressing through the next several milestones while continuing to navigate through the COVID-19 pandemic and broader economic recovery efforts that have impacted productivity at both sites. As a company and a management team, we remain focused on bringing Vogtle Units three and four safely online to provide Georgia with a reliable, carbon-free energy resource for the next 60 to 80 years. As always, I want to thank our employees, contractors, co-owners and community partners for their unwavering dedication to this important statewide project.Drew, I'll turn it over to you now for an update on the financials.Andrew W. Evans -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

 



Thanks, Tom, and good afternoon, everyone. I hope you all are well. First, I want to touch on the financial impacts of today's Vogtle update. We continue to be very committed to credit quality for both Georgia Power and Southern Company. Therefore, Southern Company will contribute capital down to Georgia Power to maintain its target capital structure and credit profile. We expect to fund the cash need at the parent company as it is incurred by reinstating new issuances under our internal equity plans, primarily the dividend reinvestment plan. which is expected to produce approximately $400 million over the next year. Importantly, with this financing strategy, we expect to maintain Southern Company's credit profile with consolidated credit metrics above current downgrade thresholds. This has a de minimis impact on earnings given our size, and we continue to see our long-term EPS growth rate in the 5% to 7% range, and we are also reiterating our 2024 projected EPS range of $4 to $4.30. Turning now to earnings. We had strong performance in the second quarter of 2021 with adjusted earnings per share of $0.84, $0.06 higher than both last year's second quarter and our estimate. Recall in the second quarter of last year, we were experiencing the peak impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on our kilowatt hour sales. This peak was primarily related to shelter-in-place mandates in working remote. And in response, we implemented significant cost savings initiatives. Therefore, it is no surprise that the primary drivers of our quarterly earnings this year as compared to last year, were increased customer usage at our state-regulated utilities, coupled with strong customer growth in the Southeast as well as constructive state regulatory actions. As you would expect, with rising kilowatt hour sales versus last year, our nonfuel O&M was higher due to increased maintenance and planned outages that are generating units. Weather impacts for the quarter were negligible year-over-year.When looking at adjusted EPS as compared to our estimates for the quarter, the main drivers of the increased earnings were customer growth that remains higher than our expectation, new connects are exceeding forecast by 25% and continued expense discipline. Year-to-date through June 2021, adjusted EPS is higher by $0.26 compared to the first six months of last year. Drivers are similar to those for the second quarter, increased usage, stronger customer growth, constructive state regulatory actions and are partially offset by higher nonfuel O&M. Year-to-date, weather impacts were $0.08 favorable compared to the prior year and $0.05 unfavorable as compared to normal. A detailed reconciliation of these reported an adjusted quarterly and year-to-date results as compared to 2020 are included in today's release and the earnings package. Turning to the economies in our service territory. We continue to see significant improvement from the lows we were experiencing at this time last year related to the pandemic. In the second quarter, weather-normal retail sales in aggregate were up by 6% compared to last year, with commercial and industrial segments up sharply and modest declines in residential sales. We have been analyzing retail sales compared to pre-COVID levels to assess recovery relative to historical norms, and early data indicate that, in aggregate, our retail sales have recovered to between 97% and 98% of 2019 pre-pandemic levels. Sales in the residential segment remained elevated due to continued hybrid working while industrial and commercial sales remain slightly below the 2019 comparable, something like 97% of the 2019 level. In the industrial segment, we are seeing strong momentum across nearly all subsegments. Commercial sales are also improving, though sales may be -- may take longer to reach historical norms.As the COVID-19 Delta variant becomes more widespread in the service territories, we will closely monitor for any signs of change but have yet to see any material impacts. Underpinning these positive sales trends is a strong labor market, evidenced by shrinking unemployment rates that are below 4% in both Georgia and Alabama. In addition, customer growth remains robust with new connects significantly outpacing our expectations across the electric utilities, reflecting construction new homes as well as new commercial businesses and continued in-net migration. Economic development continues to be very active in the Southeast. In Georgia alone, there are over 200 active projects with the potential to bring over 30,000 jobs in the coming years. Capital investment and job announcements are far outpacing what we experienced even before the pandemic. These are positive signals for continued improvement in both customer growth and sales. With our solid adjusted results through the first half of the year, we are well positioned as we head into the peak electric load season. Our estimate for the third quarter of 2021 is $1.22 per share on an adjusted basis, and consistent with historical practice, we will address earnings for the year relative to this EPS guidance after the third quarter.With that, Tom, I'll turn it back to you.Thomas A. Fanning -- Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Drew. We understand that Vogtle news often dominates our earnings calls, but I think it's important that we also focus on the terrific performance we see across our businesses. As Drew highlighted, our adjusted financial results through the first half are outstanding. And operationally, we are performing well. We have already endured a tropical storm in Georgia earlier this summer, and our system has demonstrated resilience during the extreme temperatures experienced throughout this week in the Southeast. I would like to mention one more topic before we take your questions. Five years ago this month, we closed on our acquisition of AGL Resources, now known as Southern Company Gas. Our objective with the transaction was to deliver even greater customer and shareholder value by continuing to invest in high-quality, predominantly state-regulated utility assets. And we have done just that. We bolstered investment at the regulated gas utilities, continued to strengthen the position of our retail natural gas franchise in Georgia and divested nonregulated assets. Over the past five years, Southern Company Gas has, one, increased its J.D. Power customer satisfaction scores; two, increased its regulated business mix to 90%; three, increased its authorized equity ratios to 55%; four, increase our annual growth in-rate base by 14% -- by an average of 14% annually; fifth, raised $3 billion from the sale of nonstrategic assets, some at all-time high PE multiples and reduce risk by selling assets like the Atlantic Coast Pipeline and the Sequent asset management business; and then seven, all while increasing opportunities for talented leaders to take on new and important roles across the Southern Company enterprise. A great example of that is sitting right next to me, Drew Evans, our Chief Financial Officer, is doing a terrific job, and his breadth of experience and engaging thought process has helped us all. In summary, the acquisition has far exceeded our own expectations. The positive results at our gas business are indicative of the approach we take across all of our businesses and to the nine million customers and communities we are privileged to serve. This approach best positions our state regulated utility-centric business model for the future as we seek to maximize our return to shareholders on a risk-adjusted basis. Once again, I want to thank everyone for being with us this afternoon.Operator, we'll go ahead and open the floor for questions.