
OperatorGood morning, and welcome to the Wabtec Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to turn the conference over to Kristine Kubacki, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Kristine Kubacki -- Vice President of Investor RelationsThank you, operator. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to Wabtec's Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. With us today are President and CEO, Rafael Santana; CFO, Pat Dugan; Chief Technology Officer, Eric Gebhardt; and Senior VP of Finance, John Mastalerz. Today's slide presentation, along with our earnings release, financial disclosures, were posted on our website earlier today, and they can be accessed on our Investor Relations tab on wabteccorp.com.Some statements we're making today are forward-looking and based on our best view of the world and our business today. For more detailed risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating to our forward-looking statements, please see the disclosures in our earnings release and presentations. We will also discuss non-GAAP financial metrics and encourage you to read our disclosures and reconciliation tables carefully as you consider these metrics.I will now turn the call over to Rafael.Rafael Santana -- President And Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Kristine, and good morning, everyone. Let's begin on slide four. We delivered a strong second quarter, as noted by our sales growth, adjusted margin and adjusted earnings per share, each of which were up sequentially and year-over-year. Total sales for the quarter were $2 billion, driven by growing demand in Freight services, Components and Transit but offset by weakness in the North America, OE and market. Adjusted operating margin was 15.2%, driven by ongoing lean initiatives, cost actions and the realization of synergies. Total cash flow from operations was $223 million.This takes the year-to-date cash from operations to $515 million versus $229 million a year ago. It's a solid illustration of how the team is driving good operational performance and focused working capital management. Cash conversion for the year is over 100%. Our year-to-date book-to-bill continues to be a positive story. We ended the first half of the year greater than 1, and we have a strong order pipeline for international locomotives. Total backlog at the end of the quarter was $21.5 billion, providing strong visibility into 2021 and beyond.Finally, we ended second quarter with adjusted EPS of $1.06, up 22% year-over-year. In the area of synergies, we are on track to achieve our full run rate of $250 million this year, and we are feeling the benefits of our footprint, consolidation and aggressive actions on structural cost. So overall, really strong execution by the team as we continue to deliver on our long-term strategy.I am confident that with strong execution, focused cost measures, our teams drive on productivity and continued improvements in our end markets, we will continue to deliver long-term profitable growth. Now let's turn into slide five, to discuss a few of our recent business highlights, starting with a strategic partnership we recently announced with CSX. CSX will be the first railroad to implement Wabtec's Trip Optimizer Zero-to-Zero solution, which will allow them to start a train from 0 miles per hour and stop it automatically using various controls.Zero-to-zero builds on trip optimizers, proven performance and is an important building block to autonomous rail and a critical component of energy management, which Eric will cover shortly. We're also partnering with them to revitalize their yard fleet through an innovative Tier four switcher modernization program, where we overhaul switchers to the latest Wabtec Tier four platform. Additionally, we are working with them to modernize their locomotive fleet with our FDL Advantage engine upgrade, which delivers another 5% reduction in fuel consumption.Some great examples of partnership and innovation at work. On the international front, commercial activity is increasing with multiyear orders in Equipment, Digital Electronics and Transit. In the second quarter, we closed a significant order for positive train control with Rumo, and we're now implementing PTC in three countries outside the U.S. In addition, we won a key international locomotive deal in South America and a significant Transit contract with Metra in North America.Finally, when it comes to innovation and going after opportunities that can enhance our current portfolio, we announced a strategic partnership with General Motors, where we're exploring the use of battery and hydrogen fuel cell technologies to accelerate the rail industry's path to zero-emission locomotives. This is an exciting space, one where strategic collaboration and investment will accelerate the path to more sustainable rail. Eric will share more on this in a moment.It's because of this breakthrough advancements and a commitment to innovation that Wabtec was named to Fast Company's most innovative companies in 2021 in recognition of our commitment to solve some of the world's toughest challenges in the transportation sector. It's also because of our proven commitment to innovation that we were able to further strengthen our financial position in the second quarter with a successful EUR500 million green bond offering to fund investments that will continue to advance sustainable rail. Looking forward, we are confident, Wabtec will drive long-term profitable growth and lead the industry in advancing its position in sustainable rail even further.With that, I'll turn the call over to Pat, who will review the quarter and segment performance and our overall financial position.Pat Dugan -- Executive Vice President Finance and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Rafael, and good morning, everyone. We had solid operational and financial performance during the quarter. As markets continue to gradually recover, we demonstrated our ability to deliver on synergies, to generate strong cash flow and to invest in the future and position Wabtec for profitable growth. Turning to slide six, I'll review the second quarter in more detail.Sales for the second quarter were $2 billion, which reflects a 16% increase versus the prior year, driven by a broad-based recovery across our portfolio, offset somewhat by lower North America OE Freight markets. For the quarter, operating income was $203 million, and adjusted operating income was $306 million, which was up 17% year-over-year. Adjusted operating income excluded pre-tax expenses of $103 million, of which $73 million was for noncash amortization and $30 million for restructuring, of which the majority was for our U.K. operations and transaction costs related to the acquisition of Nordco.Adjusted operating margin was 10 basis points higher than the second quarter last year and up from the first quarter. Versus last year, adjusted operating margin benefited from higher sales and the realization of synergies. Now looking at some of the detailed line items for the second quarter, adjusted SG&A was $254 million, which was 12.6% of sales. This was up from last year due to the normalization of certain expenses compared to the temporary cost actions taken during the depth of the pandemic a year ago.Adjusted SG&A excludes $9 million of restructuring and transaction expenses. For the full year, we expect adjusted SG&A to be about 12% of sales. We will continue to aggressively manage headcount and structural costs. Engineering expense increased from last year. This was largely due to higher volume outlook for the year. Overall, our investment in technology is still expected to be about 6% to 7% of sales. Amortization expense was $73 million.For 2021, we expect noncash amortization expense to be about $290 million and depreciation expense of about $205 million. Our adjusted effective tax rate during the quarter was 25.3%, bringing our year-to-date adjusted effective tax rate to be about 26.3%. For the full year, we still expect an effective tax rate of about 26%. In the second quarter, GAAP earnings per diluted share were $0.66, and adjusted earnings per diluted share were $1.06. Now let's take a look at the segment results on slide seven.Across the Freight segment, total sales increased 11% from last year to $1.3 billion, primarily driven by strong growth in services and aftermarket and higher demand for components. In terms of product lines, Equipment sales were down 2% year-over-year due to fewer locomotive deliveries in North America. In line with improving freight traffic, our services sales improved a solid 22% versus last year, and were up 11% sequentially.The year-over-year increase was largely driven by strong modernization deliveries, higher aftermarket sales from the unparking of locomotives and the acquisition of Nordco. I'd note the timing of mod deliveries vary from quarter-to-quarter, but we expect our services sales to improve with the gradual recovery in Freight volumes. Digital Electronics sales were down 2% year-over-year as orders shifted to the right in North America due to COVID disruption, yet we had strong momentum with book-to-bill over one for the third quarter in a row.We continue to see a significant pipeline of opportunities in our digital electronics product line as customers globally focus on safety and improve productivity. Component sales were up 15% year-over-year, driven by demand for railcar components and recovery in industrial end markets. This is compared to a 19% lower railcar build year-over-year. Demonstrating the diversification within our components business, we are encouraged by railcars continuing to come out of storage, higher order rates for new railcars and the broad recovery in industrial end markets.Freight segment adjusted operating income was $247 million for an adjusted margin of 18.5%. Versus last year, the benefit of synergies and cost actions were offset by sales mix as well as under-absorption due to lower locomotive deliveries. We will continue to execute on our synergy plans and further improve cost to drive margin improvement. Turning to slide eight. Across our Transit segment, sales increased 27% year-over-year to $680 million, driven largely by recovery in OE projects and steady aftermarket sales. OE sales were up 41% year-over-year as the second quarter 2020 was severely impacted by disruptions stemming from the pandemic.OE sales were also up 12% sequentially, reflecting the continued momentum for investments in green infrastructure. Aftermarket sales were up about 17% from last year. We expect aftermarket sales to improve for the full year as economies continue to open and demand for Transit services increased globally. Adjusted segment operating income was $73 million, which was up 43% year-over-year for an adjusted operating margin of 10.8%, which is slightly down from the first quarter due to a charge for a discrete warranty adjustment of over $5 million.Across the segment, we continue to drive down cost and improve our project execution. We are committed to drive 100 basis points of margin improvement for the segment in 2021. Now turning to slide nine. We wanted to provide a more detailed look at our 12-month and multiyear backlog. We had another solid performance with total orders for the year exceeding $4 billion resulting in a book-to-bill for the year above one. Orders can be lumpy quarter-to-quarter, but we are encouraged to see a broad-based momentum across the portfolio.Our Freight segment backlog remained strong at $17.8 billion with year-to-date book-to-bill above 1, driven by broad-based order activity across the portfolio. Our 12-month backlog of $4.1 billion is the highest since the third quarter of 2019, a result of improving end markets. We continue to see a robust pipeline of order opportunities, especially in international end markets. Our Transit segment backlog ended the quarter at $3.7 billion, with a 12-month backlog of $1.7 billion.We did see some projects push to the right as a result of ongoing disruption due to the pandemic, yet our outlook remained strong as sustainable infrastructure spending increases globally. And finally, at June 30, our multiyear backlog remained strong at $21.5 billion and continues to provide increasing forward visibility. Let's turn to our financial position on slide 10. We had another solid quarter of cash generation. We generated $223 million of operating cash flow during the quarter bringing year-to-date cash flow generated over $0.5 billion.Our performance clearly demonstrates the quality of our business portfolio. Cash flow was driven largely by good conversion of net income and focused working capital management. During the quarter, total capex was $29 million. In 2021, we expect capex to be about $140 million. During the quarter, we successfully completed a EUR500 million green bond offering and paid down nearly $200 million in debt during the quarter.As a result, our adjusted net leverage ratio at the end of the second quarter was 2.6 times, and our liquidity is robust at about $1.7 billion. As you can see in these results, our balance sheet remained strong, and we are confident we can continue to drive solid cash generation giving us the liquidity and flexibility to allocate capital toward the highest return opportunities and grow shareholder value.With that, I will turn the call back over to Rafael.Rafael Santana -- President And Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Pat. And shifting our focus to markets on slide 11. We are continuing to see good signs of recovery. While the trough in the OE North America market remains, we are seeing sequential improvement in freight rail volumes. Total carloads were up 3% from first quarter and up 20% year-over-year. We're also seeing strong trends in intermodal along with a pickup in the industrial sector in areas like chemicals and metals.Locomotive parkings continued to improve due to increased Freight rail traffic, and we expect demand for reliability and productivity to increase, putting our services business in a position of strength. When it comes to North America railcar builds, railcars are coming back into use and about 22% of the North American railcar fleet remains in storage, but this is encouragingly below pre-COVID levels.As a result, industry orders for new railcars are starting to improve, and we forecast the railcar build for this year to be about 30,000 cars. Internationally, our order pipeline remained strong, and we expect long-term revenue growth in several markets. In mining, market conditions also continue to improve. Transitioning to the Transit sector, ridership remains a bit uneven in some markets, but overall, the long-term market drivers for passenger transport remained strong. Infrastructure spending for green initiatives continue to be a focus, especially as governments globally churn to rail for clean, safe and efficient transport.Given this market backdrop, our strong performance in the first half and our confidence in our ability to deliver, we are raising our full year revenue and earnings per share guidance. We now expect sales of $7.9 billion to $8.2 billion and adjusted EPS to be between $4.15 to $4.35. We expect cash flow conversion to remain greater than 90%, resulting in a strong cash generation of about $1 billion for the full year. So overall, positive signs of recovery, great execution by the team in the first half and a meaningful update to our full year view as we manage through the continued recovery.With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Eric Gebhardt.Eric Gebhardt -- Executive Vice President and Chief Technology OfficerThanks, Rafael, and good morning, everyone. I'm Eric Gebhardt, Chief Technology Officer for Wabtec and I'm thrilled to be here with you to share some of the transformative advancements we're driving in the clean energy transportation sector. Turning to slide 12. As you may be aware, today, rail represents the cleanest, most energy efficient and safest mode of moving freight and people on land, moving 40% of freight per tonne mile in the U.S. alone.Current trends indicate that freight and passenger activity will more than double by 2050 as the sector pushes for more sustainable transportation. At Wabtec, we're innovating to help our customers increase efficiency, reduce costs and cut their overall carbon footprint through the development of low-emitting locomotive technologies, including Tier four locomotives running on renewable fuels and battery electric locomotives. We're also pushing the boundaries into alternative fuels such as biodiesel, renewable diesel and hydrogen, which I'll share more on in a moment.Over the last year, we built and tested in revenue operation with BNSF Railway and the California Air Resources Board, the world's first heavy haul 100% battery electric locomotive called FLXdrive. This locomotive, which operated in a consist between two other locomotives had a battery capacity of 2.4 megawatt hours and generated most of its energy from regenerative braking. At the conclusion of this rigorous three month test that span 13,000 miles, the FLXdrive exceeded expectations, delivering more than an 11% average reduction in fuel consumption and greenhouse gas emissions.That's the equivalent of eliminating 6,200 gallons of diesel fuel and flashing 69 tons of CO2 emissions. And it's just the beginning. At more than 7-megawatt hours, which is the next version of the FLXdrive, we currently have in development and expect to bring to market in 2023. We anticipate further reducing fuel consumption and emissions by up to 30%. This reduction is tied to a tightly coupled system that Wabtec is driving in the marketplace that includes batteries, trip optimizer, power electronics and even our braking systems to capture all the available regenerative braking energy.And by owning the complete system, we can control the consist to optimize fuel burn or emissions, battery life or speed depending on the operators' need on a specific route. Our second-generation battery electric locomotive will operate independently and leverage General Motors Ultium battery technology, that Rafael mentioned earlier. It's a winning combination, where we bring our expertise in energy management and systems optimization for heavy haul locomotives, while taking full advantage of GM's advanced technologies and speed to market.In addition to these efforts, we're also reimagining the future of rail utilization, safety and logistics optimization. Our vision is to expand the use of freight rail, enable the elimination of over 300 million tons of carbon dioxide annually across the global transportation network, reduce road congestion in our cities and make transportation significantly safer for everyone. Put us on this path, we've installed positive train control systems and software on more than 24,000 locomotives. This technology has revolutionized rail safety in the U.S. over the last decade and helped make the rail sector more efficient and effective.Our next-generation systems will take efficiency even further, by enabling moving block and virtual coupling instead of a traditional fixed block signaling use today, while still maintaining the most stringent safety standards. Similarly, our trip optimizer solution or smart cruise control system, which is installed on over 11,000 locomotives has helped save customers more than 400 million gallons of fuel and 4.5 million tons of CO2.Together, with Movement Planner, these digital solutions are revolutionizing locomotive fuel efficiency and real-time network planning. They're also helping move goods more efficiently using the existing rail network, all while reducing energy use, emissions and waste. Looking to the future on slide 13, we will accelerate the shift to green energy solutions and bring to market a heavy haul zero-emission hydrogen hybrid locomotive.And we have a clear road map to get there, one that derisks across the path with batteries as a focal point across the entire spectrum and one that is already underway with FLXdrive. Our vision is to leverage battery technology while burning hydrogen in the internal combustion engine, similar to what we're doing today with natural gas in Florida. This step is a retrofittable approach, where we can take 80% to 90% of the energy content and make it hydrogen, driving a dramatic drop in emissions. In parallel, we will develop a hydrogen fuel cell locomotive and ruggedize the fuel cells so they can operate in a harsh rail environment.GM's hydrogen capabilities give us an advantage here as well. Their hydrotec hydrogen fuel cell power cubes are compact and easy to package and can be used in a wide range of applications, including locomotives. Our vision is clear, to have an operation fully decarbonized trains utilizing battery electric and hydrogen technology.The recent partnerships we announced with Carnegie Mellon University the nation's leading university in artificial intelligence and robotics and Genesee & Wyoming, the nation's largest short line and regional freight railroad put us on a path to do just that. By working together, we believe the transition to a more utilized, efficient and zero emission rail network is absolutely within reach, and we're committed to helping the industry get there.With that, Rafael, I'll turn it back over to you.Rafael Santana -- President And Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Eric. And a great example of how we're driving breakthrough technology investments in scalable and sustainable products that will position Wabtec and the industry for long-term profitable growth. Let's turn to our final slide. Everything we've outlined today reinforces our strategy to accelerate long-term profitable growth. That strategy is based on our expansive installed base, deep expertise, innovation and breakthrough initiatives and scalable technologies, rigorous operations, continuous improvement culture and disciplined capital allocation.I'm proud of the strong execution by the team in the second quarter despite a still challenging environment. As we go forward, we will continue to lean into the strong fundamentals of the company to execute on synergies, drive margin expansion, generate strong cash flow and deliver long-term profitable growth. As we've said before, Wabtec's mission holds a larger purpose to move and improve the world.After demonstrating strong performance in the first half of '21, I'm confident that the company will continue to deliver and lead the transition to a more sustainable future. We look forward to sharing more on the company, technologies and our long-term vision in the fourth quarter when we plan to host an Investor Day. More information on this will be shared shortly.With that, I'll turn the call back over to Kristine to begin the Q&A portion of our discussion.Kristine Kubacki -- Vice President of Investor RelationsThank you, Rafael. We will now move on to questions. Operator, we are now ready for our first question.