  OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the FIS first quarter 2022 earnings call. [Operator instructions]. Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker, Mr. Nate Rozof, head of investor relations. Please go ahead, sir.Nathan Rozof -- Head of Investor Relations

 



 Thanks, Sherry. Good morning, and thank you all for joining us today for the FIS first quarter 2022 earnings conference call. The call is being webcasted. Today's news release, corresponding presentation, and webcast are all available on our website at fisglobal.com. Gary Norcross, our chairman and CEO, will provide the business and strategy update. Stephanie Ferris, our president, will discuss our operating performance. Woody Woodall, our chief financial officer, will then review our financial results and provide forward guidance. And finally, Eric Hoag, our deputy CFO, will also be joining the call for the Q&A portion.Turning to Slide 3. Today's remarks will contain forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties as described in the press release and other filings with the SEC. The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Please refer to the safe harbor language. Also, throughout this conference call, we will be presenting non-GAAP information, including adjusted EBITDA, adjusted net earnings, and adjusted net earnings per share, and free cash flow. These are important financial performance measures of the company but are not financial measures as defined by GAAP. Reconciliation of our non-GAAP information to the GAAP financial information are presented in our earnings release.

 



 With that, I'll turn the call over to Gary. Gary Norcross -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Nate, and thank you for joining us today. Starting on Slide 5. We had a strong start to the year, significantly exceeding our revenue expectations and achieving the high end of our EPS guidance. Revenue increased 9% organically to $3.5 billion and adjusted EPS increased 13% to $1.47 per share. All of our segments beat our organic growth expectations in the quarter. Banking grew 7%, exceeding our 6% expectation; merchant grew 15% versus our low double-digit expectation; and capital markets grew 6%, with 8% growth in recurring revenue. New sales increased our backlog 8% organically to $22.5 billion. This consistent strength in backlog aligns with our midterm outlook for 7% to 9% organic growth, and our sales pipelines remain strong.

 



 I'd like to thank the team for their sharp focus on serving our clients and for their continued execution. Turning to Slide 6. The pace of change in our industry is very exciting. We've invested ahead of this change and throughout the pandemic to position FIS for success. We moved our technology infrastructure and application architecture to the cloud, and we continue to bring new or significantly upgraded solution suites to market. In banking, our multiyear investment strategy has positioned us with the best-in-class capabilities across core and digital banking, issuer processing, and wealth management. We further expanded the modern banking platform geographic reach this quarter by enabling public cloud deployments with Microsoft Azure. This will expand our reach into key markets like the U.K., Thailand, and New Zealand. Our team has also successfully launched our new banking-as-a-Service hub. This platform offers an all-in-one finance experience for our clients and enables them to rapidly create and deploy new embedded finance offerings for their customers. We recently formed a partnership with Circle to enable our merchants to receive settlement in USD coin and Crypto.com will be our first pilot customer. In addition to our ability to quickly deploy advanced technologies, international reach is also a true differentiator for us. Our merchant business added seven new countries in 2021 and plans to add 15 more by the end of 2023. In keeping with the crypto theme, capital markets recently announced a new partnership with Fireblocks to enable our clients to store and issue digital assets as well as to gain access to decentralized finance. Across multiple verticals, industries and client types, we continue to develop mission-critical systems at global scale that empower our clients to innovate and grow. The power of FIS doesn't stop with our ability to deliver unique solutions. The true value unlock is leapfrogging from leading solutions for individual client types to offering expansive embedded finance experiences that can bring all of our capabilities to bear for every client. We have technology platform initiatives underway to simplify the consumption of our cloud-native capabilities, either as end-to-end solutions or as individual components. More and more, our clients are asking for access to solutions from all three of our operating segments to enable robust transformations across their enterprise. These initiatives will speed access for them and open up rich new revenue streams for us. We are also evolving our go-to-market strategy by aligning our sales organization to directly target these new opportunities. Despite market fears about disruption, at FIS, we think we are the disruptor. And we will help our clients win now and into the future. With that, I'll turn the call over to Stephanie to describe how this vision is translating to our operating segments and to review their first quarter performance.Stephanie Ferris -- President Thanks, Gary, and good morning, everyone. This was an exciting quarter with momentum building for our new solutions, as Gary discussed. Starting with banking on Slide 8. We continue to see elevated organic growth, posting our sixth consecutive 5%-plus revenue growth quarter, which is well above the historical trend. Clearly, our multiyear investment strategy is paying dividends. To bring our vision to life, I'd like to highlight a few strategic new wins, which are a direct result of our technology investments. PaymentsOne is the most advanced, scaled issuer processing platform in the market. We've migrated approximately 1,500 of our existing clients to this platform, and we continue to leverage its unique end-to-end capabilities to win new clients. In the quarter, a top 20 U.S. financial institution selected PaymentsOne for debit processing and card production. We remain differentiated with our issuer processing capabilities and believe we have significant TAM to capture with this innovative platform. In addition, we're making significant investments in our wealth management platform, gaining a second landmark win with Mutual of America, following our T. Rowe Price win last year. And in a third example, our Premium Payback loyalty network is a truly unique solution that combines our strength in issuing and acquiring to enable consumers to pay with points in store at the point of sale. This quarter, AT&T decided to join our loyalty network, and consumers will be able to use points from participating issuers to pay in AT&T stores. As retailers and issuers continue to join, we expect a powerful network effect. Capital markets grew revenue 6% organically as shown on Slide 9. Our team continues to transition the business to SaaS-based revenue models, which drove recurring revenue up 8% in the quarter. Transitioning to SaaS not only increases the predictability and resiliency of growth, but also allows for incremental cross-sell opportunities as clients look to transition to the cloud. We've made significant investments in our transfer agency solution to create an as-a-service offering that drives efficiency and automation. Similar to banking, we had a second landmark win this quarter with a leading financial institution with more than $1 trillion in AUM, continuing the momentum from our Franklin Templeton win last year. This win builds on a long-standing core processing relationship, and we were thrilled to enhance our value proposition by bringing them even more breadth of capabilities. We also saw strength with privately held investment firms. Our investment operations suite drove capital market's largest-ever private markets deal with a premier high net worth multifamily office that will leverage our technology suite to transform their operations. Finally, we expanded our relationship with Robinhood in the quarter to empower their new stock loan income program. This expanded relationship helps cement our long-term vendor of choice partnership with Robinhood, where we continue to expand our value proposition across traditional and digital assets for this client. Overall, our end-to-end SaaS solutions are differentiated in the market and will continue to drive strong growth for capital markets. On Slide 10, our merchant segment generated 15% organic growth this quarter. And our Payrix acquisition is already paying off by signing several SaaS-based platforms in the quarter. Payrix more than doubled their client count as compared to last year, and we highlight a few recent wins with platform spanning the education, commercial, and marketplace verticals on the slide. We also continued our success as the leading acquirer for crypto. Currency.com signed with us this quarter after witnessing our capabilities and client service for another crypto exchange. They were further attracted to our expansive global reach, which will help them expand their own business. Lastly, The Nilson Report recently published their 2021 U.S. merchant acquirer ranking, which highlighted the strength of our e-commerce and software-led strategy. Our share of total U.S. volume increased by approximately 200 basis points to 20% in 2021 from 18% the year before. I couldn't be prouder of our team. The pandemic put them to the test, and they continue to put our clients first and execute at the highest level. I'll wrap up by sharing the performance of our subsegments on Slide 11. global eCommerce continues to be our fastest-growing business with 23% growth on a constant currency basis. As anticipated, travel rebounded strongly in the quarter, exceeding 2019 levels. Our large enterprise business grew 14% organically and continues to be a differentiated source of scale. Lastly, software-led SMB grew 13% organically, with restaurant and retail both growing double digits. With that, I'll now turn the call over to Woody to discuss our financial results. Woody?Woody Woodall -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Stephanie, and thank you all for joining us today. I will begin with our financial results on Slide 13, then I'll touch on our balance sheet and cash flow before taking you through our guidance. We're very pleased with our 9% organic revenue performance and the strong results achieved across all of our operating segments. We maintained consistent margins year over year as we were able to successfully offset wage inflation and difficult comparisons, including last year's stimulus-related revenue. This translated to 13% adjusted EPS growth, which is consistent with the high end of our full year guidance range. Turning to our segments. Banking revenue grew 7% on an organic basis, primarily due to continued client demand. Adjusted EBITDA margins contracted 90 basis points to 42%. The banking segment is where we experienced the majority of our margin headwind as it directly benefited from the Paycheck Protection Program or PPP revenue in the prior year and was impacted by higher labor costs. Merchant revenue grew 15% on an organic basis, reflecting strong results across all three subsegments, as Stephanie mentioned. Merchant adjusted EBITDA margin expanded 30 basis points to 47%, primarily due to high contribution margins on new revenue growth. Capital markets revenue grew 6% on an organic basis, primarily due to continued strong new sales and the transition to SaaS, driving higher recurring revenue. Capital markets' adjusted EBITDA margin expanded 60 basis points to 47%, primarily due to its continued operating leverage. Turning to Slide 14. We generated $786 million of free cash flow during the first quarter. Free cash flow increased by 41% year over year. We have invested heavily in innovation over the past five years, spending over $5 billion in capex over that time. We believe that this investment has peaked as a percentage of revenue and expect it to come down gradually over the next several years to approximately 6% to 7% of revenue. As a result, we expect free cash flow conversion to expand in subsequent quarters, and we remain on track to expand our free cash flow conversion toward 95% of adjusted net earnings for the full year. We increased our quarterly dividend by 21% to $0.47 per share, and we returned a total of $287 million in dividends to shareholders this quarter. As a reminder, we plan to increase our dividend by approximately 20% per year in order to gradually grow our dividend payout ratio over the next several years to approximately 35% of adjusted net income. In addition, we reduced debt by $1.2 billion, including repayment and foreign exchange benefit, ending the first quarter at three times leverage, which was a full 90 days ahead of schedule. We expect to maintain our leverage below three times, and we'll resume share repurchase in the second quarter. At current valuation levels, we believe share repurchase is the best use of excess free cash flow. We expect to buy back approximately $3 billion in shares during 2022. We also anticipate utilizing excess free cash flow in 2023 to buy back shares. At current course and speed, this will be approximately $6 billion in share repurchases during 2023. Combined, this represents approximately 15% of our current market cap. Turning to Slide 15 to review our guidance. There is no change to our full year outlook. We achieved a strong start to the year and remain on track to deliver 7% to 9% organic revenue growth, 50 to 100 basis points of adjusted EBITDA margin expansion, and 11% to 13% adjusted EPS growth for a range of $7.25 to $7.37 per share. The primary risk and opportunities to our forward guidance include the impact of foreign exchange rates, geopolitical risk, and the pace of pandemic recovery. Combined with the upside we delivered in the first quarter, we believe that this supports maintaining our outlook for the full year. For the second quarter, we expect organic revenue growth of 6% to 7%, consistent with revenue of $3.65 billion to $3.685 billion. We expect adjusted EBITDA margins of approximately 44%, resulting in adjusted EPS of $1.72 to $1.75 per share. Given the unusual puts and takes that are affecting organic growth rates for banking and merchant, I would like to provide you with some more color on our segment assumptions for the second quarter. In banking, we currently expect organic revenue growth to be in the mid-single-digit range for the second quarter. This is primarily due to the difficult compares created by the termination fees and pandemic-related revenue that we generated last year. We anticipate a similar growth profile of mid-single digits for our capital markets segment in the second quarter. For merchant, we currently expect organic revenue growth of approximately 9% to 10% in the second quarter. This equates to strong sequential growth of approximately 15% for merchant. In addition, we expect adjusted EBITDA margins to step up each quarter throughout the year. Lastly, we include assumptions for FX, corporate and other and several below-the-line items within the Opinion section of our earnings presentation. In conclusion, I would like to thank our colleagues for their continued efforts and perseverance through the pandemic. You continue to execute at a high level and generate strong financial results. Operator, would you please open the line for questions? 