  OperatorGood day, and welcome to Dow's first-quarter 2021 earnings call. [Operator instructions] Also, today's call is being recorded. I would now like to turn the call over to Pankaj Gupta. Please go ahead, sir.Pankaj Gupta -- Director, Investor Relations Good morning. Thank you for joining Dow's first-quarter earnings call. This call is available via our webcast, and we have prepared slides to supplement our comments today. They are posted on the Investor Relations section of Dow's website and through the link to our webcast.

 



 I am Pankaj Gupta, investor relations vice president for Dow. And joining me on the call today are Jim Fitterling, Dow's chairman and chief executive officer; and Howard Ungerleider, president and chief financial officer. Please read the forward-looking statement disclaimer contained in the earnings news release and slides. During our call, we will make forward-looking statements regarding our expectations or predictions about the future.Because these statements are based on current assumptions and factors that involve risks and uncertainties, our actual performance and results may differ materially from our forward-looking statements. Dow's Forms 10-Q and 10-K include detailed discussions of principal risks and uncertainties, which may cause such differences. Unless otherwise specified, all financials, where applicable, exclude significant items. We'll also refer to non-GAAP measures. A reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure and other associated disclosures is contained in the Dow earnings release, in the slides that supplement our comments today and on the Dow website. On Slide 2, you will see our agenda for the call. Jim will begin with the first-quarter highlights and will discuss the company's operating segment performance. Howard will provide our modeling guidance and our latest benchmarking performance. And then, Jim will close with an update on our plastics circularity road map and market outlook. Following that, we will take your questions. With that, I will turn the call over to Jim. 

 



Jim Fitterling -- Chairman and Chief Executive Chairman Thank you, Pankaj, and thanks to everyone for joining us today. Before we begin, I'd like to recognize and thank Colleen Kay, who announced her retirement from Dow after over 31 years of outstanding service, and also to welcome back Pankaj Gupta, who many of you already know. Starting on Slide 3. Our results for the first quarter once again demonstrated the focus and agility of Team Dow which enabled us to quickly recover from the impact of Winter Storm Uri on the U.S. Gulf Coast. This event had a far-reaching impact across our industry and broader market. Our colleagues quickly and safely got our units back online some of which began coming up within a week of the storm. All impacted Dow units are back online, and we reached pre-storm operating rates by the end of March, ahead of plan. Our team's efforts, combined with improving demand and tight industry supply conditions, drove results higher than the updated guidance we shared last month at the J.P. Morgan investor conference. At the company level, Dow achieved double-digit growth on the top and bottom lines, both year over year and sequentially. A few highlights in particular: Sales were up 22% year over year with gains in all operating segments and in every region.

 



 We continued to benefit from strong price momentum, with improvements in all segments, businesses and regions. Volume was in line with the year-ago period as gains in construction, mobility, electronics and consumer durables end markets, as well as higher energy demand, were offset by supply constraints from the storm, and we continue to improve our working capital efficiency with a net improvement of three days. Sales were also up sequentially with growth in all segments and regions. This top-line growth and our continued focus on cost discipline led to bottom-line growth and our highest EBIT quarter since spin. We achieved more than $700 million of EBIT growth from the year-ago period and $500 million sequentially. We delivered equity earnings improvements of more than $300 million led by Sadara. Earlier this month, Sadara, with help from Dow and Saudi Aramco, worked to bring its mixed feed cracker back online faster than anticipated and downstream production units are also back at expected rates. We also completed key structural changes to our U.S. defined benefit pension plans in the quarter, which reduced the company's pension liability. Cash flow from operations was more than $750 million, excluding a $1 billion elective pension contribution. And Dow, Saudi Aramco and Sadara completed the joint venture's debt reprofiling, which will provide approximately $350 million cash tailwind to Dow in 2021. Sadara is now expected to be cash flow self-sufficient. In summary, Team Dow remained agile in an extremely dynamic business environment to deliver strong top and bottom-line growth, positioning Dow for greater value creation going forward. Moving to our segment performance on Slide 4. In the packaging and specialty plastics segment, operating EBIT was $1.2 billion, up nearly $650 million versus the same quarter last year and $448 million sequentially. Resilient demand, tight market supply, disciplined price volume management and polyethylene inventory levels at five-year lows enabled momentum in polyethylene earnings. The packaging and specialty plastics business achieved double-digit sales gains year over year and sequentially, driven by local price momentum in all regions. Versus the year-ago period, local price gains were led by improvement in industrial and consumer packaging and flexible food and beverage packaging applications. Moving to the industrial intermediates and infrastructure segment, operating EBIT was $326 million, up $151 million year over year due to strong supply and demand fundamentals in polyurethanes and construction chemicals and higher equity earnings led by continued improvement from Sadara. Sequentially, operating EBIT improved $30 million despite significant impact from Winter Storm Uri. The polyurethanes and construction chemicals business achieved a double-digit net sales increase compared to the year-ago period, led by local price momentum in polyurethanes. Demand growth in consumer durables and appliances and industrial end markets was more than offset by volume limitations on the U.S. Gulf Coast and other third-party supply constraints related to the storm. These pricing and volume dynamics also drove sequential sales growth. The industrial solutions business delivered net sales in line with the year-ago period as higher prices in all regions were offset by volume constraints primarily due to Winter Storm Uri. Improved demand in textiles and electronics applications was more than offset by supply limitations. Net sales were also in line sequentially due to the same drivers. And finally, the performance materials and coatings segment reported operating EBIT of $62 million, down year over year as local price gains across the portfolio and strong demand for architectural coatings and silicones applications were more than offset by the impact of the winter storm, as well as planned maintenance. Sequentially, operating EBIT was up $12 million. The consumer solutions business achieved higher net sales year over year on local price increases for siloxane and robust demand for consumer, electronics and mobility applications. These gains more than offset the impact from planned maintenance. Sequentially, the business delivered local price gains across all regions and achieved sequential volume gains in all regions except Asia Pacific, where strong gains in performance silicones were more than offset by planned maintenance downtime at our Zhangjiagang siloxanes asset. The coatings and performance monomers business delivered higher net sales year over year, driven by price gains in all regions, notably in acrylic monomers due to strong supply and demand fundamentals. Supply constraints from Winter Storm Uri and planned maintenance at our Deer Park asset more than offset continued demand strength for architectural coatings. Sequentially, the business achieved price gains, particularly in acrylic monomers due to increases in raw material costs. I'll now turn it over to Howard to review modeling guidance and the results of our annual benchmarking.Howard Ungerleider -- President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Jim. Moving to Slide 5, as we turn to the second quarter, market demand remains robust in packaging, electronics, mobility, architectural coatings, as well as consumer durable end markets. While sectors like home care have begun to normalize, we do expect additional upside on continuing economic recovery in the industrial sector. And as travel, workplace and social activities resume, they will also provide a boost in demand for higher-margin personal care applications, as well as across the service sectors of the global economy. These constructive market trends will continue to support top- and bottom-line growth across all Dow operating segments in the second quarter. We are entering turnaround season in the Northern Hemisphere, and we expect increased spending of approximately $125 million sequentially, particularly in the U.S. Gulf Coast, including a turnaround at one of our crackers in Louisiana. We also expect an additional $100 million from outages, including a third-party supply disruption on the U.S. Gulf Coast. Collectively, robust demand, tight supply, low inventories and increased raw material costs are providing support for prices across many of our value chains. We expect the constrained industry inventory levels to continue in the second quarter, preventing inventory builds until later this year as we focus on clearing the growing backlog of customer orders. All combined for the second quarter, we expect approximately $750 million to $800 million in higher earnings versus the prior quarter from a combination of earnings momentum in our key chains and lower sequential costs from Winter Storm Uri. This earnings growth will be partially offset by approximately $200 million to $250 million in higher costs from turnarounds and the third-party outage I mentioned. Altogether, we expect second quarter to be our strongest performance since spin. Moving to Slide 6, we're also updating a few key items in our full-year modeling guidance. The positive momentum I just mentioned will also benefit our joint ventures, particularly Sadara. We also expect to see slightly higher turnaround spending than previously anticipated as Winter Storm Uri has put some upward pressure on the cost of materials and labor in the U.S. Gulf Coast. Finally, our decision to freeze our U.S. pension plan accruals and contribute $1 billion to the U.S. pension plan, along with the subsequent remeasurement, provides an approximately $200 million tailwind to pension expense year over year. Overall, for the remainder of the year, we continue to see broad-based economic momentum, recovery from Winter Storm Uri and elevated consumer demand. Moving to Slide 7. Today, we also released our annual benchmarking update, which is available on our investor website and in this earnings presentation. I continue to be very proud of our team's efforts to achieve top quartile results across most of our peer comparison performance metrics. To summarize our results, at the enterprise level, our focus on cash extended Dow's advantage on EBITDA to cash flow conversion and enabled free cash flow performance above peers, above the industry, as well as above the broader market. This supported our continued leading dividend yield and further strengthened our balance sheet even through the pandemic. We also maintained our top quartile cost management and margin performance. At a segment level, packaging and specialty plastics outperformed the peer median across adjusted operating EBITDA margin, free cash conversion and SG&A and R&D spend. And Dow's operating EBITDA per pound of polyolefins capacity continues to outperform peers, expanding further in 2020. Both industrial intermediates and infrastructure, as well as performance materials and coatings, outperformed the pure median on cash conversion, as well as on SG&A and R&D spend. We do see near-term opportunities to improve adjusted operating EBITDA growth by continuing to implement our faster payback, higher ROIC expansions. This includes our ethylene cracker expansion in Canada, our FCDh retrofit, our polyglycols expansion and our downstream silicones expansions as well. And projects like the South China Specialties Hub will enable us to capture higher value polyurethane systems and alkoxylates demand in the fast-growing Asia Pacific market. Looking ahead, we are well-positioned to grow earnings and maintain our track record of cash generation. Our differentiated consumer-led portfolio, with leading positions across most of the markets we serve, enables us to capture growth in our key value chains and ongoing market recovery in automotive and personal care. For example, in the mobility global megatrend alone, electric vehicles use three to four times more Dow silicone products than traditional vehicles. Together, our strong operational, financial and commercial playbook, supported by the broadening economic recovery, positions Dow well for future earnings and cash flow growth. With that, I'll turn it back to Jim.Jim Fitterling -- Chairman and Chief Executive Chairman Thank you, Howard. Moving to Slide 8, before discussing the market outlook, I want to reinforce how sustainability continues to be another growth driver for Dow. Last quarter, we shared our road map to achieving our 2030 carbon reduction targets. And this past week, Columbia University and the Nature Conservancy announced our partnership to better account for the role of that materials and sustainable applications play in achieving emissions reduction, including plastics. Plastics have a lower carbon footprint than traditional materials, and we are leading the way to a circular economy for plastics. Through our "stop the waste" and "close the loop" targets, we're enabling 1 million metric tons of plastics to be collected, reused or recycled by 2030 and targeting 100% of our products sold into packaging applications to be reusable or recyclable by 2035. These targets require innovation and collaboration in mechanical and advanced recycling, as well as in designing for recyclability. To that end, through collaboration across the value chain with Dallas Pack Studios, we're working to accelerate sustainable packaging solutions, tailor-made for those customers and consumer brand owners, many of which have set targets to incorporate 25% or more post-consumer recycled material in their products. We're helping consumer brands design their packaging to be fully recyclable. Our collaborations to develop fully formulated recyclable packaging solutions include developments with Kellogg's Kashi Bear Naked Granola, Reckitt Benckiser's Finish Dishwashing Detergent and China's leading laundry brand, Liby. Each enable a larger addressable market and sales of higher value Dow materials. We sell products containing mechanically recycled materials in every geography, and now we're beginning to scale a family of products that can be used in either flexible or rigid packaging applications. Dow is also developing advanced recycling technologies that convert used plastics into their feedstocks. We continue to scale up these capabilities with our partner, Fuenix Ecogy Group. And today, we announced a partnership with Mura Technology, to convert plastics back into the oils and chemicals from which they were made for use in new virgin equivalent plastic products. This revolutionary advanced recycling technology can convert all forms of plastic into feedstock, including many considered to be unrecyclable. We're also actively engaged as a founder of the Alliance to End Plastic Waste and with key stakeholders around the world to help solve critical challenges to plastics recycling. For example, through our collaboration with Circulate Capital, Dow is bringing material science capabilities to Lucro Plastecycle and Marico Limited, one of India's leading consumer brands, to enable sustainable, flexible film packaging with recycled content. Our actions to advance plastic circularity are value-accretive to Dow. And our differentiated product slate, downstream knowledge, intimacy with consumer brands and strategic partnerships give us a leading-edge to capture this growth. Turning to Slide 9. As Howard mentioned, Dow remains well-positioned to benefit from improving industry and market conditions. We see several positive leading indicators, including momentum and job growth, consumer spending, a return to air travel and expanding manufacturing and industrial activity for global manufacturing PMIs at a 15-year high in March. These trends are further supported by government stimulus measures and accelerating vaccine rollouts globally. The spending elements of the U.S. infrastructure plan, if passed, will further support growth in our downstream markets. Similarly, incentives aligned to more sustainable energy solutions should be beneficial to our business and to attaining our own sustainability targets. These programs are not currently included in our assumptions, but could drive additional growth if enacted in a manner that supports manufacturing competitiveness. These macro trends translate into a one to two times GDP growth across key end markets, including packaging, infrastructure, mobility, consumer durables and industrials and home and personal care. Given this backdrop, we see demand in our key value chains continuing to outpace supply throughout 2021 and staying balanced in the near-term across ethylene, polyethylene, polyurethanes, acrylics and silicones chains. Some industry views call for softening conditions in the near term, largely based on their view of planned capacity additions. However, these views do not account for industry project delays or cancellations nor do they account for the maintenance activity or reliability impact from weather-related events like the winter storm. Industry delays and cancellations of planned capacity additions, along with elevated demand growth as the global economy continues to reopen will likely lead to tighter than predicted market conditions, all of which will result in continued earnings, margin and cash flow growth for our core businesses and joint ventures in the near term. And while we capture these improved earnings over the next several years in our core businesses, our current slate of lower capital, faster payback and higher return capacity expansions will add nearly $1 billion of accretive earnings to our bottom line. Dow's points of distinction continue to raise our earnings and cash flow potential relative to peers. The market growth we expect in our business, combined with our industry-leading feedstock flexibility, global scale and advantaged cost positions, our top quartile cash generation and our innovation and leadership in high-growth end markets enable Dow to continue to deliver value for our owners through 2021 and over the foreseeable future. With that, I'll turn it back to Pankaj to open the Q&A.Pankaj Gupta -- Director, Investor Relations Thank you, Jim. Now let's move on to your questions. I would like to remind you that our forward-looking statements apply to both our prepared remarks and the following Q&A. Operator, please provide the Q&A instructions. 