  OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the first-quarter 2021 Welltower Inc. earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] It is now my pleasure to introduce general counsel Matt McQueenMatt McQueen -- General Counsel Thank you, and good morning. As a reminder, certain statements made during this call may be deemed forward-looking statements in the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. Although Welltower believes any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, the company can give no assurances that its projected results will be attained. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are detailed in the company's filings with the SEC.

 



 And with that, I'll hand the call over to Shankh for his remarks. Shankh?Shankh Mitra -- Chief Executive Officer and Chief Investment Officer Thank you, Matt, and good morning, everyone. I hope that all of you and your families are safe and healthy during these extraordinary times. I'll make some introductory comments on the state of senior housing business, our ongoing alignment efforts with our operating partners, and we will also provide a detailed perspective on our current thoughts related to capital allocation. Tim will then get into detailed operating and financial results. We are cautiously optimistic on the senior housing business with greenshoots emerging in U.S. and U.K. While it is too early to raise an all fear flag as another COVID resurgence can never be ruled out, we're delighted to report an occupancy increase of 120 bps in U.K. and 90 bps in U.S.

 



 over the past six weeks. Despite growing optimism in U.S. and U.K., performance in Canada has remained somewhat weak due to increased COVID cases across many regions. PAUSE While most residents within our Canadian senior housing properties have been vaccinated, the rollout to the broader population has lagged meaningfully due to lockdown in certain areas within Ontario and Quebec, move in stores and visitation have been highly restricted, which has ultimately led to an occupancy loss of 50 basis points since mid-March. This trend has improved in April. Despite the drag from Canada, the move in activity in March is higher than the last non-COVID impacted month of February of 2020. In addition, as I have described in past quarters, rates continue to hold. As adjusted for 2020 leap year, AL rates are up 1.6%, IL rates are up 0.7%, mostly dragged down by the Canadian business. Senior apartments and wellness housing rates are up 6.3%. Our operators across the board are seeing broad momentum that continued to build, irrespective type, geography, activity, this is the most optimistic tone I've heard from our operating partners in a long time. We're even seeing the lifestyle-driven customers are starting to come back, which frankly surprised me in a positive way. Fundamental results have exceeded our expectations in Q1, and we're anticipating strong momentum in Q2. While we continue to avoid speculation on what the arc of the recovery may look like, we have provided additional disclosure on the additional LOI and earnings power of our portfolio assuming a return to 2019 level of NOI for our stable portfolio and adding incremental NOI from our filler portfolio. We believe this results in additional $480 million of NOI. And remember, this assumes a return to 2019 level of occupancy and margin, and it does not assume a return to frictional vacancy or any rate growth since Q4 of 2019. We're seeing something similar happening in the private market.

 



 While current cash flow multiples of what we are buying might be high as compared to what we're willing to pay two to three years ago, this is a moot point. We're paying a much lower multiple and a stabilized cash flow as evidenced by a much lower price per unit. While in most other asset classes, this could be a matter of opinion, I believe in real estate it is a simple business where you can obtain a very granular view of price per unit and how this compares to replacement cost. While we can sit here and debate how different assets and portfolio prices compared to prices per unit two to three years ago, replacement costs are shooting upwards with a white-hot housing market driving construction costs exponentially higher in recent quarters. This phenomena is now spilling into other material costs due to a $2 trillion infrastructure plan announced by the Biden administration. As costs continue to rise, the market-clearing rent to achieve minimum acceptable return is also ratcheting up. However, those returns are not going to be easy to achieve. Today, as much of the senior housing industry effectively remains a lease-up mode, given the impact of COVID on occupancy. If this was not enough, now the interest rate curve is backing up, creating further pressure on developers pro forma. This backdrop clearly is unique to the current cycle, which we believe will result in meaningfully lower new starts in near to medium term. The supply outlook, along with already rising demographic growth in the first half of the decade gives us confidence that we'll achieve the level of asset performance that we provided. Although I have nothing to add in terms of the timing and/or the trajectory of the recovery, our analysis was done one asset at a time, and I hope you will find this new disclosure useful. During the first quarter, we continued our effort to create greater alignment of interest with our operating partners by restructuring several relationship constructs. And as we mentioned on our last call, we have made structural changes to several senior housing agreements. I would also like to highlight some recently announced strategic transactions with Genesis and ProMedica, with elements of both deals reflects our approach to value creation for our shareholders. First, Genesis. As we announced last month, after 10 years, we have substantially exited our Genesis real estate relationship through a series of transactions, which meaningfully derisked our cash flow stream going forward. Effectuating this nearly $900 million a transaction wasn't easy. It involved a skilled nursing operator deeply impacted by COVID-19 pandemic, the transitional access to local and regional operators working through our outstanding loans to Genesis, at the same time, creating opportunity for Welltower to participate in the post-COVID recovery in post acute fundamentals. Ultimately, we executed a mutually beneficial transaction for Genesis and Welltower shareholders. PAUSE For Genesis, the transaction resulted in a meaningful deleveraging of its balance sheet, which will help you to reposition the company post-COVID-19. And for Welltower, we're able to execute the transaction at a par bid value of $144,000 and generated an 8.5% unlevered return over the full term of Genesis relationship. And upon the repayment of the outstanding debt, that return will rise to 9% with even further upside potential from participating preferred and the equity position. We believe that this represents a very favorable outcome for the shareholders, Welltower shareholders, particularly in light of the challenging environment that we have faced in the post-acute sector and then COVID-related pandemic-induced downside we have seen. While transactions will result in some near-term earnings dilution for Welltower, we expect to create significant value for our shareholders following the deployment of the $745 million of anticipated proceeds over a range of high-quality opportunity that I'll discuss shortly. Since our announcement last month, Genesis has received an infusion of equity capital and named a specialist in Harry Wilson as CEO. We wish the team of Genesis much success in the future as we have substantially exited a challenging legacy structure with Genesis, I hope our shareholders appreciate the favorable ultimate outcome. As we have done with several operating relationship over the last few years and discussed on various calls, our team embraced complexity, fixed creative solutions, doesn't run away from their problems and situations where the choices may be imperfect and ultimately work tirelessly to fulfill our commitment to our owners, operating partners, and employees. Second, ProMedica. We announced two transactions to strengthen and expand our relationship with ProMedica, which will enhance the quality of our joint venture position and continued growth. The first transaction involved $265 million sale of 25 skilled nursing assets with an average age of 41 years, which will result in an immediate improvement to the quality of the portfolio. At the same time, we also crystallized a 22% unlevered IRR over two and a half years of ownership of the asset, which is a true reflection of the power of our value-oriented investment philosophy. We at Welltower firmly believe that basis not yield or cap rates determine investment success. Through a separate transaction, we are pleased to maintain an 80% stake in our state-of-the-art assets which has been contributed to our 80/20 joint venture with ProMedica. ProMedica has already assumed the operations of these assets, which have been rebranded as ProMedica Senior Care. PAUSE This successful transaction is yet another example of our focus on improving quality and growth profile of our portfolio while doing so at favorable economic terms to all stakeholders. ProMedica team is making progress in developing new relationship with other health systems as a provider of choice as Promedica represents the premium not-for-profit provider at the leading age of healthcare evolution. We're hopeful that we'll be able to deploy far-direct creative capital with this innovative partner of ours. Speaking of accretive capital deployment, we are pleased to share with you that we have closed in excess of $1.3 billion of acquisitions year to date with very attractive unlevered IRR, in particular, extremely happy to announce that we have partnered with a Safanad led investment group to recapitalize HC-One, the largest and most reputable operator of care homes communities in U.K. Our investment in excess of $800 million comes in form of first mortgage debt on HC-One's real estate and equity in recapitalization. We also received significant warrants that would further allow us to participate in the post-COVID upside that we are confident that management in process of executing. HC-One will add a value option to our high-end focused U.K. platform. There is significant opportunity to upgrade the asset base, operating platform and people in this portfolio, and we have tremendous confidence in James and David to fulfill their mission to deliver the highest quality care, along with the residents and employee satisfaction. In recent weeks, HC-One has experienced the same positive occupancy momentum as our broader U.K. portfolio, gaining 90 bps of occupancy from the March 2021 trough. Our debt investment represents the last found exposure of just $40,000 far unit and important statistic given our unrelenting focus on basis. This basis also represents a significant discount to replacement costs, in addition to the upside from equity and warrants. We think this is an extraordinary risk-adjusted return story. We believe we'll be able to generate low to mid-teens on IRR from this transaction while adding a highly strategic partner to fill a gap that we have in our portfolio in the U.K. With acquisitions, patience is a virtue and so is occasional boldness. Since we mentioned in our October call, the moment of boldness is here, we have closed in excess of $1.8 billion of acquisitions. The initial yield of this whole tranche is 6.8%, but we expect it will stabilize at a significantly higher number. When while the environment was very uncertain then, and we didn't give into institutional imperative about headline pressures, and we relied on independent thinking and resilience of our team. We remain very bullish on acquisition opportunities and have several attractive deals under contract currently and a highly visible pipeline, which we think we'll be able to execute through year end. While our focus continues to be on the right asset with the right basis and with the right operator, I'm hopeful that our 2021 class of acquisition will be immediately accretive to 2022 earnings and will be significantly accretive to 2023 and beyond. Lastly, I will address a very interesting question I have received from an investor post our last call. I was asked why we have such an emphasis on partner selection and whether it would be better off vertically integrating. We think this is an excellent question that deserves some reflecting for a moment. Notwithstanding the RIDEA law in senior housing, we believe we're better off in the ecosystem of partners and implementing an industrial view of vertical integration. That view is rooted in our belief that the combination of centralized capital allocation and decentralized execution creates the best long-term return. PAUSE We believe this strategy of decentralized execution relates to energy and keeps politics and costs at bay. This is especially important in real estate, which is profoundly a local business. However, overall, we are happy with our execution so far in the year to create partial value for our shareholders, but by no means we are satisfied. We are cautiously optimistic about the fundamental environment and excited about our opportunity to acquire assets, create new relationships, and attract quality challenges. With that, I'll pass it over to Tim. Tim?Tim McHugh -- Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Shank. My comments today will focus on our first-quarter 2021 results, the performance of our investment segments in the quarter, our capital activity, and finally, a balance sheet and liquidity update, in addition to an outlook for the second quarter. After a year defined by infection protocols, move-in restrictions, and incredible operating challenges for our partners, we started 2021 in arguably the most challenging environment yet. With case counts hitting new highs across all three of our geographies and operating restrictions moving up in lockstep. Towards the end of February, the vaccine rollout hit its stride and nearly 80% of our facilities had their second vaccine finished. Case counts across the portfolio dropped precipitously, and we started to see the early signs of stabilization. The effectiveness and rapid deployment of vaccines within our communities are just starting to be felt across our resident population. And while we are encouraged by the last 6 weeks of recovery in the U.S. and U.K., significant uncertainty remains with respect to the prevalence of the virus among the general population, the timing of the reopening of the economy, and the timing of further rollbacks of operating restrictions, especially with respect to our Canadian portfolio. The result is a near-term operating environment that, although notably improved, remains highly unpredictable in the short term. As a result of this uncertainty, like last quarter, we provided a one-quarter outlook with our results last night. As we have done over the past 14-plus months, we will continue to disclose and update information on a frequent basis with the intention of providing a more complete outlook as soon as the virus-related variables moderate to a level that allows for more reliable forecasting. Now turning to the quarter. Welltower reported net income attributable to common stockholders of $0.17 per diluted share and normalized funds from operations of $0.80 per diluted share versus guidance of $0.71 to $0.76 per share. When providing guidance last quarter, we also provided expectations for $31 million of HHS provider relief funds we received in the quarter. We ended up recognizing approximately $34.7 million of HHS funds, along with $2.5 million of out-of-period payments for similar programs in Canada. Removing the impact of these funds, along with the $3.5 million termination fee that was received in one of our senior housing management company investments, which was not contemplating guidance, our normalized FFO moves to $0.70 per share. Therefore, on an apples-to-apples basis, we came out $0.01 above the top end of our HHS adjusted prior guidance of $0.64 to $0.69 per share. Now turning to our individual portfolio components. First, our triple-net lease portfolios. As a reminder, our triple-net lease portfolio coverage and occupancy stats reported one quarter in years. So these statistics reflect the trailing 12 months ending 12/31/2020. Importantly, our collection rate for rent remained high in the first quarter, having collected 96% of triple net contractual rent due in the period. Starting with our senior housing triple-net portfolio. Same-store decline 2% year over year as leases that we moved the cash recognition in prior quarters continue to comp against the prior year full contractual rent received. EBITDAR coverage decreased 0.01 times on a sequential basis in the portfolio to 1.00. During the quarter, we transitioned the remaining five capital senior assets, moving one to triple-net structure under a new operator and the other four to various structure with CSU until transition. We also completed the transition of four properties leased by Hearth management to Storypoint under a new lease agreement. These transitions had a net positive impact of 0.02 times in total portfolio coverage. Next, our long-term post-new portfolio generated positive 0.2% year-over-year same-store growth, and EBITDAR coverage increased 0.37 times sequentially to 1.37 times. As 51 of the 79 Genesis assets began operator transitions. 23 assets have already transitioned as of this call, including nine former Powerback properties, which moved to ProMedica Senior Care. Pro forma for the already-completed ProMedica JV, Genesis Healthcare represents less than 90 basis points of our total in-place NOI. And long-term post-acute will be reduced to 6% of total NOI. And lastly, health systems, which is comprised by ProMedica Senior care joint venture with the ProMedica Health System. We had same-store NOI growth of positive 2.8% year over year and trailing 12 EBITDAR coverage was 1.9 times. Before turning to outpatient medical, I want to highlight a disclosure change we made to our presentation of occupancy in our supplemental disclosure. Historically, we reported occupancy to 100% ownership. But going forward, we will present both at Welltower's pro-rata share to better reflect Welltower's ownership economics. This has no impact on NOI, which has always been presented at Welltower share. We have footnoted the occupancy levels if presented a 100% ownership in both the senior housing operating and medical office portion of our supplement. Now turning to our outpatient medical portfolio, which delivered positive 3.1% year-over-year same-store growth, as cash rent growth and higher platform profitability combined to producing acceleration in NOI growth. Tenant retention continued to be strong at 87.7% in the quarter, as we executed renewals on more than 540,000 square feet of space in the quarter, our highest amount ever reported. Additionally, we've also seen the length of term on executed renewal increases compared to last year. Also in the quarter, we completed our second joint venture with Invesco Real Estate for a portfolio of outpatient medical assets and completed our first with Wafra. Our ability to form joint ventures with best-in-class capital partners over the last two years has allowed us to maintain scale and more importantly, the tenant relationships generated from our in-house asset management platform. At the same time, we diversified our access to capital during a period of significant capital market turbulence. We look forward to growing these relationships further going forward. Now turning to our senior housing operating portfolio. Before getting into this quarter's results, I want to point out that we received approximately $35 million from our Department of Health and Human Services Cares Act provider relief fund. As we've done in the past quarters, the funds are recognized on a cash basis, and as such, will flow through financials in the quarter they are received. We're normalizing these HHS funds out of same-store metrics, however, along with any other government funds received they're not matched expenses occur in the period they received. In the first quarter, there were approximately $33.8 million of reimbursement normalized out of our same-store senior housing operating results, mainly tied to the HHS program in the U.S. Now turning to results for the quarter. Same-store NOI decreased 44% as compared to first-quarter 2020 and decreased 15.6% sequentially from the fourth quarter. Sequential same-store revenue was down 3.6% in Q1, driven primarily by a 310 basis point drop in average occupancy versus our guidance midpoint of 325 basis points. Turning to REVPOR in the quarter. Show portfolio REVPOR was down 1.5% year over year, but mix shift and an extra day of rent in the comparable leap-year quarter are distorting the true picture of rent growth metrics as over 40% of our revenue is derived on a per name basis. When adjusting for the leap year, total portfolio REVPOR growth moves to negative 1%. And breaking out our individual segments, our active adult independent living and assisted living segments reported year-over-year growth of positive 6.3%, positive 0.7%, and positive 1.6%, respectively. As I mentioned in the past few quarters, the combined total portfolio metric is being impacted by a considerable change in the composition of occupied units in the year-over-year portfolio. Our lower acuity properties comprised of independent living and senior departments held up considerably better on the occupancy front since the start of COVID, which has the mathematical impact of having a higher portion of our total portfolio occupied units being lower acuity and therefore, lower rent-paying units. Rental rates are proving resilient, more resilient across our portfolio than would appear in our aggregate reported statistics. Lastly, expenses. Total same-store expenses declined 2.6% year over year and decreased 20 basis points sequentially. I'll focus on sequential since the changes are more relevant to trends in the current operating environment. The 20-basis-point sequential decline in operating costs was driven mainly by lower COVID cover cost as case counts dropped dramatically in March. The meaningful decline in our top line, combined with these expense pressures had a significant impact to our operating margins, which declined 280 basis points sequentially to 19.4%. As I noted earlier in the call, we did not include government reimbursement that was not tied to parity expenses. And therefore, COVID expenses negatively impacted same-store by $14.8 million. We are not factoring any HHS funds into our second-quarter outlook. Looking forward to the second quarter, and starting with the April quarter-to-date data we've already observed, we've experienced 20 basis points through April 23, with the U.S., U.K. up 40 and 90 basis points, respectively, while Canada is down 20 basis points. While we are encouraged by the recovery in the U.S. and U.K. and are hopeful that the effectiveness of the vaccines has put a floor underneath operating results, we remain cautious on projecting an acceleration in recent trends, given the lack of historical precedents and uncertainty of reopening trend, particularly in Canada. On a spot basis, we are currently projecting a 130-basis-point increase in occupancy from March 31 through June 30. We expect monthly REVPOR to be plus 1.2% sequentially, although adjusting for the extra day in 2Q versus 1Q reduced to plus 70 basis points sequentially. Lastly, we expect total expenses to be effectively flat. As increases in operating costs from higher occupancy should be offset by a reduction in COVID-related expenses. Turning to capital market activity. We continue to execute on our strategy of maximizing balance sheet stability. We're maintaining flexibility to position us to take advantage of attractive capital deployment opportunities. In March, we issued $750 million of senior unsecured notes due June 2031, bearing an interest rate of 2.8%, and used these proceeds to redeem all remaining senior unsecured notes due 2023. As a result, we were able to extend all senior unsecured debt maturities to 2024 and beyond, extend our weighted average maturity profile for nearly eight years. We also extinguished $42 million of secured debt at a blended average interest rate of 7.6% in the quarter. In February, we highlighted a robust pipeline of capital deployment opportunities. As these transactions materialize, and the pipeline has grown, we've utilized our forward ATM program, selling 3.7 million shares of common stock to date at an initial average weighted price of $73.43 per share. These shares will generate future gross proceeds of approximately $272 million, and along with $1 billion of cash from our balance sheet, will enable us to officially capitalize our highly visible pipeline of capital deployment opportunities. Moving on to leverage. We ended the quarter at 6.59 times net debt to adjusted EBITDA, a 31 basis point increase over the previous quarter as underlying cash flows continue to be pressured by the impact of COVID. While transactions closed in the second quarter will result in a slight increase in leverage, after adjusting for expected proceeds from assets held for sale and $272 million proceeds from the forward sale of common stock, we expect leverage to settle in the high sixes before the ramp in senior housing cash flows begin to naturally drive leverage lower in the coming quarters. Speaking of recovery, Shankh spoke earlier about the magnitude of potential cash flow growth from just returning to pre-COVID levels of margins and occupancy in our senior housing operating portfolio. This will have a significantly positive impact on cash flow-based leverage metrics. And although the duration of this recovery remains highly uncertain, the inflection point this quarterly is optimistic that it has begun. And our demonstrated ability to access significant equity proceeds through asset sales, even in the most difficult times, along with our return the equity market since last quarter, leaves us confident that we'll be able to keep the balance sheet in a position of strength as a natural deleveraging when the senior housing recovery returns us to well within our historical target levels in the not-too-distant future. Lastly, moving to our second-quarter outlook. Last night, we provided an outlook for the second quarter of net income attributable to common stockholders per diluted share of $0.31 to $0.36. And normalized FFO per diluted share of $0.72 to $0.77 per share. As I noted earlier, this guidance does not take into consideration any further HHS funds or similar government programs in the U.K. and Canada. So when comparing sequentially to our first quarter normalized FFO per share, use a $0.70 per share number I mentioned earlier in my comments, which excludes the benefits of these programs as well. On this comparison, the midpoint of our second-quarter guidance of $0.745 per share represents a $0.045 sequential increase from 1Q. The $0.045 increase is composed of a $0.02 increase per share increase from our senior housing operating portfolio, driven by an increase in sequential average occupancy and expected reduction in COVID costs, a $0.025 per share increase in net investment activity as strong post quarter investments is offsetting the initial dilution from loan reductions and operator transitions related to Genesis. A $0.01 increase in NOI from triple-net and outpatient medical segments, and this is offset by the expected $0.01 increase in sequential G&A, driven mainly by new hires. And with that, I'll turn the call back over to Shankh.Shankh Mitra -- Chief Executive Officer and Chief Investment Officer Thank you, Tim. Despite the challenges posed by the pandemic on our business, we have remained resolute in our commitment to ESG initiatives. In fact, our efforts on this front have only grown over the past year, and we are pleased to report significant progress, not just in terms of numerous awards and accolades we have received, but also by our action to strengthen and expand our ESG platform, which we believe will bear fruit in many years to come. We have recently received the Energy Star Partner of the Year award for the third consecutive year and elevated to the level of sustained excellence, the EPA's highest recognition within the Energy Star program. We have also been honored that our social initiatives we are recognized with the quality score of one by IFF, the highest ranking in the social category. And last but not least, we continue to receive an A rating from MSCI, one of the most widely, well-respected global organization for our broader ESG practices and disclosures. I'm extremely proud to be working with our Board of Directors, one of the most diverse in Corporate America in this commitment to create long-term and sustainable shareholder value per share through our ESG initiatives. With that, operator, we can open it up for questions. 