  OperatorWelcome to the Marathon Oil second-quarter earnings conference call. My name is Vanessa and I will be your operator for today's call. [Operator instructions] I will now turn the call over to Guy Baber, vice president of investor relations.Guy Baber -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thanks, Vanessa, and thank you to everyone for joining us this morning on the call. Yesterday after the close, we issued a press release, a slide presentation, and investor packet that address our second-quarter 2021 results. Those documents can be found on our website at marathonoil.com. Joining me on today's call are Lee Tillman, our chairman, president, and CEO; Dane Whitehead, executive VP and CFO; Pat Wagner, executive VP of corporate development and strategy; and Mike Henderson executive VP of operations.

 



 As always, today's call will contain forward-looking statements subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements. I'll refer everyone to the cautionary language included in the press release and presentation materials as well as to the risk factors described in our SEC filings. And with that, I'll turn the call over to Lee, who will provide his opening remarks. We will also hear from Dane and Mike today before we get to our question-and-answer session.Lee? Lee Tillman -- Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Guy, and good morning to everyone listening to our call today. I want to begin by once again thanking our employees and contractors for their continued dedication and hard work in putting together another quarter of outstanding execution. It is their hard work that makes all of the accomplishments that we will discuss today possible. The combination of our high-quality multi-basin portfolio, our differentiated execution, and our commitment to capital discipline are driving truly exceptional results for our company.

 



 During second quarter, we generated $422 million of free cash flow, bringing free cash flow generation through the first half of the year to over $860 million. For our $1 billion full-year 2021 capital budget, assuming $65 WTI and $3 Henry Hub, we now expect to generate $1.9 billion of free cash flow this year. This corresponds to a free cash flow yield north of 20% at a reinvestment rate of just 35% and a corporate free cash flow break-even well below $35 per barrel WTI, a powerful combination of results that we believe differentiates us against any company in our sector as well as the broader market. We are successfully delivering on all of our financial, operational, and ESG-related objectives. We remain fully committed to capital discipline and our $1 billion capital program. As I've said many times, our budget is our budget and we won't raise our spending levels with stronger commodity prices, but we'll simply generate more free cash flow. Supported by such strong performance, we have just raised our quarterly base dividend by 25%. This is the second quarter in a row that we have increased our base dividend. We are also accelerating our balance sheet objectives, pulling forward achievement of our gross debt target, which will drive a shift in our return of capital focus toward equity holders. Further, we are enhancing our return of capital framework. Now targeting at least 40% of our annual cash flow from operations to equity holders in a $60 per barrel WTI or higher price environment while still retiring future debt at maturity. This is one of the most significant returns of capital commitments to shareholders in our sector. Perhaps most importantly, everything that we're doing is sustainable. The proof point for this sustainability is our five-year benchmark maintenance scenario. We previously highlighted that this scenario can deliver around $5 billion of free cash flow from 2021 to 2025 and a flat $50 WTI price environment with corporate free cash flow break-even below $35 per barrel throughout the period. Updating our scenario for a flat $60 per barrel WTI price deck highlights the power of our balance, but oil-weighted portfolio and the significant leverage we have to even modest commodity price support.

 



 At $60 flat WTI and an average reinvestment rate of 40%, we can deliver around $8 billion of cumulative free cash flow through 2025 or more than 90% of our company's current market capitalization. Integrating our updated capital-allocation framework with this maintenance capital scenario provides clear visibility to a leading return of capital profile, over $1 billion of capital return to equity holders per year in a $60 per barrel environment. And this consistent financial delivery is underpinned by well over a decade of high return inventory across four of the most competitive U.S. resource plays, complemented by our free cash flow generative EG-integrated gas business. Finally, the ongoing pursuit of ESG excellence remains foundational to our strategy. Safety remains our top priority. Our first half 2021 safety performance as measured by total recordable incident rate stands at 0.29 and follows on from two consecutive years of record-setting company safety performance. We have taken a leadership role in governance, particularly when it comes to reshaping executive compensation. We have reduced compensation for executives on the board while also optimizing our framework for better alignment with shareholders and the financial metrics that matter. This includes the elimination of all production and growth targets as well as the introduction of a cumulative free cash flow target in our long-term incentive program. And last but not least, we remain hard at work to reduce our GHG emissions.  We continue to make progress toward achieving our GHG intensity reduction target of 30% in 2021, metric hardwired into our compensation scorecard as well as our goal for a 50% reduction by 2025. Both of these are relative to our 2019 baseline. With that brief overview, I would like to turn it over to Mike Henderson, our executive vice president of operations, who will provide an update on our 2021 performance.Mike Henderson -- Executive Vice President, Operations Thanks, Lee. Second-quarter operational results were outstanding demonstrating that we remain firmly on track to achieve or outperform all of the key 2021 financial and operational objectives that we established at the beginning of the year. First and foremost, our consistent operational execution is translating to strong financial outcomes. $1.9 billion of free cash flow generation assuming $65 WTI and $3 Henry Hub, a reinvestment rate of approximately 35% and a corporate free cash flow break-even well below $35 per barrel WTI. Operationally, we remain disciplined and focused on delivering on all of our commitments. As we mentioned, there is no change to our $1 billion full-year 2021 capital budget. Raising our spending levels is simply not a consideration. We are, however, raising our full-year US oil equivalent production guidance by 5,000 barrels per day or approximately 2%. Our full-year oil production guidance remains unchanged. While full-year guidance for capex on for oil production remains unchanged, I would like to address the production profile for the second half of the year. We now expect third-quarter oil production to be relatively flat with the second-quarter oil production of 17,000 barrels per day before an increase during the fourth quarter toward the high end of our annual guidance range. The flat trend in the third quarter is largely the result of deferred Bakken production. As a result, we are taking advantage of our multi-basin model and moving up a few Oklahoma and Permian wells in our schedule. This action is returns and free cash flow accretive, especially in the current price environment, will be accomplished within our $1 billion capital budget and contributes to the 5,000 barrels a day increase to our annual oil equivalent production guidance. Our second half capital spending will be heavily weighted to the third quarter. Schedule shifts, no make this quarter our peak quarter for completion activity, including a REx, multi-well pod, and the Texas Delaware oil play. More specifically, we expect third-quarter capex to account for approximately 65% of our second-half spending or around $340 million. Relative to peers, our 2021 capital program remains well-positioned to continue delivering industry-leading results. As the top left graphic on Slide 9 shows, for every dollar of capital we are spending this year, we are delivering more cash flow than any other company and our peer group. A testament to our peer-leading capital and operating efficiency. We are also delivering top-tier free cash flow as highlighted by a free cash flow yield of more than 20%. Our 2021 capex per barrel of production on either an oil or oil equivalent basis remains among the lowest in the sector, another indication of our capital efficiency advantage. Finally, the strength of our results is driving rapid improvement to our investment-grade balance sheet, which is already one of the strongest in our peer space. I will now turn it over to our executive VP and CFO, Dane Whitehead, who will talk more about our balance sheet as well as our enhanced return of capital framework.Dane Whitehead -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Mike, and good morning, everybody. My key message today is that we're clearly delivering on our top financial priorities. We're generating significant free cash flow, bulletproofing our already investment-grade balance sheet, and returning significant capital to our shareholders. Starting with our balance sheet, strong operational and financial performance are enabling us to accelerate all the objectives we previously highlighted. This includes our $4 billion gross debt target, which will now be achieved in early September when we close the full $900 million make-whole redemption of the 2025 maturity. With his balance sheet improvement, we're shifting a return of capital focused toward equity holders. To be clear, we've already made strong progress this year in returning capital to shareholders while simultaneously reducing our gross debt. It really has not been an either-or proposition. We've increased our base dividend in each of the past two quarters or by 67% over this period. The annualized cash interest expense saving from this year's $1.4 billion gross debt reduction will largely fund our last two base dividend increases, allowing us to keep our low corporate free cash flow break-even on a post dividend basis, effectively unchanged at $35 a barrel. Importantly, we're now at a key inflection point where we can accelerate the return of additional capital to equity holders above and beyond our sustainable and competitive base dividend. Our commitment is underscored by our enhanced return of capital framework, which now features a target to return at least 40% of our cash flow from operations to equity holders, assuming a $60 per barrel WTI or higher price environment while also retiring future debt as it matures. To put this commitment into perspective at a $60 price and with a maintenance level capital program, this equates to a return of over $1 billion to equity holders per year, an equity return equivalent of more than 11% of our current market cap. So it's premature to discuss the 2022 capital program. At consensus operating cash flow from Marathon in '22, our target return of capital to equity holders would be over $1.2 billion. This equates to a 13% return of capital yield, a leading return of capital profile among E&Ps and indeed across the energy sector at large. I'd like to emphasize that 40% of cash flow from operations is a minimum equity return target and so there's upside potential. At $60 a barrel and a maintenance scenario, we'd still be building cash on our balance sheet given our low projected reinvestment rate. And importantly, we don't necessarily have to wait until 2022 to get started. With the progress we've made in our balance sheet and assuming continued strong free cash flow generation, it's reasonable to expect that we can begin making incremental returns of capital to our equity holders during the second half of this year in 2021. While we want to be clear and transparent regarding our commitment to deliver a peer-leading percentage of cash flow from operations back to shareholders, we will retain flexibility regarding the exact mechanism. Market dynamics change over time and this flexibility ensure that we're returning capital in the most efficient and most valuable way possible for our shareholders. This specific return of cash mechanism is something we'll continue to discuss with our board and with our shareholders. While both buybacks and variable dividends are on the table, we certainly believe that with a free cash flow yield north of 20% and equity valuations disconnected from commodity prices, buybacks look like a very creative option with the potential to significantly improve our per-share metrics. As a reminder, we have $1.3 billion of share-repurchase authorization currently outstanding. I'll now turn it back to Lee, who will provide his closing remarks.Lee Tillman -- Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Dane. To close I would like to briefly reiterate a few of the key takeaways from our second quarter and year-to-date results. It should be clear that we have successfully positioned our company to deliver strong financial performance not only relative to our E&P peers but relative to the broader S&P 500 as well. And we can now deliver the strong performance at a wide range of commodity prices. We are price takers, not price predictors, and must be prepared to not only survive but to thrive in a volatile commodity environment. We are proving this year we can deliver outsized financial performance versus the broader market when we experience commodity price support, highlighted by an expected $1.9 billion of free cash flow generation this year. Yet perhaps more importantly, we are positioned to deliver a competitive free cash flow yield with the S&P 500 at much lower prices than we see today, all the way down to $40 per barrel WTI oil price. Such is the power of our sustainable cost structure reductions, our capital and operating efficiency improvements, which combined to generate our sub-$35 per barrel break-even. To use Dane's term, we have further bulletproofed our investment-grade balance sheet, accelerating both our gross debt and net debt leverage objectives. And with this balance sheet improvement, we are now at an inflection point for capital return to equity holders, supported by an enhanced framework that provides clear visibility to a peer-leading return of capital profile. And all of this is sustainable, highlighted by $8 billion of free cash flow through 2025 and our $60 per barrel maintenance scenario with the majority of that free cash flow going back to our equity investors consistent with our capital-allocation priorities. To close, our company was among the first to recognize the need to move to a business model that prioritizes returns, a sustainable free cash flow, balance sheet improvement, and return of capital. We have also led the way in better aligning executive compensation to this new model and with investor expectations. We are positioned to deliver both financial outcomes and ESG excellence that are competitive not just with our direct E&P peers, but also with the broader market. With that, we can open up the line for Q&A. 