
OperatorGood day, everyone and welcome to the Cintas First Quarter FY '21 Earnings Release Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Paul Adler, Vice President and [Phonetic] Treasurer, Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.Paul F. Adler -- Vice President, Treasurer and Investor Relations

 



Thanks, Shelby. Thank you for joining us. With me is Todd Schneider, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Mike Hansen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.We will discuss our first quarter results for fiscal 2022. After our commentary, we'll open the call to questions from analysts. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a Safe Harbor from civil litigation for forward-looking statements. This conference call contains forward-looking statements that reflect the Company's current views as to future events and financial performance. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from those we may discuss. I refer you to the discussion on these points contained in our most recent filings with the SEC.I'll now turn the call over to Todd.Todd M. Schneider -- President and Chief Executive Officer

 



Thank you, Paul. We are pleased with our start to fiscal 2022. First quarter, total revenue grew 8.6% and diluted earnings per share or EPS grew 11.9%. Every business whether goods producing or services providing has a need for image, safety, cleanliness or compliance. Every business has a need Cintas can fulfill to help get them ready for the workday.Our financial results are indicative of our strong value proposition and vast total addressable market. Uniform Rental and Facility Services operating segment revenue was $1.51 billion compared to $1.39 billion last year. Organic revenue growth was 8.2%. We expected solid growth over year prior period in which the economy was in a weakened state. We also made solid progress on a sequential basis and in total revenue grew stronger than anticipated. We continued to make measured investments to support our growth. Labor market remains challenging.US still hasn't recovered $5.3 million pre-pandemic charts. This represents an opportunity for us. Most of our customers are open. However, most are not operating at the same capacity and employment levels as pre-COVID. We are seeing inflationary signs including higher costs of freight, energy, wages and supplies. We continue to take actions to minimize the impacts. These include reviewing and challenging our processes and procedures, reduce efficiencies and reduce costs and thoughtfully implementing increases to the pricing of certain products and services in response to higher operational costs.Our first aid and safety services operating segment revenue for first quarter was $199.1 million compared to $204.5 million last year. First quarter revenue was up against a very difficult comparison and last year's first quarter in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, personal protective equipment or PPE sales were surging, propelling the business to grow organic revenue over 17%. At that time PPE comprise an outsized percentage of first aid and safety services revenue mix.

 



As discussed on previous earnings calls, the amount of PPE has declined as COVID case counts have fallen from peak levels. However, PPE remains a larger percentage of the revenue mix than it was pre-COVID. Over the same period of time, the recurring first aid cabinet service business revenue has increased. We welcome the shift in mix, because first aid cabinet service business is historically higher profit margin business and more consistent.Our fire protection services and uniform direct sale businesses are reported in the all other segment. All other revenue was $189.7 million compared to $147.7 million last year. The fire business' organic revenue growth rate was 17.8% and the uniform direct sale business growth rate was 68%. Both businesses benefited in part from increased activity in a period of reduced COVID case counts.Regarding our balance sheet and cash flow our financial position remains strong. Recently, on September 15 we paid shareholders $98.8 million in quarterly dividends. The amount per share of common stock paid of $0.95 cents represents a 26.7% increase of the Company's previous quarterly dividend. We continue to allocate capital to improve shareholder return. I'm proud of the execution of our employees, whom we call partners. They continue to navigate an unsettled environment by focusing on our customers.The COVID-19 pandemic continues of course fueled recently by the surge of the Delta variant. We remain well positioned headed into the fall and winter months to provide potentially lifesaving items such as face masks and gloves, provide hygienically clean garments such as healthcare scrubs and isolation gowns and conduct services including hand sanitizer dispensing and sanitizing spray services.Now before turning the call over to Mike I want to highlight a recent announcement of our ambition to achieve net-zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. Cintas was founded on a sustainable business model. Our corporate culture is based on doing what's right and challenging ourselves to improve. We view our ambition to achieve this objective as a natural extension, also as part of our steadfast commitment to corporate responsibility, we will soon issue a more robust environmental, social and governance report. We are committed to protecting the environment, enhancing humanity and maintaining accountability.I will now turn the call over to Mike.J. Michael Hansen -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Todd and good morning. Our fiscal 2022 first quarter revenue was $1.9 billion compared to $1.75 billion in last year's first quarter. The organic revenue growth rate adjusted for acquisitions, divestitures and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations was 8.6%. Gross margin for the first quarter of fiscal '22 was $902.8 million compared to $826.2 million in last year's first quarter.Gross margin as a percentage of revenue increased 30 basis points to 47.6% for the first quarter of fiscal '22 compared to 47.3% in the first quarter of fiscal '21. Gross margin percentage by business was 48.3% for uniform rental and facility services, 44.8% for first aid and safety services, 46.1% for fire protection services, and 41.5% for the uniform direct sale.Selling and administrative expenses of $508.7 million increased 6.7% compared to last year's first quarter. This increase reflects investments in our sales teams as well as a slight incremental travel and meeting expenses, somewhat offset by the sale of assets within our uniform direct sale business. Operating income of $394.1 million increased 12.7%, operating margin increased 80 basis points to 20.8% in the first quarter of fiscal 2022 compared to 20% in the first quarter of fiscal '21.Our effective tax rate on continuing operations for the first quarter of fiscal '22 was 11% compared to 7.8% last year. The tax rate can move from period to period based on discrete events including the amount of stock compensation expense. Net income from continuing operations for the first quarter of fiscal '22 was $331.2 million, an increase of 10.4%. Diluted EPS was $3.11, an increase of 11.9% from last year's first quarter. We are increasing our fiscal '22 financial guidance. We are raising our annual revenue expectations from a range of $7.53 billion to $7.63 billion to a range of $7.58 billion to $7.67 billion. And diluted EPS from a range of $10.35 to $10.75 to a range of $10.60 to $10.90.Please note the following regarding our guidance. Fiscal '22 -- our fiscal '22 effective tax rate is expected to be approximately 19.5% compared to a rate of 13.7% for fiscal '21. The higher effective tax rate negatively impacts fiscal '22 diluted EPS guidance by about $0.77 and diluted EPS growth by about 760 basis points. The guidance does not include any future share buybacks or potential tax reform. Guidance assumes an uneven economic recovery caused by the surge in COVID-19 Delta variant. However, guidance does not contemplate significant pandemic-related setbacks, such as stay-at-home orders and other restrictions commonly referred to as lockdowns.Finally when modeling our fiscal '22 financial results by quarter, please note the following regarding last fiscal year's financial results. In last fiscal year's second quarter certain uniform rental and facility services operating assets were sold. The pre-tax gain on sale of $18 million was recorded in selling and administrative expenses and impacted second-quarter operating margin by 100 basis points.The pre-tax gain and the related tax benefit impacted EPS by $0.25. And in last -- in last fiscal year's third quarter, we were able to help our customers respond to a spike in COVID-19 cases by providing them with large supplies of personal protective equipment. We provided more personal protective equipment in that quarter than in any other.That concludes our prepared remarks. Now, we are happy to answer questions from the analysts. Please ask just one question and a single follow-up if needed.