  OperatorGood afternoon. My name is Charlie and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Electronic Arts fourth quarter 2022 earnings conference call. Mr. Chris Evenden, vice president, investor relations, you may begin your conference.Chris Evenden -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you, operator. Welcome to EA's fourth quarter fiscal 2022 earnings call. With me today are Andrew Wilson, our CEO; and Chris Suh, our CFO. Please note that our SEC filings and our earnings release are available at ir.ea.com. In addition, we have posted earnings slides to accompany our prepared remarks. Lastly, after the call, we will post our prepared remarks, an audio replay of this call, our financial model and a transcript. With regards to our calendar, our Q1 fiscal 2023 earnings call is scheduled for Tuesday, August 2. And as a reminder, we post the schedule of our entire year of upcoming earnings calls on our IR website.This presentation and our comments include forward-looking statements regarding future events and the future financial performance of the company. Actual events and results may differ materially from our expectations. We refer you to our most recent Form 10-Q for a discussion of risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed today. Electronic Arts makes these statements as of today, May 10, 2022, and disclaims any duty to update them. During this call, the financial metrics, with the exception of free cash flow, will be presented on a GAAP basis. All comparisons made in the course of this call are against the same period in the prior year unless otherwise stated. Now, I'll turn the call over to Andrew. Andrew Wilson -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Chris. I hope all of you are well. I want to start by thanking our incredible teams at Electronic Arts. We have the most talented people in the industry who, every day, demonstrate passion, creativity and determination. I'd also like to extend a warm welcome to Chris Suh. Chris joined us in March as our new Chief Financial Officer. He is an exceptionally qualified leader, and I'm looking forward to our partnership as we drive our next phase of growth. EA delivered profitable growth in FY '22, a record year in every important measure of our business: total players, engagement in our games and live services, net bookings and underlying profit. We grew our global network of players to more than 580 million unique active accounts, fueled by new players joining titles including EA SPORTS FIFA, Apex Legends and The Sims and new players that we welcomed from our acquisitions. The strength of our broad IP portfolio, our creative talent -- together with highly reoccurring revenue streams -- continues to supercharge growth in our business. We delivered $7.515 billion in net bookings and underlying profit grew more than 20%. It was a record year, and our talented teams rose to the challenge in a big way to inspire and entertain hundreds of millions of engaged players worldwide. Games are now central to people's lives, and younger audiences have more power as consumers. Gen Alpha, Gen Z and Millennials are digital natives and they are gaming-first generations. They see gaming as their No. 1 choice for entertainment. The consumption of entertainment and sport is deeply social, with players across our network using games to stay connected to friends and to express themselves. The future of entertainment is interactive, and we derive strength from three structural advantages: our IP, our incredible talent and our growing network of players deeply engaged in our live services. First, our IP. Everything begins with amazing games, and we continue to invest in one of the most powerful IP portfolios in all of entertainment. Apex Legends will expand in every dimension going from strength to strength. New gameplay is coming to the console and PC live service; our new mobile service launches globally this month; and the grand finale of the 2022 Apex Legends Global Series for esports is in July. EA SPORTS & Racing are set to grow significantly in FY '23. We have six new EA SPORTS titles this year with more in development. Our pipeline for this year and future years features big, beloved IP that we cannot wait for players to experience, including Need for Speed, Dead Space, Star Wars, The Sims, Skate, our Bioware franchises and Lord of the Rings. Our two new studios in Seattle are working on new projects, our Motive studio has an unannounced title in development, and we have more underway across our global studio teams. Next, we have the best talent in the world. Making amazing games starts with incredible game makers. Innovating across our business, our people make Electronic Arts a great place to work, from delivering safe and secure platforms, to telling exciting stories and developing our next generation of creators. We are a collective team of leaders who together deliver one of the broadest portfolios in the industry, every year, while continuing to pioneer new experiences. We are proud of our distinctive talent from across the many parts of EA for continuing to deliver more exceptional games and content at scale. Finally, we have a large growing network of players deeply engaged in our live services. To provide a sense of scale, we have more daily, weekly and monthly active players across our entire portfolio. FIFA Mobile recorded its biggest quarter ever with unique new players surging nearly 80% year over year, and Apex Legends is among the top live service games in the industry. As we look ahead, we're investing in ways for fans to have amazing shared experiences together, whether that's by playing, watching or creating. Through our console, PC and mobile live services; through esports; through other original content; and with the tools that unleash the creativity of our players, we will grow what are already some of the world's largest and most engaged entertainment communities. Earlier today, we announced that starting next fiscal year, our football experiences will move under a new EA SPORTS FC brand. This is such an exciting moment for us and for our fans. We've just had our biggest year ever for EA SPORTS FIFA games, building on nearly 30 years of connected experiences for players across more than 150 million unique accounts. With more than 300 license partners, 30 leagues and federations, 700 teams and 19,000 athletes, the future of global football is huge. We're excited to grow EA SPORTS FC. It will be the only place that fans can play in the UEFA Champions League, CONMEBOL Libertadores, the Premier League, Bundesliga, Serie A, LaLiga, MLS and many others. Our global football franchise has long been at the forefront of innovation. From the first isometric playing angles, to online play, Ultimate Team and Women's Teams -- the first narrative story mode with The Journey, to VOLTA, to Hypermotion -- we have repeatedly delivered new ways to play the game. We're thankful for the many great years of partnership with FIFA, and we are looking forward to delivering another full EA SPORTS FIFA game later this year, filled with great features and World Cup content. Then the new era begins next year with EA SPORTS FC. With a total addressable market of more than 3.5 billion football and soccer fans worldwide, EA SPORTS FC will be the authentic, inclusive and immersive global entertainment property at the epicenter of football fandom. We have amazing games we've built around powerful IP, made by incredibly talented teams. We have a network of more than 0.5 billion player accounts. We have outstanding engagement in our games and live services, fueled by social connection and shared experiences. With these strengths at our core, FY '23 is set to be a year of innovation, growth and leadership for Electronic Arts. Now, I hand the call over to Chris.Chris Suh -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Andrew, and good afternoon, everyone. As Andrew said, FY '22 was a record year with net bookings that exceeded $7.5 billion. This is more than $200 million ahead of our original guidance, driven by growing player engagement across our broad portfolio of live services and games. We grew both net bookings and underlying profit by over 20% for the full year. Operating cash flow for the year was $1.9 billion, nearly $150 million above our original guidance; and we returned almost $1.5 billion to shareholders. These results speak to the power of our diverse portfolio and to the durability and consistency of a live services business founded on deep player engagement. For the fourth quarter, net bookings were $1.75 billion, up 18% from the prior year and reaching a new Q4 high even with the action we took to cease sales in Russia and Belarus during the quarter. Live services net bookings grew 14% year on year. We delivered Q4 net revenue of over $1.8 billion, ahead of our expectations and up 36% year on year. Underlying profit was well above our expectations. Q4 operating expenses came in lower than our expectations, driven by the timing of some marketing and sales activities. We are continuing to prioritize our investments into our best long-term growth opportunities while also remaining agile to realize cost savings and implement efficiencies where appropriate. We generated $444 million in operating cash flow during the quarter and returned a further $373 million to shareholders through dividends and our ongoing share repurchase program. Now, let me talk about our full year performance. Live services net bookings grew 17% year on year to nearly $5.4 billion and made up over 71% of our total business. Full game sales were up 34% to $2.1 billion. Our healthy live services growth was driven by strength across our broad-based portfolio, most notably by Apex Legends and FIFA. Apex Legends is up over 40% for the year, taking it past the $2 billion milestone in lifetime net bookings. Season 12 finished yesterday and was the most successful ever. And of course, Apex Legends Mobile is performing well in test and is close to launch. FIFA 22 is the most successful FIFA ever launched to date with net bookings up double digits. Full game sales growth was similarly diverse, with Battlefield, FIFA 22, Madden NFL, It Takes Two, F1 and Mass Effect Legendary Edition all important contributors. On console, digital represented 65% of full game units sold through, up 3 percentage points from last year. In mobile, we passed the billion-dollar milestone this year with nearly $1.2 billion in net bookings. As a result of great work by our teams, our return on advertising spend is now roughly back to where it was before the IDFA changes. And now we're looking to maintain that ROAS level as we scale spend back to the level it was before and as we continue to learn and to adapt to market changes. Across our full portfolio, 12 titles contributed $100 million or more to net bookings in FY '22. Now, let me turn to FY '23. As Andrew laid out, we're entering the year from a position of strength. We're experiencing strong engagement across our live services, have great early indicators for our mobile launches, see continued momentum in our annual sports titles and have a strong slate of console titles scheduled for the second half. We expect fiscal '23 net bookings to be $7.9 billion to $8.1 billion, up 5% to 8% versus FY '22, driven by growth in live services, particularly in mobile, and supported by the strong launch slate in the second half. Three key drivers of our mobile growth in FY '23 are: the launch of Apex Legends Mobile; growth in FIFA Mobile; and the launch of Lord of the Rings: Heroes of Middle-earth later in the year. FX is a headwind of nearly three points, net of hedges, relative to last year, for both net bookings and underlying profit, which puts our net bookings guidance in constant currency at 8% to 10%. Additionally, the impact of the stoppage of Russia sales is 1 percentage point to net bookings and two points to underlying profit. Adjusted for these factors, we continue to see healthy underlying performance, which illustrates the durability of our portfolio of live services. We expect cost of revenue to be $2.02 billion to $2.065 billion, in part reflecting the anticipated strong growth of our mobile business. We expect operating expenses to be $4.2 billion to $4.315 billion. This is driven by investment in user acquisition for our two major mobile launches and adding talent to our development teams to deliver the live services and title slates we have in development for FY '24, FY '25 and beyond. Also, note that we've increased the management tax rate used by our long-term model from 18% to 19%, primarily due to U.S. tax rules published in January. We expect operating cash flow of $1.6 billion to $1.65 billion and capital expenditures of around $200 million, which would deliver free cash flow of about $1.4 billion to $1.45 billion. The business continues to be a strong generator of cash, although the year-on-year number is down slightly, primarily due to timing as our biggest non-sports launch is coming in Q4, with collections in FY '24 and also because our tax rate has increased. We continue to be committed to growing our cash return program and announced today that we're increasing our dividend by 12% from $0.17 to $0.19 per share payable each quarter. We expect to continue to repurchase stock under our current authorization, and we will revisit it closer to the expiration in November of 2022. We expect fiscal '23 GAAP revenue to be $7.6 billion to $7.8 billion and earnings per share of $2.79 to $2.87. We anticipate net bookings for the first quarter to be $1.2 billion to $1.25 billion. As a reminder, in the prior year, we had a number of new game launches in Q1, whereas this Q1 is primarily live services with only F1 22 launching on console and PC later this quarter. In contrast, this coming Q2 has a profile very similar to last year's Q2 with launches of Madden and FIFA, plus some live services growth, offset by some Ultimate Team net bookings phasing into Q3. For the first quarter, we expect GAAP net revenue of $1.675 billion to $1.725 billion, cost of revenue to be $309 million to $321 million and operating expenses of approximately $1.013 billion. This results in earnings per share of $0.76 to $0.85 for the quarter. To conclude, EA delivered another record year, well ahead of our original guidance, driven by strong player engagement across our diverse portfolio of titles. Looking forward, we are capitalizing on the strength to invest in our future. We expect to outgrow the market, to show resilience through uncertain times, building on the foundation of live services and our broad portfolio to deliver growth over the long term. Now, I'll hand the phone back to Andrew.Andrew Wilson -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Chris. As we kick off FY '23, we are investing for growth from a position of strength. With a portfolio of amazing IP, the best talent and a growing network of highly engaged players, we are scaling to deliver new experiences on more platforms across more geographies. Our total addressable market is expanding, and secular trends are driving more consumption of interactive entertainment. Our games are deeply social, and we will continue to build on our strength as we invest to grow our biggest franchises to connect with more players in the future. We have a clear vision, a clear strategy and we have a spectacular team ready to deliver in FY '23 for hundreds of millions of players, viewers and creators around the world. Now, Chris and I are here for your questions. 