
OperatorOperator: Good day. Thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Q2 2021 Dentsply Sirona Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speaker presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Andrea Daley. Thank you. Please go ahead.Andrea Daley, -- Vice President of Investor Relations

 



Thank you, Calandra, and good morning, everyone. Welcome to our second quarter 2021 earnings conference call. I'd like to remind you that an earnings call press release and slide presentation related to the call are available in the Investors section of our website at www. dentsplysirona.com. Before we begin, please take a moment to read the forward-looking statements in our earnings press release. During today's call, we make certain predictive statements that reflect our current views about future performance and financial results. We base these statements and certain assumption and expectations on future events that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Our most recent Form 10-K lists some of the most important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ from our predictions. In today's conference call, our remarks will be based on non-GAAP financial results. We believe that non-GAAP financial measures provide investors with useful supplemental information about financial performance of our business, enable the comparison of financial results between periods where certain items may vary independently of business performance, and allow for greater transparency with respect to key metrics used by management in operating our business. Please refer to our press release for the reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results. And with that, I'd like to now turn the call over to Don Casey, our Chief Executive Officer.Donald M. Casey Jr., -- Chief Executive Officer and DirectorThank you, Andrea, and thank all of you for joining us this morning for the Dentsply Sirona's second quarter earnings call. We are pleased with our performance in the second quarter. As we will detail today, the dental market continues to recover and demonstrate the underlying resilience that makes it attractive long term. For the quarter, the company grew both versus 2020 and 2019 as well as sequentially quarter-to-quarter. The team also made progress against our strategic and operational priorities, giving us confidence as we head into the back half of the year. The pandemic remains a key consideration for us as we evaluate our performance for the quarter and plan for the remainder of the year. At this point, we feel the market is operating slightly below 2019 levels with a continued recovery expected for the remainder of the year. As we navigate through the newest phase of the pandemic, we are mindful that there are -- continues to be some ongoing impact in certain regions and some stresses to the supply chain. One constant throughout all of this, though, has been our team at Dentsply Sirona. Their performance over the past 18 months has been exceptional, and I would like to thank them for their tremendous commitment to our customers as they demonstrate every day. On today's call, Jorge and I will talk about our results for the quarter and provide our outlook for the remainder of the year and discuss our growth plans for the back half of 2021 and beyond. Moving now to slide six. As I mentioned, our financial performance for the quarter was solid and closes out a strong first half of the year. The results reflect the continued recovery of the market, progress on our growth initiatives and good operating discipline. Revenues reached $1.067 billion, up 104.6% on an organic basis. Our operating margin was 20.5% versus minus 8.6% during the prior year. Adjusted non-GAAP EPS was $0.71 compared to a loss of $0.18 last year and cash flow was $214 million. To provide more details around the quarter, I will now turn the call over to Jorge.Jorge M. Gomez -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

 



Thanks, Don. Good morning, and thanks for joining us. As a reminder, my remarks today will be based on non-GAAP financial results, unless otherwise noted. Please refer to the reconciliation tables at the back of the press release and slides both of which are posted in the Investors section of our website. As Don said, our second quarter performance rounds out a strong first half of our fiscal year. In Q2, we delivered sequential quarterly revenue growth in both consumables and T&E. We also posted organic sales above pre-COVID levels in 2019. Let's look at Q2 in more detail. Versus last year, the business delivered organic revenue growth of 104. 6% and reported growth of 117.3%. Compared to the second quarter of 2019, reported sales grew 5.7% and organic sales grew 3.1%. Both segments also grew versus Q2 2019. This performance against the 2019 baseline confirms the steady recovery trend we have seen in 2021. Gross profit was $626 million or 58.7% of sales. This strong outcome reflects the continuation of a favorable mix similar to Q1 as well as the overall portfolio optimization work we have done to focus on higher growth, higher-margin businesses. We're also seeing some challenges from a supply chain cost perspective, and our teams are working diligently to address them.Before I start discussing SG&A numbers, I would like to remind you that we now report R&D spend separately from SG&A. As we indicated last quarter, we began to ramp on planned SG&A investment spend in the second quarter. We tempered certain investments during the height of COVID but we are now accelerating projects as the market further normalizes. We are increasing investments in sales and marketing to support our short- and medium-term growth plans in clear aligners, implants and digital capabilities. Sequentially, SG&A increased in absolute dollars but remained relatively flat as a percent of sales. Versus the prior year quarter, SG&A as a percent of sales declined 12.6 % points to 34.4%. Spending on R&D was up 122.2% in the quarter to $40 million. We expect this level of spend to continue as we are committed to delivering innovation and great solutions to our customers. We are taking a disciplined approach to ensure alignment with our strategic priorities and track return on R&D investment.Operating profit was $219 million versus a loss of $42 million last year. The business delivered an operating margin of 20.5%, representing continued margin expansion from the realized benefits of our restructuring program. At the same time, we have been able to make meaningful investments in our business to fund growth initiatives. Net interest and other expense was flat versus last year. The non-GAAP tax rate in the second quarter was 23.9%, a decrease compared to 26.8% in the prior year quarter, which was a function of the changes in the US versus non-US pre-tax income. Non-GAAP EPS was $0.71 versus a loss of $0.18 in the prior year quarter. Moving to segment performance. Versus the second quarter of 2020, Consumables and Technologies & Equipment posted organic growth of 135.3% and 85.2%, respectively. Both segments posted strong growth across all product categories. Consumable sales were $445 million, an increase of 138% versus the prior year. Growth was strong across all regions and in all categories, most notably within the endo and rest parts of our portfolio, which represent strategic priorities for our business.Additionally, the rebound in the preventative business, particularly in the US, continued in Q2. The consumables market has been resilient, and our team is executing well through the recovery. Currency favorably impacted consumables by 11.2%, offset by a reduction of 8.5% due to divestitures and discontinued products. Moving on to Technologies & Equipment segment results. T&E sales grew 104.6% versus the prior year, with strong growth coming from all regions and product categories. The growth was driven by digital dentistry and equipment and instruments, which grew well in excess of 100%. The T&E segment also includes our healthcare business, which show a smaller pandemic-related impact than the dental business in Q2 2020 and resulting in a less significant year-on-year growth. Within T&E, the launch of our new Axeos imaging unit continues to go very well. We're also seeing a strong momentum in digital dentistry with digital adoption and upgrade cycles fueling growth for Primescan. Our clear aligners franchise performed very well in the quarter. Sales growth is strong, and we are confident in the team's ability to deliver on the $300 million 2021 exit run rate shared previously. This quarter, we also announced the acquisition of Propel Orthodontics and a strategic partnership with 3Shape, further complementing our clear aligners offering. We expect to see the benefits from these two initiatives starting in 2022. Currency favorably impacted sales by 10.4% as well as a benefit from acquisitions of 19% and offset by a reduction of 10% due to divestitures and discontinued products.

 



Now turning to financial performance by region during the second quarter. US sales were $366 million, a growth of 179.4% versus last year. Organic sales growth was 145.8%. We were pleased to see dental sales volumes return close to normal levels in both segments and across all product categories. European sales were $431 million, a growth of 99.5% versus last year. Organic growth was 91.8% compared to the prior year. Similar to US sales, all areas in consumables and T&E rebounded well from the low point last year. Rest of the World sales were $270 million, a growth of 87.5% versus last year. Organic sales growth was 86.2%, reflecting the recovery in demand across consumables and T&E. The Asia Pacific region, in particular, has been an area of continued growth for our business. Next, I'd like to cover cash flows. In the second quarter of 2021, our operating cash flow was $214 million, a $39 million improvement versus last year. The company finished the second quarter with cash on hand of $352 million and committed credit facilities of another $744 million.On a year-to-date basis, we deployed more than $241 million to fund strategic acquisitions, including Datum and PROPEL Orthodontics. We also returned a total of $134 million to shareholders through dividends and share buybacks. During the second quarter, we increased the quarterly dividend by 10%. The board also authorized an increase to our share repurchase program bringing the total amount to $1 billion. This is inclusive of the $260 million we had remaining from our previous authorization. Now let me provide an update on our financial expectations for 2021. We completed a strong first half of the year. We believe the healthy demand will continue through the second half of the year driven by positive momentum in patient confidence and procedure volumes with the vaccine rollout. Based on that, we are reaffirming our outlook for fiscal 2021. We also expect non-GAAP EPS to be close to the top end of the $2.75 to $2.90 range that we provided last quarter. Here are a couple of considerations with respect to our outlook. We have updated our assumption for the euro-US dollar exchange rate for the remainder of the year from $122 million to $118 million. We estimate the impact from this change to be a reduction in projected earnings of approximately $0.05 in the second half of the year.Second, this full year outlook includes commitments on investment spend that will be incurred over the remainder of the year. We will continue to operate with a high degree of operational discipline and we'll manage SG&A expenses in line with the pace of the commercial activities. Our key 2021 planning assumptions are listed within the supplemental materials posted on the Investors section of our website. There are two risks to this outlook that are worth highlighting. COVID-19 and ongoing supply disruptions. We are watching closely how the situation evolves, especially considering the increased number of cases in some countries and the actions taken by governments to reinstate certain restrictions. Before I turn the call back to Don, we would like to share a quick update on our efforts around ESG. During the second quarter of 2021, we published our sustainability fact sheet and environmental scorecard. They are available for review on the Sustainability page of our website. Additionally, in May, we announced a global partnership with FDI, the World Dental Federation as one of five industry founding partners to lead the new sustainability in density initiative. Also, we are planning to publish our sustainability report in Q3. As we look forward in our ESG evolution, there are a few guiding principles we are keeping in mind. First, we believe purpose and economic value intersect in a clear way in our business. Second, we want to be transparent about our progress by increasing the disclosure of key ESG metrics. And third, we are measuring and analyzing our EST data and we'll make sure we adhere to high standards of data integrity. With that, I will now turn the call back to Don.Donald M. Casey Jr., -- Chief Executive Officer and DirectorThank you, Jorge. I would now like to provide some perspective around our strategy and priorities for 2021 and beyond. Moving to slide 16 in the presentation. Our priorities have been consistent for the past three years. They are to grow organic revenues 4% to 5% long term through a combination of organic and inorganic activities. The team continues to focus on improving margins and expects to achieve our goal of 22% by the end of 2022. Supporting this goal, our efforts to simplify the organization and take better advantage of our scale. This formula leads to our target of delivering consistent double-digit EPS growth. slide 17 in the presentation details our strategy. We believe that Dentsply Sirona will grow long term by delivering superior integrated workflows and critical procedures. These workflows will be built around diagnostic excellence, easy-to-use treatment planning and essential consumable products. When we do this, Dentsply Sirona becomes the essential solution provider that improves outcomes for patients while delivering better efficiency and economics for the dental professional. Moving to the next slide. Dentsply Sirona is unique in this space with category-leading brands in both the X-ray imaging and the intraoral scanning spaces. Most companies have one or the other. But we are, by far, the biggest player with both. In the imaging space, Dentsply Sirona has a significant installed base comprised of many well-recognized brands that are at the heart of the dental practice.Our imaging brands include Schick, the Orthophos family, Galileos and our new Axeos wide field of view system. Dentists all over the world recognize these brands for their high quality and innovative features. For perspective, our imaging systems combined to take over 400 million digital X-ray images a year. What really differentiates Dentsply Sirona though, is that in addition to our major presence in imaging, we are also a leader in the intraoral scanning space. There is already a large and expanding CEREC base that includes Primescan and Omnicam interoral scanners. While we continue to emphasize the advantage of chairside dentistry. The company is also focused on expanding our presence in the rapidly growing DI space. Our Primescan entry, in addition to being the engine for chairside dentistry offers outstanding performance as a stand-alone scanner. When dental offices start with Primescan, they get a great scanner that is easy to use and extremely accurate. But starting with Primescan is only the beginning. Our system offers tremendous versatility that allows for easy upgrading to full chairside capabilities and further opportunities to expand into other procedures such as clear aligners and implants.Aesthetic areas like clear aligners, implants and complex restorations have been among the fastest growing in the dental market. These higher-value procedures are made easier and more efficient when using digital tools. And we are the leader in providing these increasingly important treatment planning tools. Our well-recognized treatment planning brands include Sidexis, CEREC, Suresmile, Simplant, Atlantis and [Indecipherable]. All of these treatment planning tools are fully integrated with our digital equipment. To give some context, in a typical year, there will be over 275 million patient cases done in Sidexis and over four million cases done through CEREC. The large volume of these cases also provides important fuel for our AI efforts. The final element of the strategy is linking the diagnosis and workflow tools with our essential consumables business. Every implant and endodontic procedure finishes with a restoration, which is why we are optimistic about our ability to drive consumables in the future.Our 4% to 5% growth target is built on a strong commitment to organic innovation, acquisitions and other inorganic opportunities built on a foundation of global commercial excellence. Organic innovation is our lifeblood. And as Jorge mentioned, our investment in R&D has been increased by close to 50%, reaching $160 million in 2021. This investment is helping drive a very robust pipeline for the back half of this year with continued progress in 2022. Moving now to slide 19. In September, we will be launching a comprehensive restage of our implant business. The restage puts together our digital base, historical product strength with other key elements like custom abutments and continuing education and training. The program starts with harmonizing all our implant businesses under the Dentsply Sirona brand name, including our rapidly growing MIS value implant business. It will include strong new products, highlighted by prime taper an immediate load implant that will position us very competitively in the marketplace. We will also be updating our well-recognized Simplant treatment planning software and integrating it with CEREC.We're also focusing on our Atlantis custom abutment business, which has very easy to use planning software for custom abutments. For perspective, we process well over 0.5 million implant cases through Simplant and Atlantis on an annual basis. For the first time, we are offering a dental scanning program for CEREC, a major development in the implant space. And the dental scan takes advantage of Primescan's unique accuracy and provides a whole new level of detail that makes full arch implant planning easier. While we are in the process of rolling out -- we are in the process of rolling out OSSIX bone regeneration brand to further enhance our implant offering and serve the rapidly growing immediate load implant segment in general. All our implant training and continuing education efforts will be harmonized and rebranded to provide a comprehensive implant curriculum for dentists. We've been working closely with our global implant KOL community, and they have started gaining experience with the product. The reaction has been very positive. They are very comfortable with the new products in part because they are based on a procedure they know well. The revitalization of our implant business is an important piece of our overall growth strategy. This relaunch will begin in September and continue rolling out globally throughout Q2 2022.Moving now to slide 20. Our endodomic platform is another critical area for us. Beginning in September, we will be launching ProTaper Ultimate as part of a new platform that will include new files of biosymmetric sealer and a new disinfection device. In addition, we will be launching multiple new motor systems in early 2022. The ProTaper Ultimate system really takes performance to the next level. The files have been designed to cut and shape better and faster, requiring less files per procedure. The complete system will offer better cleaning and op duration as well. ProTaper Ultimate is the first major platform we have launched in the endo area in several years. It has also been in the hands of our KOLs and has met with a very positive response. There are also several critical software upgrades and launches coming in the back half of 2021. These include a major SureSmile upgrade, 7.7. This upgrade improves the user interface for the GP and simplifying the case review screen and enhancing the order entry process. We're also launching CEREC 5.2, a significant upgrade in Primescan that further enhances its speed and ease of use. This CEREC 5.2 upgrade supports the new and dental scanning capability and differentiates Primescan in the marketplace. Early beta testers have indicated that this software upgrade provides a level of performance that makes it feel like a whole new product.There are also multiple new SureSmile product launches coming over the next two quarters. These include the introduction of a vPro product as well as whitening in Q4. We with vPro, which came as part of the PROPEL acquisition; SureSmile will be differentiated in the marketplace. All of these new products will be launched at our DS World event in September. Moving to the next slide. In addition to our organic innovation program, Jorge detailed some of the strategic acquisitions made over the last several months. All of these are designed to enhance our competitiveness in higher growth, higher margin categories, including clear aligners and implants. I wanted to add to his comments by saying that we are very happy with the Bite acquisition. We've had Bite for close to eight months and are very pleased with the integration program and excited about its future growth prospects. As mentioned earlier, we also closed on PROPEL in Q2, and we recently acquired Datum to provide us with a leading bone growth regeneration product to accelerate our implant businesses. These businesses are off to a strong start and their integrations are on target. All of this is powered by our outstanding global commercial team comprised of over 5,000 people. We've been investing in a comprehensive sales force effectiveness program that will be close to completed in our 10 largest countries by the end of this year.Over the past two years, the team has also made solid progress against our goal of improving our operating margin and simplifying the organization. We've rationalized our manufacturing and supply chain, launched a comprehensive enterprise modernization program around key functions, all while maintaining strong expense discipline. As a result, we will deliver the $250 million savings target end of '22 margin goal on time. Moving to slide 23. In summary, we had a strong first half as the market recovered and the company made progress on key strategic goals. We are reaffirming our 2021 outlook. The dental market continues to show resilience as well as strong underlying fundamentals. We believe that Dentsply Sirona is well positioned to deliver sustainable growth in the future. And finally, we are pleased to confirm that DS World will again be welcoming guests to Las Vegas, September 23 through the 25th at Caesars Forum, while also offering a hybrid option. It is an excellent way to build momentum in the back half of the year. And with that, we can open the call to questions.