  OperatorGood afternoon. My name is Alex, and I will be your conference operator today. I would like to welcome everyone to Starbucks' first quarter fiscal year 2022 conference call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Tiffany Willis, vice president of investor relations. Ms. Willis, you may now begin your conference.Tiffany Willis -- Vice President, Investor Relations Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us today to discuss Starbucks' first quarter fiscal year 2022 results. Today's discussion will be led by Kevin Johnson, president and CEO; and Rachel Ruggeri, executive vice president and CFO. And for Q&A, we will be joined by John Culver, group president of North America and chief operating officer; Michael Conway, group president of international and channel development; and Leo Tsoi, chief executive officer of Starbucks China. This conference call will include forward-looking statements, which are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from these statements. Any such statements should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements in our earnings release and risk factors discussed in our filings with the SEC, including our last annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q. Starbucks assumes no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements or information. GAAP results in first quarter fiscal year 2022 include several items related to strategic actions, including restructuring and impairment charges, transaction and integration costs and other items. These items are excluded from our non-GAAP results.All number references on today's call are on a non-GAAP basis, unless otherwise noted. For non-GAAP financial measures mentioned in today's call, please refer to the earnings release and our website at investor.starbucks.com to find a reconciliation of those non-GAAP measures to their corresponding GAAP measures. This conference call is being webcast, and an archive of the webcast will be available on our website through Friday, March 4, 2022. For calendar planning purposes, please note that our second quarter fiscal year 2022 earnings conference call has been tentatively scheduled for Tuesday, May 3, 2022. And with that, allow me to turn the call over to Kevin. Kevin Johnson -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Tiffany, and welcome, everyone, to today's call. Before we dive into the quarter's results, I want to take a moment to reflect on the fact the world is now entering the third year of this pandemic and recognize that over this period, Starbucks has made significant progress driving our business recovery. The last two years have been anything but linear. Many parts of the world continue to experience significant COVID-related disruptions, including Starbucks' two lead markets, United States and China. However, through a dynamic and challenging environment, three things have remained true for Starbucks: first, global consumer demand for Starbucks is strengthening across our offerings and throughout all dayparts. This is a result of our work over the past year to expand digital customer relationships, introduce new beverage offerings and provide a safe, familiar, and convenient experience for our customers. Second, we remain unwavering in prioritizing the health and safety of our store partners and customers, even when the associated costs may create short-term earnings pressure. We have consistently provided best-in-class COVID benefits to our partners since this pandemic began. And third, the flexible operating protocols we established from the beginning of the pandemic continued to serve us well. The combination of these things has enabled us to adapt to near-term challenges while continuing to invest in what we know is a long-term opportunity for all stakeholders. Starbucks delivered record first quarter revenue of $8.1 billion, representing 19% growth. Global same-store sales grew 13%, demonstrating strong customer affinity for Starbucks. Demand for Starbucks continues to build, and we are fully committed to capitalizing on this momentum for the long term. That said, while we have seen extraordinary top-line growth, we've also experienced extraordinary cost pressure, which impacted our margin performance. As the omicron variant began to quickly spread, it resulted in higher-than-anticipated costs in three key areas across our U.S. business, each of which impacted our results similarly. A highly transmissible omicron variant amplified staffing shortages in our supply chain, resulting in higher-than-planned distribution and transportation costs. We also experienced a significant increase in our industry-leading COVID isolation pay for our partners, and we saw higher-than-anticipated costs from training and onboarding of new Starbucks partners. As we navigate the near-term challenges of this latest COVID variant, we remain confident in our ability to rapidly adapt while continuing to drive our long-term agenda of share gains, growth, and value creation. In our other lead market, China, the zero-COVID policy there contributed to significant disruption to store hours and transaction volume. Net new store growth and performance remained strong, yet overall revenue and profitability came in below expectations. While we believe that these dynamics are contemporary, we are focused on appropriately navigating the evolving macro-dynamics and balancing long-term investments in the business. I'll now provide more insight into our Q1 results and the actions we are taking to address the current state of our business, industry, and overall economy while continuing to prioritize our partners and ensuring Starbucks delivers long-term profitable growth. In the U.S., we experienced very strong customer demand over the holiday season. Our ability to deliver the Starbucks Experience to our customers how, when, and where they want, resulted in first quarter revenue of $5.3 billion. Year-over-year revenue growth of 23% was driven by a double-digit increase in customer traffic, highlighting our compelling holiday lineup and strong in-store and digital customer connection throughout the holiday season. Customer demand increased through all dayparts and resulted in record Starbucks Card activations and reloads in excess of $3 billion. Starbucks Rewards grew 21% to a record 26.4 million 90-day active members. Average ticket grew mid-single digits, demonstrating our continued differentiation through customized premium beverages and compelling food options. Prior to the emergence of the omicron variant, we were experiencing some inflationary pressures and staffing issues resulting from the broader pandemic. When the omicron surge began, inflationary costs and staffing shortages were amplified, well in excess of our expectations. As I mentioned, three primary factors: high inflation, COVID-related pay, and training and onboarding of new partners impacted our profitability to approximately the same degree, even while customer demand remained strong. Now let me outline the impacts we believe these will have for the near term and more importantly, the actions we are taking to address each of them. Like many others in the industry, we felt the impact of omicron in the wider COVID-19 pandemic. More specifically, we experienced a rapid increase in supply chain costs related to distribution and transportation as our third-party delivery providers had omicron-related staffing shortages, impacting their ability to fulfill a portion of our distribution needs. This required us to greatly increase the use of much more expensive spot market and alternative delivery solutions in order to meet strong customer demand. As a result, supply chain-driven inflationary costs were unexpectedly amplified by omicron and rapidly accelerated in December, impacting our U.S. business by more than 170 basis points on margin in the quarter. As we entered fiscal year '22, we had estimated full year inflationary impacts of around 200 basis points on margin. For the balance of the year, we expect these costs to increase versus our previous estimate. Like most economists, we anticipate supply chain disruptions will continue for the foreseeable future. We have already taken pricing actions this fiscal year, one in October 2021 and another in January 2022. And we have additional pricing actions planned through the balance of this year, which play an important role to mitigate cost pressures, including inflation, as we position our business for the future. There are many factors that contribute to our thoughtful pricing strategy, including: the increasing U.S. inflation rate currently running at 7% or perhaps greater, as well as wage, customer demand and other costs; second, the rapid spread of omicron through the U.S. required us to quickly adapt store protocols. From our very beginning, and as we've demonstrated throughout this pandemic, Starbucks has always prioritized the health and wellness of our partners by offering some of the best benefits in the industry. This moment is no different. Our COVID vaccination pay has supported thousands of partners and the broader efforts in helping get more people vaccinated. And with the highly transmissible omicron variant, we had more partners leverage our COVID isolation benefits as they were either home sick or home isolating after being exposed to the virus, which led to significantly higher COVID-related benefits paid than expected. We expect similar usage of COVID isolation and vaccination pay through this next quarter, moderating in the back half of fiscal '22. Throughout this pandemic, COVID isolation pay has been a critically important partner benefit. To help offset the higher-than-expected expense of this benefit, we are taking the necessary measures to reduce spending in discretionary areas of our U.S. P&L. As an example, with strong customer demand, we believe we can tighten up a bit more in our G&A expenses, including promotional spend and marketing. We believe these measures are prudent as we work to balance increasing cost pressures with our commitment to our partners. Finally, with approximately 4 million Americans who have not yet returned to the workforce, nearly every business in the services industry is facing staffing challenges and increased turnover. The battle for talent is notable. While Starbucks has always been committed to attracting and retaining the best partners with our differentiated pay and benefits package, we too experienced staffing issues. In response to this challenge and as an employer of choice, we hired an increasing number of new partners into our business this past quarter, which rapidly increased our training costs well above historic levels. This investment is critical to the success of our business as we work to create a great Starbucks Experience where our partners feel supported and customers feel uplifted. We know from experience that the continued investments in our partners, both tenured and new, will continue to drive the levels of customer connection and overall productivity that support the long-term success and differentiation of our business. And we remain confident that the $1 billion investment in partner wages and hours that we announced on our fiscal '21 Q4 call is the right long-term investment to ensure we have the very best talent to support our business. In addition to these actions and as we highlighted on the last call, we continue to implement operational efficiencies throughout the organization to drive the productivity critical to our commitment to long-term margin expansion. In summary, the demand in our U.S. market is very strong, and we have a tremendous opportunity for continued growth, as highlighted by our robust revenue results. As a leadership team, we hold ourselves accountable to the actions we have outlined to ensure our revenue growth is also reflected in our bottom line. To deliver compelling financial results to all Starbucks' stakeholders, we must continue to balance ongoing profitability with long-term investments. Turning to China. We continue to grow our store footprint in Q1 as we surpassed 5,500 stores in the market. This brings our global store footprint to a record 34,317 stores. It's important to note that our latest generation of new stores in China continued to perform well as best-in-class store profitability and return on investment were achieved. Our 90-day active Starbucks Rewards members in China reached nearly 18 million, an increase of 2.6 million versus prior year, with members contributing 75% of sales. Mobility restrictions and the country's zero-COVID policy have presented significant headwinds, contributing to a minus 10% same-store comp after adjusting for the VAT subsidy from a year ago. We adhered to COVID health regulations and, as a result, experienced closures, dynamic store protocols or reduced operations in three quarters of our stores throughout China exiting Q1. That said, our business in China continues to represent significant long-term growth. We are playing the long game as we navigate a dynamic environment. We are encouraged by the performance and growth in our digital offering as it drives new customer occasions and opens new channels of convenience. Digital ordering continues to resonate with customers, growing to a Q1 record 38% of sales. Customer demand was evident across both the morning and afternoon dayparts. This, coupled with our continued store expansion, is a testament to the significant growth opportunity in the market. Through these challenges, however, our partners persevered and responded to ensure in-store safety by staffing health stations, taking temperatures, and ensuring masks were worn by both partners and customers. Importantly, our customer connection scores were at an all-time high in the quarter. This is a testament to the resiliency of our partners and the strength of our brand, giving us confidence that as COVID-related restrictions eventually abate, our opportunity for growth in China remains as compelling as ever. Looking more broadly at the international markets outside of China, we saw strong results for the quarter. The broad portfolio of markets in our international segment, excluding China, delivered outstanding results this quarter, posting 27% revenue growth with strength across Europe, Latin America, Japan, Korea, and broader Asia Pacific. This illustrates the power of a diversified portfolio and gives us confidence in our global growth potential. Shifting from international, we continue to see impressive revenue growth from our channel development markets. And we are pleased with the continued performance of the Global Coffee Alliance with Nestlé as Starbucks at-home coffee continues to gain market share over the prior year, driven by Starbucks by Nespresso. And through our North America coffee partnership with PepsiCo, we recently announced our entrance into the energy category with Starbucks BAYA energy drink, a ready-to-drink beverage crafted from caffeine naturally found in coffee fruit, as well as antioxidants to give consumers a feel-good boost. Energy drinks represent a rapidly growing category. We believe this new beverage differentiates us, opening up another category in the portfolio for growth. Before I turn the call over to Rachel, I want to highlight that this quarter's record top-line performance in a uniquely challenging operating environment, along with the set of actions outlined above, gives us confidence in our growth at scale agenda. While quarterly results can be difficult to predict in this dynamic environment, our strong demand and operating flexibility throughout this pandemic have enabled us to build an even stronger, more resilient company. While we expect these complexities to persist through the near term, Starbucks is well-positioned to adapt and continue to deliver great experiences for partners and customers. Consumer demand for Starbucks is strong across all markets and continues to grow. We will continue to balance appropriate levels of near-term profitability with the partner investments and innovations that drive customer loyalty and, in turn, long-term growth. For over two years now, and thanks to our partners, our business has emerged stronger after each wave of a COVID surge has peaked, and we expect this will be the case as omicron runs its course. We have significant growth opportunities ahead and the investments we are making position Starbucks to continue capturing share in the fast-growing coffee addressable market while driving double-digit earnings growth over the long term. With that, we are reiterating our fiscal '22 guidance for revenue but believe it is prudent to revise margin and earnings guidance to reflect the cost pressures that were amplified by the omicron variant. We view these as near-term pressures, and we have a clear set of actions to manage through this moment. With that, I now turn the call over to Rachel to walk you through details of our Q1 results and fiscal '22 guidance components. Rachel?Rachel Ruggeri -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Kevin, and good afternoon, everyone. Our Q1 performance showcased the strength of the Starbucks brand, underscored by strong customer demand despite intermittent COVID headwinds, which accelerated this quarter, given the highly transmissible omicron variant. At the same time, it also highlighted continued industry pressures and operational challenges, which we are actively addressing as Kevin highlighted moments ago. Starbucks delivered global revenue of $8.1 billion in the first quarter, up 19% from the prior year, setting a Q1 record, primarily driven by the exceptional holiday performance in the U.S., coupled with strong results from our global portfolio with remarkable breadth and depth despite continued mobility disruptions to our China operations impacted by the country's zero-COVID policy. Q1 consolidated operating margin contracted 30 basis points from the prior year to 15.1% due primarily to significant investments in store partner wages and benefits, as well as inflation, partially offset by sales leverage and pricing in North America. Q1 EPS was $0.72, up 18% from the prior year, reflecting strong revenue growth. However, it was lower than our expectations due primarily to our U.S. business, driven by the three key factors Kevin outlined: accelerated inflation, extended COVID-related pay, and increased spend on new partner training and support costs. I will now provide some segment highlights for Q1. The North America segment delivered revenue of $5.7 billion in Q1, up 23% from the prior year, primarily driven by an 18% increase in comparable store sales, including a 12% increase in transactions and a 6% increase in average ticket. Two-year comp in this segment reached 12% for the quarter, representing the sixth quarter of sequential improvement and the highest two-year comp since the onset of the pandemic despite modified store hours across many regions. Our average ticket remained elevated even as group ordering continues to normalize, driven by pricing, record-breaking food attach, which had its seventh consecutive quarter at an all-time high and strong holiday performance. Our drive-through windows and mobile orders continued to account for approximately 70% of U.S. company-operated sales, offering our customers safe, convenient, and personalized ways to engage with Starbucks. 53% of spend in our U.S. company-operated stores was generated by our Starbucks Rewards customer base with the 90-day active membership reaching 26.4 million, up 21% over the prior year, adding 1.6 million new active members in this quarter alone. North America's operating margin was 18.8% in Q1, up 10 basis points from the prior year as sales leverage, pricing, sourcing savings, and the benefit of the North America trade area transformation were largely offset by investments in store partner wages, high inflation, as well as increased spend on new partner training, onboarding and support costs to address labor market conditions. Moving on to international. In the international segment, we set a Q1 revenue record as the segment reached $1.9 billion, up 12% over the prior year. The growth was primarily driven by a 9% increase in net new stores over the past 12 months and strong sales growth from our international licensees, including the conversion of our Korea market to a fully licensed business. These increases were partially offset by a 3% decrease in comparable store sales. Excluding a 3% decline attributable to lapping the prior-year VAT benefit, the segment's comparable store sales were flat as reoccurring COVID resurgences severely hindered mobility and impacted our business in China, where the majority of stores were operating under elevated safety protocols and reduced store hours even as we exited the quarter. Reflecting the pandemic-related safety and mobility restrictions in China, the market's comparable store sales declined 14% in Q1, including a 4% decrease from lapping the prior-year VAT release. However, we remain committed to and focused on our growth strategy in the market. As a result, we opened 197 net new stores and entered 16 new cities in the quarter in China, both record highs for any Q1 period. Additionally, our over 5,500 stores in the market remain committed to elevating the Starbucks Experience, setting operational records with our highest customer engagement scores in the quarter and lowest partner turnover in the last three years. Last month, we also expanded Starbucks Delivers to the Meituan platforms marketwide, partnering with China's leading e-commerce service provider to enhance the customer experience, continuing with our plan to grow our delivery business in the quarters to come. Outside of China, a number of our international markets across our global portfolio saw a sustained recovery in Q1, including Japan and the U.K. contributing meaningfully to our revenue growth. Operating margin for the international segment was 18.3% in Q1, down 170 basis points from the prior year, mainly driven by investments in store partner wages and benefits and strategic initiatives, as well as higher product and distribution costs from a sales mix shift, partially offset by sales leverage. Moving on to channel development. Revenue grew 12% to $417 million in Q1, primarily driven by growth in the Global Coffee Alliance, as well as the strength in our international ready-to-drink business. Based on IRI and Euromonitor data, Starbucks once again retained the No. 1 brand position in both the U.S. at-home coffee and global ready-to-drink categories during the quarter, reinforcing customers' desire to replicate their Starbucks in-store experience and fulfill their Starbucks' taste profiles while at home or on the go. The segment's operating margin was 43.9% in Q1, down 480 basis points from the prior year as our North American coffee partnership joint venture income declined due to supply chain constraints and inflationary pressures, as well as business mix shifts. Moving on to our guidance for fiscal '22. We reiterate our fiscal '22 global comparable store sales growth guidance of high single-digit and revenue guidance range of $32.5 billion to $33 billion. Considering meaningful margin headwinds that exist in this dynamic operating environment, with inflation at its highest level in decades, COVID-19 resurgences impacting our businesses globally, and a continued industrywide labor shortage, we believe it is prudent to revise both our fiscal '22 operating margin and EPS guidance at this time. Based on the latest trends in our outlook, we anticipate over 200 basis points of incremental margin pressure in fiscal '22 from inflation, COVID-related pay, new partner training and support costs, as well as reduced sales from mobility restrictions combined. As Kevin outlined, however, we have and we will continue to take intentional steps to offset these pressures, including selectively accelerating price increases, tightly managing numerous cost areas, as well as actioning throughput initiatives across our operations. We also believe there will be some moderation in staffing-related costs, specifically related to training expenses as our partner investments begin to translate into higher retention. Collectively, the margin benefits from these actions are expected to nearly offset the anticipated margin pressure. In addition to these actions, we will continue to prioritize investments that will drive our growth over the long term, including raising U.S. store partner wages as previously announced. As a result, we expect fiscal '22 GAAP margin to approach 16.5% and non-GAAP margin to approach 17%. Moving on to EPS. Given our Q1 results and margin pressures expected in the balance of the year, our fiscal '22 GAAP EPS is now expected to decline by a range of 4% to 6%. Additionally, we expect our fiscal '22 non-GAAP EPS growth to be in the range of 8% to 10% from the base of $3.10 in fiscal '21 that excludes the extra week and is adjusted for the change in the non-GAAP treatment of certain integration costs. The EPS growth range reflects our Q1 results, accounts for the appropriate steps we are taking to manage and drive the business and account for the impacts of the three headwinds we've discussed. In terms of quarterly margin and EPS cadence, we expect headwinds to intensify in Q2 as omicron disruptions escalated in January. While the intensity throughout Q2 is unknown, we expect Q2 quarterly non-GAAP EPS and margin to be below prior-year levels, with significant improvement in Q3 coming from our margin enhancement actions materializing. Q4 is then expected to show continued recovery but at a more gradual pace, inclusive of the summer step-up in wage investments as we raise the U.S. average store hourly wage to $17. Assuming no other significant impacts, including further impacts from COVID, we anticipate our EPS to return to double-digit growth in fiscal '23 and beyond. All other full year '22 guidance metrics, including global net new store count, capex, interest expense, and tax rates are unchanged from what we previously communicated on our fourth quarter fiscal '21 earnings call. Despite the unexpected global impacts of omicron or other potential variant resurgences, we remain confident in delivering outstanding top-line growth in fiscal '22, enabled by incredible customer demand, our diversified portfolio, and continued ability to deliver the valuable human connection to our customers in a safe, convenient and consistent manner. We also continue to stand by our commitment to return $20 billion to our shareholders over the next three years and have returned more than $4 billion in Q1 between share repurchases and our quarterly dividend. Finally, given the dynamic operating environment and the incremental cost pressures reflected in our fiscal '22 guidance, we now expect year-on-year margin improvement in fiscal '23 with a return to the long-term target of 18% to 19% in fiscal '24. Of course, all of these estimates presumes no new material business disruptions, whether from the pandemic or the broader economy. Although our efforts to adapt to the evolving market conditions may take longer than initially anticipated, our long-term growth model remains intact, guided by the belief that the success of our company starts with investing in our partners, which ultimately creates value for customers and for all Starbucks' stakeholders, including our shareholders. In closing, the three key points summarizing my prepared remarks are: first, Q1 demonstrated our strong revenue growth and the resilience of our brand while also highlighting margin pressures, which we are addressing through purposeful actions; second, given the evolving macro and operating environment, we are revising our margin and EPS outlook for fiscal '22 while reaffirming strong top-line growth; and finally, we remain committed to our long-term growth model. As always, credit for our success today and tomorrow belongs to our passionate Starbucks partners around the world who deliver a safe, authentic, and personalized Starbucks Experience to our customers with care and commitment. Our partners have our greatest respect and appreciation. With that, Kevin and I are happy to take your questions, joined by John Culver, Michael Conway, and Leo Tsoi. Thank you. Operator? 