
OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Vertex Pharmaceuticals Q2 2021 Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] After the speaker presentation there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions]At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to your host Mr. Michael Partridge. Sir, you may begin.Michael Partridge -- Senior Vice President, Investor RelationsGood evening. This is Michael Partridge. Welcome to the Vertex second quarter 2021 financial results conference call. Making prepared remarks on the call tonight, we have Dr. Reshma Kewalramani Vertex's CEO and President, Stuart Arbuckle, Chief Commercial and Operations Officer, and Charlie Wagner, Chief Financial Officer. We recommend that you access the webcast slides on our website as you listen to this call. This call is being recorded. A replay will be available on our website. We will make forward-looking statements on this call that are subject to the risks and uncertainties discussed in detail in today's press release and in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.These statements including without limitation, those regarding Vertex's marketed CF medicines, our pipeline and Vertex's future financial performance are based on management's current assumptions. Actual outcomes and events could differ materially. I would also note that select financial results and guidance we will review on the call this evening are non-GAAP.I will now turn the call over to Dr. Reshma Kewalramani.Reshma Kewalramani -- Chief Executive Officer and PresidentThank you, Michael. As we reach the halfway point in 2021, our business is performing exceptionally well, and is very well-positioned for the future. Our CF franchise is strong and growing. During the second quarter, we reached a number of new reimbursement agreements with the triple combination, as well as other CFTR modulators in our portfolio, including in major markets like France and Italy, earlier than expected.These reimbursement agreements are occurring in a timeframe that is far quicker than is typical for OUS markets. And importantly, we are achieving reimbursements at levels which are robust and reflect the value of our CF medicines. We also secured regulatory approval for the triple combination in the six to 11 age group for the U.S. Taken together, these additional reimbursement agreements and regulatory approvals provides thousands of new patients with access to our medicines. As such, we're raising our 2021 guidance range by $500 million to a range of $7.2 billion to $7.4 billion, reflecting 18% year-over-year growth at the midpoint of the range. But our work in CF is not done. There are still more than 30,000 people with CF who are yet to be treated. And by reaching these patients, we see continued significant growth for the CF business.With regard to the pipeline, progress is accelerating across the portfolio. We now expect to achieve targeted enrollment in both CTX001 studies in Q3. We have initiated the VX-548 Phase two program in acute pain. We are on track to begin the Phase three next in class triple combination program in CF shortly. And in the next six to nine months, we expect important data readouts from multiple clinical stage programs, including VX-147 in APOL1-mediated FSGS, VX-548 in acute pain, and VX-880 in type one diabetes.I'll now review the key clinical stage programs in more detail. Starting with CF, we are relentless in our efforts to maximize the benefit we can deliver for patients. TRIKAFTA sets a very high bar and we recognize that any new medicine that aims to treat the 90% of people with CF, with at least one F508del, including our own medicines has to show clear potential to improve on TRIKAFTA.We announced earlier this week that the once a day, next in class triple combination VX-121 tezacaftor, VX-561 is advancing to Phase 3. We believe it holds the potential for greater efficacy and convenience for patients. It also has the benefit of enhanced economics for our business, based on the fact that the royalty obligation would decrease from low double digits to low single digits.We are also committed to developing therapies to the approximately 10% of patients who cannot benefit from CFTR modulators. Our lead program in partnership with Moderna uses an mRNA based approach, and continues to make progress late preclinical development. Let me now turn to our non-CF clinical pipeline, which includes five mid to late stage programs using three different therapeutic modalities, including small molecules, cell and genetic therapies.The most advanced program in the pipeline is CTX001, our gene editing therapy, which represents a potential one-time functional cure for patients with beta thalassemia and sickle cell disease. This program continues to have strong momentum and impressive results. We've shared new data at EHA last month involving 22 patients who were treated with CTX001, and had at least three months of follow-up.In this dataset, all beta thalassemia patients, including beta zero, beta zero patients who have the most severe form of the disease, were transfusion independent. And all sickle cell patients were free of pain crises following CTX001 therapy. We now have dosed more than 45 patients across the program and are on track to achieve target enrollment in both CTX001 studies in the third quarter. We are working with regulators to finalize the filing package for CTX001 and anticipate filing for approval in the next 18 to 24-months.Moving to VX-147. VX-147 is our lead molecule for the treatment of APOL1-mediated kidney disease. And we anticipate clinical data from our Phase two proof of concept study in APOL1-mediated FSGS in the second-half of 2021. The VX-147 Phase two study evaluates the safety and the reduction of proteinuria over the course of 13 weeks. The achievement of double digit decreases in proteinuria with this molecule would be a significant risk lowering milestone for the program.As this will establish APOL1 inhibition as a promising new mechanism that can be applied to the approximately 100,000 patients in the U.S. and Europe, who have APOL1-mediated non-diabetic proteinuric kidney disease. Consistent with the portfolio approach we take with every pipeline program, we have multiple molecules and development behind the VX-147 the APOL1 pathway.Turning to the NaV1.8 program, as announced last week, the Phase two trial in acute pain following bunionectomy surgery with our selective NaV1.8 inhibitor VX-548 is underway, and data expected by early 2022. NaV1.8 is both genetically and pharmacologically validated with our previous molecule VX-150, demonstrating positive proof of concept in acute, neuropathic and musculoskeletal pain.VX-548 is more potent than our prior molecules, which allows us to use lower doses and also more fully explore the dose response curve. We expect to move faster with the VX-548 by conducting multiple clinical studies in parallel. Indeed, we are starting a second Phase two acute pain study following abdominoplasty in the coming weeks. The potential to serve patients suffering from acute pain is substantial. And Stuart will share additional perspective on the market opportunity in his remarks.Moving on to type one diabetes, the Phase 1/2 study with VX-880 our islet cells alone approach is underway, and the first patient has been dosed. Ours is the only approach to use stem cell derived fully differentiated insulin producing islet cells, distinguishing it from all other therapies in clinical development today.Similar to CTX001 we anticipate the proof of concept for VX-880 may be established with relatively small numbers of patients over a reasonably efficient timeframe. We expect initial data from this study in 2022. Our optimism for this program, and for the ability of VX-880 to demonstrate clinical benefit comes from the cadaveric islet cell transplantation experience, which has already provided a precedent for transformational outcomes. Beyond VX-880 our Cells + device program is continuing to progress in late preclinical development.Finally, in AATD, as we shared with you in June, the VX-864 Phase two clinical data showed clear evidence of biological activity. Though the magnitude of clinical effect did not support its progression to pivotal studies. Based on these data, we remain confident in and committed to AATD and to our small molecule corrector approach. This is the only approach that targets the underlying cause of AATD, and therefore holds the potential to treat both the lung and liver manifestations of disease.We expect that our next wave of molecules will advance into the clinic in 2022. And that we will be able to move more rapidly through clinical development with the insights we have gained from the VX-864 trial.I'll now hand it off to Stuart.Stuart A. Arbuckle -- Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial and Operations OfficerThank you, Reshma. I'll begin by reviewing the Q2 revenue performance of our CF medicines. Our Q2 global revenues reached nearly $1.8 billion, driven by increasing revenues outside the U.S. as a result of the launch of KAFTRIO and continued strong performance in the U.S. In the U.S., the launch of TRIKAFTA in ages 12 plus has been highly successful. And just under two years since regulatory approval, the vast majority of eligible patients have initiated treatment. We have continued to see very high persistence and compliance levels, and we're now focused on the ongoing launch of TRIKAFTA in children ages six to 11 in the U.S., following the approval in June.Outside the U.S., we have made significant progress with reimbursement for our medicines. We now have reimbursed access for KAFTRIO in more than 15 countries outside the U.S., less than one year following EMA approval. This compares favorably to the industry standard, both in terms of the timeline in individual countries, and the total number of markets in which we have reimbursement agreements.Our rapid reimbursement progress can be attributed to multiple factors, the transformative clinical benefits of the triple combination, the support and collaboration of governments and the CF community, and the expertise of our commercial team, built over the course of a decade. Importantly, as Reshma mentioned earlier, we are achieving reimbursement for our medicines at levels that recognize their considerable clinical value.The pivotal clinical trial data for TRIKAFTA were unprecedented. And as with all of our prior medicines, we are continuing to track the long-term performance of the triple combination in extension studies of our pivotal trials and in the real world, to be able to fully understand and communicate the long-term benefits of CFTR modulators therapy to all key stakeholders.We have previously shown powerful evidence that treatment with KALYDECO, ORKAMBI and SYMDEKO slows lung function decline, results in multi system benefits and transforms the course of the disease in CF patients. Earlier this month, we obtained our first long-term follow-up data with the triple combination. In the FF and FMF patient populations treated for at least 96-weeks with TRIKAFTA in the open label extension of the pivotal clinical trials, we do not see any decline in main lung function over time. This is a first for any of our CFTR modulators. We look forward to sharing these data in a forthcoming medical forum.Although, we are pleased with what we've achieved so far, we still have a long way to go to reach all CF patients. As we have previously communicated, we estimate there are 83,000 people living with CF in the U.S., Canada, Europe and Australia. And approximately 90% of these are likely to benefit from a CFTR modulator. We estimate that there are more than 30,000 patients who could benefit from our current CF medicines, who are not yet being treated.Reaching these patients which will drive significant additional revenue growth will be achieved by successfully launching our medicines where we have reimbursement, securing additional new reimbursement agreements and label expansions to younger age groups. And we remain confident we will be able to reach the vast majority of these patients.I would now like to provide some perspective on the market opportunities for some of the other medicines in our mid and late stage pipeline. Starting with CTX001. With the amendment of our collaboration agreement with CRISPR Therapeutics, Vertex now has taken global leadership for all aspects of the CTX001 program. As a result, we are in a position to leverage Vertex's demonstrated ability to develop and secure access and reimbursement for transformative medicines.We see tremendous potential for CTX001. We estimate that there are more than 150,000 patients in the U.S. and Europe, who have beta thalassemia, or sickle cell disease, approximately 32,000 of whom have severe disease. 25,000 are severe sickle cell disease patients, and the vast majority of these are in the U.S.We believe that a gene editing approach which holds the potential for a one-time curative treatment will be highly valued by patients, physicians and payers. Consistent with our own internal market research, published physician surveys in the U.S. consistently indicate that they expect a quarter to a third of their sickle cell disease patients would be good candidates for a one-time curative approach using the current conditioning regimen, which is in line with the estimates of the numbers of severe patients.And with gentler conditioning regimens in the future, we expect CTX001 to be an attractive option for a much larger proportion of the 150,000, beta thalassemia, and sickle cell disease patients. Our pre-commercial efforts are well underway. There are a number of notable features that are guiding our approach to this market, including one, patients with severe beta thalassemia and sickle cell disease are symptomatic and have a lifelong history of hospitalizations and other significant cost burdens. We are developing health economic models to demonstrate the cost effectiveness of a functional cure for these patients.Two, new and flexible payment models will be needed for a functional cure for these diseases. We are engaged with payers to understand what models work best for them, and for patients. And three, patients are geographically concentrated. For instance, 75% of eligible sickle cell patients in the U.S. live in 15 states. We will use these and other insights to establish a commercial operation that is both lean and highly effective as we have in CF today.Let me now turn to pain, and share our perspective on the market opportunity for a novel medicine in this area. Acute pain therapies represent 1.8 billion treatment days a year in the U.S. Despite more than 90% of prescriptions being generic, acute pain still represents a $4 billion market, underscoring the opportunity for a novel transformative agent. A new medicine that even takes a portion of the current treatment days has multibillion dollar potential. In acute pain, a significant component of the market is opioids. A medicine with high efficacy, and without the limitations of opioids, particularly their addictive potential would be transformative for patients and the healthcare system.With regards to commercialization, treatment is highly concentrated within hospital and post-operative settings. 25% of U.S. hospitals account for 80% of all opioid prescriptions. Given this concentration, successful commercialization will be possible with a small specialist focused commercial model, again, consistent with our lean SG&A approach. Finally, type one diabetes, VX-880 has advanced a patient studies and relatively soon we will begin to have a view its clinical profile. We estimate that 60,000 patients in the U.S. and Europe with severe type one diabetes or type one diabetes with prior kidney transplant would be potential candidates for VX-880.In and of itself, the islet cells alone program is a significant market opportunity. And existing transplant approaches establish a basis for the high value of a transformative therapy. Beyond VX-880 the cells and device program could address the broader type one diabetes population, 2.6 million patients in the U.S. and Europe.In conclusion, it's an exciting time to be at Vertex as we continue to bring our CF medicines to more patients. And we still have significant growth ahead in CF, with new reimbursement agreements and label expansions to younger age groups. And beyond CF, our mid and late stage pipeline is rapidly advancing with each program having both the potential to transform lives and presenting a significant commercial opportunity.And with that, I'll hand it over to Charlie.Charles F. Wagner -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Stuart. In the second quarter of 2021 Vertex again continued its record of outstanding financial performance. In fact, we're in the midst of our eighth consecutive year of at least double digit revenue growth. Second quarter total product revenues were $1.79 billion, an 18% increase compared to the second quarter of 2020. This growth was primarily driven by strong international uptake of KAFTRIO and continued performance of TRIKAFTA in the U.S.Our second quarter revenues included $1.26 billion in the U.S. and $536 million outside the U.S. Ex-U.S. revenues for the quarter grew 71% over the prior year, reflecting the full quarter effect of prior initiations in Europe, as well as any new patient initiations in countries where patients have access to KAFTRIO. Our second quarter combined R&D and SG&A expenses were $537 million compared to $467 million for the second quarter of 2020, driven largely by investment in our clinical stage programs and our research pipeline. As our pipeline continues to expand and mature, we expect our R&D investments will continue to be substantial, while we drive toward proof of concept data and further clinical and regulatory progress across the pipeline.Our continued growth in revenues combined with carefully managed growth and spending translates to a second quarter operating margin of 57%. With our strong revenue and profitability, we ended the quarter with $6.7 billion in cash following the one-time $900 million payment to CRISPR Therapeutics for the amended collaboration. Our strong financial performance to-date, the future growth profile in CF, and the tremendous potential of our broad and deep pipeline made this the right time for the $1.5 billion stock repurchase authorization that we announced in June. This authorization gives us the opportunity to repurchase stock at very attractive prices as we seek to offset future dilution from equity programs.Now to guidance, we are making a significant upward revision to our previously issued 2021 guidance for total product revenues to a range of $7.2 billion to $7.4 billion. This $500 million increase in our revenue guidance range reflects year to date business outperformance, as well as the rapid progress we've made in reaching new reimbursement agreements. Year-over-year this guidance represents nearly 18% growth at the midpoint.As is our practice, the guidance only includes revenue for countries that are currently reimbursed. Future new reimbursements are not included. We are maintaining our non-GAAP opex guidance for the full year 2021 at $2.25 billion to $2.3 billion. Driven by R&D investment, we anticipate that our opex in the second-half of 2021 will be sequentially greater than in the first-half of the year.Specific drivers include the new economic split under the amended CTX001 collaboration, advancement of VX-548 to multiple studies in pain, and investment to support type one diabetes clinical development. For our non-GAAP tax rate, we continue to guide to a range of 21% to 22% this year. Looking to the future, the financial profile of our business is exceptional in many ways. First, we expect to see continued significant top and bottom line growth from our CF franchise into the middle of the decade, as we continue to reach more and more patients.Second, our CF revenues are well protected by the triple combinations strong IP which extends to the late 2030s and which could be further extended with the new next in class triple now entering pivotal trials. Third, our differentiated business model and lean SG&A lead to high margins and strong cash flow, which allows for sustained levels of investment into internal and external R&D and continued strong earnings growth. And finally, we have a number of multibillion dollar opportunities advancing in the pipeline, many with near-term milestones, including those in beta cell, sickle cell disease, APOL1-mediated kidney disease, pain, type one diabetes and AAT, each of which have the potential to drive significant growth beyond CF into the 2030s.With that, I'll turn it back to Reshma to close.Reshma Kewalramani -- Chief Executive Officer and PresidentWhy don't we go directly to questions and open the phone lines now.