  OperatorGreetings. Welcome to the Zions Bancorporation Q1 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions]. Please note this conference is being recorded. I will now turn the conference over to your host, James Abbott, director of investor relations. You may begin.James Abbott -- Senior Vice President, Director of Investor Relations Thank you, Kyle, and good evening. We welcome you to this conference call to discuss our 2022 first quarter earnings. I would like to remind you that during this call, we will be making forward-looking statements, although actual results may differ materially. We encourage you to review the disclaimer in the press release or the slide deck on Slide 2, dealing with forward-looking information and the presentation of non-GAAP measures, which apply equally to statements made during this call. A copy of the earnings release as well as the slide deck are available at zionsbancorporation.com. For our agenda today, chairman and chief executive officer, Harris Simmons, will provide opening remarks, followed by comments from Scott McLean, our president and chief operating officer. Paul Burdiss, our chief financial officer, will conclude by providing additional detail on Zions' financial condition. With us also today is Keith Maio, our chief risk officer; and Michael Morris, our chief credit officer.We intend to limit the length of this call to one hour. During the question-and-answer section of the call, we request that you limit your question to one primary and one follow-up question to enable other participants to ask questions. I will now turn the time over to Harris. Harris Simmons -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thanks very much, James. We want to welcome all of you to our call. Beginning on Slide 3, we're showing some themes that are particularly applicable to Zions in recent quarters. and some that are likely to be extreme in the near-term horizon. Loans exclusive of PPP loans increased $1.2 billion during the quarter, maintaining the momentum that developed in the prior quarter. We saw strong growth in C&I and municipal loans. Owner-occupied loans also saw good growth, in part due to promotional campaigns Overall, we're pleased with the loan growth in the first quarter and expect that moderate levels of loan growth will be sustainable through the remainder of the year. We've invested significantly in securities during the past two years. We believe the securities portfolio is at least for the next few months, unlikely to increase significantly from here, although the size of the portfolio will ultimately be determined by loan growth and deposit flows. With the recent strength in loan growth, we expect that any near-term growth of deposits that might materialize in addition to some of the excess cash on our balance sheet would be invested in loans rather than in securities. As many of you know, we're well positioned for rising rates. The futures market is pricing in a Fed funds rate of approximately 3.5% by mid-'23, or an increase of about 3 percentage points. We believe we have an exceptional deposit franchise and given the interest rate environment expected by market participants, we expect that we'll begin to see much more of the value of these deposits emerge in our financial results in coming quarters. The final item on this slide refers to our ongoing significant investment in technology, which is designed to enable us to remain very competitive in the future. If you turn to Slide 4 we are generally pleased with the quarterly financial results, which are summarized on this slide. In as much as we'll touch on these items in subsequent slides, I'm going to move on, but you might find this summary useful. If we go to Slide 5. Diluted earnings per share was $1.27. Comparing the first quarter to the fourth quarter, the single most significant difference was in the provision for credit loss which was a $0.28 per share positive variance is going to be seen on the bottom left chart. Our provision this quarter improved our earnings per share by $0.16 and whereas in the prior quarter, the provision reduced earnings per share by $0.12. The other major factor that contributed to earnings was income from PPP loans, which was $0.12 per share in the first quarter. Finally, there were other items noted on the right side of the page that largely offset one another in terms of their impact on earnings per share. Turning to Slide 6. Our first quarter adjusted pre-provision net revenue was $241 million. The adjustments, which most notably eliminate the gain or loss on securities are shown in the latter pages of the press release and of the slide deck. The PPNR bars are split into two portions. The bottom portion represents what we think of as generally recurring income. While the top portion denotes the revenue we've received from PPP loans, net of direct external professional services expenses associated with the forgiveness of these loans. These loans contributed $24 million to PPNR in the first quarter. As you can see, exclusive of PPP income, we experienced an increase in adjusted PPNR of 8% over the past year. And on a per share basis, it increased 17%. On Slide 7, we've included a chart to help understand the sequential quarter change in PPNR. I've already noted the reduced income from PPP loans, we also experienced a decline in certain noncustomer related fee income items, which was largely due to nonrecurring gains on real property sales in the fourth quarter and reduced earnings on private equity investments and trading losses in the first quarter. The expense items shown in the middle of the chart are largely seasonal in nature, although we did increase our incentive compensation accruals to align with the revenue outlook that now includes the effect of expected rate increases. Non-PPP net interest income increased about $10 million. And finally, there was a 10 million charitable contribution in the prior period that weighed somewhat on that quarter. Turning to Slide 8. Shifting away from the discussion on the financial results to a couple of highlights in our strategic plan, we are pleased to report continued strong progress with upgrading our online and mobile banking platforms to a single platform that has the same look and feel in both applications as well as functionality. We completed that for the consumer side of the business about a year ago, and we've been rolling out similar upgrades to our small business banking customers. Since year-end, we've converted over 145,000 business customers to this new and highly competitive digital and online banking platform, with the remaining 25% of such customers to be converted to the new platform during May. The results of the upgrade are reflected in the surveys we've done, which have been very positive. And in the mobile space, we've seen a much improved rating from customers as compared to our previous application and also when compared to the applications for other large regional banks, which we've shown to you in prior presentations. Going to Slide 9, a major strategic initiative for us is to organically grow our business customer base at a rate that exceeds the natural business formation rate. It's relatively easy to increase loan and deposit balances by increasing hold limits, lowering credit standards or offering below market rates for loans and above market yields for deposits. But to grow customers requires a lot of work specifically in the service category. We've relied upon the Greenwich Associates' research to help us understand the areas in which we perform well in areas that need improvement. This year, we ranked second overall out of all the banks in the country and the middle market, small business satisfaction with 27 excellence awards. Shown on this slide, Greenwich has provided us with additional detail behind some of the rankings. Across the top half of the page are a few select categories pertaining to survey responses for middle market business customers. And across the bottom half of the page are similar results from small business customers. Zion's score as denoted within each chart, along with the average score of the peer group, members of that peer group are listed elsewhere in this document and in our proxy filing. And also, the average score of four major banks against whom we compete for business within our markets, notably JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America, Wells Fargo, and U.S. Bank. We're encouraged with such strength in these and many other categories. The Net Promoter Score from Greenwich's surveys is, of course, a widely used barometer of customer experience and one that can be mapped to other industries. Our strong showing is a reflection of our efforts to provide exceptional customer service, top-notch products, and superior technology to enable faster and safer service and products. Additional detail is available on this topic in the appendix. Slide 30. We expect that the strength of our reputation will continue to support our efforts regarding customer growth. Ultimately, this customer growth should translate into both granular and solvent increases in loan and deposit balances. And with that, I'm going to ask Scott McLean, our president and COO, to provide an update on loan growth, certain fee income initiatives, and our technology investments. Scott?Scott McLean -- President and Chief Operating Officer Thank you, Harris. Moving to Slide 10. A significant highlight for us this quarter was the strong performance in average and period-end loan growth. Average end -- period-end non-PPP loans increased $1.2 billion or an unannualized 2.5% when compared to the fourth quarter. The yield on average total loans decreased 21 basis points from the prior quarter, which is partially attributable to a shift in the mix of loans with average PPP loans declining 1 billion and being replaced by non-PPP loans, which have a lower yield. The loans that are replacing PPP loans have yields generally in the 3% to 4% range. Excluding PPP loans, the yield declined 13 basis points to 3.43% from 3.56%, a portion of which is attributable to elevated prepayment penalty income recognized in the fourth quarter, but also the effect of some of our promotional campaigns and the maturity of interest rate swaps. Deposit costs remain low. Shown on the right, our cost of total deposits was stable at just three basis points in the first quarter. Average deposit growth slowed compared to recent quarters, with average total deposits increasing nearly 200 million or 0.2%, 20 basis points, unannualized. Period-end deposits declined more than 400 million or 0.5%. Largely due to the expected quantitative tightening by the Federal Reserve, we expect deposit balance growth trends to be closer to stable to perhaps slightly increasing, although clearly, we are in unchartered territory. Moving to Slide 11. Loans to businesses increased 1.1 billion with considerable strength in C&I and owner occupied of nearly 800 million of linked quarter growth. and more than 275 million of municipal loans. Additionally, we saw growth with our home equity lines of credit and one to four family mortgages. This is particularly encouraging because we experienced $1.5 billion of attrition in one to four family mortgage loans from December '19 -- 2019 through December 2021. This growth was partially offset by a contraction in our CRE term and energy portfolios. Our loan portfolios in most of our markets showed growth with strength in C&I from California and Utah, municipal growth from Arizona and owner occupied in all our markets. Our utilization rates on approximately $33 billion in revolving commitments increased 0.2 percentage points to 35.1%, compared to the prior quarter level of 34.9%. This compares to a pre-pandemic utilization rate in the fourth quarter of 2019 of 39.2%. If we were to return to that level, assuming no further change to the revolving commitments that would result in about 1.2 billion of additional loan balances. As I previously noted, we expect that we'll see line utilization continue to strengthen as businesses work to rebuild their inventories. Turning to Slide 12 regarding noninterest income. Customer-related fees were 151 million, of which about 6 million was attributable to a onetime accrual adjustment in commercial account fees. Normalizing for that effect the customer-related fee income increased about 9% over the prior year. Activity-based fees, such as card, merchant services, and retail and business banking service charges remained strong and recovered from pandemic softness to exceed our 2019 levels. This improvement is additive to continued strength in wealth management and treasury management fees. Compared to the prior quarter, we experienced a decline in capital markets income, where the fourth quarter was particularly strong in syndications and foreign exchange. Notably and highlighted on the page, we are planning to reduce some of our overdraft and nonsufficient fund fees. We expect that this will reduce our fee income by about 5 million or so per quarter beginning in the third quarter of this year. Turning to Slide 13. Our mortgage activity continued at both a quarterly and annual record setting pace, with fundings reaching 1.2 billion for the second consecutive quarter. This represents a 38% year-over-year increase, compared to a 36% decline for the MBA industry market index. The outperformance versus the industry would largely be attributable to three factors: first, the attractiveness of our mortgage product to our core small business and affluent clients. Secondly, success of our digital mortgage application platform, representing now 95% of all applications, up from 100% paper in 2018. Significant process enhancements tailored to improve the experience for all customers and especially our affluent segment. Mortgage fees improved to $7 million, compared to approximately $4 million in the fourth quarter. This is well below the quarterly average from 2021 as the demand for salable fixed-rate product declines. However, the benefit is that we are producing more product that can be held for investment on our balance sheet and which was a contributor to the growth in the one to four family mortgage portfolio that I noted earlier. Regarding Slide 14. This slide highlights the number of major technology initiatives that are underway and the customer segments that benefit from these enhancements. Harris noted how well the implementation of our digital banking replacement has gone and the positive feedback we're receiving from the consumers and small businesses utilizing this enhanced capability. While there's a lot to talk about on this slide, I will only note that our future core project, the final third phase, which replaces our previous core deposit and branch platform is on track for a 2023 implementation. With that, I'll now turn the time over to our chief financial officer, Paul Burdiss.Paul Burdiss -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Scott, and good evening, everyone. Nearly 80% of our revenue is net interest income, which is significantly influenced by loan and deposit growth and associated interest rates. Scott, as or discussed loan growth. Moving to Slide 15 and we show our securities and money market investment portfolios over the past five quarters. The size of the period-end securities portfolio increased by nearly $10 billion over the past year to $27 billion. Money market investments had been increasing significantly with the growth in deposits. Money market investments declined in the quarter by $5 billion to $7.4 billion, reflecting growth in loans and securities and a modest decline in period-end deposits. The combination of securities and money market investments is now 40% of total earning assets at period, which compares to an average level in 2019 before the pandemic of 26%. Over time, we would expect the mix of highly liquid assets such as securities and money market investments to revert to historical levels. We continue to exercise caution regarding duration extension risk by purchasing bonds with moderate duration both in the current and in an upward shock scenario. The durations of both are listed on the bottom left-hand side of the page. The $4.7 billion of securities purchases for the quarter had an average yield of 2.1%, which is about 40 basis points higher than the prior quarter's yield. The annualized rate of principal and prepayment based cash flow coming from the securities portfolio was $4.2 billion in the first quarter. Again, that's an annualized rate. And depending upon the opportunity, we expect to be able to deploy the majority of that cash into either loans or higher-yielding securities. Also depicted on Slide 15 is a summary of our interest rate swap portfolio, maturity, and yield information by quarter. This includes both maturing swaps and forward starting swaps that are in place today but won't be reflected in our financial results until the start date. Slide 16 is an overview of net interest income and the net interest margin. The chart on the left shows the recent five-quarter trend for both. The net interest margin in the white boxes has trended down over the past year but gained two basis points this quarter. The trend reflects the change in earning asset mix due to the deposit-driven rise in excess liquidity over the past year as described on the prior page. Until the first quarter, growth in deposits has impacted the composition of earning assets through a larger concentration and lower-yielding money market and securities investments. The weighted average yield of our securities and money market investments is 1.39%, an increase of 30 basis points over the prior quarter. The volume and yield of securities, coupled with a smaller balance of money market investments helped to improve the net interest margin. Importantly, the increased interest income from securities over the past quarter and year have helped to make up the shortfall from decreased PPP-related revenues and have underscored the value of our exceptional deposit growth. Slide 17 shows information about our interest rate sensitivity. Focusing on the upper left-hand quadrant as a general statement, we remain very asset sensitive. Each 100 basis points of parallel shift would add approximately $175 million of annual net interest income or just under about $0.90 per share, holding all other factors constant. Our estimated interest rate sensitivity to a 100-basis-point parallel interest rate shock was about 4 percentage points lower in the first quarter than that reported in the fourth quarter. A portion of this reflects the higher denominator that is net interest income as our outlook for net interest income from the March 2022 starting point was materially higher than at the same outlook at the end of 2021. This change is largely attributable to increased loans, increased securities, and a steeper yield curve. The remaining change in asset sensitivity is due to active balance sheet hedging. We may continue to add interest rate swaps, including forward starting swaps, which would help to dampen our natural asset sensitivity. We expect to begin to see the impact of short-term interest rate increases in the second quarter as approximately 40% of our earning assets after giving the effect to swaps are tied to indices within one year. Noninterest expenses on Slide 18, grew by $15 million from the prior quarter to $464 million. Adjusted noninterest expense increased $18 million or 4% and again to $464 million. The linked quarter increase in adjusted noninterest expense was primarily due to seasonal expenses typically experienced in the first quarter related to compensation which were the same factors that affected pre-provision net revenue, as detailed earlier by Harris. These seasonal expenses were somewhat offset by a decrease from the $10 million charitable donation made in the fourth quarter. You may have noticed that we made some changes to the categorization of noninterest expense in the current quarter on the face of our financial statements. As the banking industry continues to move toward information technology-based products and services, we have improved the presentation and disclosure of certain expenses related to our technology-related investments and operations. These improved disclosures will be amplified in our upcoming 10-Q filing. Another significant highlight for the quarter was the credit quality of the loan portfolio, as illustrated on Slide 19. Relative to the prior quarter, we saw continued improvement in problem loans. Using the broadest definition of problem loans, the balance of criticized and classified loans dropped 11% and classified loans dropped 7%, although not shown relative to the prior quarter, special mention loans declined 20%. Of course, net charge-offs to average loans is the most important measure of credit quality. We had only five basis points of annualized net charge-offs relative to average non-PPP loans in the first quarter and a loss rate was only one basis point in the prior quarter. Shown on the chart on the bottom right, one can see the volatility of the provision for credit loss contrasted with the relative stability of net charge-offs. Slide 20 details our allowance for credit losses or ACL. In the upper left, we show a recent declining trend in the ACL over the past several quarters. At the end of the first quarter, the ACL was $514 million or 1.02% of non-PPP loans. The economic scenarios that we use to build our quantitative ACL model improved relative to the prior quarter, and we released the qualitative reserves associated with expected losses related to the pandemic. However, as a partial offset to that, we raised the probability of a recession in our assessment of the economy largely due to changes in uncertainty about the spillover effects of the war in Eastern Europe and because of the risk inflation may have on our borrowers' profit margins. Our loss absorbing capital position is shown on Slide 21. We repurchased $50 million of common stock in the first quarter. With the loan growth we achieved in the quarter and continued minimal charge-offs, we believe that our capital position is generally aligned with balance sheet and operating risk. We typically show that trailing five quarters in our investor slides, but in this case, we went back to a year before the pandemic in order to provide a longer perspective. In the chart on the left, you will note that we had reduced our common equity Tier 1 ratio to 10.2% in the fourth quarter of 2019. And with the onset of the pandemic and with line draws in the first quarter of 2020, we saw the CET1 ratio declined to 10%. After capital growth through intentional earnings retention, during the uncertainty of the pandemic, the CET1 ratio has now returned to 10% in the current quarter. Shown on the right are our credit losses, we've intentionally matched the scale on both charts so that you can see the order of magnitude of losses incurred during this time frame relative to the capital set aside for expected loss, also known as the allowance for credit losses and the capital set aside for unexpected loss in the form of common equity. Given the extremely low level of loss, we believe our capital position is appropriately strong relative to our risk profile. Our financial outlook can be found on Slide 22. This is our best current estimate for financial performance for the first quarter of 2023 as compared to the actual results reported for the first quarter of 2022. The results in between are subject to normal seasonality. Consistent with recent quarters, our outlook for loan and net interest income exclude PPP loans. The impact of PPP loans on interest income is expected to dissipate over the next couple of quarters. We reiterate our outlook for loan growth at moderately increasing. We are expecting net interest income, also excluding PPP loan revenue to increase over the next year. As noted previously, we believe our net interest income will improve as interest rates increased, particularly along the short end of the curve. We had another successful quarter for customer-related fees, and we remain optimistic that many components of fee income will continue to grow. However, the reduction of overdraft and nonsufficient fund fees, which Scott discussed previously and with mortgage banking fee income likely to decrease as the production shifts to held for investment our outlook for customer-related fees has shifted to stable from slightly increasing. For adjusted noninterest expense, we are reiterating our expectation of moderately increasing with the largest risk factor continuing to be wage and price pressure. Finally, regarding capital management, we are hopeful that our capital will continue to be deployed to support customer-driven balance sheet growth. As a reminder, share repurchase and dividend decisions are made by our board of directors, and as such, we expect to announce any capital actions for the second quarter in conjunction with our regularly scheduled Board meeting this coming Friday. This concludes our prepared remarks. Kyle, would you please open the line for questions? 