  OperatorWelcome to Visa's fiscal second quarter 2022 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time. Now, I would like to turn the conference over to your host, Ms. Jennifer Como, senior vice president and head of investor relations. Ms. Como, you may begin.Jennifer Como -- Senior Vice President and Head of Investor Relations

 



 Thanks, Jordan. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to Visa's fiscal second quarter 2022 earnings call. Joining us today are Al Kelly, Visa's chairman and chief executive officer, and Vasant Prabhu, Visa's vice chair and chief financial officer. This call is being webcast on the investor relations section of our website at www.investor.visa.com. A replay will be archived on our site for 30 days. A slide deck containing financial and statistical highlights has been posted on our IR website. Let me also remind you that this presentation includes forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance, and our actual results could differ materially as the result of many factors.Additional information concerning those factors is available in our most recent reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q, which you can find on the SEC's website and the investor relations section of our website. For non-GAAP financial information disclosed in this call, the related GAAP measures and reconciliation are available in today's earnings release. And with that, let me turn the call over to Al. Al Kelly -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Good afternoon, everybody, and thank you for joining. Before jumping in, I want to acknowledge that this is Jennifer Como's first earnings call in her new position. About two months ago, Jennifer was promoted to head of investor relations, which was a very well-deserved recognition of her work over the last three years with us. I want to start by briefly addressing the situation in Russia and Ukraine. I have seen firsthand the pain brought about by Russia's attack on Ukraine and its people, including our colleagues in both Ukraine and Russia. We are very focused on supporting them. The bravery, strength and resilience of our colleagues is incredibly inspiring, as is the grit of the Ukrainian military. Even with the invasion of Ukraine and lingering impacts of Omicron, volumes, transactions, and credentials drove strong second quarter performance. Overall, PV was up 135% versus three years ago. Cross-border volumes, excluding intra-Europe, were 112% versus three years ago. And it's important to note that travel-related cross-border rose to 82% versus three years ago, up five points from Q1. Processed transactions were 138% versus three years ago. In terms of the big picture, after the short four to five-week impact of Omicron in December and January in the United States and many other parts of the world, the recovery continues to be robust. At this stage, in terms of volumes, we have seen no noticeable impact due to inflation, supply chain issues or the war in Ukraine. In the US, payments volume index to 2019 was 144 in the quarter. Volume growth relative to three years ago has been stable and strong now for four quarters in a row.

 



 When looking at specific spend categories for credit cards, we saw greater than a 10-percentage point improvement in the three-year index from Q1 to 2Q -- Q2 in travel, retail goods, food and drug, restaurant, QSR and fuel. As a reminder, debit is growing over a quarter in fiscal '21, where there were two stimulus distributions. Even as credit continues to recover, debit remains 20% above the pre-pandemic trend line. Across all products, spend categories representing 88% of PV are over 120% indexed -- over 120 indexed to three years ago, and nearly two-thirds are between 140 and 160. Against this backdrop, Visa's performance was very strong. Net revenues grew 25% year over year, and non-GAAP EPS was $1.79, up 30%. As we look ahead, our business will have a reset due to Russia, but we still expect accelerated revenue growth versus pre-COVID over the coming years. This is because there's still ample opportunity around the world across our three growth levers of consumer payments, new flows and value-added services, and our strategy is yielding excellent results. First, in consumer payments, we continue to displace cash at a strong rate. In Q2, we saw debit cash volumes at Visa grow 2%, while debit payments volumes grew 12%. Cash displacement continued around the world. Year over year, across debit and credit, there were 7.9 billion more payments transactions and 16 million less cash transactions. Last quarter, I highlighted the shift from cash to payments volume in Latin America, and that trend continued in this quarter. Additionally, CEMEA is experiencing a similar shift. In full year 2019, cash was 59% of total volume. Last year in Q2, it was 50%. And this quarter, it was 46%. Growth in consumer payments is driven by adding credentials and acceptance and deepening engagement. Our card credentials recently increased to over 3.9 billion, up 9% in one year, including 10% growth in the United States. On the acceptance side, we have 80 million merchant locations, including small businesses behind players like Stripe and Square, the number is actually over 100 million. We have seen very strong performance location growth recently in our Latin America and Asia Pacific regions, up 30% and 20%, respectively. Let me just highlight a few regional examples of progress in consumer payments. In Europe, overall credentials grew 6%, which is nearly double the historic rate for each of the past eight eight quarters, helped by previously announced deals, with BNP Paribas Fortis in Belgium contributing more than 4 million credentials since their announcement to issue with Visa. Across Europe, we continue to strengthen our debit business. We recently announced the win with Rabobank, representing a multimillion credential opportunity. We also renewed our business with one of the largest banks in the Nordics, Nordea. On the acceptance front, we continue to pioneer new areas of acceptance even in mature digital markets. One recent example in Europe is with electronic -- electric vehicle charging. We were the first payments and financial services company to join the charging interface initiative and are working with manufacturers to open up what is estimated to represent 3 million potential acceptance points in Europe by 2030. In Latin America, we saw strong credential growth, up 21% year over year. Two renewals to highlight this quarter, Porto Sakura, Brazil's third largest issuer for credit portfolio, and digital bank Neo Pagamentos, one of Brazil's fastest-growing fintechs with over 15 million clients for their credit and prepaid portfolios. In Africa, Visa has signed a partnership with Vodacom South Africa. This deal, together with previously announced partnerships with M-PESA Africa and Safaricom, covers 130 million customers in the entire Vodacom Group in Sub-Saharan Africa. Through this partnership, Vodacom will exclusively issue Visa payment credentials, deploy new payment flows through Visa Direct and utilize CyberSource. In the United States, we renewed and won several partnerships this quarter. First, Visa and USAA have recently renewed our long-standing issuing partnership. Second, we extended our existing relationship agreement with M&T Bank as their issuance partner, including migrating the business resulting from their recently completed acquisition of People's United. Over the past two years, merger activity of regional banks has increased, and this is another example of Visa successfully partnering to grow with our clients. Finally, supporting the US government is an important priority for us, and we retained our business with the financial agent that manages the US debit card program. This Visa-branded program is a key component of treasury's goal to deliver 99% of federal payments digitally by 2030. A key vector of growth in consumer payments are co-brand cards, which are particularly attractive to the affluent customer. In Q2, affluent credit card spending was well above 2019 levels in several markets, including the US and the UK Our US co-brand active cards were up nearly 30% from 2019 to 2022. And we have seven of the top 10 co-brands in the United States, and eight of the top 10 co-brands globally. This past quarter, we renewed our co-brand relationship with AAA, Visa's longest-standing co-brand partner, an over 40-year relationship. In India, we're pleased to have signed a long-term co-brand agreement with Airtel, one of the largest mobile operators in the world with nearly 356 million subscribers. In CEMEA, Emirates NBD, a leading banking group, has expanded its long-standing partnership with Visa by introducing the premium co-brand program with Etihad Guest, the loyalty program of Etihad Airlines with 8 million members. In Uganda, we partnered with the Uganda National Social Security Fund to issue co-brand cards to 2 million beneficiaries. And just a few weeks ago, it was announced that the US Amazon Prime Rewards Visa Signature Card has been renewed with Chase and Visa. Visa is also pleased to have reached a broad global agreement with Amazon. This agreement includes the acceptance of Visa at all Amazon stores and sites today, as well as a joint commitment to collaboration on new product and technology initiatives to ensure innovative payment experiences for our customers into the future. In Q2, we also continued to enable new ways to pay from installments to crypto. In the installment space, we previously announced a global deal with Klarna. They have now issued their co-branded card in Europe and recently opened a wait list in the United States, where they have 25 million customers. In the crypto space, we continue to work with governments globally on potential CBDCs. This quarter, we were selected as the finalist in Brazil's CBDC LIFT Challenge. The concept is a B2B solution that seeks to leverage CBDC to help small businesses access global investors and drive financial inclusion. On the engagement front, tap to pay continues to accelerate growth. In the United States, we are over 20% tap to pay penetration, marking the second largest market by number of taps. And Target has become the first US retail merchant to surpass 50% tap to pay penetration of face-to-face payments. Transit is one of the best ways to habituate tapping, and the first half of fiscal '22 has set records. We enabled 50 cities around the world, including Thailand, Japan, Turkey, Italy, Switzerland, Norway, and Canada, bringing our tap to ride footprint to over 500 travel transit authorities. We processed over 500 million Visa tap to ride transactions globally versus 700 million for all of last year. To summarize, there is significant opportunity in consumer payments, Visa continues to grow credentials and acceptance while deepening engagement and Visa enables innovation and scale for players across the ecosystem from installments to crypto to merchants. Now, moving to new flows, which in Q2 had over 20% revenue growth. In Q2, our commercial payments volume was 138% of 2019. What's more, this recovery is relatively broad-based across segments and spend types. On the B2B carded front, in the US, Umpqua Bank announced two commercial solutions for middle market businesses: one, Visa Commercial Preferred, a commercial rewards card designed to help manage daily business spend; and two, Visa Commercial Pay, which will help improve cash flow management, reconciliation and reporting. In Latin America, we saw a carded progress with B2B fintech, Tribal, which has chosen Visa for card issuance, including virtual cards, on its modern corporate card and spend management platform tailored for start-ups in nine countries. Airwallex, a global platform enabling digital businesses to manage payments and money movement across borders, previously launched programs with Visa in Australia, Hong Kong and the UK Recently, they introduced virtual Visa cards in the United States, Netherlands, and Singapore to enable businesses to easily make digital card payments around the world. In our cross-border B2B business, Visa B2B Connect continues to expand its global footprint. And in the first half of 2022, we added banks for the first time in Tanzania, Uganda, Angola, Thailand, and Poland. Now, turning to Visa Direct. Transactions in the second quarter grew 20%. Vasant will speak more about this, but Russia was our second largest market for Visa Direct and represented about 17% of our transactions in fiscal 2021. So in short, Visa Direct will be impacted by the suspension of Russian operations. But even with the Russia business -- without the Russia business, we will see growth ahead driven by many use cases and countries. For example, domestic P2P, which accounted for the majority of our Russian business, is still a large opportunity, and we continue to expand to new markets. We will soon launch our inaugural Visa Direct use case in Israel for P2P in partnership with BIT, the largest P2P app in the market. I'll focus on two other use cases today, payouts and remittances. First, with payouts, we're seeing momentum in a number of industries, and transactions are up 35% year over year. In travel, we launched Visa Direct with Booking.com to enable customer refunds and loyalty payouts. In the gig economy, Payfare, a leading fintech that has partners such as Uber, Lyft and Doordash, has added Visa Direct to its platform to help facilitate real-time payment experiences for over half a million gig workers they serve. And digital commerce partner, Payoneer, will use Visa Direct to enable cross-border payments for their 5 million customers, including marketplaces and gig economy players. Second, cross-border P2P or global remittances, which are higher yielding Visa Direct transactions, represent a significant opportunity. While we are just getting started this quarter, transactions grew nearly 50% year over year. After announcing our relationship in fiscal fourth quarter with Paysend, an international card-to-card payments platform, which serves over 6 million customers and 17,000 SMEs, they have now launched their cross-border service with Visa Direct from the UK and US to over 100 corridors. While the US is the top source for remittances, the UAE is the second largest source for country remittances followed by Saudi Arabia according to the World Bank. Altogether, the Gulf Cooperation Council countries account for more than $100 billion in outbound remittances. This past quarter, we added several partnerships to help digitize remittances in the region. First, Al Muzaini Exchange, the largest exchange house in Kuwait. Second, Enjaz, the remittance and payment arm of Bank Albilad and market leader for ongoing remittances in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. And third, in the UAE with LuLu Money powered by Lulu International Exchange and Network International to enable the 5 million users of Lulu app to send money to cross-border. Adyen and Strike, key Visa Direct enablement partners, have both signed agreements to deepen relationships in existing geographies and to expand to net new markets globally across numerous use cases. In sum, we've made excellent early progress against the $185 trillion new flows opportunity, but there is tremendous room for accelerated growth ahead. Now, let me move to value-added services, which had Q2 revenue growth of over 20% as well. First, we recently closed our acquisition of Tink. Tink is the European open banking platform that connects to more than 3,400 banks that reach over 250 million bank customers across Europe. Through a single API, Tink enables its customers to move money, access aggregated financial data and use smart financial services such as risk insights and account verification. Visa brings proven infrastructure and sustained investment and resilience, cybersecurity, and fraud, which will help accelerate the adoption of open banking and create a secure, reliable platform for innovation. Let me highlight some other progress in value-added services. First, visa consulting and Analytics. Last quarter, I announced the launch of our specialized global crypto advisory practice. We have seen interest from hundreds of clients globally and have committed engagements with 30 already covering their digital currency strategy, product development and their go-to-market plans. Second, risk identity and authentication. In tokenization, we have now crossed the 3.5 billion token mark across more than 8,600 issuers in over 150 markets at 1.2 million merchants. Tokens have led to a 2.5-point increase in approval rates and a 28% reduction in fraud rates this past quarter in card-not-present payments. Our key risk solutions, Visa advanced authorization and Visa risk manager, screened about 30% more transactions in the first half of 2022 versus 2021. Third, CyberSource, our gateway capability, has seen considerable progress, just crossing the milestone of the 1 millionth merchant account onboarded. I spoke about transit before in CyberSource, which could play a key role in transit acceptance, added nearly 15 projects in the first half in Thailand, Italy, and Japan, among others. So to summarize, our value-added services represent a compelling way to diversify our revenue streams while helping our clients in bringing innovation to the payments ecosystem. Our global infrastructure is providing connectivity through our network of networks to power more traditional payment types and newer ways to pay and move money. Our brand is strong. Our network of networks is expanding. Our business is performing well, and our people are motivated and passionate. We expect all our efforts will help power accelerated growth in the years to come. And with that, let me turn it over to Vasant.Vasant Prabhu -- Chairman and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Al. Good afternoon, everyone. Despite Omicron, Russia and Ukraine, our fiscal second quarter results were very strong, with net revenues up 25% and GAAP EPS up 23%. Non-GAAP EPS was up 30%. In constant dollars, net revenue growth was approximately 27% and non-GAAP EPS growth was 30%. A few key highlights. Global payments volume growth has remained strong and stable relative to pre-COVID levels. In constant dollars, the US index was two points higher than the first quarter at 1.44 versus three years ago. The international index, ex China, was down two points at 140 versus 2019 due to the impact of Omicron in early January. Omicron impact on most domestic volumes was short-lived as we hoped it would be. The robust cross-border travel recovery that started in the fall as borders reopened, resumed in February as Omicron impact faded. Border restrictions were lifted quickly and pent-up demand for travel remains very high. Index to 2019, cross-border travel, excluding transactions within Europe, jumped from a low of 71 in January to 94 in March. The first two weeks of March saw a spike in cross-border volumes from Russia and Ukraine due to displacement caused by the invasion. After we suspended operations in Russia in mid-March, there were no more cross-border transactions in or out of Russia. Adjusted for Russia and the spike from Ukraine, the March cross-border travel index relative to 2019 was around 90. So far, we are not seeing any material impact on cross-border travel in other corridors as a result of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Our three growth engines, consumer payments, new flows and value-added services, all grew revenues well over 20%. During the quarter, we bought back $2.9 billion in stock at an average price of around $2.10 -- $210. On March 10, we closed on the Tink acquisition. Finally, our second quarter P&L and balance sheet reflect our best estimates for the impact of suspending operations in Russia. This includes revenues and expenses from terminating all client and supplier contracts, resolution of settlement balances and the deconsolidation of our Russian business. We have adjusted two items from our GAAP earnings, expenses to support our employees in Russia and Ukraine and a charge related to net assets in our Russian legal entity. Now, on to the details. In constant dollars, global payments volume was up 17% year over year, and 35% versus 2019. Debit spend remained resilient as credit spend continued to improve. Excluding China, total payments volume growth was 18% or 42% higher than 2019. US payments volume grew 16%, up 44% versus 2019, which was two points better than the first quarter. Credit grew 27% and improved four points to 35% over 2019, helped by the affluent consumer. Debit grew only 6% year over year, reflecting the impact of stimulus last year, but growth remained very strong versus 2019 at 53%. As Al indicated, debit is indexing well above the pre-COVID trend line, benefiting from accelerated cash digitization. US card presence spend grew 17% and was 21% above 2019 at its highest quarterly level since the pandemic. Card-not-present volume, excluding travel, grew 10% and was 70% above 2019. Relative to three years ago, e-commerce levels remain well above the pre-COVID trend line even as card-present spend continues to recover. International constant dollar payments volume, excluding China, grew 22% and was 40% above 2019. A few regional highlights. Latin America was up 44% year over year, and 99% higher than 2019, with robust performance across the region, fueled by cash digitization and client wins. Our CEMEA region grew 18% year over year and 76% higher than 2019, led by client wins and cash digitization. Excluding Russia, the CEMEA region was up 100% over 2019. Europe was up 21% year over year and 31% higher than 2019. Following an Omicron dip in January, we saw a rapid recovery in most European markets. Ex UK, Europe volumes grew 36% year over year and were 54% above 2019. Asia Pacific, excluding China, remains our weakest region, up 16% year over year and 25% versus 2019. Due to COVID restrictions, recovery across most of Asia has stalled while Hong Kong declined relative to 2019. India recovered strongly, up almost 20 points from December. India has been our fastest-growing market in Asia, up almost 80% since 2019, fueled by a tripling of e-commerce volumes. Global processed transactions were up 19% year over year and 38% versus 2019. Constant dollar cross-border volume, excluding transactions within Europe, were up 47% year over year and 12% over 2019. Cross-border card-not-present volume growth, excluding travel, remained strong, up 16% year over year and well above the pre-COVID trend line at 67% above 2019. Cross-border travel-related spend, excluding intra-Europe, grew 111% year over year and indexed at 82% of 2019 levels. As I mentioned earlier, after an Omicron-driven dip to 71 in January, the cross-border travel index to 2019 rose sharply to 94 in March. Many corridors are now indexing above 90 relative to 2019. Inbound travel to Latin America, the Caribbean, and parts of the Middle East has been above 2019 levels for some time now. There's plenty of recovery to come in one important corridor inbound to the US, which indexed only at 70 in Q2. Asia indexed in the high 30s, both inbound and outbound in Q2. The pace of travel recovery to and from Asia will be a key driver of the future trajectory. Most Asian borders are now open, except for China, and restrictions remain in place in Japan, Korea and Taiwan. Moving now to a quick review of second quarter financial results. Service revenues grew 24%, faster than the 20% nominal growth in Q1 payments volume. We were able to bill and collect service revenues in Russia through early March. As such, in the second quarter, we recorded almost two quarters of service revenues related to Russia. Service revenues were also helped by increasing utilization of card benefits. Data processing revenues grew 16%, below the 19% processed transactions growth, mostly due to exchange rate changes. International transaction revenues were up 48% versus the 42% increase in nominal cross-border volumes, excluding intra-Europe. Revenue growth was helped by high currency volatility and select pricing modifications, partially offset by business mix. Other revenues grew 21%, led by consulting, data, and marketing services, as well as travel benefits. Revenue growth was robust across our three growth engines, each growing well over 20%. Consumer payments growth was led by improving cross-border volumes and continued strong domestic volumes and transactions. New flows growth was driven by Visa Direct and carded B2B recovery. Visa Direct transactions grew 20%, impacted by lapping a strong quarter in the US last year and a suspension of Russian operations. As Al indicated, Russia was the second largest market for Visa Direct, accounting for 17% of transactions. This is an unfortunate setback, but the Visa Direct business is ramping fast in other international markets, as well as in use cases such as cross-border remittances, earned wage access and other B2C payouts. Commercial, or B2B volumes, grew 29% year over year, and up 38% versus 2019. Growth was driven by continued strength of small business and the recovery of large businesses across the portfolio of diverse spend categories. Value-added service growth was led by consulting and marketing services, card benefits, as well as risk and identity solutions. Revenue growth drivers include the acceleration of e-commerce, client growth in international markets and select pricing actions. Client incentives were 25.8% of gross revenues, at the lower end of expectations. This was driven by better revenue mix due to the faster-than-expected recovery of our cross-border business and by deal timing, with some Q2 deals being pushed into Q3. GAAP operating expenses grew 11%. Non-GAAP operating expenses grew 16%. We recorded losses from our equity investments of $127 million. Excluding investment losses, non-GAAP nonoperating expense was $133 million. Our non-GAAP tax rate was 19.6%, GAAP EPS was $1.70, non-GAAP EPS of $1.79, up 30% from last year. Including our quarterly dividend of $0.375 per share and our stock buybacks, we returned $3.7 billion of capital to shareholders in the quarter. A few comments on our trends through the first three weeks of April. On a year-over-year basis, US payments volume was up 12%, with debit up 2% and credit up 26%. Debit volumes are lapping the impact of stimulus payments in 2021. US Airtel spend growth versus three years ago was up 45%, with debit up a robust 54% and credit up 37%. These trends are relatively consistent with performance in major markets around the world, with the exception of CEMEA where we now have no payments volume from Russia. Processed transactions grew 17% year over year, up 36% versus 2019. Constant dollar cross-border volume, excluding transactions within Europe, grew 47% year over year, and were 15% over 2019. Card-not-present non-travel growth was 62% about 2019. Travel-related cross-border volumes were at a 92 index to 2019. The small decline in this index relative to March is mostly due to the loss of Russia. Total cross-border volume was up 28% over 2019. Moving now to our outlook for the rest of fiscal 2022. Just as 2021 was a year of two distinct halves due to the recovery, 2022 will be a year of two halves due to Russia. The suspension of our business in Russia will reduce second half revenues by about 4%. Russia will also negatively impact the payments volume and cross-border volume index to 2019, each by four points. The impact on processed transactions index to 2019 will be under one point since we did not process domestic transactions in Russia. Ex Russia and Ukraine, our domestic volume growth has stayed robust and stable for the past four quarters relative to 2019. Our outlook for the second half assumes that these trends are sustained. While there are uncertainties created by high inflation, supply chain disruptions, rising interest rates and the invasion of Ukraine, there is no evident impact on our global payments volumes. E-commerce spend, both domestic and cross-border, has remained strong and stable relative to 2019 at well above the pre-COVID trend line, even as pandemic effects fade, and we are assuming this will continue. In line with payments volumes, we expect processed transactions growth relative to 2019 to remain strong and stable, with the variability largely driven by the extent to which small ticket card-present everyday spend comes back. It is important to note that year-over-year growth rates will moderate as we lap the strong second half recovery in fiscal year '21. Ex Russia and Ukraine we're assuming no spillover effects on other corridors in our cross-border business. Given where we ended the second quarter, we now expect cross-border travel, ex intra-Europe, to fully recover to 2019 levels by the end of our fiscal year, despite the loss of Russian business. Including intra-Europe, that would put cross-border travel above 2019 levels. With these assumptions, third quarter net revenues are expected to grow at the upper end of the mid-teens range in constant dollars. This includes Tink & Currencycloud, which add approximately half a point to net revenues. The dollar has strengthened, and the exchange rate drag will likely reduce nominal net revenue growth by around 2.5 points. Due to some deals moving into the third quarter from the first half and the expectation that certain milestones will be achieved on some key contracts, incentives will run higher in the third quarter, between 26.5% to 27.5% of gross revenues. We expect non-GAAP operating expenses in constant dollars to grow in the mid-teens, including expense savings from Russia and almost three points of added expense from Currencycloud and Tink. Exchange rates will likely reduce nominal operating expense growth by about one and a half points. Our tax rate is expected to be in the 19% to 19.5% range. At this point, we expect fourth quarter trends to be generally in line with the third quarter. As always, we will update our fourth quarter outlook in July. Based on results to date and our outlook for the second half, we expect full year net revenue growth in constant dollars in the high teens to 20% range, including approximately half a point of contribution from Tink and Currencycloud. Exchange rates will likely drag nominal growth rates down by around two points. There is no change in our expectation for full year incentives. Incentives as a percent of gross revenues are expected to range between 25.5% to 26.5%. We expect constant dollar non-GAAP operating expense growth at the upper end of mid-teens. This includes savings from the suspension of Russian operations and almost two points of added expense from Currencycloud and Tink. Nominal operating expense growth will be around one and a half points lower due to the stronger dollar. Our full year tax rate is expected to be in the 19% to 19.5% range. Despite the uncertainties caused by inflation, interest rates, the invasion of Ukraine and our exit from Russia, we expect fiscal year '22 will be a very strong year of above-trend top and bottom-line growth. As we enter the post-COVID era, we remain confident we can sustain a rate of growth above pre-COVID levels for all the reasons outlined, which I will summarize again. First, an acceleration away from cash and check for merchant payments, both domestic and cross-border, as digitization becomes pervasive across consumers and businesses globally. Second, acceleration of cash, check and wire transfer displacement as our new flows initiatives penetrate a broad range of new use cases with very large total addressable markets. Third, sustainable high-teens growth across value-added services, both from existing services and new offerings. As new flows and value-added services become a larger part of our revenue mix, growing faster than consumer payments, the sustainable growth rate will continue to rise. We are and will continue to invest in the capabilities required to capture the extraordinary growth opportunity ahead of us. With that, I'll turn this back to Jennifer.Jennifer Como -- Senior Vice President and Head of Investor Relations Thanks, Vasant. And with that, we're ready to take questions, Jordan. 