
OperatorGreetings, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Cummins Inc. Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions]It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Jack Kienzler, Executive Director of Investor Relations. Thank you, sir. Please go ahead.Jack Kienzler -- Executive Director-Investor Relations

 



Thank you, and good morning, everyone. Welcome to our teleconference today to discuss Cummins' results for the third quarter of 2021. Participating with me today are our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Tom Linebarger; our President and Chief Operating Officer, Jen Rumsey; and our Chief Financial Officer, Mark Smith. We will all be available for your questions at the end of the conference.Before we start, please note that some of the information that you will hear or be given today will consist of forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such statements express our forecasts, expectations, hopes, beliefs and intentions on strategies regarding the future. Our actual future results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements because of a number of risks and uncertainties. More information regarding such risks and uncertainties is available in the forward-looking disclosure statement in the slide deck and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, particularly the Risk Factors section of our most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K and any subsequently filed quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.During the course of this call, we will be discussing certain non-GAAP financial measures, and we refer you to our website for the reconciliation of those measures to GAAP financial measures. Our press release with a copy of the financial statements and a copy of today's webcast presentation are available on our website at www.cummins.com, under the heading of Investors and Media.With that out of the way, we will begin with our Chairman and CEO, Tom Linebarger.

 



Tom Linebarger -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Jack, and good morning, welcome to everybody. I'll start with a summary of our third quarter financial results and our market trends by region, and finish with a discussion of our outlook for the rest of 2021. Mark will then take you through more details of both our third quarter financial performance and our forecast for this year.Demand remained strong in the third quarter as the global economy continued to improve, driving strong sales growth across most businesses and regions outside of China. In China, industrywide sales of trucks and construction equipment is slowed sharply, but in line with our expectations. We remain encouraged by the economic trends in our markets, which point to strong end user demand extending into 2022. We also continue to see orders for our products outpace our competition as a result of their strong performance in the field. Unfortunately, supply chain constraints continue to significantly impact our ability to produce and ship products, driving up costs and limiting sales growth in the short run. These supply chain constraints are impacting our OEM customers in much the same way.Before getting further into our results, I want to take a moment to highlight a couple of strategic milestones in the evolution of our next-generation products and technologies. In October, we announced that we will bring a 15 liter natural gas engine for heavy duty trucks to the North American market. This engine was launched earlier this year in China and has been well received in the market, demonstrating excellent performance and reliability thus far. The 15 liter natural gas engine is an important part of our path to zero-emission strategy by offering a significant reduction in both criteria pollutants and greenhouse gases in the product that's available today, and utilizes existing infrastructure. Equally exciting that this engine is designed to accept a range of gaseous and renewable fuels, including hydrogen in the future. In fact, all of Cummins' engine platforms are being designed with the same fuel flexibility. At the same time, we are working with Chevron and others in the energy industry to increase the availability of renewable natural gas and other renewable fuels to ensure infrastructure is in place to meet our customers' needs.

 



We also signed a letter of intent to establish a joint venture between Rush Enterprises and Cummins, which will produce Cummins branded natural gas fuel delivery systems for the commercial vehicle market in North America, combining the strengths of momentum, fuel technologies, compressed natural gas, fuel delivery systems and Cummins' powertrain expertise, along with the engineering and support infrastructure of both companies. These are important steps in expanding our portfolio of power solutions options to help customers meet their business goals and operational objectives, while also meeting increasingly stringent emission standards and achieving our customers' sustainability goals.Now I will comment on the overall company performance for the third quarter of 2021 and cover some of our key markets. Revenues for the third quarter of 2021 were $6 billion, an increase of 17% compared to the third quarter of 2020. EBITDA was $862 million or 14.4%, compared to $876 million or 17.1% a year ago. Higher freight and logistics expenses, rising material costs and other manufacturing inefficiencies associated with the ongoing supply chain challenges in our industry, more than offset the benefits of global volume increases compared to the third quarter of last year. As a reminder, EBITDA in the third quarter of last year was helped by temporary salary reductions, which lowered our cost by approximately $90 million.Our third quarter revenues in North America grew 13% to $3.4 billion, driven by higher engine and components shipments across the heavy and medium-duty on-highway markets. Industry production of heavy-duty trucks in the third quarter was 55,000 units, an increase of 10% from 2020 levels. Cummins sold 22,000 heavy-duty engines in the same period, up 30% from 2020 levels. Industry production of medium-duty trucks was 26,000 units in the third quarter, a decrease of 5% from 2020 levels, while our unit sales -- our Cummins unit sales were 23,000, an increase of 25% in 2020.We shipped 43,000 engines to Stellantis for use in the RAM pickups in the third quarter of this year, a decrease of 2% from 2020 levels, but still a very strong quarter. Revenues for power generation grew by 2% due to higher demand in recreational vehicle, standby power and data center markets. Our international revenues increased by 22% in the third quarter of 2021, compared to a year ago. Third quarter revenues in China, including joint ventures were $1.5 billion, a decrease of 11% due to lower demand in the medium and heavy-duty truck markets. Industry demand for medium and heavy-duty trucks in China was 217,000 units, a decrease of 53% as the industry works through the national Standard 5 truck inventory on hand and lower demand for newer higher cost national Standard 6 units.Our unit sales in units, including joint ventures were 40,000, a decrease of 49% versus the third quarter last year. Our light-duty engine sales were 33,000, a decrease of 40% driven by supply chain constraints and weaker market demand. Industry demand for excavators in China in the third quarter were 56,000 units, a decrease of 15% from 2020 levels. Our units that Cummins sold were 88,600 [Phonetic] units, a decrease of 20%. Power generation sales in China increased 52% in the third quarter compared to a year ago, based on strong demand in data centers and other backup power applications. We continue to hold a market leading position in the data center segment in China, driven by strong end user relationships and a compelling product offering.Third quarter revenues in India, including joint ventures were $520 million, an increase of 76% from the third quarter of 2020. Industry truck production increased by 120%, while our shipments increased 135% as our joint venture partner continued to gain share. Demand for power generation and construction equipment also rebounded strongly in the third quarter compared to a very low base a year ago. In our Power Systems markets, industrial engine revenue increased 33% in the third quarter compared to the same period last year, driven by mining and oil and gas. In Brazil, our revenues increased 26%, driven by increased demand across all end markets.Now, let me quickly cover our outlook for the remainder of 2021. Based on our current forecast, we expect our revenue to be at the lower end of our guidance are up approximately 20% versus 2020. EBITDA is now expected to be approximately 15%, below our previous guidance of 15.5% to 16% of sales. Our expected EBITDA margins are lower because of the persistence of the supply chain constraints and disruptions, which are now exacerbated by escalating material and freight prices.We've lowered our forecast for industry production of heavy-duty trucks in North America to 228,000 units, up 25% compared to 2020, but below our prior guidance of 264,000 units. This is again due to the supply chain constraints impacting our customers rather than a lack of end-user demand. In the medium-duty truck market, we are decreasing our forecast for industry production to 118,000 units, up 15% year-over-year, but below our prior guidance of 134,000 units. We expect our engine shipments for pickup trucks in North America to be up 25% compared to 2020, an increase of 7.5% from our expectations three months ago.In China, we continue to expect domestic on-highway demand to decline from record levels a year ago. Our 2021 outlook for medium and heavy-duty truck market demand is 1.65 million units, and our 2021 outlook for light duty truck market is 2 million units. Both unchanged from our previous guidance. We continue to expect industry sales of excavators to be flat with the record levels achieved in 2020, and unchanged from our previous guidance.In India, we anticipate industry demand for trucks to be up 75%, compared to levels experienced in 2020. And our other businesses are showing promising growth due to continued infrastructure investment. This is also unchanged from previous guidance. We now expect demand for mining engines to increase 60% in 2021, up from our expectation of 45% three months ago based on continued strength in commodity prices. We continue to expect global power generation revenue to increase 15% primarily driven by the data center and recreational vehicle markets.Summing up the quarter, strong demand across many of our markets drove continued sales growth in the third quarter. Despite this strong demand, supply chain constraints continue to significantly impact both our operations and those of our customers, resulting in higher material and logistics costs as well as capping revenue growth. We are working collaboratively with our customers and suppliers to navigate these challenges and position the company for better performance in 2022. Customers are recognizing the strong performance of our products, resulting in our sales growing faster than industry demand in a number of important markets. We continue to invest in bringing new technology to our customers, outgrowing our end markets and providing strong cash returns to our shareholders. The company expects to return over 75% of our operating cash flow to shareholders in 2021 in the form of dividends and share repurchases.Thank you for your time today. And now let me turn it over to Mark.Mark Smith -- Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Tom, and good morning, everyone. There are four key takeaways from our third quarter results and customer demand remains strong in the third quarter, driving sales growth -- strong sales growth across most end markets and businesses, outside of China where truck and construction demand has weakened in line with our expectations. Global supply chain remain constrained impacting our industry's ability to meet strong customer demand and resulting in higher freight, labor and logistics expenses and rising material costs. As a result of a continued supply challenges and associated costs, we are lowering our full year sales and profitability outlook even though underlying demand remains very strong. We returned -- finally, we returned $345 million to shareholders through cash dividends and share repurchases in the quarter and a total of $1.83 billion for the first nine months of the year consistent with our plan to return 75% of operating cash flow to shareholders this year.Now let me go into more details on the third quarter. Revenues were $6 billion, an increase of 17% from a year ago. Sales in North America grew 13% and international revenues rose 22%. EBITDA was $862 million or 14.4% of sales for the quarter compared to $876 million or 17.1% of sales a year ago. As a reminder, EBITDA in Q3 last year would lose [Phonetic] by $90 million of temporary salary reductions and a $44 million VAT recovery in Brazil. Along with the strong demand, the key feature of our performance in Q3 is that our gross margin continues to be challenged by the supply chain constraints and elevated costs. Gross margin of $1.4 billion or 23.7% of sales increased by $65 million, but declined as a percent of sales by 270 basis points. Global supply chain constraints continue to impact the industry's ability to meet elevated end customer demand and it resulted in higher costs. We incurred approximately $90 million of additional freight, labor and logistics costs in the third quarter in addition to rising material costs, partially offset by increased pricing in the aftermarket.SG&A expenses increased by $38 million or 7%, and research expenses increased by $42 million or 19% from a year ago, primarily due to higher compensation expenses. As a reminder, due to the significant uncertainty at the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, we implemented temporary salary reductions in April of 2020 through the end of September last year. These salary reductions resulted in approximately $90 million of pre-tax savings for the company last year and impacted gross margin and our operating expenses and impacted the comparisons of the results of all of our operating segments.Joint venture income was $94 million in the third quarter, down slightly from $98 million a year ago, due primarily to weaker demand for both trucks and construction equipment in China. Other income of $32 million increased by $11 million year-over-year. Net earnings for the quarter were $534 million or $3.69 per diluted share compared to $501 million or $3.36 per share from a year ago, primarily due to a lower tax rate and a reduced share count. The effective tax rate in the quarter was 19.9% and our income tax expense included favorable discrete items of $11 million or $0.08 per diluted share. Operating cash flow in the quarter was an inflow of $569 million compared to $1.2 billion a year ago, an increase in working capital led to the lower operating cash flow for this quarter.Now, let me comment on segment performance and our latest guidance for the full year 2021. The Engine segment third quarter revenues increased 22% from a year ago, driven by increased demand for trucks in the U.S. and construction equipment in the U.S. and Europe. EBITDA decreased from 18.1% to 15.2% primarily driven by higher supply chain costs, lower Joint venture income and higher compensation of expense, partially offset by the benefits of stronger volumes and lower warranty expense. For the full year, we've reduced our revenue guidance to be up 24% at the midpoint, down 1% for the full year. We now expect EBITDA margins to be between 14.2% and 14.7%, a little below our prior year guidance of 14.5% to 15%, primarily due to the weaker sales and ongoing supply chain challenges.In the Distribution segment, revenues increased 14% from a year ago. EBITDA increased in dollars, but decreased as a percent of sales from 10.6% to 9.8%, primarily due to some of the supply chain challenges and again, the higher compensation costs. We have maintained our 2021 outlook for Distribution segment revenues to be up 8% and increased EBITDA margins to 9.3% of sales at the midpoint of our guidance.Components segment revenues increased 16% in the third quarter, driven primarily by stronger demand for trucks in North America. EBITDA decreased from 16.9% to 14.1%, primarily due to higher supply chain costs and higher warranty expenses compared to very, very low cost of quality in the year ago quarter. For the full year, we now expect Components revenue to increase 28% lower than our prior guidance of up 32%, primarily driven by a weaker outlook in North America and slightly lower outlook for China truck. We've also lowered our forecast for EBITDA margins for the segment to be at 15.5% sales at the midpoint, down from our prior guidance of 17%, as the segment has been more hardly -- has been hit harder by the supply chain challenges and the slowdown in production in North America and China.In the Power Systems segment, revenues increased 19% in the third quarter, driven by stronger demand for power generation and mining equipment. EBITDA increased by $33 million and expanded by -- from 10.3% to 11.5% of sales, primarily due to the benefits of higher volumes and lower product coverage expense, partially offset by elevated supply chain costs. For the full year, we're increasing our Power Systems revenue guidance to be up 22% from our prior guide of 18% growth driven primarily by a stronger outlook in the mining segment. We are also increasing our EBITDA margin forecast to be 11.5% of sales at the midpoint from our prior guidance of 11.25%.In the New Power segment, revenues increased $23 million, up 28% due to stronger sales of battery electric systems. EBITDA losses for the quarter were $58 million as we continue to invest in new products and scale up ahead of widespread adoption of the new technologies that we're developing. For the full year, we now project New Power revenues of $120 million at the midpoint and EBITDA losses to be in the range of $200 million.We expect total company revenues now to grow approximately 20% at the low end of our prior guidance. We're also lowering our EBITDA margin guidance to be approximately 15% for the full year, down from our prior guidance of 15.5% to 16%. A slower pace of improvement in North American truck production and continued elevated cost to support [Phonetic] associated with global supply chain challenges were the primary drivers of the lower outlook. We expect joint venture earnings to be at 10% for this year in line with our prior expectation. We are forecasting our full-year effective tax rate to be 21.5% excluding discrete items.Capital expenditures were $150 million in the quarter, up from $116 million a year ago when we continue to expect full year capital spend between $725 million to $775 million.To summarize, we face incredibly strong demand in many of our core markets, but continue to face global supply chain challenges, which have impacted our cost base and more so than we'd expected in the second half of the year. However, this end customer demand remained strong, outpacing supply in many important markets and setting us up for a strong 2022, assuming the global economy remains strong.I want to thank all of our employees for their tireless work this year to ensure that we meet the needs of our customers while continuing to deliver solid financial results. We continue to prioritize improving our performance cycle over cycle, investing in the technologies that will power profitable growth and returning excess capital to shareholders. Thank you for your interest today.And now let me turn it back over to Jack.Jack Kienzler -- Executive Director-Investor RelationsThank you, Mark. Out of consideration to others on the call, I would ask that you limit yourselves to one question and a related follow-up. And if you have any additional questions, please rejoin the queue. Operator, we are now ready for our first question.