
OperatorGood morning. My name is Qin, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Biogen's Second Quarter Earnings Call and Financial Update. [Operator Instructions]Thank you. I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Mike Hencke, Director, Investor Relations. Mr. Hencke, you may begin your conference.Mike Hencke -- Director of Investor Relations

 



Good morning, and welcome to Biogen's second quarter 2021 earnings call. Before we begin, I would encourage everyone to go to the Investors section of biogen.com to find the earnings release and related financial tables, including our GAAP financial measures and a reconciliation of the GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures that we will discuss today.Our GAAP financials are provided in Tables 1 and 2, and Table 4 includes a reconciliation of our GAAP to non-GAAP financial results. We believe non-GAAP financial results better represent the ongoing economics of our business and reflect how we manage the business internally. We have also posted slides on our website that follow the discussions related to this call.I would like to point out that we will be making forward-looking statements which are based on our current expectations and beliefs. These statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, and our actual results may differ materially. I encourage you to consult the risk factors discussed in our SEC filings for additional detail.On today's call, I am joined by our Chief Executive Officer, Michel Vounatsos; Dr. Al Sandrock, Head of Research and Development; and our CFO, Mike McDonnell. We will also be joined for the Q&A portion of our call by Chirfi Guindo, Head of Global Product Strategy and Commercialization; and Alisha Alaimo, President of our US Organization. As a reminder, during the Q&A portion of the call, we kindly ask that you limit yourself to one question.

 



I will now turn the call over to Michel.Michel Vounatsos -- Chief Executive OfficerGood morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us. We have completed the first half of a transformative year for Biogen with progress across our neuroscience portfolio. However, I would like to start by addressing the confusion and criticism surrounding the recent approval of ADUHELM. We are cognizant of the key issues raised by the community and are working to provide additional clarity through the following goals: exploring all options to maximize patient access including for the underserved population and those more at risk due to ethnicity; educating on the updated label language, which I will discuss; publishing our Phase 3 results in a peer-reviewed journal and disseminating additional data to inform clinical practice including the management of ARIA; expediting the execution of the Phase 4 confirmatory study; and leveraging the unique data generation opportunity we have with EMBARK, the longest and most comprehensive longitudinal study for Alzheimer's disease therapy.Biogen stands behind our clinical data from eight studies with more than 3,000 patients that supported accelerated approval. As the FDA's current Chief stated publicly earlier this month, ADUHELM was approved appropriately on very solid grounds and represented the right thing to do for the patients. I want to be clear that Biogen stands behind the integrity of the review process, respectful dialogue between the industry and regulators is stand out and essential to advance the understanding of the therapeutic data driving innovation as demonstrated more recently by the COVID-19 vaccines development programs of last year.

 



We believe the accelerated approval pathway has transformed the treatment of oncology and now has the potential to transform the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. We appreciate the concerns about the price and are committed to ensure sustainability of the system and maximizing access for patients. Without access, every day that passes we estimate that approximately 1,000 Americans move from the early stage of Alzheimer's to moderate or severe dementia and therefore, may no longer be appropriate for initiation of treatment with ADUHELM. This is why we are working with a sense of urgency to engage with the community with payers, with CMS, and with policymakers to discuss potential innovative approaches with the goal of ensuring the price does not represent access issues for patients.With that said, I would like to focus on the fundamentals. Another quarter with solid underlying financial performance that exceeded our expectation. The accelerated approval of ADUHELM for people suffering from Alzheimer's disease and key readouts across our diversified portfolio. First, the accelerated approval of ADUHELM represents the first new therapy for Alzheimer's disease in almost 20 years. Biogen has a deep history of building new markets and delivering innovative and impactful therapies to patients in need. We pioneered and currently maintain the market-leading portfolio of therapies for MS. We delivered the first approved and market-leading therapy for SMA. Now, with ADUHELM, we have the first approved therapy to address a defining pathology of Alzheimer's disease, which we believe represents a significant value creation opportunity for years to come.To lead us in successfully executing on our long-term leadership strategy, I am pleased to announce that Rachid Izzar will be Head of our newly created Alzheimer's Disease and Dementia business unit and will join the Executive Committee of Biogen. Rachid is currently in charge of Biogen's Intercontinental Region and our Biosimilars business unit. His experience across multiple geographies and global position will serve us well as he works to maximize our potential impact on the lives of people living with this devastating disease.We have seen strong indications of very high initial patient interest in ADUHELM as well as increased referrals from PCPs to specialists. However, it will take some time for sites to get up and running. While some large centers have said they will refrain for now from administering ADUHELM to patients, many of the sites are moving forward with internal processes such as pharmacy and therapeutics, or P&T, committee review, with some accelerating faster than we had originally planned. Of the 900 sites approximately which we expected to be ready shortly after approval, we estimate that approximately 325 or 35% have completed a P&T review with a positive outcome or indicated that they won't require a P&T review.We have also seen some sites leverage external infusion centers in the face internal resistance or are waiting clarity on their facilities internal process. We continue to believe that consistent with our clinical trials, more specialists will require confirmation of amyloid beta pathology, either via PET or CSF, which is also taking time to schedule and coordinate.In terms of reimbursement, it is still the early days. And I am pleased to say that we have seen the first examples of Medicare Advantage plans approving pre-authorization. We welcome the recent opening of the National Coverage Determination analysis by CMS for monoclonal antibodies targeting amyloid-beta, including ADUHELM. We believe this process will provide additional clarity on coverage for Medicare beneficiaries and drive consistency of access across the country. We expect that regional Medicare Administrative Contractors and Medicare Advantage plans will provide coverage for ADUHELM while the NCD analysis is underway. We believe that CMS's swift decision to initiate the NCD analysis is a testament to the large unmet need in Alzheimer's disease and the urgency to clarify access for patients.We obtained new lable language for ADUHELM in July, to clarify, that treatment should be initiated in patients with mild cognitive impairment due to Alzheimer's disease or mild Alzheimer's dementia. This is the population studied in our clinical trials, and where we generated clinical evidence as stated in Section 14 of the ADUHELM label. This updated language aligns with our consistent expectation that ADUHELM will be prescribed mainly by specialists for patients in the early stage of Alzheimer's disease, and this update has been well received by the community, including prescribers, payers, and policymakers. Outside the U.S., we continue to engage with regulators regarding the ongoing review in Europe, Japan, and other markets, while also continuing to submit new regulatory filing around the world.In addition, we are pursuing early access mechanisms wherever possible, including an early access program and a charge managed access program. We recognize that building a new market for Alzheimer's disease is an unprecedented undertaking and that this is just the beginning of our journey as we aim to make ADUHELM, and potentially Lecanemab, accessible to patients around the world. We believe our teams are well equipped to successfully execute on a well-defined strategy aimed at long-term leadership for Biogen in Alzheimer's disease. Second, this quarter, our pipeline delivered meaningful mid to late-stage results in key areas including depression, stroke, and biosimilars.The positive WATERFALL Phase 3 trial for zuranolone in major depressive disorder is a significant milestone toward bringing a differentiated potential treatment option to the 17 million patients suffering from depression in the U.S. alone. The observed rapid onset of benefit, in as soon as three days, in addition to a differentiated tolerability profile and two-week dosing regimen underscores our belief that if approved zuranolone alone would be a multi-billion dollar product.We were also excited to see positive data from the Phase 2a trial of TMS-007 in acute ischemic stroke. Stroke is the second leading cause of death worldwide, and those who survive may suffer irreversible damage of the brain. We are highly encouraged by the results of the trial, and we immediately moved forward with executing the option to acquire TMS-007. Should both zuranolone and TMS-007 be approved, Biogen will be in a leadership position in offering novel therapies for Alzheimer's disease, the number one neurodegenerative disease; depression, one of the most common mental health disorder; and stroke, a leading cause of neurologic disability.In addition to these readouts, we had a positive Phase 3 readout for our biosimilars referencing ACTEMRA with these positive results in hand, we begin to prepare for a regulatory filing. As with any company engaging in breakthrough science, we also had setbacks in some programs including our anti-tau antibody in Alzheimer's disease and our gene therapy programs in ophthalmology.Third, we reported a solid quarter as we continue to execute well across our core business of MS, SMA, and biosimilars and we are pleased to be raising our revenue guidance for the year which Mike will discuss. Q2 overall MS revenue, including OCREVUS royalties, was $1.8 billion. Putting aside the entry of TECFIDERA generics in the US, our broader MS business continued to demonstrate resilience with a 5% increase in patients worldwide. This performance underscore our ability to execute well.We were very pleased to see continued revenue growth for VUMERITY which remains the number one oral MS product in terms of new prescriptions in the US. We believe this performance is a testament to VUMERITY's strong product profile. Given the progress of the VUMERITY's launch-to-date, in addition to plan ned ex-U.S. launches, we believe VUMERITY can reach over $1 billion in annual sales over time. We also continue to invest in new potential treatment to address the remaining unmet medical needs for MS patients.Last week, we announced a license and collaboration agreement with InnoCare for Orelabrutinib and innovative CNS penetrant Phase 2 BTK inhibitor for the potential treatment of all forms of MS. This transaction is subject to customary closing conditions.Next, SPINRAZA generated second quarter global revenues of $500 million. While SPINRAZA is facing competition in the U.S., which has been exacerbated by the impact of COVID-19 pandemic, we were encouraged to see that SPINRAZA's discontinuation continued to decrease versus Q1 of this year. Total revenue in the U.S. was flat versus the prior quarter, and SPINRAZA continued to perform very well outside the U.S. with 23% revenue growth versus Q2 of last year. SPINRAZA remains the market-leading treatment for SMA, and we stand behind SPINRAZA 's proven efficacy and well-established safety profiles across all types of SMA.In fact, our market research indicates that SPINRAZA's perceived efficacy among adults has improved over the past year and exceeds the efficacy perception for therapeutic alternatives including rizeplan. Although we face near-term competitive pressure in SMA, we believe SPINRAZA can continue to grow over the medium to long-term both in the U.S. and globally driven by overall market growth, the efficacy and safety profile in all age groups, continued data generation particularly in older patients, and further geographic expansion.Our Biosimilars business delivered revenue of $202 million this quarter. While we remained focused on executing against our currently marketed therapies, we also looked to expand our portfolio, including our recent collaboration with Biotech and a positive CHMP opinion for our biosimilar referencing LUCENTIS.Fourth, we still have two key Phase 3 readouts anticipated in the remainder of 2021. This includes the Phase 3 study for Tofersen, potentially the first genetically targeted therapy for ALS as well as an additional Phase 3 for zuranolone in major depressive disorder. Given the incredible unmet medical need in ALS and encouraging results from the prior to present trial, we recently initiated an individual compassionate use program to provide Tofersen to the most rapidly progressing patients suffering from SOD1 ALS.Taken together, these developments represent a significant step forward in our goal of transforming Biogen from what was once an MS Company to one that is built upon a multi-franchise portfolio across a broad spectrum of neuroscience therapeutic areas. I would like now to turn the call over to Al for a more detailed update on our progress in R&D.detailed update on our progress in R&D.Alfred Sandrock -- Head of Research and DevelopmentThank you, Michel. I'd like to start by saying a few words about aducanumab. The accelerated approval of aducanumab has generated discussions reflecting a broad range of opinions, including about its efficacy, the FDA selection of the accelerated approval path, and the regulatory process in general.Since June 7, the FDA has made several clarifying statements on these topics. As always we deferred to the FDA as the lead voice on such matters. They are the independent regulatory body charged with weighing the data expertly and dispassionately in order to make critical decisions that have the potential to impact millions of people, but I thought it would be helpful to add our perspective about several of these topics including our interactions with the agency.We are proud of the work our dedicated team has done to develop aducanumab and the hope it brings to patients with Alzheimer's disease. We are equally proud of the professionalism both our team and the FDA demonstrated during a very lengthy process. We, therefore, welcome a formal review into the interactions between FDA and Biogen on the path to the approval of aducanumab, a better understanding of the facts is good for everyone involved to assure confidence in both the therapy and the process by which it was approved. We will cooperate fully with the review, even as we prioritize the issues that affect patients. I want to underscore that it is normal and appropriate for scientists and clinicians to discuss the data from experiments and clinical trials to debate and to disagree on the interpretation of the data. That is how science advances, and we welcome these discussions.However, I would like to correct some of the misinformation we have seen recently. First, several people have stated that all anti-amyloid antibodies clear amyloid from the brain. This is factually incorrect. First-generation anti-amyloid antibodies, such as bapineuzumab and solanezumab, are not specific for aggregated forms of A beta or target soluble and monomeric A beta, and crenezumab, being an IgG4, is deficient in effector function. As a result, these antibodies do not clear amyloid from the brain. This slide shows the amyloid PET imaging results from the peer reviewed literature of these first-generation antibodies. Crenezumab and solanezumab had no significant difference from placebo on amyloid plaque burden. Bapineuzumab did a show a significant difference from placebo in the Phase 3 trials, but this was largely driven by an unexplained increase in amyloid plaque burden in these placebo treated patients in the mild to moderate stage of Alzheimer's disease. We believe this increase in amyloid plaque in placebo patients must have been a spurious result as we now know the plaque buildup reaches a maximum by the time that patients have mild cognitive impairment. In short, there is no evidence that the first generation antibodies against a beta actually remove amyloid plaque. There is no basis for using the failure of these antibodies as a reason not to approve aducanumab. We have also seen statements that all of aducanumab's results are post hoc; that is also factually incorrect.The primary and secondary endpoints had been pre-specified in the Phase 3 trial protocols and statistical analysis plans before the first patient was enrolled into the trials. The aducanumab label shows the results on these pre-specified endpoints based on data that had already been collected at the sites by the time the trials were prematurely terminated on March 21, 2019.Separately, some have contended that ARIA led to unblinding. We took great care to ensure that the neurologists who assess the clinical outcome measures did not know about the occurrence of ARIA. One way in which we assured ourselves that unblinding did not affect the results was to examine the clinical outcomes after ARIA was seen. If ARIA had effective blinding, the results after ARIA might be expected to change. This slide shows that the results excluding data that had been obtained after ARIA events were the same as the overall results. Thus, we are confident that unblinding due to ARIA did not affect the results of the Phase 3 trial of aducanumab.And finally, some people have opined that the approval of aducanumab would inhibit the development of other drugs for Alzheimer's disease. This statement is contradicted by precedent. Prime example that the history of drug approvals for HIV-AIDS, non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, and multiple sclerosis to name just a few. In neurology, the first medicine ever approved for MS was in 1993 when beta interferon received accelerated approval in the US. Within the next several years, two other types of beta interferon were approved after controlled clinical trials showed that they slowed the progression of disability. Today, there are more than 20 drugs approved for the treatment of MS, all of which reduce the risk of relapse or slow the progression of disability, or both. All new molecular entities were approved based on randomized controlled clinical trials that continued to be conducted to this day, nearly 30 years after the accelerated approval of beta-interferon.We believe a similar situation is just starting to unfold with Alzheimer's disease. Over the coming years, data will become available from Phase 3 trials of several second-generation antiamyloid antibodies which are capable of effectively removing amyloid plaque, and we also will have the results of the post-marketing trial of aducanumab. These data should address any residual uncertainty surrounding the efficacy of this class. In the meantime, the main serious risk associated with aducanumab is ARIA.Based on data from the Phase 3 trial, ARIA, which is an amyloid-related imaging abnormality, occurred in 41% of patients who took aducanumab, 10 milligrams per kilogram, and 10% of patients who took placebo. Of the patients taking aducanumab that experienced ARIA, 24% experienced clinical symptoms. In other words, about 10% of patients treated with the approved dose of aducanumab experienced symptomatic ARIA. Serious symptoms were reported in 0.3% of patients.Alzheimer's disease is 100% fatal and before death, it robs people of themselves. Should these additional clinical studies confirm that this class of drugs is effective in slowing clinical decline, as Michel mentioned, patients who lack access to aducanumab may no longer be appropriate for treatment. We have been discussing the aducanumab data for many months now.Aducanumab was approved for use in the United States on June 7, and the data are summarized clearly in the label. Our hope is for doctors to discuss the benefits and risks of taking aducanumab with their patients and caregivers based on rational analysis and accurate information. We are doing what we can to provide that information to the prescribing community in a number of ways. First, we will continue to present at scientific forums and publish analyses from our Phase 3 trials of aducanumab with a focus on publishing the primary manuscript and disseminating additional data to inform clinical practice, including the management of ARIA. This includes four presentations planned for the AAIC Conference next week.Second, we are moving with a sense of urgency to finalize the design of the aducanumab post-marketing confirmatory Phase 4 controlled study intended to verify the clinical benefit of aducanumab in Alzheimer's disease. We are still working through the details and are actively engaged with regulators. Our goal is to execute this study as expeditiously as possible and well ahead of the post-marketing commitment of approximately nine years. Third, we have a unique data generation opportunity with EMBARK, with the EMBARK long-term extension study. Just this month, we enrolled our last patient in the trial, bringing the total enrollment in the study up to roughly 1,700 Alzheimer's disease patients. The two-year EMBARK study will include patients previously treated with aducanumab for up to approximately 6.5 years, thereby generating important long-term safety and efficacy data for aducanumab. We plan to present the EMBARK baseline data at an upcoming medical meeting, which should yield important insights on the effects of treatment interruption, the longer-term impact of reducing amyloid plaques, and the potential benefits of continued treatment.Lastly, we plan to initiate a real-world observational study in Alzheimer's disease called ICARE AD-US in order to collect real-world long-term effectiveness and safety data on aducanumab. We're also evaluating additional formulations of aducanumab with the goal of increasing patient confidence. Last month, we initiated a Phase 1 study to evaluate bioavailability of a subcutaneous formulation of aducanumab and continued to engage with regulators on the appropriate development strategy.Finally, we continue to advance our innovative pipeline of potential Alzheimer's disease treatments. This includes Lecanemab, our other anti-amyloid antibody that we are collaborating on with Eisai. Lecanemab was recently awarded breakthrough therapy designation by the FDA, and we are working with Eisai to engage with the FDA and pursue the optimum regulatory pathway. We also look forward to the readout of the Clarity Phase 3 study of Lecanemab expected next year.In addition to our anti-amyloid approaches, we are also targeting tau, the primary component of neurofibrillary tangles, another pathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease. Although we were disappointed to learn that the Phase 2 study of gosuranemab in early Alzheimer's disease did not meet the primary or secondary endpoints, we do not believe these results diminish the relevance of tau as a potential therapeutic target in Alzheimer's disease, whereas we have discontinued the BIIB092 program, we are continuing the development of BIIB080, our antisense oligonucleotide, which aims to reduce the production of all forms of tau both intra and extracellular. Results of the Phase 1 trial will be presented at AAIC next week. In addition to Alzheimer's disease, this quarter we continue to progress a broad neuroscience pipeline with positive data readouts in depression and stroke both areas in need of innovation.First, in neuropsychiatry in collaboration with Sage, we were excited to learn that the Phase 3 WATERFALL Study, evaluating a 50 milligram dose of zuranolone in major depressive disorder achieved its primary endpoint. Despite the pronounced placebo effect observed in the WATERFALL study, two weeks of zuranolone treatment resulted in a statistically significant reduction in depressive symptoms at day 15, as measured by the HAM-D 17 scale, versus placebo.Zuranolone treatment also resulted in a rapid onset of action showing treatment effects at day 3, 8, and 12. The safety profile was similar to that seen previously in that most treatment-emergent adverse events were mild to moderate in severity, and we observed no signal of increased suicide idealization or behavior or withdrawal symptoms. We continue to believe that zuranolone, with its rapid treatment response, durable treatment effects after a two-week dosing period, and differentiated tolerability, has the potential to transform treatment for people suffering from depression. We are now working with Sage to determine the optimum filing path.The WATERFALL study is also -- is part of the robust development program for zuranolone, which also includes the ongoing SHORELINE, CORAL, and SKYLARK studies. We expect to report topline data from CORAL and SHORELINE in 2021. We are working with Sage to evaluate enrollment rates for the SKYLARK study, and we'll provide updates when that work is completed.We also obtained positive data from the Phase 2a study of TMS-007 in acute ischemic stroke. Current standard of care in the treatment of ischemic stroke calls for the use of thrombolytic agents within three to four and a half hours of symptom onset. The approved agents also carry the risk of intracranial hemorrhage, or ICH, which increases with time. During the Phase 2a study of TMS-007, now referred to as BIIB131, the patients were dosed 4.5 to 12 hours after the onset of stroke symptoms with an average of 9.5 hours. There was no symptomatic ICH in the BIIB131 group. When compared to placebo, BIIB131 increased the rate of recanalization of occluded intracranial arteries, as visualized by MRI angiography in patients with large vessel strokes. Moreover, more patients regain the ability to function independently as measured by the Modified Rankin scale at day 90 compared to placebo. We are encouraged by the results of this study and are hopeful that BIIB131 could have the potential to be a next-generation thrombolytic drug that safely extends the treatment window after stroke onset. We plan to advance BIIB131 into the late stages of development as soon as possible.We also bolstered our MS pipeline through a proposed license and collaboration agreement with InnoCare for a Phase 2 oral small molecule BTK inhibitor for the potential treatment of MS. Orelabrutinib, a covalent BTK inhibitor with high selectivity and demonstrated CNS penetrant is currently being studied in a global placebo-controlled Phase 2 study in relapsing remitting MS. The ability of orelabrutinib to cross the blood-brain barrier combined with its high kinase selectivity differentiates it from other BTK inhibitors currently in development for MS.Looking toward the remainder of the year, we also have two pivotal readouts remaining in ALS and depression. Earlier this month, we completed the one-year placebo-controlled treatment period of the Phase 3 study of tofersen in SOD1 ALS, and we expect a readout by this fall. We also recently enrolled the first participant in ATLAS, a Phase 3 trial of tofersen initiated in clinically pre-symptomatic SOD1 mutation carriers. Our hope is that treating people earlier in this disease may provide the best opportunity to slow or even delay the onset of this terrible disease.In summary, this quarter, our R&D organization made significant progress advancing our pipeline. In addition to the accelerated approval of aducanumab, we completed five mid-to-late stage readouts in several key therapeutic areas characterized by high unmet need, including depression and stroke. The field of neuroscience is rapidly advancing, and with the investments, we have made in prioritizing genetically validated targets, deploying biomarkers in early stage clinical programs, and building our human and technological capabilities, we believe we are well-positioned to take advantage of the many opportunities offered by this exciting area of science for the benefit of patients.I will now pass the call over to Mike.Mike Hencke -- Director of Investor RelationsThank you, Al. As Michel noted, we were very pleased with our second quarter results as we continue to execute well. We continue to face competition from TECFIDERA generics in the US, which impacted our year-over-year financial performance. However, as we move forward, we remain fully focused on our core business, as well as the launch of ADUHELM in the United States.Total revenue for the second quarter of $2.8 billion, declined 25% versus the prior year at actual currency and 26% at constant currency. This decline reflects the impact of TECFIDERA generics, in addition to approximately $330 million in revenue, that was recorded in Q2 2020, related to the one-time license of certain manufacturing-related intellectual property. We were, however, encouraged to see total revenue increase by 3% versus Q1 of 2021, primarily driven by the MS franchise and OCREVUS royalties. Total ADUHELM revenue for the second quarter was $2 million.I would refer you to our slides and commentary that we gave on our June 8 call for details on the accounting with Eisai and Neurimmune. Total MS revenue for the second quarter was $1.8 billion inclusive of OCREVUS royalties.Looking now at some of the individual products within MS. Global TECFIDERA revenue for the second quarter was $488 million. In the US, second quarter revenue of $178 million increased versus the prior quarter due to seasonality and shipping dynamics, and we expect TECFIDERA in the US to continue to decline throughout the year. Outside of the US, second quarter TECFIDERA revenue of $309 million increased 15% versus the prior year, with 6% underlying patient growth. We were pleased with the continued ramp in VUMERITY revenue from $74 million in the first quarter to $91 million in the second quarter. And as Michel mentioned, we believe that VUMERITY can become a $1 billion annual revenue product over time.TYSABRI second quarter global revenue of $524 million increased 21% versus the prior year benefiting from shipping dynamics in both the US and outside the US. We were pleased to see 7% growth in global TYSABRI patients and we believe TYSABRI remains well-positioned to play an increasingly important role in the treatment of MS.Moving now to SMA. Global second quarter SPINRAZA revenue of $500 million, increased 1% versus the prior year at actual currency and decreased 3% at constant currency. In the US, SPINRAZA revenue of $149 million decreased by 29% versus the prior year as we see continued impact from competition. Outside the US, SPINRAZA revenue grew percent versus the prior year, although some of this growth was attributable to accelerated shipping.Moving now to our Biosimilars business. Second quarter revenue of $202 million increased 18% versus the prior year at actual currency, and 9% at constant currency. This growth occurred despite our Biosimilars business continuing to be negatively impacted by pricing pressure, as well as a slowdown in new treatments and reduced clinic capacity due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Despite the continued impact of COVID-19, we are now the leading anti-TNF provider in Europe. Total anti-CD20 revenue in the second quarter of $440 million decreased 8% versus the prior year.RITUXAN revenue decreased approximately 32% versus the prior year partially offset by a 23% increase in OCREVUS royalties. Second quarter gross margin was 83% of revenue, up slightly from 82% in the prior quarter, and down from 89% in Q2 2020. The reduction in gross margin versus the prior year was primarily due to the declines in TECFIDERA and RITUXAN, both of which are high margin products. In addition, Q2 2020 includes approximately $330 million in revenue related to the one-time license of certain manufacturing-related intellectual property, which was at 100% gross margin.Moving now to expenses in the balance sheet. Second quarter non-GAAP R&D expense was $585 million, which included approximately $50 million of upfront payments related to three business development deals; one with Bio-Thera for biosimilars, a second with Capsigen in gene therapy, and a third with Ginkgo to develop a novel gene therapy manufacturing platform.Second-quarter non-GAAP SG&A was $635 million, including approximately $115 million related to ADUHELM. Note that beginning in the second quarter, Eisai's reimbursement of the US SG&A cost is reflected in the collaboration profit-sharing line. Second quarter collaboration profit sharing reduced our net operating expenses by $15 million, which includes a reimbursement of $85 million from Eisai related to the commercialization of ADUHELM in the US. In the second quarter of this year, our effective non-GAAP tax rate was approximately 16% versus approximately 19% in the second quarter of last year.Second quarter non-GAAP income attributable to non-controlling interest of $84 million includes a milestone payment of $100 million to neuroimmune related to the launch of ADUHELM in the US. Note that Eisai's 45% share of this milestone payment was recognized in the collaboration profit sharing line.During the second quarter, we repurchased 1.6 million shares of the company's common stock for $50 million. As of June 30, 2021, there was $3.6 billion remaining under the share repurchase program authorized in October of 2020. Our weighted average diluted share count was approximately 150 million shares for the second quarter. Non-GAAP diluted EPS in the first quarter was $5.68, which increased from $5.34 in Q1 of 2021.In the second quarter, we generated approximately $1.2 billion in cash flow from operations. Capital expenditures were $72 million in free cash flow was approximately $1.2 billion. We ended the quarter with $7.3 billion in debt, $4 billion in cash and marketable securities, and as a result, $3.3 billion in net debt. Additionally, our $1 billion revolving credit facility was undrawn as of the end of the quarter. Overall, we remain in a very strong financial position with significant cash and financial capacity to grow the business over the long term.Let me now turn to our updated full-year guidance for 2020. We are increasing our full-year 2021 revenue guidance from our previous range of $10.45 billion to $10.75 billion to a new range of $10.65 billion to $10.85 billion, primarily as a result of stronger performance in our MS franchise and higher OCREVUS royalties.We are maintaining our non-GAAP diluted EPS guidance of $17.50 to $19 notwithstanding the inclusion of the $125 million upfront payment related to our recently announced collaboration with InnoCare, which we expect to incur in Q3. This payment was not included in our previous guidance.Our capex guidance is unchanged at $375 million to $425 million. Our guidance continues to assume modest ADUHELM revenue in 2021 due to dosing titration, the need for sites to prepare to diagnose and treat patients, and the time that it will take to secure payer coverage. We continue to expect revenue to start ramping in 2022 and beyond.We expect continued erosion of both TECFIDERA and RITUXAN in the US and that the decreased revenue from these high-margin products will put pressure on our gross margin percentage. Note that our gross margin in the second quarter of 2021 was 83% of revenue, which reflects this dynamic.Full-year non-GAAP R&D expenses are expected to be between $2.45 billion and $2.55 billion. This updated R&D guidance range includes the expected $125 million upfront payment in the third quarter of 2021, which as I mentioned, was not included in our prior guidance. Full-year non-GAAP SG&A expenses are expected to be between $2.6 billion and $2.7 billion. This range is consistent with our previous guidance and continues to include an approximate $600 million ADUHELM investment. Of this amount, approximately $200 million would be reimbursable by Eisai and is reflected as collaboration profit sharing effective April 1 and not part of SG&A, of course, as the launch progresses, we will actively manage the pace of the spend.This guidance continues to reflect our expectation that both R&D and SG&A will be higher in the second half of the year than they were in the first half due to collaborations such as InnoCare, program readouts, and investments in ADUHELM. We expect that we will utilize a portion of the remaining share repurchase authorization of $3.6 billion throughout the year, although this will depend on a variety of factors including our business development activities.We assume that foreign exchange rates as of June 30, 2021, will remain in effect for the remainder of the year net of hedging activities. We have not included any impact from potential tax or healthcare reform or any impact from potential acquisitions or large business development transactions other than InnoCare in our guidance.So in closing, we were very pleased with our financial performance in the quarter. We remain in a very strong financial position with significant cash, modest leverage, and a business that generates significant free cash flow. We believe these dynamics position us well to continue to grow the business over the long-term.And now I'll turn the call back over to Michel for his closing comments.Michel Vounatsos -- Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Mike. It is an exciting time at Biogen and it is all about execution for the coming period. Our base MS, SMA, Biosimilars business is performing well demonstrating resilience despite competition. We have an incredible opportunity together with Eisai, and we are completely focused on operation execution for the global Launch of ADUHELM and hopefully soon lecanemab. We have positive Phase 3 data for the zuranolone in depression, and we are anxiously awaiting data for tofersen in SOD1 ALS. We believe we have a significant value creation opportunity ahead of us. We stand behind the clinical data for ADUHELM including the integrity of the approval process. Again, today, our top priority special access including for the underserved population and those more at risk due to ethnicity, and we are open to innovative approaches to ensure budget sustainability.In closing, I would like to thank our employees around the world who have demonstrated their dedication to making a positive impact on patients' lives and all of the physicians, caregivers, and participants in our clinical development programs. Our ability to deliver medicines to patients could not be realized without their passion and commitment. We will now open the call for questions.