
OperatorGood day, everyone, and welcome to the Williams Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded.At this time, for opening remarks and introduction, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Danilo Juvane, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Danilo Juvane -- Vice President of Investor Relations

 



Thanks, Amiya. Good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us and for your interest in the Williams Companies. Yesterday afternoon, we released our earnings press release and the presentation that our President and CEO, Alan Armstrong; and our Chief Financial Officer, John Chandler, will speak to this morning. Also joining us on the call are Micheal Dunn, our Chief Operating Officer; Lane Wilson, our General Counsel; and Chad Zamarin, our Senior Vice President of Corporate Strategic Development. In our presentation materials, you'll find a disclaimer related to forward-looking statements. This disclaimer is important and integral to our remarks, and you should review it. Also included in the presentation materials are non-GAAP measures that we reconcile to generally accepted accounting principles, and these reconciliation schedules appear at the back of today's presentation materials.So with that, I'll turn it over to Alan Armstrong.Alan Armstrong -- President, CEO & DirectorGreat. And thanks, Danilo, and thanks to all of you for joining us today. We do have a lot of good news to share with you today, but let me just start by saying that our long-term strategy of connecting the fastest-growing natural gas markets with the best supply areas continues to deliver exceptional financial results as demonstrated by these higher-than-expected third quarter financials.

 



As John will walk through in just a moment, we achieved all-time record results in the third quarter with our adjusted EBITDA up 12% compared to the same period last year, driven by growth across all 3 of our major business segments. Given our robust performance to date and continued strong fundamentals, we are raising our 2021 EBITDA guidance midpoint for the second time this year to a level that is now 8% above our realized 2020 results, which I'll remind you, came in above expectations last year in a very challenging backdrop. Not only did we deliver more on our financial performance this quarter than we expected, but we continue to make strides in executing on key projects and transactions that give us a clear line of sight to sustained growth for many years to come. We'll talk a little bit about that today.But -- so for right now, let me turn it over to John to provide you some insight into the drivers of this all-time record quarter for Williams.John?John Chandler -- Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer

 



Thanks, Alan. First of all, just what an incredible quarter we had. At a very high-level summary, the quarter benefited from nice increases in profitability from our Northeast gathering systems, an uplift in revenues on our Transco pipeline from new projects that have been put into service over the last year, significant contributions from our upstream operations in the Wamsutter and the benefit of higher commodity prices in our West segment. The positives were offset somewhat by slightly higher operating expenses resulting from increased incentive compensation expenses, reflective of the strong performance that is unfolding for the year. And you can see that strong performance in our statistics on this page. In fact, once again, we saw improvements in all of our key financial metrics.First, our adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was up $153 million or 12%, setting a new record, and we've seen a 10% increase in EBITDA year-to-date. We'll discuss EBITDA variances in more depth in a moment. Adjusted EPS for the quarter increased $0.07 a share or 26%. AFFO also grew significantly for the quarter, up $217 million or 25%. And AFFO, I'll remind you is essentially cash from operations including JV cash flows and excluding working capital fluctuations. If you put our year-to-date AFFO of $3 billion, up against capital investments year-to-date of $1.2 billion, and dividends year-to-date of $1.5 billion, you can see that we generated over $300 million of excess cash year-to-date. Included in those capital investments I just mentioned were $307 million of maintenance capital. Also, you can see our dividend coverage based on AFFO divided by dividend is a healthy 2.17x for the quarter. This strong cash generation and strong EBITDA for the quarter along with continued capital discipline has led to our exceeding our leverage metric goal where we currently set at 4.04x net debt to EBITDA. You'll see later in our guidance update in the deck that we've moved our guidance for the year from where we were at less than 4.2x for the year now to around 4x at year-end. So a really strong performance for the quarter and the year, and the fundamentals are set up for a good fourth quarter and a very good 2022.So, now let's go to the next slide and dig in a little deeper into our EBITDA results for the quarter. Again, Williams performed very well, realizing $153 million or 12% higher EBITDA. Our upstream operations added $55 million to adjusted EBITDA this quarter. This is almost entirely from the Wamsutter upstream acreage. Production from the combined assets, mostly from Wamsutter, totaled 232 million CFEs a day for the quarter net to our ownership. Again, the Haynesville upstream acreage produces very little EBITDA, given it has only a small amount of existing PDP reserves. And therefore, it will take a little time before we see new production and therefore, EBITDA coming from those assets.Our Transmission Gulf of Mexico assets produced results that were $8 million more than the same period last year. New transmission pipeline projects added $24 million in revenue versus the third quarter 2020 including the Southeastern Trails project that went into service in the fourth quarter of last year and a portion of the Leidy South project that also went into service in the fourth quarter of last year. And you can see this evidenced in the growth in our firm reserve capacity, which is up 4% from the third quarter of last year. Offsetting this somewhat was Gulf of Mexico revenues that were down due to incremental impacts from hurricane shut-ins during the quarter from Hurricane Ida in comparison to the hurricane impacts in the third quarter of last year. Just so you have a number there, the incremental impact this year was a negative $5 million versus the third quarter of last year on hurricane impacts.In addition, the transportation revenue increases were offset somewhat by a slight increase in operating expenses mostly due to employee-related expenses, a large part of which can be attributed to higher incentive compensation accruals. The Northeast G&P segment continues to come on strong, contributing $46 million of additional EBITDA this quarter. Collectively, total Northeast gathering volumes grew 470 million a day or 5% this quarter versus the third quarter of 2020, while processing volumes grew 20%. The volume growth was predominantly at our joint ventures in the Bradford Supply Hub, where we benefited from a gathering system expansion on that system in late 2019; and at our Marcellus South supply basin where we benefited from more productive wells at larger pads.And just to be clear, because we do not operate Blue Racer Midstream, those volumes are not included in the volume statistics I just quoted. As a result of these increased JV volumes, our EBITDA from equity method investments improved by $45 million, which also included the benefit of additional profits from Blue Racer Midstream, again, due to our additional ownership we acquired in mid-November of last year. Otherwise, in the Northeast, higher revenues from higher processing volumes were offset by higher expenses, again, with a significant portion of those expenses being related to higher incentive compensation accruals. If you go to the West, that segment improved by $48 million compared to prior year. $35 million of this increase is related to higher commodity margins due to higher natural gas and higher NGL prices. Otherwise, the remainder of the uplift in EBITDA comes from lower operating costs due to lower maintenance fees, and due to the absence of legal costs and small asset write-offs that occurred in the third quarter of last year. And revenues for the West were only up slightly compared to the same period last year.Now there are a number of big items that go opposite directions and revenues that I'd like to point out. First of all, for example, remember that we lowered our gathering rates in the Haynesville this year in return for undeveloped upstream acreage from Chesapeake in the South Mansfield area in the Haynesville. The resulting gathering revenue decrease from this during this quarter was more than offset by rate increases in the Barnett and the Piceance where our gathering contracts allow us to participate in the upside when prices are higher. Also last year, our partner on Overland Pass Pipeline was paying us an efficiency fee to allow them to pull volume off of OPPL. Those deficiency fees do not exist this year. However, the absence of those fees are being offset by fees from higher gathering volumes otherwise. And to that point, overall gathering volumes in the West were up 1% with higher volumes in the Haynesville and the Piceance being offset somewhat by lower volumes in the Wamsutter and the Barnett.And then finally, the Sequent segment produced near flat adjusted EBITDA for the quarter. Sequent traditionally makes a significant portion of it's profit in the first couple of quarters of the year in the heart of the winter season and, therefore, did not realize profit for the quarter. Sequent does have a significant portion of their transportation capacity hedged with basis swaps as well as our storage inventory hedge with NYMEX positions, which, of course, led to the large $277 million unrealized mark-to-market loss on those hedges this quarter as prices increased and as basis differentials widened in some markets. This, of course, means that the intrinsic value of our storage and transportation positions have gone up significantly as well. And again, you'll see a significant portion of that value realized in the first half of 2022.So now let's go to the year-to-date results. Again, our year-to-date results showed a strong growth of $383 million or 10% in adjusted EBITDA. Many profitable things are happening across all of our segments. First, I'd point to Winter Storm Yuri, which added $55 million in profits to the West, and it contributed $22 million of incremental profits to our upstream results. In addition, our upstream operations otherwise have added an additional $83 million year-to-date, almost entirely from the Wamsutter properties. Our transmission in Gulf of Mexico assets are up $30 million or 2% better with the increases being driven largely by additional transmission revenues from new projects that have been put into service and incremental revenues from Gulf of Mexico assets, largely due to lower downtime this year versus last year. These positives were partially offset by lower revenues due to a Transco rate case decline following the rate case final settlement in mid-2020 related to just a few markets. And as a reminder, a majority of our transfer rates actually increased in 2019.In addition, expenses are higher this year year-to-date due to higher incentive compensation expenses resulting again from our strong performance. The Northeast G&P is up $124 million for the year, almost entirely driven by profits from our JV investments, again, namely from the Bradford Supply Hub gathering systems and our Marcellus South gathering systems. In addition, we benefited from increased ownership in Blue Racer Midstream. In total, gathering volumes for the Northeast are up 8% over the third quarter of last year, while processing volumes are up 22%.And then in the West, our West G&P is up $71 million, and this is on top of the $55 million that we earned from Winter storm Uri. The $71 million increase is driven by higher commodity margins, higher gathering rates in the Barnett and Piceance where we participate in the commodity upside and lower operating costs. These positives were offset somewhat by lower deferred revenue in the Barnett, Lower Haynesville gathering rates, which again, were exchanged for upstream acreage and lower Overland Pass Pipeline profits from lower actual volume shipped and the elimination of the deficiency payments that we were receiving in 2020. And while we did see a 4% gathering volume decline year-to-date in the West, that was mostly offset by minimum volume commitment payments.Again, this is stacking up to be an incredible year for us. One other thing I do want to point out, we did pick up in some of the narratives from some of the analysts last night, the view that our operating costs increased. And we did ourselves a bit of a disservice by not providing more information on our other operating segment, where our E&P upstream operations reside. Actually, if you look on the face of our financial statements, our operating expenses went up $73 million, $12 million of that came from Sequent, who by the way, covered most of that with their profits. E&P went up $51 million on cost, but of course, they're making significant EBITDA. So they're covering that with their revenues. And then the rest is related to bonus expenses. So our expense is actually when you extract Sequent and E&P and the bonus costs are actually down otherwise. So we actually are not seeing a significant -- or seeing expense increases and in fact, the contrary to other than the bonus-related expenses. So, I thought I'd clear that.I'll now turn the call back over to Alan to cover a number of key investor focus areas.Alan?Alan Armstrong -- President, CEO & DirectorGreat. Well, thanks, John, and we'll move on here to Slide 4, covering key investor focus areas.Our natural gas focused strategy is delivering even better results than we expected in this high commodity price environment. Demand for natural gas in the third quarter was surprisingly inelastic against this higher-than-expected pricing environment. And while we would prefer more moderate natural gas prices for our business over the long haul, the recent demand resilience highlights the near- and long-term role that natural gas will play as a complement to growing demand for renewable energy and emission reduction in general.The past 18 months have demonstrated the benefits of our high-quality portfolio of contracts through which we've thoughtfully built a business that is durable in the down cycles, but exposed to upside potential when it is available. This quarter's results show how meaningful that upside can be even after excluding our upstream results. Along these lines, we also have contracted our business over the years to be protected from inflationary environments and we see additional upside potential in our G&P businesses due to contract terms that adjust our rates for inflation. In short, our business and its contractual portfolios are set up with a long-term investor in mind and are positioned to thrive through these cycles.So looking at our financial strength and focus on long-term shareholder value here. We are increasing our '21 financial guidance for the second time this year, as we mentioned, with our EBITDA midpoint now residing $5.525 billion, and that is 8% higher than last year's strong $5.105 billion of EBITDA. And of course, that was a fee by itself in the environment that we are in. So we're really excited to show our durability in the down cycle and our exposure here on the positive side as well coming through. And while the past few years have been characterized by lower commodity prices and reduced producer customer activity, among other challenges, our updated '21 EBITDA and EPS guidance, the midpoint translates into a 3-year CAGR of 6% on the EBITDA and 17% on the EPS. So a 3-year CAGR on our EPS now at 17% at that midpoint. And of course, this is proving up our ability to produce reliable and growing earnings under a variety of market conditions.Our financial results in '21 continued to derisk our balance sheet, which is now at about 4.0 leverage. And also of note, we recently issued $1.25 billion of 10-year and 30-year bonds at the most attractive interest rates ever issued here at Williams. This is significant because we are now positioned to allocate capital to a variety of options that will provide compounding value to our long-term shareholders. To this end, we've continued to grow our stable quarterly dividend through our investors and remain steadfast in maintaining the long-term security of the dividend. And most recently, we unveiled our long-term capital allocation priorities, including a $1.5 billion opportunistic share repurchase program that has the potential to enhance shareholder returns beyond the dividend. And perhaps most unique to Williams as we think about capital allocation is the option we have to grow dependable earnings by investing in the modernization of our regulated transmission systems, which will both grow earnings and as well reduce submissions across our footprint.So next here, looking at growth. From a project execution point, we continue to deliver on multiple fronts, including bringing online key projects such as Leidy South, which we are targeting to bring into full service earlier than projected and importantly, before the winter heating season. And while projects such as REA remain in the execution phase, we've continued to receive interest in demand pool projects on the Transco system. Our 2 recently announced Mid-Atlantic expansions will add a little more than 500 million a day of capacity on the system. And in the coming weeks, we expect to secure a precedent agreement for another system expansion, bringing a total of 3 incremental expansion projects on Transco just here in the last half of '21.Our natural gas fundamentals are not only supportive of our transmission assets, but also our G&P business. And our gathering volumes continue to grow at a rate of nearly 10x the lower-48 U.S. gas production volumes. This, of course, was led by the Marcellus growth where we are also growing a rate that is almost double that of our competitors. And you can see the layout of that in some slides we put in the appendix. With projects like Leidy South and REA providing takeaway out of the basin, we expect our gathering volumes in the Northwest -- Northeast story to remain resilient. In fact, we expect to announce a system expansion in the basin soon, underscoring that we don't see takeaway constraints of the near term deterrent to volume growth in our systems there in our Northeast gathering area.And finally, on sustainability. As we think about sustainability, both today and into the future, our highly reliable natural gas infrastructure is extremely well positioned to continue replacing higher carbon fuels while supporting the growth of renewable energy and responsibly sourced natural gas for LNG export. We are looking forward and anticipating future innovations and technologies that we can use on our key energy networks to deliver on our country's clean energy future. And to this end, we are pursuing emerging opportunities like a hydrogen hub near our assets in Southwestern Wyoming and are evaluating a large-scale co-development of wind energy, electrolysis and synthetic gas-via-methanation in the State instead of Wyoming as part of our recently announced MOU with Orsted. Our solar initiative continues to move forward as we now advance the execution of now 12 projects on our systems. And those are, as we've mentioned before, large solar arrays that will provide power for our fairly large loads on our compression and processing facilities.Now, looking at our renewable natural gas efforts. We set a 2021 goal of adding an incremental 5 million a day of renewable natural gas and we now expect to exceed that goal. We recently signed an interconnect that should enable up to 10 million cubic feet per day of a new source of RNG supply, bringing our entire RNG portfolio, close to 25 million cubic feet per day with in-service dates in the '22 through '23 time frame. So a lot going on, on that front. Team's doing a great job of making sure that we're capturing opportunities in and around our assets there.We do remain steadfast in the view that natural gas will play a role in the world's clean energy future and our latest efforts to advance responsibly sourced gas through the value chain will provide transparency on the sustainability of our operations and help to solidify the role of natural gas in reducing emissions. We're also pursuing sustainable investment opportunities and are pleased to be partnering on 2 strategies with Energy Impact Partners, an investment firm that makes venture and growth investments in companies that are optimizing energy consumption and improving sustainable energy. Williams is among the first midstream investors in the platform, and we're expecting to facilitate diverse investment opportunities that reduce emissions and advance our ESG goals.Finally, our ongoing focus on sustainable operations continues to deliver strong results that are being recognized by our key rating agencies in this space. Williams sits in the top quartile for our industry with rankings that reflect the dedication of our team toward doing the right thing from an ESG perspective.So here in closing, a lot of really positive things to report on this quarter, demonstrating that our intense focus on natural gas-based strategy has built a business that is steady and predictable with continued growth, improving returns and significant free cash flows. This has translated into a strong balance sheet and a well-covered and growing dividend. And our best-in-class long-haul pipes like Transco, Northwest Pipeline and Gulfstream are in the right place and in the right markets. And by design, our formidable gathering assets are in the low-cost basins that will be called on to meet gas demand as it continues to grow. The triple punch of benefits provided by American sourced natural gas must not be understated as we work to accelerate our clean energy future around the world. As we work to balance sustainability and climate goals with growing energy demand, natural gas will remain a key component of the fuel mix and should be prioritized as renewables carbon-intensive fuels around the world.Natural gas does provide a right here, right now, emissions reduction solution that is economically viable and can keep industry and manufacturing here at home. Williams Transmission & Storage networks are extremely well positioned to aggregate and bring scale to multiple mission reduction opportunities taking out higher carbon fuels while supporting renewable energy and emerging opportunities like hydrogen and carbon capture.So in closing, we produced tremendous 3Q results. But more importantly, we have an unmatched platform to continue to deliver growth and lower emissions at the same time. We look forward to helping our customers and stakeholders meet their goals in an environmentally and financially sustainable manner.And with that, I'll open it up for your questions.