  OperatorThank you for standing by. This is the conference operator. Welcome to the Lululemon Athletica Inc. third quarter 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Howard Tubin, vice president, investor relations for Lululemon Athletica. Please go ahead.Howard Tubin -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



 Thank you and good afternoon. Welcome to Lululemon's third quarter earnings conference call. Joining me to talk about our results are Calvin McDonald, CEO; and Meghan Frank, CFO. Before we get started, I'd like to take this opportunity to remind you that our remarks today will include forward-looking statements reflecting management's current forecast of certain aspects of Lululemon's future. These statements are based on current information, which we have assessed, but which by its nature, is dynamic and subject to rapid and even abrupt change. Actual results may differ materially from those contained in or implied by these forward-looking statements due to risks and uncertainties associated with our business, including those we have disclosed in our most recent filings with the SEC, including our annual report on Form 10-K and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. Any forward-looking statements that we make on this call are based on assumptions as of today and we expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to update or revise any of these statements as a result of new information or future events. During this call, we will present both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures.A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP measures is included in our quarterly report on Form 10-Q and in today's earnings press release. In addition, the comparable sales metrics given on today's call are on a constant dollar basis. The press release and accompanying quarterly report on Form 10-Q are available under the Investors section of our website at www.Lululemon.com. Before we begin the call, I'd like to remind our investors to visit our investor site where you'll find a summary of our key financial and operating statistics for the third quarter as well as our quarterly info graph. Today's call is scheduled for one hour, so please limit yourself to one question at a time to give others the opportunity to have their questions addressed. Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Calvin. 

 



Calvin McDonald -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Howard and welcome, everyone, to our third quarter conference call. I'm excited to be here to discuss our results and share highlights of our performance at the start of the holiday season. Our momentum remained strong in the quarter, reflecting the continued growth potential for Lululemon in both the near term and the long term. I'm especially pleased with how our leaders and teams continue to successfully execute against our Power of Three growth plan while we navigate the supply chain issues within the industry. Relative to last year, revenue grew 30% and on a two-year CAGR basis, increased 26%. Our strength continues to be broad-based and balanced across every facet of our business, including channel, category, activity, gender and geography. Before discussing more details about quarter 3, I would like to share some highlights on the three topics: our performance over the recent Thanksgiving holiday, inventory levels and the current labor market. Starting with Thanksgiving, we were pleased with our performance over the holiday weekend. For the five days spanning Thanksgiving through Cyber Monday, both our digital and brick-and-mortar channels performed well. E-commerce delivered record-breaking days in several key metrics, including sales, traffic and conversion. And I'm excited to share that this year, Thanksgiving Day was our highest-volume e-commerce day ever. The investments we have made over the last several years are enabling the acceleration we're seeing in the digital business and contributing to the growth this year on top of last year's outsized performance.

 



 While we still have several large volume weeks ahead of us, it was great to see our guests respond well to our merchandise offering as we kicked off the holiday season. Shifting to our supply chain. We continue to face the same issues as much of the industry, including port slowdowns and increased costs associated with airfreight. In Vietnam, I am pleased to share that all of our factories have reopened and continued to ramp up their capacity. While the summer closures caused some delays, our total inventory at the end of Q3 was up 22%, slightly ahead of our most recent expectations of 15% to 20%. As you are aware, approximately 40% of our inventory is comprised of core seasonless product which helps us make our inventory management and flow decisions. This coupled with the well-established partnerships we have with our vendors is allowing us to mitigate many of the current supply chain risks. I'm extremely proud of how our teams have and continue to successfully navigate through this dynamic environment. While we're comfortable with both the quality and quantity of our inventory, I continue to believe that demand for our brand is outpacing supply and our business could have been even stronger without the supply chain challenges. Turning to the labor market. We are well positioned this holiday to meet guest demand. As you know, the hiring environment has been very competitive this season and I'm pleased that we have been able to hire more than 7,000 employees within our stores, DCs and guest education centers in the lead up to the holiday. Our strong employee offering, highlighted by our Pay Protection Program through COVID-19 and recent increases in minimum wage, has enabled us to perform well in the current environment. Let me now share some highlights from our Q3 results. First, our total revenue of $1.5 billion represents growth of 26% on a two-year CAGR basis. Second, we continue to build on the strength in our store channel with productivity levels above what we achieved in 2019. Third, our e-commerce business comped up 21%, which on top of the 93% last year, translates into a two-year CAGR of 54%. And finally, our adjusted earnings per share were $1.62 versus $0.96 in 2019, which was above expectations. This level of performance continues to demonstrate how Lululemon is a brand positioned for consistent growth quarter after quarter. Next, I will provide some additional details on our results, starting with product innovation. Our momentum remains strong across all of our major categories, with women's revenue increasing 24%, men's growing 29% and accessories up 40%, all on a two-year CAGR basis. We continue to leverage the Science of Feel to bring product newness and innovation to our guests. I'm particularly proud of our recently announced multiyear partnership with the Canadian Olympic Committee and Paralympic Committee. This is important to us in several ways. First, it allows us to showcase the Lululemon brand and our technical expertise within apparel on the world stage. Next, it is a compelling platform that we can leverage to continue to grow our brand presence in Canada, our most mature market. And finally, it offers a new and exciting test and learn opportunity to increase our brand awareness and consideration with men, both inside and outside of Canada. Our product teams worked with athletes for 18 months and developed more than 30 styles to help each team member feel and perform their best during the games. As a Canadian and lifelong fan of the games, I want to share that all of us at Lululemon are honored to play a role in helping to inspire and unite people through sport. Let me now move on to Mirror. Our core Lululemon business continues to be strong. Driving innovation and growth in our core remains our primary focus and our results demonstrate the ongoing effectiveness of our initiatives. This success allows us to invest in new opportunities to enable future growth and Mirror is one of those examples. Our vision for Mirror is to assist in building and extending our Lululemon community and helping us drive both retention and spend. It's an evolution of our membership program to propel our core business at Lululemon, for Lululemon. We have only just begun our journey with Mirror and we will continue to roll out initiatives that deliver on this goal. As you know, 2021 has been a challenging year for digital fitness. And as I mentioned on our last earnings call, we have seen increasing pressures on CAC that are impacting the entire industry. One of the unique advantages we bring to the space is the many ways we can build brand awareness for Mirror. As we unlock these synergies, we see a clear path to engage with the more than 10 million Lululemon guests who live the sweat life. We will not chase growth at any cost. We simply don't need to, but we will invest to define our unique proposition and to bring Mirror to market through our owned marketing channels. We demonstrated this with our recent launch in Canada and the introduction of our innovative connected weights, both of which are off to a great start. We can and will stand out in a crowded space and leverage all that's unique about Lululemon. With this context, we are lowering our revenue guidance for Mirror for the year to $125 million to $130 million. Given the seasonality of their business, which skews heavily to quarter 4, the timing of this revision is appropriate given the line of sight we have on its performance. Importantly, we are maintaining our dilution estimate of 3% to 5%. With this said, I'm pleased that we will have grown our subscribers by 40% year over year and will end 2021 with a meaningful subscription base to build upon. Mirror represents less than 3% of our revenue this year. Although we do not require it to deliver our Power of Three goals, we see Mirror as an opportunity to engage with our guests in new ways that we will continue to evolve and refine over time. We are still early in creating our vision of a loyalty community that captures the best of Lululemon. This is not a sprint for us and we will maintain a steady pace forward that realizes our vision. Switching now to our store channel. Total revenue increased 38% versus last year and 10% on a two-year CAGR basis. Traffic increased over 50% versus last year. We're pleased with the start of the holiday season in stores and our educators are thrilled to be engaging with the guests in person. We continue to leverage and enhance our in-store and omni capabilities, including enhancing our mobile app to facilitate curbside pickup for guests, make our in-store handheld units more intuitive for our educators to help speed guests through transactions and continue to offer our online digital educator service at no cost, providing a personal shopping experience for guests who can't make it into our stores. Turning to our e-commerce business. Sales trends remain robust with total digital comps up 21% in Q3. This result comes on top of the 93% increase in the same quarter last year. We continue to enhance the experience for our guests on our websites and apps, which is the direct result of the investments we have made over the last 18 months and it is paying off for us. For example, when I was in stores over Thanksgiving weekend, each store was doing an impressive volume of orders through both BOPUS and BBR. This is enabled by the visibility we have to our inventory across our network which allows us to meet guest demand and exceed their expectations. It's a great example of how we are realizing our omni, vision and potential. Looking forward to the fourth quarter, we feel good about our ability to handle the increased volume of traffic based on the significant investments we've made over the last several years. In technology, IT infrastructure, our guest education center and DCs, all of which continue to produce results. Regarding our international business, we continue to be excited by the level of performance across each region, which shows how well our brand translates across borders and beyond North America. It's clear that there is a vast opportunity for Lululemon as we expand further into EMEA, in China and in the Asia Pacific region. In Q3, we saw strength across every major region, with each generating strong double-digit sales growth on a two-year CAGR basis. In China, our two-year CAGR growth of more than 70% significantly outpaced the performance we saw overall in international as we continue to see compelling guest response to our merchandise assortment online and in our stores. Our team also continues to maintain a steady pace of new store openings in the market. And in Europe, our two-year CAGR revenue growth of over 20% was driven by broad-based strength across most of our key markets coupled with an improving brick-and-mortar business in the United Kingdom following very prolonged COVID-19-related closures. We are on track to open 40 to 45 stores in our international regions this year and are excited by the significant runway for growth across our key markets outside of North America. Before handing it over to Meghan, who will provide additional details on our Q3 financials and our guidance outlook, I want to bring our inaugural Impact report to your attention. One year ago, we published our Impact Agenda, which details our vision and strategy to help transform our industry and create a healthier world. It is structured into three interconnected pillars, Be Human, Be Well and Be Planet, each with a set of specific goals and strategies. We will report annually on our progress toward these goals and I hope you will take the time to visit the Sustainability section of our website to learn more. We recognize that it will take continuous learning and sustained dedication to achieve our goals. We are firmly committed to accountability, transparency and doing the necessary work to help build a safer and healthier world. And with that, I'll turn it over to Meghan.Meghan Frank -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Calvin. Our business remained strong in Q3. The trend in stores continued to improve with productivity above 2019, while our e-commerce business continues to comp positively over the growth we experienced last year. I will share our guidance outlook with you in a few minutes, but I think it's important for our investors to know that we are raising our guidance for the year despite increasing airfreight costs and a more conservative view on revenue for Mirror. This is a testament to the underlying strength of our core business and to our teams around the globe who enable this impressive performance. Let me now share with you the details of our Q3 performance. I will also discuss specifics on our balance sheet, including our cash position, liquidity and inventories. Please note that the adjusted financial metrics I will share include the operating results of Mirror, but exclude approximately $24 million of acquisition-related costs and our associated tax effect in Q3 2021 and $8.5 million of acquisition-related costs and their associated tax effect in Q3 2020. You can refer to our earnings release for more information and reconciliations to our GAAP metrics. For Q3, total net revenue increased 30% to $1.45 billion, above our expectations of $1.4 billion to $1.43 billion. This included a 28% increase in North America and a 40% increase in our international business. On a two-year CAGR basis, total revenue increased 26%. This was better than our expectation of a 24% to 25% two-year CAGR growth and continues to outpace our three-year CAGR of 19%, leading up to the pandemic. Within North America, revenue increased 23% and within international, we saw a 42% increase, both on a two-year CAGR basis. In our digital channel, revenues increased 54% on a two-year CAGR basis and contributed $587 million of top line or 40% of total revenue. In our store channel, sales increased 10% on a two-year CAGR basis. Productivity in stores exceeded 2019 levels and continues the trend of improving productivity we've seen throughout the year. On average, we had 96% of our stores opened throughout Q3 and 99% opened at the end of the quarter. Square footage increased 11% versus last year, driven by the addition of 37 net new stores since Q3 of 2020. During the quarter, we opened 18 net new stores. Gross profit for the third quarter was $829 million or 57.2% of net revenue compared to 56.1% of net revenue in Q3 2020 and 55.1% of net revenue in Q3 2019. Our gross margin increase of 210 basis points relative to 2019 was driven by 230 basis points of leverage on occupancy, depreciation and product team costs and 30 basis points of favorability in foreign exchange, which was partially offset by a 50 basis point decrease in product margin. Excluding a 230 basis point increase in airfreight related to industry supply chain challenges, product margin would have increased versus 2019. I would also note that markdowns declined relative to 2019. Moving to SG&A. Our approach continues to be grounded in prudently managing our expenses while also continuing to strategically invest in our long-term growth opportunities. SG&A expenses were $545 million or 37.6% of net revenue compared to 36.8% of net revenue in Q3 2020 and 35.9% of net revenue in Q3 2019. The deleverage in the quarter versus Q3 2020 resulted from increased investments in people and brand building to support our growth initiatives, coupled with deleverage on foreign exchange. The deleverage relative to Q3 2019 is primarily the result of consolidation of Mirror's results this year but not in 2019 and modest deleverage on depreciation, amortization and foreign exchange. Adjusted operating income for the quarter was $282 million or 19.4% of net revenue compared to 19.1% of net revenue in Q3 2020 and 19.2% of net revenue in Q3 2019. Adjusted tax expense for the quarter was $71 million or 25.1% of pre-tax earnings compared to an adjusted effective tax rate of 28.9% a year ago. The reduction relative to last year is due primarily to a reduction in nondeductible expenses in international jurisdictions, an increase in tax deductions related to stock-based compensation and a reduction in adjustments upon the filing of certain tax returns. Adjusted net income for the quarter was $211 million or $1.62 per diluted share compared to adjusted earnings per diluted share of $1.16 in Q3 of 2020 and $0.96 in Q3 of 2019. Capital expenditures were $122 million for the quarter compared to $66 million in the third quarter last year. Q3 spend relates primarily to store capital for new locations, relocations and renovations, supply chain investment and technology spend to support our business growth. Turning to our balance sheet highlights. We ended the quarter with $1.4 billion of total liquidity. We had approximately $1 billion in cash and cash equivalents and nearly $400 million of available capacity under our revolving credit facility. Inventory grew 22% versus last year and was $944 million at the end of Q3. This is slightly higher than our expectations for a 15% to 20% increase, reflecting the efforts of our supply chain and product teams to mitigate industrywide supply chain risk by prioritizing production to ensure key styles are produced first and strategically increasing our use of airfreight. At the end of Q4, we expect inventory levels to increase approximately 20% to 25% relative to Q4 of 2020. In Q3, we repurchased approximately 582,000 shares at an average price of $406. At the end of the quarter, we had approximately $509 million of availability remaining on our current share repurchase authorization, which includes the recent $500 million increase our board of directors approved in early October. Let me shift now to our outlook for Q4 and the full year 2021. While we're pleased with our performance over Thanksgiving, it's important to acknowledge that the macro environment remains uncertain and we have several large volume weeks ahead of us. I'd also note that as the industrywide supply chain issues have been well publicized, consumers may have started their holiday shopping earlier this year. To account for these variables, as we have done throughout the COVID period, we continue to plan the business for multiple scenarios. For Q4, we expect revenue in the range of $2.125 billion to $2.165 billion, representing a two-year CAGR of 23% to 24%. We expect gross margin in Q4 to be flat with Q4 of 2019. Our Q4 guidance reflects an impact of approximately 450 basis points of pressure from airfreight costs due to poor congestion and capacity constraints. This represents an increase in airfreight expense relative to our prior guidance. In Q4, we expect SG&A deleverage of approximately 200 to 250 basis points relative to 2019. Drivers of the deleverage versus 2019 include consolidation of Mirror's results this year but not in 2019 and higher depreciation due to accelerated investments to support our e-commerce business in 2020 and 2021. Turning to EPS. We expect adjusted earnings per share in the fourth quarter to be in the range of $3.25 to $3.32 versus adjusted EPS of $2.58 a year ago. This includes operating results from Mirror but excludes acquisition and integration-related costs. As a reminder, we reported EPS of $2.28 in Q4 of 2019. For the full year 2021, we expect revenue to be in the range of $6.25 billion to $6.29 billion. This represents an increase from our prior guidance range of $6.19 billion to $6.26 billion and includes our more conservative view on Mirror revenue for the year of approximately $125 million to $130 million. This range also assumes our e-commerce business grows in the mid-teens relative to the outsized strength we experienced in 2020. When looking at total revenue, our guidance range implies a two-year CAGR of approximately 25% to 26%, which is higher than our three-year revenue CAGR of 19%, leading up to 2020 and is well ahead of the low teens CAGR contemplated in our Power of Three growth plan. We now expect to open 50 to 55 net new company-operated stores in 2021. This includes approximately 40 to 45 stores in our international markets and represents a square footage percentage increase in the low teens. For the full year, we are forecasting gross margin to expand between 100 to 150 basis points compared to the modest increase we saw in 2020. The reduction relative to our prior guidance of an increase of 150 to 200 basis points is driven by an increase in airfreight expense to 200 to 250 basis points for the year. Despite the increase in airfreight expense year over year, we continue to anticipate gross margin expansion in excess of our Power of Three growth plan, which assumes modest gross margin expansion annually. When looking at SG&A for the full year, we are forecasting leverage of 50 to 100 basis points versus 2020. We now expect our adjusted effective tax rate for the year to be approximately 27%. For the fiscal year 2021, our revised range for adjusted diluted earnings per share is $7.69 to $7.76 versus our prior range of $7.38 to $7.48. Our EPS guidance continues to assume modest dilution from Mirror in the 3% to 5% range, excluding acquisition and integration-related costs. Despite our more conservative view on Mirror revenue, we are being prudent with our expenditures, particularly related to digital marketing and this is enabling us to maintain the dilution percentage in the range we've been guiding to all year. Our updated EPS range also excludes the impact of any future share repurchases. We now expect capital expenditures to be approximately $375 million to $385 million for 2021. The increase versus 2020 reflects increased investment in our supply chain, digital capabilities, new store openings and renovations including Mirror shop-in-shops as well as other technology and general corporate infrastructure projects. Thank you. And with that, I'll turn the call back over to Calvin for some closing remarks.Calvin McDonald -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Meghan. I am very pleased with the high-level performance of Lululemon across every major metric in category, which allows us to deliver such a strong quarter. We have begun the fourth quarter with the inventory, staffing and strategies in place to enable us to finish 2021 in a position of strength as we expect to pass the $6 billion annual revenue level for the first time. The way we continue to grow and expand is a testament to the commitment and passion of the people of Lululemon. I am particularly proud of our agility throughout this year and over the course of the pandemic and how the leadership team continues to build upon the momentum in the business. And with that, we'll be happy to take your questions. Operator? 