
OperatorGood morning. Welcome to the Kellogg Company's Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] Please note, this event is being recorded. At this time, I will turn the call over to John Renwick, Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Planning for Kellogg Company. Mr. Renwick, you may begin your conference call.John P. Renwick -- Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate PlanningThank you, Gary. Good morning, and thank you for joining us today for a review of our second quarter 2021 results as well as an update regarding our outlook for the full year 2021. I'm joined this morning by Steve Cahillane, our Chairman and CEO; and Amit Banati, our Chief Financial Officer. slide number three shows our forward-looking statements disclaimer. As you are aware, certain statements made today such as projections for Kellogg Company's future performance are forward-looking statements. Actual results could be materially different from those projected. For further information concerning factors that could cause these results to differ, please refer to this third slide of the presentation as well as to our public SEC filings.This is a particular note during the current COVID-19 pandemic when the length and severity of the crisis and resultant economic and business impacts are so difficult to predict. A recording of today's webcast and supporting documents will be archived for at least 90 days on the Investor page of kelloggcompany.com. As always, when referring to our results and outlook, unless otherwise noted, we will be referring to them on an organic basis for net sales and on a currency-neutral adjusted basis for operating profit and earnings per share. And now I'll turn it over to Steve.Steven A. Cahillane -- Chairman Of The Board & Chief Executive OfficerThanks, John, and good morning, everyone. I hope you and your families are doing well. There is no question that we're still managing through a pandemic. In this environment, keeping employees safe remains job number one. And aiding our communities is more important than ever. We also continue to supply the world with food, though, this remains challenging as the pandemic persists. A reacceleration of COVID cases has brought on new restrictions, causing temporary shutdowns of production in some countries. Meantime, we and the vendors that supply us are having to manage through bottlenecks and shortages of materials, labor and freight, all created by demand-supply imbalances that are also pushing up costs. So 2021 is shaping up to be anything but business as usual, and I'm extremely proud of how our organization continues to persevere and succeed in such challenging conditions.I'm also pleased with how well we continue to execute against our strategy, deployed for balanced growth, which is depicted on slide number six. From a business perspective, demand and eating occasions at home remained elevated in Q2, but they are gradually shifting as consumer mobility returns. In the second quarter, this was reflected in an ads forecast continuation of decelerating at-home demand growth, as measured by two-year compound annual growth rates in our cereal and frozen categories around the world. We also saw signs of gradual recovery in away-from-home channels in an on-the-go snacks and pack formats. These channels grew year-on-year and better than forecast, even if they remain below 2019 levels. Our Deploy for Growth boosters are working effectively from focusing on ever-evolving occasions, to leveraging our reshaped portfolio, to driving momentum in our world-class brands and to investing in our supply chain to better serve our customers.Our Better Days boosters, which further our ESG efforts continue to work effectively as well. A few Better Days highlights are shared on slide number seven. During the second quarter, we continued to progress toward our ongoing Better Days commitments. This slide calls out a few of our actions and achievements of the quarter. The key message is that this remains a critical element of our strategy, a clear focus of management and a part of the DNA of Kellogg Company. And we turned in another quarter of strong business performance in the second quarter, as discussed on slide number eight. Overall, at-home demand remained elevated, and we saw continued recovery in our away-from-home channels. Most encouraging has been the momentum demonstrated by key long-term growth engines for us. Our world-class snacks brands sustained their momentum with many continuing to outpace their respective categories. Our plant-based protein business is continuing to show strong growth.Our emerging markets businesses sustained their rapid growth and continue to excel even amid challenging business conditions. Meanwhile, we continue to manage through the global supply challenges, I referred to earlier even as we continue to bring on our planned capacity increases. From a financial standpoint, our second quarter continued the balanced delivery that we returned to in 2020. Specifically, comparing to pre-COVID 2019, we realized another quarter of strong organic top line growth and operating profit growth as well as improved cash flow generation. We are affirming our full year guidance today. Like so many others, we are currently facing increased cost inflation and supply hurdles, and that is factored into our second half assumptions. Nonetheless, the business is showing good momentum. And just as we work through these challenges in the second quarter, we're confident we can work through them in the second half as well.Let me now turn it over to Amit, so he can take you through our financial results and outlook in more detail.Amit Banati -- Senior Vice President, Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Steve, and good morning, everyone. Our financial results for the second quarter are summarized on slide number 10. It was another strong quarter that's viewed on a 2-year basis, because of the unusual period we were lapping from last year. On an organic basis, we nearly matched last year's unusually high net sales, generating 4.5% growth on a two -year compound annual growth rate or CAGR basis. This came in better than expected, thanks to an impressive momentum in emerging markets and faster improvement than expected in our away-from-home channels.Currency-neutral adjusted-basis operating profit declined against last year's exceptional quarter when it grew 27% despite losing about eight points to divestiture impact. Excluding those divested businesses from the 2019 base, our operating profit in quarter two this year grew at a two -year CAGR of about 8%. This is strong growth that indicates underlying margin expansion. Currency-neutral adjusted-basis earnings per share declined as it lapped last year's outsized growth, but it grew about 9% on a two -year CAGR basis, excluding the divestiture impact on operating profit. And cash flow was again stronger than anticipated for the quarter. And while it lapped last year's unusually high level, this cash flow was again higher than that of quarter two of 2019. So on a two -year basis, we saw another quarter of good top line growth, margin expansion and conversion of profit into cash flow.That's the kind of balance we strive for. Let's examine these results in a little more detail. We'll start with net sales on slide number 11. Net sales remained strong despite tough comparisons. Volume declined against last year's double-digit surge, but remained up on a two -year basis, even despite an as-expected reversal of shipment timing from quarter one in North America. Price/mix was again an important driver. Once again, most of this price/mix growth came from revenue growth management initiatives implemented in all four regions. Mix was only slightly positive as a mix shift toward Snacks was partially offset by resumed mix shift toward Multipro, our West African distributor business. Our two-year organic net sales CAGR was 4.5% in Q2, a very strong performance.Rounding out net sales, foreign currency translation was again positive in Q2. As we look to the rest of the year, we assume continued deceleration in at-home demand with moderation in away-from-home declines being more modest due to the mix of our channels. We've seen this reflected in our two -year CAGRs from Q1 to Q2, and we expect this deceleration to continue into Q3 and Q4. And based on where ForEx rates are right now, we would expect to see a less positive impact on net sales in the second half. Moving down the income statement. slide number 12 shows two important drivers of our profit margin performance. As you know, our gross profit margin in Q2 was lapping outsized operating leverage in Q2, 2020, when our plants ran flat out, producing only a limited lineup of SKUs. But importantly, our gross margin in Q2, as in Q1, increased from 2019 levels.Productivity and price realization drove this two -year improvement, more than overcoming high cost inflation, labor and freight disruptions, COVID-related costs and a mix shift toward emerging markets. So this two -year improvement is very encouraging. As we'll talk about in a moment, we expect to see more pressure on gross margin in the second half than we did in the first half, reflecting the current operating and cost environment. Operating profit margin remained higher than Q2, 2019 as well. This reflects the gross margin performance and good discipline on overhead. Brand building investment, while up double digits against last year's delays, was up more modestly versus two years ago. As we look to the second half, our SG&A expense may provide some offset to the gross margin pressure. SG&A expense in the second half should moderate year-on-year.Not only because of last year's back-weighted brand building, particularly in Q4, but also because of lapping last year's incentive compensation. This could be partially offset by a gradual resumption of travel and related activities as economies reopen. Moving down the P&L. Let's turn to slide number 13. During Q2, interest expense decreased year-on-year on lower debt, and this decrease will continue for the remainder of the year, with Q4 additionally lapping the $20 million debt redemption cost we recorded last year. Of note, during the quarter, we issued our first ever sustainability bond, which was very well received. Other income increased modestly year-on-year to a level that is a little higher than we would expect for the remaining quarters, owing to favorability in various nonpension items. Our effective tax rate of 22.6% was essentially in line with our full year forecast rate. JV earnings and minority interest together were roughly in line with last year.And average shares outstanding decreased year-on-year, reflecting the impact of quarter 1's buybacks. We still expect full year average shares outstanding to be around 0.5% lower than 2020. Let's now discuss our cash flow and balance sheet shown on slide number 14. Year-to-date, our cash flow remains below last year's unusually high level as expected, but well above that of the first half of 2019. This two -year increase is driven by our improved operating profit and improved cash flow conversion. We finished the first half ahead of our expectations for cash flow. And as we look to the rest of the year, cash flow should remain below last year's COVID-aided levels, but still well above 2019. Meanwhile, our balance sheet remains solid. Net debt remains roughly even with last year and lower than each of the prior two years, even despite our increase in cash return to shareowners in form of resumed share buybacks and increased dividend.So our financial condition is quite strong. slide number 15 shows where our results stand after the first six months of 2021. Obviously, we've had a good year so far, producing strong and balanced financial results on a two -year basis and staying modestly ahead of our own internal forecast. This strong start is all the more important when you consider just how much more challenging the business environment has gotten lately. Now let's discuss our full year guidance shown on slide number 16. As Steve mentioned, we are affirming our overall guidance. Within that guidance, we are raising our net sales guidance. We are now calling for organic growth of flat to up to 1%, which is a bit higher than our previous guidance for flat, reflecting our business momentum, particularly in emerging markets. This equates to almost 3% growth on a two -year CAGR basis.Volume will continue to lap last year's large gains but price/mix will remain positive as we execute revenue growth management actions to cover higher input costs. Our guidance for currency-neutral adjusted operating profit is unchanged, still calling for a year-on-year decrease of about 1% to 2%, equating to almost 4% growth on a two -year CAGR basis, excluding the divestiture impact. This reflects our stronger-than-expected quarter two profit and raised full year net sales outlook, balanced by increased cost pressures and operating challenges that make us a bit more cautious about the second half. Specifically, we have the productivity and revenue growth management actions in place to continue to cover high market-driven cost for commodities and freight. However, the economywide supply chain challenges, that Steve mentioned, are impeding production and shipping and creating incremental operating costs as well, particularly in quarter three.Because of this, we now expect gross profit margin to finish 2021 slightly below 2019 levels, but well above 2019 in gross profit dollars. We are also affirming our guidance for 1% to 2% growth in currency-neutral adjusted earnings per share, which equates to almost 5% growth on a two -year CAGR basis. And we continue to look for cash flow to finish the year in the range of $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion. This outlook balances the momentum in our business with the challenging operating environment and balances our margin protection actions against heightened cost pressures. To summarize, we remain in strong financial condition, and we remain solidly on track for continued balanced financial delivery on a two -year basis.And with that, let me turn it back to Steve for a review of our major businesses.Steven A. Cahillane -- Chairman Of The Board & Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Amit. Before we get into each of the four regions, let me start off by highlighting the strength of some of our most important growth drivers. The first is Pringles, shown on slide number 18. This $2 billion global retail sales brand continues to perform well around the world. Here in the United States, it continued to outpace the category on consumption growth using a two -year CAGR to eliminate uneven comparisons. It's also outperforming the category on household penetration gains since the pandemic. And around the world, we are seeing similar momentum.We're seeing growth in original and core flavors. We're seeing incremental growth from innovations like Scorchin and Sizzl'n. Equally impressive has been Cheez-It, another world-class brand, shown on slide number 19. This $1 billion retail sales brand continues to perform well in the U.S. Its two -year CAGRs remain well ahead of the category's growth and its household penetration has grown in contrast to the rest of the category. Meanwhile, our launches of this power brand into Canada and Brazil are off to strong starts.Let's not overlook two other world-class snack brands. On slide number 20, we can see the continued strength of Pop-Tarts and Rice Krispies Treats. Together, these two power brands represent $1 billion in measured channel retail sales in the U.S. alone. You can see from the slide that they are in terrific shape as well. Their consumption has continued to outpace the portable wholesome snacks category on a two -year CAGR basis, and these brands have added households since the pandemic, whereas the overall category has not. Plant-based protein and our leading MorningStar Farms brand is another growth driver that is performing very well. As shown on slide number 21, this $400 million retail sales brand continues to show strong consumption growth on a two -year CAGR basis and has continued to add to its household penetration.A key advantage of MorningStar Farms is the breadth of its offerings across product types. And in Q2, we continued to see double-digit two -year CAGRs across segments like chicken, appetizers, breakfast meat and sausages. We continue to innovate against this brand, including its sub-brand Incogmeato, which continues to add distribution and share and is proving to be incremental to the MorningStar Farms franchise. MorningStar Farms growth has bumped up against our capacity at various times in the past year, even as it has faced numerous new entrants into the category. This is creating a lot of excitement in the category, and we are pleased with our momentum and prospects. And of course, there's Eggo, shown on slide number 22. This $900 million retail sales brand continues to perform well in the U.S. as indicated by its strong two -year compound annual growth in consumption and by its better-than-category performance on household penetration.Meantime, the brand continues to grow on a two -year basis in Canada and Mexico as well. Our emerging markets are another key growth driver for us. And as you can see on slide number 23, they have actually accelerated their growth over the past couple of years. As we've discussed many times, this is a testament to our geographic footprint, our portfolio of foods and brands, our local supply chains, our go-to-market and our experienced management teams. As you can see from the chart, we continued to record impressive growth in these markets in Q2, even in spite of challenges related to COVID. We grew strongly in Africa, Asia, Latin America and Russia, and we continue to grow in cereal, snacks and noodles. Emerging markets represent more than 20% of our net sales and are expected to remain an important growth driver for a long time to come.So some of our portfolio's most important growth drivers are very clearly showing good momentum and have only strengthened over the past year. And these aren't small businesses. Even just the ones I discussed here, collectively represent more than half of our company's net sales. Let's now discuss each of our regions. We'll start with North America in slide number 24. We sustained net sales growth on a two -year basis in North America, even if that growth rate was held back by the pandemic's negative impact on away-from-home channels and on-the-go pack formats. Moreover, versus last year, our volume in Q2 was not only lapping last year's double-digit surge, but also felt the impact of our previously discussed shift of shipments into Q1 and resultant trade inventory coming out as expected during Q2. Importantly though, we realized good price mix growth driven by revenue growth management actions.And our overall sales growth was supported by good underlying consumption trends. We outpaced four of our six primary categories on a two -year compound annual growth basis with our two -year consumption growth accelerating sequentially from Q1 in five of our six categories. And as we discussed on the past few slides, this strong performance is being driven by many of our biggest brands. So the underlying fundamentals look good. On operating profit, remember that we were lapping a year ago quarter in which operating profit grew 36%, excluding divestiture impact, an unusually strong quarter elevated by at-home demand, outsized operating leverage and delayed brand investment during the height of the pandemic. On a two -year CAGR basis though, you can see we continued to generate good operating profit growth driven by top line growth, productivity and price/mix.These have been able to offset the impacts of extremely high cost inflation this year as well as the frequent shortages of materials, freight and labor, which are most pronounced in North America. Let's take a closer look at our category groups in North America. slide number 25 shows that our net sales for snacks in North America continued to grow both on a one-year and a two -year CAGR basis, despite declines in away-from-home channels and many on-the-go foods and pack formats. U.S. consumption remains solid on a two-year CAGR basis, outpacing all three of our snacks categories and led by power brands. In crackers, we outpaced the category on a one-year and two-year CAGR basis, led by continued strength in Cheez-IT and Club. In salty snacks, we outpaced the category on a one-year and two-year CAGR basis as well due to continued strength in Pringles, particularly its core four flavors, its new Scorchin innovation and multi-packs.And in portable wholesome snacks, we are seeing brands like Pop-Tarts and Rice Krispies Treats hold up very well on a two -year CAGR basis, while also starting to see signs of recovery in our more on-the-go oriented brands, like Special K, Nutri-Grain and RXBARs. In North America cereal, shown on slide number 26, organic net sales were off slightly on a two -year CAGR basis due to declines in away-from-home channels. We also saw the impact of being capacity constrained on certain brands. In the U.S., the category's consumption was flat on a two -year CAGR basis in Q2. And after being down about 1% in Q1, we improved to flat in Q2, keeping up with the category on that basis. Frosted Flakes accounted for most of the share decline related to pulling back on brand building and merchandising since Q4 last year, as we worked to maintain service levels and add capacity planned prior to the pandemic. Unfortunately, our capacity expansion has been slowed by current supply shortages and by our recent fire in one of our facilities.This will delay our return to normal commercial activity on affected brands. In the meantime, our business continues to progress well. We continue to lead the category and share of innovation, and we are seeing better performance in wellness-oriented brands, like Raisin Bran, Special K, Kashi and Bear Naked. And on slide number 27, we can see that our two frozen businesses, plant-based foods and frozen breakfast, also continue to grow on a two -year CAGR basis, even despite capacity limitations and declines in away-from-home channels. We've already discussed both of our key brands in frozen, MorningStar Farms plant-based foods and Eggo from the griddle foods. Both continue to generate strong consumption growth on a two -year CAGR basis, and both are poised to sustain growth. And before we move on from our discussion of North America, we should touch on our U.S. away-from-home business in slide number 28. The slide shows rolling two -year average growth rates in our net sales over the past few quarters in these channels.As restrictions eased and consumer mobility increased, we saw a gradual recovery get underway in these channels. It remains to be seen whether this trajectory will continue given recent pandemic developments. So our North America region continues to perform well even as we work to catch up the demand and work our way through industrywide shortages of freight, labor and materials. Now let's take a look at Europe, shown on slide number 29. Kellogg Europe posted its 15th consecutive quarter of organic growth, a remarkable track record of consistency in this market. Volume had to lap a year ago surge, but we sustained good price/mix growth driven by RGM actions. And on a two -year CAGR basis, you can see that we remain in strong net sales growth with this growth being driven by both snacks and cereal. Importantly, we also continue to perform well in market. Retail scanner data indicate only modest sequential deceleration of category and Kellogg consumption growth on a two -year CAGR basis.On that two -year CAGR basis, we kept up with the salty snacks category with particular recent strength in France and Spain. Our consumer promotion around the Euro's soccer tournament was our biggest summer promo ever for Pringles. In cereal, our two -year growth has outpaced the category in most markets, led by key brands like Crunchy Nut in the U.K. and Tresor and Extra in Continental Europe, and Coco Pops and Cocoa Krispies more broadly. Europe's operating profit lapped a year ago quarter in which operating profit grew more than 35% when it was elevated by at-home demand, outsized operating leverage and delayed brand investment during the height of the pandemic. Nevertheless, on a two -year CAGR basis, we grew our profit at a double-digit rate in Q2. So clearly, Kellogg Europe continues to perform very well.Moving to Latin America in slide number 30. Latin America had a notably strong quarter. It grew organic net sales by 9% on top of last year's 14% gain, resulting in strong double-digit growth on a two -year CAGR basis. Volume had to lap last year's 11% surge and this was felt primarily in cereal, but we sustained strong price/mix growth, driven by RGM actions across the portfolio and markets. The result was a year-on-year net sales growth in all subregions and as shown on the slide, sustained momentum on a two -year CAGR basis. Scanner data do indicate a gradual slowing of at-home demand, which for us manifests itself in cereal. Nevertheless, our two -year CAGRs for consumption remains strong in our key cereal markets, with Kellogg exceeding category growth rates, particularly for big brands like Corn Flakes and Froot Loops.Similarly, Pringles outpaced two -year CAGRs for salty snacks categories in key markets and has gained share on a one-year basis in our biggest markets, Mexico and Brazil. Meanwhile, our Parati business in Brazil continued to post strong consumption growth and increased share in biscuits. While operating profit had to lap a near doubling in the year earlier quarter, it was still up strongly on a two -year CAGR basis. Despite high cost, they were heightened further by adverse transactional currency exchange. We clearly are performing well in this region. And while we are somewhat cautious about decelerating at-home demand and further regulatory pressure in the second half, this year is certainly shaping up to be a good one for Kellogg Latin America. And we'll conclude our regional discussion with AMEA in slide number 31. AMEA produced another quarter of exceptional organic net sales growth, both on a one-year and two -year CAGR basis.Both volume and price/mix contributed to the strong year-on-year growth. Geographically, the growth was broad-based and driven by emerging markets. It was led by double-digit gains in Africa. Within Africa, we experienced notably exceptional growth in Nigeria. Our business there has been dependently in growth for a long time, and its recent acceleration and momentum has been impressive. Meanwhile, we also generated good growth elsewhere in Africa and in the Middle East. We generated double-digit organic net sales growth in Asia as well, and the gains were broad-based across markets like India, Japan and Korea, and the growth came from both snacks and cereal. Even in developed market, Australia, our sales were roughly flat against last year's surge. AMEA's operating profit growth was also outstanding in Q2, growing 25% year-on-year.So AMEA continues to demonstrate strong momentum, and while we would not expect it to keep up this exceptional rate of growth, it is very clearly a dependable growth driver for us. Allow me to wrap up with a brief summary on slide number 33. We have completed another quarter of strong execution and performance, capping a first half that featured the following: Underlying business momentum, driven by our biggest brands; unlocking capacity so we can resume full commercial activity in certain products; sustained growth momentum in emerging markets; leveraging enhanced capabilities from data and analytics, to innovation, to ESG; strong cash flow and balance sheet, providing financial flexibility and increased cash to shareowners; a continuation of balanced financial delivery; and an affirmation of our full year guidance, as top line momentum helps offset the impact of higher cost pressures and global supply chain obstacles.As I mentioned earlier, the current business environment is anything but business as usual. In addition to the challenges of ensuring our employees' safety, we and the entire economy are wrestling with tight supply of materials, freight and labor as well as the related rise in their costs. We managed through this environment very effectively in the first half, and we affirm guidance today with confidence that we will continue to manage through it in the second half. We remain as convinced as ever that we are stronger today as a company. So before closing, I want to thank our Kellogg employees for their dedication and hard work in what have been incredibly challenging circumstances.And with that, we'd be happy to take any questions you might have.