  OperatorGood morning, and welcome to the Vornado Realty Trust fourth quarter 2021 earnings call. My name is Richard, and I'll be your operator for today's call. This call is being recorded for replay purposes. [Operator instructions] I will now turn the call over to Mr. Steven Borenstein, senior vice president and corporation counsel. Please go ahead.Steven Borenstein -- Senior Vice President and Corporation Counsel

 



 Welcome to Vornado Realty Trust fourth quarter earnings call. Yesterday afternoon, we issued our fourth quarter earnings release and filed our annual report on Form 10-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These documents as well as our supplemental financial information package are available on our website, www.vno.com under the investor relations section. In these documents, and during today's call, we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included in our earnings release, Form 10-K and financial supplement. Please be aware that statements made during this call may be deemed forward-looking statements, and actual results may differ materially from these statements due to a variety of risks, uncertainties and other factors. Please refer to our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021 for more information regarding these risks and uncertainties. The call may include time-sensitive information that may be accurate only as of today's date.The company does not undertake a duty to update any forward-looking statements. On the call today from management for our opening comments are Steven Roth, chairman and chief executive officer, and Michael Franco, president and chief financial officer. Our senior team is also present and available for questions. I will now turn the call over to Steven Roth. Steven Roth -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thanks, Steve, and good morning, everyone. By any measure, Vornado just reported an outstanding industry-leading quarter at the head of the class of our industry peers. Comparable FFO for the quarter -- for the fourth quarter increased 19.1% from last year's fourth quarter. Companywide same-store cash NOI for the fourth quarter increased 10.1% from last year's fourth quarter. Same-store cash NOI from our New York business for the fourth quarter increased 11.3% from last year's fourth quarter. Companywide, we leased 2.9 million square feet for the year, of which 2.5 million square feet was in New York, where our leasing teams landed the second and third largest office leases and the second largest retail lease. For the quarter, we leased 1,036,000 square feet company wide, of which 1,008,000 square feet was in New York. You will hear more about our leasing activity in Michael Franco's comments shortly. New York office cash starting rents were $83 for the year and $88 for the quarter. New York office cash mark-to-markets were a positive 10.8% for the year and a positive 29.1% for the quarter. Importantly, our triple-digit Madison Square Garden anchor lease at PENN2 and our current leasing successes at PENN 1 validate our Penn District program. Here's a short update on the Penn District. The acclaimed Moynihan Train Hall is open to the public. Our leasing -- our retail leasing in the train hall is nearly complete with 36, I'm sorry, pardon me, with 26 leases executed. The doubling in width and doubling in height of the Long Island Railroad concourse is scheduled to be completed by year-end. We own the retail on both sides of the LIRR Concourse, all of which base was vacated to accommodate the construction.

 



 We are now finalizing with over 30 retailers for that space, many of them food-oriented at terms that are better than pre-COVID levels. And formally, we have turned over all of Facebook's 730,000 square feet to them for tenant fit-out. At PENN 1, our grand new lobby and multi-floor amenity offerings are largely completed and open. Our amenities here are extensive. We believe them to be the largest amenity package in the city by far, and unique, tailored to the demographic of our workforce and is receiving rave reviews from tenants and brokers. After all, we are in the hospitality business, and that means pleasing our tenants and pleasing their employees. On the seventh floor of PENN 1, our experience at leasing center is open and busy. This 14,000 square foot facility complete with multiple scale models and flow sealing wall-to-wall videos vividly illustrates and brings to life our vision and plans for the buildings, restaurants, retail, amenities, lifestyle, and work style that the Penn District will become. At PENN2, we are, give or take, 25% into construction. Our construction operations in the Penn District span three full blocks, 31st Street to 34th Street along the west side of Seventh Avenue. In a few short months, everything in our Penn District will be -- will come to life, as shiny modern curtain wall continues to be erected on the PENN2 facades as steel is erected giving shape to the massive two-block long bustle, an architectural statement and scale and substance that will announce the entrance to Pennsylvania Station, Madison Square Garden and our office building. And as the Hotel Penn across the street begins to come down, daylighting that unique site. My excitement and conviction about our Penn District grows quarter-by-quarter. I still believe that a winning strategy is to allow investors to choose between the high-growth development-oriented Penn District or our other pretty terrific in their own right, Class 8 traditional core assets or both. Nonetheless, we have decided to pause the execution of a separation by tracker. This is a purely internal transaction with no counter-party or deadline, and I believe a delay until COVID is resolved and New York has returned unmasked to the office is appropriate and warranted. A word about our retail business. The Manhattan retail market has definitely bottomed, and activity is accelerated. For 2021, our retail cash NOI was $160.8 million, blowing away our guidance of $135 million. Further, we are increasing our 2022 retail cash NOI guidance by $15 million from $160 million to $175 million. While we own a very large and very important trophy quality asset in each of San Francisco and Chicago, Vornado is primarily a Manhattan-centric company. As we interact with our tenants, other occupiers and market participants our conviction about Manhattan's future performance, importance and even dominance is stronger than ever. Case in point, Manhattan has become the second home of all of the tech giants, specifically the New West side, and they continue to grow here. With inflation on the top of de jure, I should point out that replacement costs for New York office buildings is rising pretty aggressively. I submit that replacement cost has always been a leading indicator for telling that our existing stock of office building will be increasing in value. In the same vein, the Manhattan residential market is, I believe, also a leading indicator. It went from 100% occupancy pre-COVID down to 70% at the height of COVID and is now back to 100% at higher than pre-COVID rents, by the way, as New Yorkers have returned, restaurants are full and standing remotely. So the city is full, but office buildings not so much. That last domino will be when employers and employees resolve hybrid work schedules, and the office districts are again teaming with activity, and I submit that will come sooner than you think. That concludes my remarks. Now to Michael.Michael Franco -- President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Steve, and good morning, everyone. As Steve mentioned, we had an outstanding quarter and a strong year. Fourth quarter comparable FFO as adjusted was $0.81 per share compared to $0.68 for last year's fourth quarter, an increase of $0.13 or 19%. And for the year, comparable FFO was $2.86 per share, up $0.24 or 9% from 2020. We have provided a quarter-over-quarter bridge in our earnings release on Page 4 and in our financial supplement on Page 8. We have several noncomparable items in the quarter, primarily 1290 Avenue of the Americas, defeasance costs and a TRS noncash deferred tax liability partially offset by 220 Central Park South gains, which in total reduced FFO by $0.08 per share. As we look ahead, we are expecting another strong year in 2022, with double-digit percentage FFO per share growth driven primarily by previously signed leases in both office and retail, particularly Facebook at Farley, and the continued recovery of our variable businesses. With respect to our variable businesses, we continued to see a recovery in the fourth quarter. Our dominant signs in Times Square in the Penn District continue to attract disproportionate demand and have healthy signage bookings. BMS continue to perform near prepandemic levels. A number of trade shows have successfully taken place, albeit with lower attendance, primarily due to travel restrictions. And finally, we still expect our garages to be fully back in 2022. Other than Hotel Penn's income, we still expect to recover most of the income from our variable businesses in 2022 with the full return in 2023. Companywide, same-store cash NOI for the fourth quarter increased by a strong 10.1% over the prior year's fourth quarter. Our core New York Office business was up 8.5% and our retail same-store cash NOI was up 32.3%, primarily due to the rent commencement on new leases at 595 Madison Avenue, 4 Union Square South, 770 Broadway and 689 Fifth Avenue. Our New York occupancies also continue to recover nicely. Our office occupancy ended the quarter at 92.2%, up 60 basis points from the third quarter and 110 basis points from the trough in the second quarter. Retail occupancy ended the quarter at 80.7%, up 350 basis points from the third quarter. We expect further improvement in both occupancies by year-end 2022 based on our deal pipeline and modest 2022 office exploration schedule. Now turning to leasing markets. The New York office leasing market continues to strengthen and show resilience in this period of change, supported by strong economic and private sector job growth. Quarter-over-quarter sustained leasing momentum led to total volume in 2021 of 25 million square feet by far the highest level since the start of the pandemic. Tenant demand continues to surge, especially from technology and financial services users. And importantly, these companies are committing to long-term leases as they map out their futures. Tour activity has returned to prepandemic levels with lots of deals in the works. Most industry experts are forecasting market rent occupancy improvement in 2022 with pent-up demand building as more employers get off the sidelines and into the market. The office market's recent performance is completely centered on flight to quality as the highest quality properties are clearly winning. Tenants are strongly attracted to transit-oriented properties with state-of-the-art systems, amenity-rich programming, outdoor space, and health and wellness features along with food and beverage offerings. And importantly, they are happy to pay for quality and value as it's more important than ever to CEOs that they be an appealing and engaging workspaces to attract and retain their employees. JLL reports that in 2021, an all-time high 164 leases comprised of 3.4 million square feet were signed at $100-plus starting rents. Our leasing team led the market here with 831,000 square feet or 25% of these deals, including the largest deal in this class for the second year in a row. Our lease with MSG at PENN2 follows in the footsteps of 2020's largest trophy transaction with Facebook at Farley. We expect this trend to continue, which bodes well for rental growth for our high-quality assets. Overall, we continue to outperform the market as is evident from our statistics, and think it is worth underscoring our leasing accomplishments during the pandemic over the past 24 months. 4.48 million square feet leased, starting rent of $85 per square foot, mark-to-markets of 8.6% cash and GAAP of 14.1%, and average lease term of nearly 13 years. We executed on a number of large important leases during this time frame: Facebook, 730,000 feet; NYU, 633,000 feet; Interpublic, 513,000 feet; Madison Square Garden, 428,000 feet; Apple, 336,000 feet; and Clear Secure, 119,000 feet. In 2021, our office leasing performance was comprised of 98 transactions for more than 2.2 million square feet total, with initial starting rents of $83 per square foot and an average lease term of 11 years. Moreover, cash and GAAP mark-to-markets were strong at 10.8% and 15.9%, respectively. 38% of this activity were trophy transactions at triple-digit rents. During the fourth quarter, we completed 23 leases totaling 954,000 square feet. Our average starting rent during the quarter was $88 per square foot. Cash mark-to-market was 29%, GAAP mark-to-market was 39% and average lease term was 14 years, all very, very strong figures. The Madison Square Garden lease is another major milestone for us in the Penn District and validates our program to take rents from the...Steven Borenstein -- Senior Vice President and Corporation Counsel Richard? 