  OperatorGood morning. My name is Steven, and I will be your conference facilitator today. I would like to welcome everyone to the UPS investor relations first-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to your host, Mr. Scott Childress, investor relations officer. Sir, the floor is yours.Scott Childress -- Investor Relations Officer Good morning, and welcome to the UPS first-quarter 2021 earnings call. Joining me today are Carol Tome, our CEO, and Brian Newman, our CFO. Before we begin, I want to remind you that some of the comments we'll make today are forward-looking statements within the federal securities laws and address our expectation for the future performance or operating results of our company. These statements are subject to risk and uncertainty, which are described in detail in our 2020 Form 10-K and other reports we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These reports, when filed, are available on the UPS investor relations website and from the SEC. For the first quarter of 2021, GAAP results include a net benefit of $2.4 billion or $2.70 per diluted share, comprised of an after-tax mark-to-market pension benefit of $2.5 billion and an after-tax transformation and other charges of $140 million. The mark-to-market pension benefit was primarily driven by the enactment of the American Rescue Plan Act, the resulting elimination of our balance sheet liability related to the Central States Pension Fund, as well as the remeasurement of the UPS IBT Pension Plan at the current discount rate. Together, these reduced our pension liability by $6.4 billion.Unless stated otherwise, our comments will refer to adjusted results, which exclude the mark-to-market pension benefit and transformation and other charges. The webcast of today's call, along with the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures, are available on the UPS investor relations website. Following our prepared remarks, we will take questions from those joining via the teleconference. [Operator instructions] And now, I'll turn the call over to Carol. Carol Tome -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Scott, and good morning, everyone. We are now more than a year into the COVID-19 pandemic, which drove enormous change to how we all live and conduct business. I want to thank our more than 540,000 UPSers for continuing to deliver what matters and for serving our customers, communities and each other. Looking at the first quarter. Our results exceeded our expectations, driven by an improving macro environment and great execution by our team. Consolidated revenue in the quarter rose 27% from last year to $22.9 billion, and operating profit grew 164% to $2.9 billion. All of our business segments delivered strong performance in the first quarter. We reported record profits and a double-digit operating margin in our US domestic segment, record first-quarter profit in our international segment and record operating profit and operating margin in supply chain and freight. As shown in our results, our team is advancing our customer first, people-led, innovation-driven strategy under the better, not bigger framework. As we've discussed, customer first is about building capabilities that matter the most to our customers and using those capabilities to capture the best opportunities in the market, like small and medium-sized businesses and healthcare. In the US, the improvements we made last year and continue to make this year to speed up our ground network, enhance our digital access program known as DAP and expand weekend operations. Well, these are taking hold. In fact, during the first quarter, we added nearly 150,000 new DAP accounts, and we are well on our way to hitting our $1 billion DAP revenue target by the end of this year. Further, in the US, total average daily volume growth for SMBs, including our platform businesses, reached an all-time high of 35.6%, outpacing the growth rate of our larger customers for the third consecutive quarter. This mix improvement and certain other revenue quality actions are delivering results with US domestic revenue per piece, up 10.2% in the first quarter. Looking at our international segment. We were able to meet elevated customer demand by leveraging the agility of our network. Export volume grew double digits in all regions. Commercial volume increased 10.1% and SMB average daily volume was up 23% in the first quarter, and we see even more opportunity moving ahead as we expand DAP and other solutions to key international markets. During the quarter, our supply chain and freight segment responded well to market demands. We are on track to complete the divestiture of our UPS freight business by the end of this month and we look forward to our new commercial relationship with TFI. Our focus on the customer includes improving the end-to-end experience. In other words, improving the experience from the shipper to the receiver as both our customers. We've identified a number of customer journeys and candidly pain points that we are addressing. Let me give you an example: Until recently, paying a UPS bill online was a poor customer experience. So we replaced our old homegrown system with a new SaaS application, which we began deploying globally in the first quarter. Once fully implemented, our industry-leading billing solution will make it easy for nearly 2 million global customers to pay and manage their UPS bills. This will be particularly helpful for our SMB customers. Our customer first aspiration is to provide the best digital experience powered by our smart global logistics network. A simplified billing experience is one aspect of this aspiration. Another is the digitization that's occurring within our supply chain and freight segment. We are moving from telephone-based quotes to online quoting. This new digital experience is driving simplification across the entire value chain. We'll talk more about our efforts to improve our customers' experiences during our June investor and analyst day. We know that our customers place high value on the reliability of the UPS network. That's why we led the market by reinstating our service guarantees for US Next-day Air Services and Worldwide Express Services for all origins and destinations. We intend to be the carrier that shippers and receivers can count on for reliable delivery. And as it relates to COVID-19 vaccine, our global expertise, technology and network are enabling us to move vaccines, kits and dry ice over great distances around the world. As of last week, we have delivered more than 1.1 million shipments, about 196 million vaccine doses to about 50 countries and territories and utilized our UPS Premier Service to achieve 99.9% on-time delivery. The combination of our efforts to remove friction in the customer experience provide the digital capabilities that matter most and deliver industry-leading service levels are positioning us for future growth. Further, as we've discussed, market demand is outpacing industry supply and we expect this dynamic to continue for the foreseeable future. GDP forecasts are being revised higher, economies are reopening and US consumer spending is being boosted by government stimulus programs. This demand/supply imbalance creates an environment where pricing in the industry should remain firm. Brian will cover more of our economic outlook in his remarks. People-led is an important part of our strategy. Our success in the first quarter was due to the commitment of our people and the strength of our culture. Every UPSer has a role to play in supporting our customers. We've hired a lot of new UPSers, so we know we need to focus on employee safety and training. In the US, we have reimagined our driver safety program by truly taking it on the road. We've created mobile units that can be rapidly deployed across the country. These units provide classroom training and a learning lab within movable trailers. Our mobile training, along with other vehicle safety technologies, are making a difference. So far this year, we've improved auto accident frequency by 2.1% globally. And we will continue to advance our employee safety programs around the world. Moving to innovation-driven. Over the past several years, we have invested in automation, introduced new technology and open new facilities. We are now starting to reap productivity benefits from these investments. The additional flexibility we've gained in the network enables us to be more responsive to changes in demand and be more efficient. In fact, in the first quarter compared to last year, productivity improved in nearly all major operating categories. But we have more to do. We aim to make productivity a virtuous cycle, not just a transformation project. We are laser-focused on operational excellence. And we'll share more details about our efforts here during our conference. Let me take a moment to touch on one of our five core principles, which is maintaining a strong balance sheet and credit rating. We have made great strides in this area by reducing financial leverage and improving share owners' equity. Brian will share the details on this in a moment. Our strategy is gaining traction and we see even more opportunities ahead. We look forward to sharing the details with you at our upcoming investor and analyst day. And now I'll turn the call over to Brian.Brian Newman -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Carol, and good morning. In my comments today, I will cover four areas, starting with macroeconomic trends, then our first-quarter results. Next, I'll review cash and share owner returns. And lastly, I'll wrap up with some comments on our outlook and the new Pension Reform Law. OK. Let's start with the macro and how it is projected to unfold. Global GDP in the first quarter is expected to finish up 3.5% and US GDP is expected to be up 0.2%. Both have shown significant improvement over the fourth quarter of 2020. Key economic indicators continue to support a strong recovery in 2021. Forecasts are moving higher based on three factors. First is the progress with the global vaccine rollout. Second is a low US inventory to sales ratio, which ran between 1.4 and 1.5 for the three years prior to COVID. It is currently down about 18% from historic averages, at a time when a number of economies are starting to reopen. And third is the passage of the most recent US government stimulus. According to IHS, for the full year, global GDP is now expected to grow 5.3% and US GDP is expected to grow 6.2%. In the US, full-year nominal retail sales are anticipated to grow 11.7% and electronic sales and mail orders, the proxy we use for online sales, are expected to be up 12.7%, following growth of 24.7% in 2020. The outlook for the commercial side of the US economy is also encouraging. Full-year industrial production is forecasted to grow 6.5% on a year-over-year basis. We view these projections as favorable for our company and expect the imbalance between market demand and industry capacity to continue, as Carol mentioned. Moving to our first-quarter performance. Consolidated revenue increased 27% to $22.9 billion. Operating profit totaled $2.9 billion, 164% higher than last year. Consolidated operating margin expanded to 12.9%, which is our best consolidated margin in 18 quarters, and diluted earnings per share was up $2.77, up 141% from the same period last year. Now, let's take a look at the segments. In US domestic, our success was due to a combination of our revenue quality initiatives and the impact of our productivity efforts running the network. Average daily volume increased 12.8% year over year to a total of 20.4 million packages per day. Additionally, mix continued to be positive. SMB volume growth, including platforms, accelerated for the fourth consecutive quarter, reaching 35.6% and accounted for 63% of our total average daily volume increase. Both SMBs and our larger customers grew residential shipments across air and ground products. Overall, B2C shipments increased 23.8% year over year. Conversely, B2B average daily volume declined 0.6% year over year. Health care and automotive remain bright spots and delivered mid-single-digit B2B growth, yet they were unable to offset weakness in other commercial segments. Total B2B volume strengthened late in the quarter with March turning positive. For the quarter, US domestic generated revenue of $14 billion, up 22.3%, driven by average daily volume growth and improvements in revenue per piece. We were extremely pleased with our revenue quality efforts, which were driven by strong SMB average daily volume growth and demand-related surcharges. As a result of our actions, reported revenue per piece grew 10.2% year over year with ground revenue per piece up 12.5%. Turning to costs. Expenses were up 13.5%. Cost per piece rose 2.2%, driven primarily by two factors: our fastest ground ever; and weekend initiatives and planned benefit expense increases. Nando and his team did an outstanding job transitioning the network from fourth-quarter peak back into nonpeak operations. This enabled us to control unnecessary cost and make productivity improvements across the network. And building on Carol's comments about reducing accident frequency, our efforts to prevent incidents through additional safety training, technology and analytics enabled lower than expected casualty self-insurance costs in the first quarter. Most notably in the quarter, revenue growth was significantly above expense growth, which generated positive operating leverage. So in summary, the US domestic segment delivered $1.5 billion in operating profit, an increase of $1.1 billion, or 265% compared to last year, and operating margin expanded to 10.4%. Moving over to international. The results were excellent, and our performance demonstrates the flexibility of our network to match global air capacity with demand. Volume growth was very strong, with total average daily volume up 23.1%. We saw growth across customer segments with both larger customers and SMBs growing over 20%. To support outbound Asia demand, we added 25% more flights and even more in terms of capacity because of our 747-8 capabilities. Asia export volume was up 43%, Europe exports were up 27.7%, and overall, total exports grew 26.2% on a year-over-year basis. B2C average daily volume grew 77.6%, while B2B was up 10.1% driven by the retail, high-tech and automotive sectors. For the quarter, international revenue was up 36.2% to $4.6 billion, with all regions growing revenue over 20%. We generated strong operating leverage in the quarter with revenue per piece up 12.3% and cost per piece up 2.7% year over year. For the first quarter, international delivered operating profit of $1.1 billion, an increase of 95.5% and operating margin expanded to 23.7%. Looking at supply chain and freight. Revenue increased 34.3% to $4.3 billion, and the segment generated record profit and operating margin. Market demand was elevated and nearly all business units had revenue and profit growth. Forwarding led the way, driven by strong growth on the outbound Asia lane for both air and ocean. And healthcare activities delivered the highest top and bottom line growth ever. Growth was broad-based from biopharma and biologics, as well as implantable medical device and lab customers, all while providing near perfect service during the quarter for COVID-19 vaccine deliveries. In the first quarter, supply chain and freight generated operating profit of $395 million and operating margin was 9.2%. Walking through the rest of the income statement. We had $177 million of interest expense. Other pension income was $313 million. And lastly, our effective tax rate came in at 21.6% due to discrete items. Now let's turn to cash and share owner returns. Our focus on bottom line results drove strong cash flow in the quarter. We generated $4.5 billion in cash from operations, Free cash flow for the period was $3.7 billion, a 130% increase year over year. And lastly, so far this year, UPS has distributed $938 million in dividends. Moving to our outlook for 2021. We recognize there is still uncertainty ahead related to the pandemic and other factors that could interrupt the recovery, so we are not providing revenue or diluted earnings per share guidance at this time. As Carol mentioned, we expect the sale of UPS freight to close during the second quarter, and today, we are reaffirming our capital allocation plans. To that end, we still expect capital expenditures to be about $4 billion. We have no plans to repurchase shares at this time, and our effective tax rate for the remainder of the year is expected to be around 23.5%. We repaid $1.5 billion of long-term debt maturities in the first quarter. And in early April, we repaid another $1 billion in debt, achieving our 2021 target of $2.5 billion in debt repayment. And lastly, on March 11, the American Rescue Plan Act was signed into law. This law protects certain multiemployer pension plans from becoming insolvent through 2051. And, in turn, eliminates our balance sheet liability for potential coordinating benefits related to the Central States Pension Fund. The passage of the law triggered us to remeasure the UPS IBT pension plan at current discount rates, which have significantly increased since year-end. The result was a $6.4 billion reduction in our pension liability. Additional information is available in the appendix section of today's earnings presentation. As Carol mentioned, a strong balance sheet is a core UPS principle, and we are absolutely moving in a positive direction. The reduction in pension liability and debt repayments have reduced our long-term obligations by $7.9 billion. Combined with our improving business performance, our leverage ratios have significantly improved. In closing, we are laser-focused on executing our strategy and look forward to sharing more with you at our June 9th investor and analyst day. Thank you, and operator, please open the lines. 