  OperatorGood afternoon. My name is Alex, and I will be your conference operator today. I would like to welcome everyone to Starbucks second quarter fiscal year 2022 conference call. [Operator instructions] I will now turn the call over to Tiffany Willis, vice president of investor relations. Ms. Willis, you may now begin your conference.Tiffany Willis -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



 Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us to discuss Starbucks' second quarter fiscal year 2022 results. Today's discussion will be led by Howard Schultz, interim chief executive officer; Belinda Wong, chairwoman of Starbucks China; Brady Brewer, executive vice president and chief marketing officer; and Rachel Ruggeri, executive vice president and chief financial officer. And for Q&A, we will be joined by John Culver, group president of North America and chief operating officer; Michael Conway, group president of international and channel development; and Adam Brotman, strategic advisor on digital innovation. This conference call will include forward-looking statements, which are subject to various risks and uncertainties that can cause our actual results to differ materially from these statements. Any such statements should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements in our earnings release and risk factors discussed in our filings with the SEC, including our latest annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q. Starbucks assumes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements or information. GAAP results in second quarter fiscal year 2022 include several items related to strategic actions, including restructuring and impairment charges, transaction and integration costs and other items. These items are excluded from our non-GAAP results.All numbers referenced on today's call are on a non-GAAP basis, unless otherwise noted. For non-GAAP financial measures mentioned in today's call, please refer to the earnings release and our website at investor.starbucks.com to find a reconciliation of those non-GAAP measures to their corresponding GAAP measures. This conference call is being webcast, and an archive of the webcast will be available on our website through Friday, June 3, 2022. For calendar planning purposes, please note that our third quarter fiscal year 2022 earnings conference call has been tentatively scheduled for Tuesday, August 2, 2022. And with that, allow me to turn the call over to Howard. 

 



Howard Schultz -- Interim Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Tiffany. Love and responsibility brought me back to Starbucks. My love of the company and my deep responsibility for our partners and shareholders. In the month I've been back, I've traveled the country and met with thousands of Starbucks retail store partners and visited all five of our roasting plants, and I've learned firsthand about the unique challenges confronting the company today. I've also experienced the passionate relationship our partners have with the company and the enduring emotional connection our customers have to the Starbucks brand. COVID presented unprecedented operating challenges to consumer brands. COVID also drove dramatic changes in customer behavior that Starbucks stores and systems were not designed or built for. The challenges have been amplified by record demand for Starbucks coffee in our U.S. stores that has accelerated with the lifting of COVID restrictions. Our Q2 results tell the story. In Q2, our sales comp in North America grew 12% over last year, 23% compared to Q2 2020. Both drive-thru and Mobile Order & Pay activity have surged, together now generating over 70% of our U.S.

 



 store volume. Delivery, a nearly $500 million business, was up 30% in the first half of fiscal year. And in our stores, customers are increasingly further customizing already complex handcrafted cold beverages. The combination of shifts and customer patterns, accelerating demand and algorithms built for different customer behaviors has placed tremendous strain on our U.S. store partners. Ordinarily, we would have anticipated and invested ahead of the shifts we're seeing, but COVID disruptions interfered with our ability to make the required investments in store design, operations, infrastructure and technology to do so. As a result, we've been unable to meet the relentless demand we're seeing in our U.S. stores as seamlessly as our customers and partners expect and candidly deserve. Simply said, we do not, today, have the adequate capacity to meet the growing demand for Starbucks coffees. Going forward, we will be making investments in our partners and business to literally catch up on investments we have not made and make further investments to position the company ahead of the coming growth curve. We will also be accelerating our new store growth with 90% of new stores being high-returning drive-throughs. Our newest class of drive-throughs will integrate new store designs, technology, including more handheld devices and equipment improvements that will increase efficiency, speed of service, and, we believe, deliver even greater profitability in the future. We will then incorporate the new technologies and equipment into our existing stores and provide our people with the tools and resources they need to elevate the Starbucks Experience we deliver to our customers and create even more demand in the future. And we'll be making significant investments to extend our digital capabilities and deepen our digital connection to customers and the emotional attachment our customers have to the Starbucks brand. Returns on our digital investments are consistently among the highest returns we generate, which brings us to the decision we will revisit in fiscal '23 to suspend stock buybacks. Buying back stock yields us, on average, about a 10% return. With Starbucks' treasure trove of global assets, a 10% return is not satisfactory to me. Throughout our history, the investments we have made in our people and business have always delivered outsized returns to our shareholders. We're so eager to show off our pipeline of disruptive innovation that we're moving our Investor Day up to September in Seattle from December in New York. With significant innovation around technology and personalization we will reveal our industry game-changers that will further increase store productivity and efficiency. What you will see is the coming transformation and reimagination of the Starbucks customer and partner experiences. The transformation will accelerate already record demand in our stores, but the investments will enable us to handle the increased demand and deliver increased profitability, while also delivering an elevated experience to our customers and most importantly, reducing strain on our partners. We must reintroduce joy in the customer and emotional connection back into the partner experience. We've identified over $200 million of investment that's incremental to the significant investments we've already committed to in our U.S. company-operated stores this year. These include further investments in training, wage and equipment and new investments in internal communication with our people, where we will launch a new partner app to communicate directly with all store partners. We will also be reaffirming our commitment to coffee excellence and partner education by reintroducing our Black Apron, Coffee Master and Origin Trip programs. And in 2023, we will introduce enhanced digital tipping for our partners. We believe these investments will improve retention and recruiting and elevate the experience we deliver to our partners and our customers. Over the last month, we've realigned Starbucks U.S. organization to focus entirely on transforming and reimagining our core U.S. business. Belinda Wong will share plans for accelerated growth in China as soon as COVID-related mobility restrictions there are lifted. And make no mistake, our aspirations around China have never been greater and I remain convinced Starbucks' business in China will be eventually larger than our business in the U.S. We have a big breakthrough idea around the launch of Starbucks Web 3.0 and a unique platform for NFTs that Brady Brewer and Adam Brotman, architect of Mobile Order & Pay and the Starbucks digital app, who is serving as a special advisor to us, will shortly tell you about. I believe Web 3.0 will create an authentic digital third place experience and drive substantial new revenue streams for Starbucks and be accretive to the brand. Our Web 3.0 strategy is a proxy for the greater ambition we have for the company going forward. Despite the fact that post COVID, our customers are not using our stores the same way, and we've been operationally challenged as a result, our national retail footprint and best-in-class real estate portfolio is still enabling us to meet customers wherever they are and irrespective of their needs state. This relentless demand we're seeing in our stores today underscores this reality. Looking ahead, try to imagine thousands of vastly more productive and efficient Starbucks stores reconfigured to align with today's customer behavior and built around technology that will deliver increased speed of service, improved labor management and reduced unit cost, an elevated partner and customer experience. Now imagine the accretive impact to our financials when we reengineer our stores to deliver what we're capable of in delivering and arming our people with the tools and resources they need to once again exceed our customers' expectations. From my perspective, I understand what's needed, and I'm back to lead this transformation and committed to seeing it through. Starbucks sits alone with something few, if any, of our peers literally have, and that is unmet demand. Companies spend hundreds of millions of dollars on marketing, promotions and social media trying to create demand. We have demand everywhere we look, despite having not lived up to the expectations we set for ourselves, let alone exceeding the expectations of our customers and our people since the pandemic. The big opportunity ahead for us is to meet strong and growing demand in our stores more efficiently and effectively and to leverage technology to enhance productivity and reduce burden on our store partners. Let me highlight just a few sources of the accelerating demand we're seeing in our U.S. stores and business. Mobile Order & Pay, an over $4 billion business, is up 400% in five years, is up 20% over last year. Our $500 million delivery business is up 30% over last year. The Starbucks Card puts our brand in the hands of nearly 120 million people and is alone larger than the entire gift card category. Starbucks customers are increasingly prepaying for their purchases in huge volumes, roughly $11 billion last year, and we are on track to exceed that figure this year. At this moment, well over $1 billion is loaded on Starbucks Cards waiting to be spent in our stores. And active Starbucks Rewards membership in the U.S. grew 17% over last year to Q2 to 27 million members. Strong underlying demand means the productivity and efficiency investments I've described represent literally low-hanging fruit available to us right now. In every sense, Starbucks remains a growth company today and will remain a growth company into the future. Two related dynamics underscore the power of the equity of the Starbucks brand and support our growth aspirations: consistent pricing power and strong demand for Starbucks products in CPG channels. Over the last year, we raised prices several times to address increasing inflationary pressures. Yet, we experienced negligible customer attrition, once again demonstrating the elasticity of demand for Starbucks coffee. Even so, inflationary pressures have outpaced our price increases, resulting in several points of margin compression in the short term and costing us over 200 basis points in the first half of the fiscal year. In Q2, we were able to absorb the incremental cost while still delivering on our EPS expectations. In our channels business, Starbucks today has the No. 1 share in the U.S. at coffee and the No. 1 share in global ready-to-drink coffee. Customer loyalty inside and outside our stores has never been greater. You have to ask yourself how many retail companies have a consumer brand that is best of class and literally the No. 1 position in grocery and in multiple channels of distribution. You'd be hard-pressed to find any. I could not be more optimistic or confident in the successful transformation and reimagination of our store partner and customer experiences. Let me turn to China. I cannot think of any other Western consumer brand, let alone a food and beverage retailer, that has performed, as well as us in China over the last 20 years. I say that with great pride having been to China so often, building confidence, trust and respectful relationships with government officials and working closely with our Chinese team. However, the situation in China is unprecedented. Shanghai, a city four times the size of New York City, is completely locked down. Other major cities, including Beijing, are experiencing new COVID outbreaks and implementing new mobility restrictions pursuant to China's strict zero-COVID policy. Conditions in China are such that we have virtually no ability to predict our performance in China in the back half of the year. Given the materiality and the high level of ongoing uncertainty around China, accelerating inflation and the significant investments we are planning, the only responsible course of action for us to take is to suspend guidance for Q3 and Q4. As we move through Q3 and approach September's Investor Day, we will have much greater visibility on Q4, holiday and fiscal '23, and be in a position to share details around our comprehensive post-COVID China plan with you. I'm very pleased with the growth we're seeing from our international business. Excluding China, our International segment grew comps in the double digits in the quarter, stronger than anticipated, demonstrating the strength of our diversified portfolio and the opportunity ahead. Even including the impact of China, our International segment still grew 4% in the quarter over last year to a record $1.7 billion. Our international store base grew 9% over last year to over 17,700 stores. 15% of that growth was in licensed markets. We expect 75% of the net new stores we will open in fiscal '22 to be outside the U.S., further underscoring the enormous global and the opportunity ahead. Now let me turn to a subject in the news. Across America, there is a movement in the media and across multiple industries, including the service sector, whereby fellow citizens have begun turning to labor unions as a means of gaining voice, representation and improved working conditions. This movement is not related to any specific company. We are highly emphatic to the root causes of the frustration and anxieties that Gen Z Americans are facing, having come of age during turbulent moments in our history: the 2008 Global Financial Crisis, The Great Recession and now The Global Coronavirus Pandemic. These young people have completely valid concerns given today's uncertainty and economic instability. They look around and they see the burgeoning labor movement as a possible remedy to what they are feeling. I understand the climate, and I'm deeply sensitive to the needs of all of our Green Apron partners. Yet, we have a very different and vastly more positive vision for our company based on listening, connecting and collaborating directly with our people. Throughout our history at Starbucks, we have led our industry, and in many cases, corporate America, in introducing breakthrough benefits for our people. Aon Hewitt, the gold standard in benefits, rates Starbucks in the 100th percentile in the retail sector, the 100th percentile, including from part-time workers who want stability and flexibility to achieve their future aspirations. That means no retail company in America ranks above Starbucks for the benefits we provide our people. We are proud of our history and leadership in wages and benefits, and we are committed to doing even more to meet the evolving needs of our Starbucks partners in the future. Sharing success through wins and benefits with our partners is among our core values, and has been for 50 years, and our values are not and never have been the result of demands or interference from any outside entity. It's who we are, it's who we have been and who we always will be. Compare any union contract in our sector to the constantly expanding list of wages and benefits we have provided our people for decades and the union contract will not even come close to what Starbucks offers. We remain committed to doing the right thing for each and every Starbucks partner and that includes respect for differing opinions, inclusion and embracing diversity and individuality. Today, we take further steps to modernize our pay and benefits vision for our partners with further investments in wage, barista skills training, coffee excellence and financial wellness and literacy. And in September, we will share additional initiatives we are planning for Starbucks partners in areas that include help with student loan refinancing, additional skills recognition programs enhanced in-app tipping and new profit-haring initiatives. Partners at Starbucks U.S. company-operated stores, where we have the right to unilaterally make these changes, will receive these wages and benefit enhancements. This covers more than 240,000 Starbucks partners and roughly 8,800 Starbucks stores across the country. We do not have the same freedom to make these improvements at locations that have a union or where union organizing is underway. Partners in those stores will receive the wages increases that were announced in October 21, but Federal law prohibits us from promising new wages and benefits at stores involved in union organizing. And by law, we cannot implement unilateral changes at stores that have a union. Where Starbucks is required to engage in collective bargaining, we will negotiate in good faith. Starbucks will not favor or discriminate against any partner based on union issues. And we will respect the right of Starbucks partners to make their own decisions when exercising these rights. A question I get asked frequently is how long are you going to stay? So let me try and pre-empt it here. I've just framed the enthusiasm and the optimism I have for our transformation plan going forward. We have line of sight on what the transformation looks like and how meaningfully our plan will benefit the company and our people as together we co-create and reimagine the future chapters of Starbucks' storied history. The plan I shared is being designed mindfully and strategically and will be executed successfully. This I can assure you. The board and I have agreed I will stay to help transition our next leader. We are driving toward naming the new leader in the fall. After joining the company, he or she will undergo full immersion and have the opportunity to collaborate with me for a defined but not indefinite period. The plan is for me to completely hand over the CEO reins sometime in the first calendar quarter of '23 and to thereafter remain on the Starbucks board. Over the last 50 years, we have built Starbucks into one of the most recognized and respected brands in the world. And we have delivered best-in-class returns to our shareholders since being a public company in 1992. The investments in our people and our company we discuss today will absolutely assure that despite our success in the past, our best days are ahead. We're looking forward to demonstrating what's ahead and the enthusiasm we have to sharing that with you on our Investor Day in September. And with that, I'll turn the call over to Belinda. Belinda?Belinda Wong -- Chairman, Starbucks China Thank you, Howard. While we are into the third year of navigating through COVID in China, in Q2, we encountered the most severe resurgence of the virus to date. 72% of the 225 cities we're in experienced Omicron outbreaks, including Shanghai and Shenzhen. With this more infectious variant, mobility restrictions and lockdowns are imposed faster and relaxed more cautiously. Starbucks' focus since the start of the pandemic has been to protect the health and well-being of our partners and customers, provide support and show up positively in our communities. Our efforts have deepened our connection to customers and made our partners proud. Over the last two years, we have built up muscle and agility to navigate through COVID challenges. With every resurgence, we add new chapters to our China COVID playbook, strengthening our capabilities and resilience. As we moved into Q3 and continuing today, roughly a third of our stores remain temporarily closed or are offering delivery or MOP only. And most of our remaining stores are operating under strict safety protocols that interfere with our traffic and operations. As a result, net revenue in China declined 14% and sales comp declined 20% in Q2 versus last year, after adjusting for the VAT subsidy, all from reduced traffic. We expect an even greater impact on our Q3 results due to the timing of the Shanghai lockdown and a further resurgence of the virus in other cities, including Beijing. We expect mobility restrictions to continue under the country's zero-COVID policy for the foreseeable future. In Q2, we continue to invest to increase our digital connection to customers. As a result, digital mix now represents a record 43% of sales. Our launch of Starbucks Delivers on Meituan in January has driven incrementality and make Starbucks the coffee category leader on third-party delivery platforms. We remain laser-focused on our growth as we manage through short-term challenges. At our China Investor Day in 2018, we shared our aspiration to operate 6,000 stores in China by 2022. Despite years of COVID disruptions, we remain on track to do so, adding 97 net new stores in Q2, with our new stores continuing to deliver best-in-class returns and profitability. We also continue to invest in smart technologies to improve our productivity and efficiency, leverage our scale and deliver an elevated experience to our partners and customers. We're extremely proud that despite COVID challenges, we achieved our highest-ever customer connection score in March. The enduring loyalty and connection our customers have to the Starbucks brand sets us apart from all competitors. Today, one in two coffee consumers in China choose Starbucks over any other coffee retail brand, a huge lead that we have held for years and continue to build upon. Our dreams and aspirations for Starbucks China have never been greater, and I'm incredibly proud of what we have accomplished in China while managing through the pandemic. Our accomplishments are due to the extraordinary dedication and efforts of our 70,000 partners. No coffee retailer in China is better positioned than Starbucks to navigate the current headwinds on or to resume accelerated growth once COVID mobility restrictions are lifted. With that, I'll turn the call over to Brady. Brady?Brady Brewer -- Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer Thank you, Belinda. Starbucks is one of the most sought-after brands in the world. And by engaging deeply with our customers over 50 years, we've amassed a treasure trove of assets, both physical and digital. Just one example being the nearly 27 million active Starbucks Rewards members in the U.S. We're activating these unique brand assets as a catalyst to accelerate the future of Starbucks as a global brand and as a business. From our beginning, we've nurtured human connection and served a fundamental belief that coffee brings us together. We brought this to life in what we've called the third place, a place between home and work, where you could connect and feel a sense of belonging over coffee. Now we are extending the third place concept of Starbucks into a new kind of community. Emerging technologies associated with Web 3, and specifically NFTs, now enable this aspiration and allow us to extend who Starbucks has always been at our core. We are creating the digital third place. To achieve this, we will broaden our framework of what it means for people to be a member of the Starbucks community, adding new concepts such as ownership and community-based membership models that we see developing in the Web 3 space. We will lead by aligning our initiatives with our sustainability commitments, making deliberate choices to build the community on environmentally sustainable Web 3 platforms. Imagine acquiring a new digital collectible from Starbucks, where that product also serves as your access pass to a global Starbucks community, one with engaging content experiences and collaboration all centered around coffee. This community will further strengthen the Starbucks brand, engage our partners and we expect it to be accretive to our business. Starbucks has the history of taking leading-edge technology and innovation and making it accessible and approachable to the mainstream. You've seen it with our digital experiences, whether it was introducing ability to pay with your phone, mobile order or even access WiFi long ago. Starbucks can serve as a bridge to the future for our nearly 100 million customer occasions per week around the world. We'll take our first step toward a digital third place and our broad vision for Web 3 with an anticipated launch in this year. This is just the beginning of an exciting future. Now I'll turn it over to Rachel.Rachel Ruggeri -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Brady, and good afternoon, everyone. As Howard mentioned, Starbucks' performance in Q2 demonstrated strong customer demand across our portfolio despite continuing COVID headwinds. We delivered global revenue of $7.6 billion in Q2, up 15% from the prior year, a second quarter record. Our results were primarily driven by 18% revenue growth in the U.S. and stellar performance across our diverse global portfolio. We are particularly pleased with the strong results in light of the dynamic environment. Q2 consolidated operating margin contracted 300 basis points from the prior year to 13%, primarily due to inflation, which increased over the course of the quarter, significant investments in store partner wages and benefits and reduced traffic in China. The margin contraction was partially offset by pricing in North America. Q2 EPS was $0.59, declining 3% from the prior year, consistent with our expectations. I will now provide some segment highlights for Q2. North America delivered revenue of $5.4 billion in Q2, up 17% from the prior year and also a Q2 record, primarily driven by a 12% increase in comparable store sales comprised of a 7% increase in average ticket and a 5% increase in transactions. Strong performance of new stores over the past 12 months and the accelerated recovery of our licensed stores also contributed to this compelling level of revenue growth. U.S. comparable store sales were 12% despite significant store hour modifications in the early part of the quarter. The sustained momentum across our cold platform and food attached, coupled with the return of winter favorites and newer offerings such as the Pistachio Latte all contributed to these strong results. Our average ticket continued to grow, reaching an all-time high, driven by strategic beverage pricing and another record-breaking quarter of food attach with food sales increasing 25% from the prior year. We continue to engage with customers where and how they prefer, as our drive-through windows, mobile order and delivery channels collectively accounted for 75% of U.S. company-operated sales in Q2. These convenient order channels and compelling product offerings cannot be easily replicated at home. Our customers continue to make Starbucks a part of their daily routine, fueling growth across all dayparts and drive-throughs and cafes with specific strength in suburban and rural areas. Underpinning the enduring demand is our continued focus on digital customer engagement with Starbucks Rewards members delivering 54% of the revenue in our U.S. company-operated stores, the highest level of engagement on record, up 2 percentage points from the prior year. North America's operating margin was 17.2% in Q2, contracting 260 basis points from the prior year due to inflation, investments in labor, including enhanced store partner wages and new partner training, as well as the lapping of prior year government subsidies. These margin headwinds were partially offset by pricing and sales leverage. Throughout the quarter, we executed our plan to offset near-term margin pressures by accelerating price increases, reducing spend in discretionary cost areas and activating throughput initiatives across our operations. These actions helped the company deliver Q2 profitability as planned despite higher-than-expected COVID isolation pay and ongoing inflationary headwinds, which increased considerably over the course of the quarter. Moving on to International. The segment delivered its highest second quarter revenue ever, reaching $1.7 billion, up 4% over the prior year despite the impacts of COVID-19 lockdowns in China. The growth was primarily driven by a 9% increase in net new stores over the past 12 months and strong sales growth from our international licensees, including the conversion of our Korean market to a fully licensed business. Growth was partially offset by an 8% decline in comparable store sales, including a 3% decline attributable to the lapping prior year VAT benefit, as well as a 3% unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation. Excluding the VAT impact, international comparable store sales declined 5%. And excluding China, international comparable store sales increased meaningfully. Shifting to China. As you're aware, and as Belinda discussed, China continues to battle COVID resurgences and navigate through prolonged lockdowns. Although China's comparable store sales improved sequentially in January, traffic lessened considerably in February and March as Omicron cases surged and lockdowns were implemented, leading to a comparable store sales decline of nearly 50% in the last week of March as we exited the quarter. As a result, second quarter comparable store sales declined 23% in the market or 20% excluding an impact of lapping the prior year VAT relief. At the end of Q2, roughly a third of our stores in China remains temporarily closed or offered mobile ordering channels only. A sizable number of these stores were high-volume stores located in Tier 1 cities, including Shanghai, with the balance of active stores operating under elevated COVID safety protocols. Despite the considerable near-term headwinds, we remain focused on executing against our growth strategy in China. As Belinda shared, given our portfolio's healthy fundamentals, expanding digital footprint and record customer connection, coupled with vast opportunity ahead, we remain very optimistic for our future growth in China. Outside of China, the recovery of our international markets gained momentum across our global portfolio in Q2, with many of our licensed markets achieving record revenue levels in the quarter with revenue growth for the segment outside of China reaching 23%, once again demonstrating the underlying health of our business as mobility restrictions subside. Operating margins for the International segment was 13.1% in Q2, down 600 basis points from the prior year, mainly driven by strategic and partner investments lapping higher prior year COVID relief, including government subsidies, as well as higher product and distribution costs from sales mix shift, partially offset by sales leverage across the P&L. Strong performance of our international markets outside of China helped offset the significant sales deleverage in China. As the adverse impact from China lockdowns intensified in the last few weeks of Q2 and amplified further as we entered Q3, we expect China's results to continue to be a headwind throughout the current quarter. Moving on to Channel Development. The segment's revenue grew 25% to $463 million in Q2, primarily driven by growth in the Global Coffee Alliance, as well as the strength in our international ready-to-drink business. The segment continued to amplify the Starbucks brand, led by the growth of our U.S. at-home coffee under the Global Coffee Alliance, which continued to see strong performance driven by Starbucks by Nespresso platform, fueled by the Vertuo line. We had exciting innovation launches in our ready-to-drink business, including Starbucks BAYA Energy in the U.S. and new Chilled Cup offerings in our international markets. The segment's operating margin was 42.7% in Q2, down 400 basis points from the prior year, primarily due to business mix shift driven by growth in the Global Coffee Alliance. Moving on to our guidance for the balance of our fiscal '22 year. Given the uncertainty around further mobility restrictions and lockdowns in China resulting from the government's strict zero-COVID policies, as well as increasing inflationary headwinds, it's become increasingly difficult for us to predict the back half of the year with reasonable accuracy. Thus, as Howard mentioned, we believe the only responsible thing to do is suspend guidance for balance of this fiscal year. However, to provide additional insights, we believe our results for the balance of the year will be significantly pressured with heavier pressure in Q3. From a capital allocation perspective, although we suspended share repurchases for the balance of the fiscal year, we've returned more than $5 billion between share repurchases and our quarterly dividend during the first half of our fiscal year. We expect share repurchases made earlier in the year to contribute at least 1% to our FY '22 EPS growth. We will provide a comprehensive update on our business outlook and our capital allocation commitments for FY '23 and beyond at our Investor Day in September. However, as Howard mentioned, we are confident the investments we are making in our partners, our stores and our brand will deliver significant returns in excess of historical levels, resulting in accelerated long-term growth. To summarize, the two key takeaways from my prepared remarks today. Our Q2 performance underscored the strong customer demand across our business and around the world. We remain committed to the growth opportunity ahead in all channels and markets, creating and delivering exceptional value to all our stakeholders, our partners, our customers and our shareholders long into the future. Once again, the real credit for our success belongs to our Green Apron partners around the world who continue to go above and beyond to deliver an elevated Starbucks Experience every day. That experience drove our growth and will continue to be the heart of our business as we reimagine the future of Starbucks together. With that, Howard, Belinda, Brady and I are happy to take your questions, joined by John Culver, Michael Conway and Adam Brotman. Thank you. Operator? 