
OperatorGood afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Zions Bancorporation Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Results Webcast. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Paul Abbott, Director of Investor Relations.James Abbott -- Senior Vice President-Investor Relations and External Communications

 



Hi. Thank you very much, Christian. It's actually James Abbott, but thank you again. Appreciate it. Good evening, everyone, and we welcome you to this conference call to discuss our 2021 second quarter earnings.I would like to remind you that during this call, we will be making forward-looking statements, although actual results may differ materially. We encourage you to review the disclaimer in the press release or the slide deck on Slide 2 dealing with forward-looking information and the presentation of non-GAAP measures, which apply equally to the statements made during this call. A copy of the earnings release as well as the slide deck we'll use on this call are available at zionsbancorporation.com.For our agenda today, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Harris Simmons, will provide opening remarks, followed by comments from Scott McLean, our President and Chief Operating Officer. Paul Burdiss, our Chief Financial Officer, will conclude by providing additional detail on Zions' financial condition. With us also today are Keith Maio, our Chief Risk Officer; and Michael Morris, our Chief Credit Officer. We intend to limit the length of this call to 1 hour.During the question-and-answer section of the call, we request that you limit your questions to one primary one and a follow-up question, if necessary, to enable other participants to ask questions.

 



With that, I will now turn the time over to Harris.Harris H. Simmons -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerThanks very much, James, and welcome to all of you who joined our call this evening.Let's start on Slide 3. We're really pleased with the overall results of the quarter, particularly on the credit quality front where we experienced net recoveries of previously charged-off loans. We saw loan activity, excluding PPP loans, that was more encouraging and we become somewhat more optimistic about the loan growth prospects for the future.

 



We accelerated the purchases of securities during the quarter resulting in linked quarter growth in that portfolio in an amount that was roughly double that of the prior quarter. And we plan to continue that pace in the near-term. Deposit growth was strong with essentially all of the growth coming from non-interest bearing deposits. And despite the increase in securities purchases, our money market investments increased relative to total assets. We continue to streamline the organization allowing operational expense to remain relatively flat.Finally, we're very pleased to the advancement in our technology platform having rolled out a new consumer interface, both mobile and online banking, which has materially increased the functionality of our consumer digital banking platform.Delivered earnings per share increased to $2.08 per share from $1.90 in the prior quarter. More than $120 million of our allowance for credit loss was released due to improved confidence in the economic outlook. The strong credit quality performance relative to expectations boosted returns -- boosted earnings rather and in turn boosted our capital ratios. Those capital ratios are now particularly strong relative to our risk profile.Earnings were also bolstered by a substantial net unrealized gain on an SBIC investment that went public during the quarter. And we were encouraged to with the relative stability of our non-PPP loans, which declined only 0.1% from the prior quarter. Examining the three major loan categories, our non-PPP commercial loans increased about 0.8%, which is roughly in line with the Federal Reserve's HA data on commercial loans when excluding PPP loans.We continue to exercise caution with commercial real estate loans and several of the property types. As such, that category only increased 0.4%. Our consumer portfolio equals about 20% of total loans and is made up primarily of residential mortgages, which declined 3.1% from the prior quarter. Although it's notable that the rate of attrition in that portfolio slowed as the quarter progressed.Period end deposits increased 3% or $2.3 billion. Non-interest bearing deposits accounted for a remarkable 99.7% of that increase. Since the beginning of the pandemic, our deposits have increased more than $16 billion, which is equivalent to the deposits held at our largest affiliate bank prior to the pandemic. Appropriately managing that magnitude of influx in just 18 months has been one of our highest priorities, which Paul will be addressing in his remarks.Going to Slide 4, it reflects recent earnings per share results along with some notable items on the right that may be of interest. As previously noted, $0.25 per share in the current quarter is the after-tax recognized net gain from an investment in a small business investment company fund. One of the companies within the fund, Recursion Pharmaceuticals, underwent an IPO in April, which we described in our first quarter 10-Q. Additionally, although not shown on the page, the per share value of the reserve release was $0.56.On Slide 5, we highlight the balance sheet profitability metrics. The very strong results were attributable to items that I previously described.As previously noted, another significant highlight for the quarter was the credit quality of the loan portfolio, as illustrated on Slide 6. We continue to see improvements in non-performing loans and net charge-offs when compared with the prior quarter. Although not shown, special mentioned loans declined 26% from the prior quarter and the classified loan balance declined 6%. Overall, we experienced net loan recoveries of 2 basis points of non-PPP loans in the second quarter, declining from 7 basis points of net loan charge-offs in the first quarter. Shown in the chart in the bottom right, one can see the volatility of the provision contrasted with the relative stability of net charge-offs.Turning to Slide 7, our capital levels increased significantly during the pandemic. Our Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio increased to 11.3% from 10% at the beginning of the pandemic. We suspended share repurchases during the most uncertain period of the pandemic, while maintaining our common stock cash dividend.We resumed buybacks in the first quarter repurchasing $50 million of our stock. We increased the amount of buybacks to $100 million in the second quarter. Although it's premature to announce anything today, the company is well positioned to be more active in our capital management.Now, I'm going to turn the time over to Scott McLean, our President and Chief Operating Officer, who's going to update you on the PPP program and our technology initiatives. Scott?Scott J. McLean -- President and Chief Operating OfficerThank you, Harris. And good evening to everyone.Turning to Slide 8. As a precursor to discussing the Paycheck Protection Program or PPP loans, our adjusted pre-provision net revenue was $290 million in the second quarter. This is net of the effects of the previously noted IPO. You'll notice that the bar is split into two portions. The bottom portion of the bar represents what we think are those generally recurring income, while the top portion of the bar denotes the PPNR we've received from PPP loans.Of course, we recognized that income from the source will decline. Nevertheless, our ability to outperform by a factor of 3 times the industry origination of PPP loans has resulted in significant benefits to our communities as well as hundreds of thousands of individuals and families. Of course, our earnings from the PPP program have bolstered profitability during the pandemic and produced capital that ultimately benefits our shareholders. PPNR from the program has equaled $262 million so far. And there remains $137 million in capitalized income that will be realized over time.Turning to Slides 9 and 10, these highlights our oversized performance, noting that we rank 10th overall in origination volume of PPP loans when combining both years' results. Zions colleagues were energized to rise to the challenge of making a difference in our communities during the pandemic. Regarding forgiveness, we're well into the process with $6 billion of applications received and $5.3 billion approved by the SPA. That leaves $4.5 billion of PPP loans on our balance sheet at quarter end. During the second quarter, an additional $2.4 billion was forgiven by the SPA, a moderate increase over the prior quarter's rate, leading to a moderate increase in the yield of the PPP loans.Turning to Slide 10, having noted the positive earnings impact a moment ago, this slide reflects the longer-term lasting benefit. Specifically, as a result of the laser focus of our bankers calling efforts, you see growing relationships with all 77,000 PPP recipients. These customers collectively have also contributed significantly to our deposit growth during the pandemic. More specifically, the round one 14,000 new-to-bank customers, over 50% now appear to be utilizing as per their operating accounts, a percentage that is growing nicely each quarter.Turning to Slide 11, for those of you who have followed us for a long time, and I believe at least a handful of you on this call have followed us for more than two decades, you'll know that we are committed to complementing our competitive advantage as a relationship-oriented bank by enabling our customers to do business faster and more simply through technology.Many years ago, Zions' pioneered Remote Deposit Capture, which literally required an act of Congress to enable us to provide the service to customers. Today, we continue to be encouraged with the progress made on the technology front. This year, we rolled out our new online and mobile banking system to 650,000 consumers, which was very well received by our customers and this implementation went quite well given the size of it. By early 2022, we will do the same roll out online and mobile capabilities -- additional capabilities to 130,000 of our business customers. In 2023, we expect to complete the multi-phase transition to our modern core system.As of February 2019, you will recall that we completed the replacement of our fleet core loan systems and now have virtually all of our loans on our modern core utilizing one data model. Now we will continue to provide more details on this competitive advantage. Very simply, this means that unlike all other US banks, we have a modern core operating system that greatly reduces the complexity of aging legacy industry infrastructure.Specifically, let me just highlight a few things that you really need to know. This core architecture is real-time, parameter driven, API-enabled, cloud compatible to include higher degrees of cyber resiliency and we'll be far more agile as we create new products and capabilities in the future. It operates with one data model, a key to being successful in the digital world. It is capable of secondary processing. So when the US market adopts this international capability and standard, it will dramatically improve how we protect and utilize customer attribute data. Additionally, it would unify the customer account opening process at our branches and online as well as being far more user friendly for our employees.As you know, this core transformation journey has been the catalyst for simplification and modernization throughout the company and sets us up to optimize our investment as we further automate the interface between systems in the back and front office -- and back and front office processes.I'll now turn the time over to Paul Burdiss, Chief Financial Officer, to provide additional data on our financial condition. Paul?Paul E. Burdiss -- Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Scott. And good evening, everyone. More than three quarters of our revenue is net interest income, which is significantly influenced by loan and deposit balances and growth.As such, I'll begin my comments on Slide 12 with a review of those two categories. While average loans were down in the second quarter by nearly 2% when compared to the first quarter, we are starting to see slight improvement in our C&I, owner occupied, home equity and our bank card portfolio. Excluding PPP loans, average loans were down 1% from the prior quarter and down $2.4 billion or approximately 5% from the prior year period.As Harris noted earlier and it's worth repeating, period end loans excluding PPP loans were essentially flat from the first quarter. Within the loan portfolio, average non-PPP commercial loans were down $172 million or less than 1% from the prior quarter, while period end commercial loans increased nearly 1%.Within the commercial real estate category, construction and land development loans increased on a period end basis by 5.4% compared to the prior quarter and term CRE declined less than 1%. Overall, the total commercial real estate portfolio grew 0.4% when compared to the prior quarter.Average consumer loans declined $437 million or 4.1% from the prior quarter. Unlike last quarter when consumer loans were down in each category, in the second quarter, we saw growth in three categories; home equity, construction and other commercial real estate and bank card. We saw a 5.4% decline in residential mortgages when compared to the prior quarter due to continued refinancing activity although the attrition rate slowed as the quarter progressed. And in the PPP loan portfolio, we continue to see paydowns and process forgiveness totaling $2.4 billion in the quarter. The average balance of PPP loans decreased 3% compared to the prior quarter.One final note on loan growth. Relative to periods prior to the pandemic, revolving line of credit utilization has declined several percentage points to about 34% from about 39%. Based upon the amount of revolving loan commitments, that difference explains about $1.7 billion or nearly all of the decline in non-PPP loan balances during the last 18 months. After several quarters of declining utilization, we did see a slight uptick in utilization in the second quarter relative to the first quarter.Deposits have been the driver of the growth of the balance sheet over the past several quarters. On the right side of this page, average deposits increased 4.5% from the prior quarter, while period end deposits increased 3%. Relative to the year ago period, average deposits increased 18%. Average non-interest bearing deposits increased 8% over the prior quarter and 26% compared to the prior year period.Our average non-interest bearing deposits are now 49% of average total deposits and, at period end, they had reached 50%. The yield on average total loans increased slightly from the prior quarter, which is attributable to the 4.56% yield on the PPP loan portfolio. Excluding PPP loans, the yield declined 2 basis points to 3.67% from 3.69% as we continue to see some pressure on pricing in most of our markets attributable, we believe, to the surplus liquidity in the marketplace. Deposit costs are low. Our cost of total deposits fell to 4 basis points in the second quarter.On Slide 13, we show our securities and money market investment portfolios over the last five quarters. The size of the period end securities portfolio increased by about $4 billion over the past year to $19 billion, while money market investments increased $10 billion to $11.8 billion, which is now 14% of earning assets.As Harris noted earlier, we accelerated the growth of the securities portfolio in the second quarter, adding just under $1.2 billion on average to the available for sale portfolio. We continue to exercise caution regarding duration extension risk by purchasing bonds with relatively short final maturities and keeping an eye on the duration in an upward shock scenario. In fact, we estimate that the duration of our available for sale securities book would extend by less than one-half a year in a parallel 200 basis point upward shock.Slide 14 is an overview of net interest income and the net interest margin. The chart on the left shows the recent five quarter trend for both. The net interest margin in the white boxes has declined over the past year, reflecting the rise in excess liquidity. Average deposit growth has exceeded average loan growth by $13 billion over the past year. For the second quarter, this growth and excess liquidity is referenced in the chart on the right as a strong growth in deposits as impact of the composition of earning assets to a larger concentration in lower yielding money market and securities investments.In the current quarter, the effect of a greater concentration of money market investments drove 7 basis points of linked quarter net interest margin compression with the slightly dilutive effects from securities being offset by a lower cost from interest-bearing deposits.Slide 15 shows information about our interest rate sensitivity. Focusing on the upper left hand quadrant, our asset sensitivity has increased as non-interest bearing demand deposit growth is funding an increase in short-term investments. We are generally comfortable with the increase in rate sensitivity because we still believe the risk to lower rates is limited. The duration of recent deposit growth remains uncertain and adding asset duration is less appealing relative to the interest rate risk profile.As we previously mentioned, we are marginally adding duration by increasing the size of the investment securities and interest rate swaps portfolio. The $2.7 billion of securities purchases for the quarter had an average yield of 1.65%.On Slide 16, customer-related fees increased 5% in the quarter to $139 million. Notably, activity-based fees such as card fee and merchant services did well. Card income increased 15% over the prior quarter due to increased customer activity and spending. Additionally, capital markets activity was stronger principally from loan syndication fees and wealth management fees maintained their strong pace when compared to the prior year.Non-interest expense shown on Slide 17 was down 2% to $428 million in the second quarter compared to the prior quarter. Adjusted non-interest expense was down 5% or $21 million to $419 million. The decrease in adjusted non-interest expense was primarily from lower seasonal employee compensation and benefits expense and lower professional services associated with PPP loan forgiveness. Adjusted non-interest expense also excludes the $9 million success fee accrual associated with the Recursion Pharmaceuticals IPO.Slide 18 details our allowance for credit losses or ACL. In the upper left, we show the recent declining trend in the ACL to $574 million at the end of the second quarter or 1.22% of non-PPP loans. The chart in the lower right of this page shows that $103 million of the $122 million decline in the ACL was driven by an improvement in the macroeconomic forecast.Updated outlook can be found on Slide 19. As a reminder, this is our outlook for financial performance in the second quarter of 2022 as compared to the second quarter of 2021. The quarters in between are subject to normal seasonality and my comments are subject to our earlier reference to the forward-looking statements on Slide 2.Due to the degree of uncertainty and the timing of customers submitting requests and the SBA approving those requests, our outlook for loan growth excludes PPP loans. On the commercial loan front, our bankers are expressing optimism and we are just starting to see green shoots of loan growth. However, loan path activity is also increasing as the relatively strong valuations are leading to increased business sale activity. We are not expecting a lot of growth in commercial real estate and consumer loans again dominated by mortgages are likely to be slow to grow as long as the yield curve remains flat and the 30-year conforming mortgages are more appealing than adjustable jumbo mortgages.Putting it all together, we are somewhat more optimistic about loan growth now than we were in April. And as such, we are modestly increasing our outlook to slightly -- to moderately increasing from slightly increasing.We expect net interest income, also excluding PPP loan revenue, to increase moderately over the next year. We expect this to be the result of continued slight compression of loan and securities yields, which will be more than offset by continued deployment of cash into term securities and a somewhat more favorable outlook for growth in non-PPP loans.We reiterate our outlook for customer-related fees at moderately increasing. We have started to see an improvement in economic activity translating to increases in hard and small business related fees as well as loan syndication and other commercial lending related fees. We expect the wealth management revenue will continue its double-digit growth trend and mortgage banking revenue should remain generally stable.Adjusted non-interest expense improved from the prior quarter and we expect that non-interest expense will increase slightly by the second quarter of 2022 from the $419 million reported in the quarter just ended. We remain disciplined on expense control. But as business activity and profitability increases, expenses may increase.Reiterating my disclaimer from our April call, this outlook does not reflect a significant change in inflation from what we've observed over the past several years, which we believe is an emerging an increasingly important risk to our outlook.Finally, regarding capital management, echoing Harris's comments, we have a very strong Common Equity Tier-1 ratio now at 11.3%, particularly in the context of excellent credit performance and the results of our internal stress testing. As we consider the balance between capital ratios and our risk profile, we believe there is room for more active capital management in the near to medium-term so long as the current macroeconomic and credit trends continue to be favorable.This concludes our prepared remarks. Christian, would you please open the line for questions?