  OperatorGood morning, and welcome to SiriusXM's first-quarter 2021 financial and operating results conference call. Today's conference is being recorded. [Operator instructions] At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Mr. Hooper Stevens, senior vice president, investor relations, and finance. Mr. Stevens, please go ahead.Hooper Stevens -- Senior Vice President, Investor Relations, and Finance Thank you, and good morning, everyone. Welcome to SiriusXM's first-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. Today, we will have prepared remarks from Jennifer Witz, our chief executive officer; and Sean Sullivan, our chief financial officer. Scott Greenstein, our president and chief content officer, will join Jennifer and Sean to take your questions. I would like to remind everyone that certain statements made during the call might be forward-looking statements as the term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These and all forward-looking statements are based on management's current beliefs and expectations and necessarily depend upon assumptions, data or methods that may be incorrect or imprecise. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. For more information about those risks and uncertainties, please view SiriusXM's SEC filings and today's earnings release.We advise listeners to not rely unduly on forward-looking statements and disclaim any intent or obligation to update them. With that, I'll hand it to Jennifer. Jennifer Witz -- Chief Executive Officer Good morning, and thank you for joining our first-quarter call. SiriusXM turned in a great performance across the board. Like many companies, we are benefiting from Americans getting back on the road, growing auto sales and consumer incomes bolstered by significant federal stimulus. These impressive results are also a strong testament to demand for great content, our resilient business model and once again, our teams flawlessly executing the strategies we laid out. SiriusXM is the premier audio entertainment company in North America. Across our properties, approximately 150 million users regularly listen to our content, much of it is premium, unique and expertly curated, covering everything from music to talk, news, sports, comedy and podcast. I'd be remiss if I didn't mention upfront that Drake, a global superstar and one of the most streamed artists in the world, in March launched his highly anticipated exclusive SiriusXM channel, Sound 42, bringing his diverse musical taste to our millions of subscribers. For the first time ever, we have also enabled nonsubscribers to tune in by an open access option we set up for this channel. Our business model, the best in audio, powered by complementary subscription and advertising engines, has made us the most profitable audio company in the world. You are already familiar with our world-class capabilities on the subscription side. And on the advertising side, we now have the tools to serve as a one-stop shop for both advertisers looking to efficiently buy large audio -- audiences and for audio content creators looking to distribute and monetize their content. We are truly a unique company with a mix of assets and skills found nowhere else. And as I mentioned, our year is off to a great start. We achieved record low first quarter churn of just 1.6%, driving an 83% increase in our SiriusXM self-pay net subscriber additions to 126,000, up from 69,000 in the first quarter of 2020. Our revenue growth of 5% was bolstered by a rebounding advertising market and our off-platform and podcast success. Adjusted EBITDA of 682 million climbed 7% and was the highest single quarter EBITDA figure in our company's history. We are well on track to achieve our full year subscriber and financial guidance. Automotive SAAR was a phenomenal 16.8 million in the first quarter, up 14% from the first quarter of 2020 and led by an astounding 17.7 million in March. We generated more trial starts in March than in any single month in our company's history. Still, we are carefully following the news about silicon shortages and frequently speaking with automakers. If not for this uncertainty and the historically low auto inventories being reported, we would most likely be increasing our subscriber guidance today. Remember that SiriusXM in-vehicle is no longer purely based on a one-way network. I'll discuss more about 360L in a moment. But this next-generation platform now in close to 2 million vehicles gives us new insights about consumer behavior. For instance, it has helped to give us valuable insights into the COVID recovery, which shows us that driving and commuting in the first quarter was still only 80% of pre-COVID levels, but in recent weeks has climbed to 90% of pre-COVID levels, a positive sign that people are getting back to normal life. It's tremendously exciting to have this growing collection of data at our fingertips, and this data set will grow dramatically over the next few years as 360L becomes the default SiriusXM platform in vehicle. 360L deployment as a percentage of new vehicle trial starts were about 18% in the first quarter, and we are on track for 360L to reach about 25% of this year's SiriusXM-enabled installs. 360L is the plan of record with most OEMs, and its adoption will continue to climb over the next several years. The two-way functionality and advanced UI enabled by 360L opened up a host of engaging features for consumers and new capabilities for our business. We are also utilizing consumption data from 360L to help optimize our one-to-one marketing efforts to drive better conversion, retention and pricing. This is still new for us, and we have much to refine. But with growing volumes and experience, we are well on our way to enhancing both the consumer experience and business performance from our next-generation SiriusXM platform. Our SiriusXM ARPU continued its steady climb, up nearly 3% from the first quarter of 2020 to $14.30 and demonstrating the high value our subscribers place on our premium content bundle and easy-to-use service. The strong demand for our All Access package has encouraged us to create a new top-tier, high-end offering that will include additional content, exclusive customer benefit and multiple access points, a sort of super-premium family plan. We plan to launch this new offering in the coming months. We are also making progress driving out-of-car streaming among SiriusXM subscribers and gaining more subscribers, who don't need an in-vehicle subscription. We find that higher engagement outside the vehicle and more listening across the households lead to better in-vehicle conversion rates and retention performance, so we will continue to invest in these efforts. Continuing the recovery trend in the back half of 2020, our advertising business has rebounded from the pandemic lows, and we see steady momentum so far in 2021. Historically, ad revenue is seasonally slower in the first quarter of the year, but even still, we managed to achieve revenue of 354 million, a 24% increase from the prior-year period. We're very proud of our position as the largest digital audio ad platform in North America, enabling advertisers to reach almost two thirds of online audio listeners with our on and off-platform ad products. Stitcher adds to our opportunity in advertising with greater access to the fast-growing podcast segment. Stitcher had a record quarter, and we are extremely impressed with its performance so far. We launched The Atlas Obscura Podcast, which hit the top 10 on the Apple Podcast chart. In addition, this week, we announced the acquisition of 99% Invisible, which furthers the expansion of SiriusXM's podcasting universe and deepens our content creation skill set. Roman Mars and his talented team at 99% Invisible will continue to work with us to develop new podcast projects. AdsWizz, the global leader in digital audio and podcast technology solutions, has reached a significant milestone of over 1 billion monthly podcast downloads from its audio platform. The platform, which is used by leading media companies and podcast publishers, including NPR, The New York Times, NBCUniversal News Group, American Public Media, WNYC Studios, and Rogers Sports & Media in Canada, combined publishing tools and audience analytics from Simplecast with our award-winning suite of monetization products and services. AdsWizz tech powers four of the most popular podcasts in the U.S., The Daily, News Now, Up First and Dateline NBC. Pandora's tremendous scale remains the cornerstone of our success in ad sales. And while Pandora engagement overall remains a challenge, we do see encouraging growth in the use of Pandora in vehicles. Further, when listeners use our Modes feature to tailor their personalized music, we see a meaningful uptick in listening. As Pandora is one of the larger ad supported apps on iOS, we are keeping a close watch on IDFA development and should be relatively well positioned to manage that transition with our considerable first-party data. We never stop thinking of creative ways to enhance the variety and value of the programming we deliver to our customers. And in the first quarter, SiriusXM made several high-profile additions that further solidified our position as the best provider of curated audio programming in North America. We already talked about Drake. In addition, we recently unveiled more than 30 new SiriusXM's streaming music channels that go deep with specific artists, including exclusive channels from Bob Marley, LL Cool J, Armin Van Buren and Steve Aoki. As with Drake, the biggest artists and brands in music see our platform as the medium for them to share music, pursue creative explorations and express their world views. Throughout Black History month, we presented several SiriusXM channels that honored pioneering black artists, and Pandora launched Wake Up! mode on the Black Music Forever station. Pandora, SiriusXM and Stitcher, all back the Stand for Sonic Diversity pledged with the goal of increasing the number of voices of people of color in audio advertising. For Women's History month, our Pandora live powered by women virtual event, featured performances by Gwen Stefani and Jazmine Sullivan and was hosted by Hoda Kotb from SiriusXM's TODAY Show Radio. On SiriusXM, 15 different channels celebrated the Women of classic rock, jazz, '80s, '90s country and hip-hop. In the podcast space, we debuted original exclusive podcasts from Marvel and SiriusXM. Marvel Declassified and Marvel Method launched widely on SiriusXM, Pandora, Stitcher and all major platforms. Furthering our efforts to deliver the best and most comprehensive sports programming and similar to our recently expanded agreements with the NFL and NBA, we signed a new agreement with Major League Baseball that extends our relationship for multiple years and also expands our streaming rights. We now offer every MLB game in addition to every NFL and NBA game as part of our premier digital-only subscription. This enables our subscribers to stream all the games on our app and on 360L, and they can even choose to hear their favorite team's announcers for every game. Earlier this month, we also produced and presented our First Masters as the tournament's exclusive audio broadcaster. Greg Norman, one of Golf's all-time great players, served as our lead analyst. And we continue to unveil important collaborations to deliver our content to more and more listeners. We teamed up with T-Mobile to deliver a first of its kind Pandora experience to T-Mobile customers that includes ad-free radio weekends, special music stations powered by popular SiriusXM channels and early access to SiriusXM original podcasts. We are looking to launch additional collaborations with T-Mobile in the future. Solid advertising growth, effective investments in compelling content and robust digital products and a resilient growing self-pay subscriber base has solidified our premier position in the audio entertainment industry. Our first-quarter results give us high confidence in our full year outlook and the long-term position of our business. With that, I will pass it over to Sean.Sean Sullivan -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Jennifer, and good morning, everyone. As Jennifer highlighted, our first-quarter results were strong as we continue to rebound from a volatile year, investing in new content, while generating revenue and adjusted EBITDA growth from our business. Total revenue increased 5% to 2 billion, driven by sharp growth in advertising revenue of 24%. The addition of Stitcher, which we acquired in Q4 of 2020, coupled with growth in both our on and off-platform businesses, including AdsWizz, contributed to the advertising revenue growth year over year. Adjusted EBITDA increased 7% to 682 million. Diluted earnings per share were $0.05, or $0.07 excluding one-time items, including the satellite impairment and impairment related to office leases and a one-time tax settlement benefit. With respect to the one-time items, our results reflect a $220 million noncash impairment charge for the SXM-7 satellite failure, which was announced in January. We have issued a request for proposal to construct a new satellite to replace SXM-7, and we're currently working through the insurance process and will book the likely insurance recovery in a future period. We also incurred a $25 million noncash impairment charge related to office leases that we see occupying as we make more efficient use of our space going forward. These noncash impairment charges are excluded from adjusted EBITDA. And lastly, we also realized a $95 million benefit to income tax expense, resulting from a favorable state tax settlement. In terms of free cash flow, we generated 211 million for the quarter on lower contractual OEM receipts plus higher royalty and cash interest payments. Turning to the SiriusXM segment. Revenue increased 2% to $1.6 billion with ARPU growth of 3% to $14.30, and gross profit remained steady. As Jennifer mentioned, automotive sales saw a boost in the opening months of 2021 with March SAAR landing at 17.7 million, a 55% increase from March 2020. While consumer demand for new and used vehicles is strong, the growing silicon supply shortages could limit further upside. SiriusXM added 126,000 net new self-pay subscribers, ending the quarter with 31 million total self-pay subs. Churn improved to 1.6%, a first-quarter record, and SiriusXM ended the quarter with 34.5 million total subscribers. A new vehicle trial structure adjustment for two automakers and, to a lesser extent, lower vehicle shipments due to silicon supply constraints contributed to negative pay trial net additions during the quarter. For the full year, we expect the ending paid trial base to shrink by approximately 1.5 million as these new agreements cycle into place with variability to these estimates, driven by changes in auto sales and inventories. As a reminder, this doesn't affect total trial starts, which we still expect to grow at the fastest rate since 2015 to approximately 24 million during 2021. Moving now to the Pandora segment. The engine of growth from the Pandora business is advertising, which saw a 29% increase in revenue to 312 million compared to the prior-year period. Growth in monetization at Pandora was aided by the addition of Stitcher and a growing off-platform business centered around AdsWizz. Pandora's ad monetization was strong at $86 per 1,000 hours, a 27% increase year over year and a record first quarter high RPM. And off-platform revenue, excluding Stitcher, grew approximately 14 million or 48% compared to the first quarter of 2020. Bookings were strong across the board during the first quarter. Financial service companies increased spending. We saw gains from telcos and even retail, driven by grocery and big box retailers. Telemedicine ad spending jumped and the former grew to reemphasize spending on core drug brands. As we look into the second quarter, we're seeing that broad strength continue, plus we're now starting to see real gains in travel and tourism spending after a year of those categories being dark. Pandora monthly active users in total ad-supported listening hours were 56 million and 2.87 billion, respectively. Pandora added 113,000 net new self-pay subscribers, ending the first quarter with 6.4 million total self-pay subscribers. While we continue to work to stabilize MAUs in Pandora, engagement in Pandora's premium tier is the highest among all streaming services. We still feel confident in Pandora's potential advertising growth and the benefits of larger scale to SiriusXM. Gross profit in the Pandora segment grew 30%, and gross margin improved three points compared to the prior-year period. This is mostly attributed to the growth in advertising revenue, highlighting the excellent operating leverage in the business. In terms of capital allocation, we continued significant capital returns during the first quarter with dividends of $61 million and common stock repurchases of $516 million. Debt to adjusted EBITDA was 3.4 times at the end of the first quarter, and we maintained significant liquidity to meet our operating and investment needs. Lastly, we are reiterating and feel confident in all of our subscriber and financial guidance for the year, including SiriusXM self-pay net subscriber additions of approximately 800,000, total revenue of approximately 8.35 billion, adjusted EBITDA of approximately 2.575 billion and free cash flow of approximately 1.6 billion. So with that, I will open it up to Q&A. 