  OperatorGood morning, everyone, and welcome to the Delta Air Lines June quarter 2021 financial results conference call. My name is Katie, and I will be your coordinator. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, today's call is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to Julie Stewart, vice president of investor relations. Please go ahead.Julie Stewart -- Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Katie. And good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining us for our June quarter 2021 earnings call. Joining us today from Atlanta is our CEO, Ed Bastian; our president, Glen Hauenstein; our interim co-CFO, Gary Chase; and our entire leadership team will be available for Q&A. Ed will open the call with an overview of Delta's performance and strategy. Glen will provide an update on the revenue environment and our brand momentum, and Gary will discuss cost, fleet and our balance sheet. I'd also like to welcome our incoming CFO, Dan Janki, who's with us in the room today but will not be participating in Q&A... Similar to last quarter's call, we've scheduled today's call for 90 minutes to make sure that we have time for plenty of questions.[Operator instructions] After the analyst Q&A, we will move to our media questions. After which, Ed will provide a brief closing statement. Today's discussion contains forward-looking statements that represent our beliefs or expectations about future events. All forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. Some of the factors that may cause such differences are described in Delta's SEC filings. We'll also discuss non-GAAP financial measures, and all results exclude special items unless otherwise noted. You can find a reconciliation of our non-GAAP measures on the Investor Relations page at ir.delta.com. And with that, I'll turn the call over to Ed. 

 



Ed Bastian -- Chief Executive Officer Well, thank you, Julie. Good morning, everyone. I appreciate you joining us this morning. As we speak, we're well into the summer travel season. And if you've been to the airport in recent weeks, you've seen firsthand how travelers are reclaiming their lives and returning to the skies. This increase in demand drove a better-than-expected revenue outcome for us in the June quarter, with revenues down 49% versus 2019, resulting in a $6.3 billion total revenue. This was an impressive 76% sequential improvement from the March quarter. More encouragingly, the momentum is continuing as we exited June with a demand environment that's accelerating. Domestic leisure demand and yields are above June quarter 2019 levels, and we see clear signs of business in international demand recovery heading into the fall. Through the crisis, we've earned an unprecedented level of brand loyalty and trust, thanks to the world-class service, operational reliability and innovation that drives the Delta difference. And our commitment to safety, cleanliness and wellness is as strong as ever. The people of Delta are our strongest competitive advantage, powering our resurgence and running the best operation in the industry.

 



 It is because of our people's incredible work that Delta was honored as the No. 1 airline for 2021 by J.D. Power. I want to thank every member of the Delta family for the professionalism, spirit of service and warmth you show to our to customers every single day. I'd also like to thank our crews and operations teams for continuing to put our customers and their safety first as we restore our business. We are now in active recovery of our business, and the challenges of getting our airline fully back to the service level our customers expect and deserve is daunting in light of the huge surge in demand that we are experiencing. But we're taking all the right steps, primarily through increased staffing levels about Delta and our contract service providers to service this demand without compromising on the standard of care and cleanliness that our customers have become accustomed to on Delta throughout the pandemic. And even with these challenges, our team continues to run the very best airline in the industry, leading on all key operating metrics for the month of June and year to date. For the June quarter, we narrowed our pre-tax loss to $881 million. This was meaningfully better than initial expectations, driven by demand strength. Importantly, we achieved significant financial milestones during the quarter. These include returning to profitability in the month of June with a pre-tax margin in the high single digits despite still missing 40% of our prior revenue from June of 2019, generating $1.5 billion of free cash flow and nearly $200 million of adjusted free cash flow in the June quarter. Achieving solid profitability and generating meaningful free cash flow a little over a year from the start of the worst crisis in this industry's history is an impressive statement about the resilience of our business and the great work of our people. In showcasing the value of the commercial partnerships that we've developed, leveraging the Delta brand, we have created almost $1 billion in investment value this year through our partnerships with Wheels Up and CLEAR. And I want to point out that $1 billion is against a zero cost base. I want to give a big shout out to Kenny Dichter and the Wheels Up team as their listing on the New York Stock Exchange goes live today. We're proud to be a Wheels Up exclusive commercial airline partner and largest shareholder with a stake valued at over $500 million. Also, congratulations to Caryn Seidman-Becker and the CLEAR team on their successful IPO. Our investment in CLEAR is worth approximately $340 million. And finally, I want to congratulate Sir Richard Branson and our team at Virgin Atlantic for making history last weekend in completing their first fully crude space flight. It was exciting to watch Richard break new barriers once again, this time, commercial space travel. I'd take the time to mention these relationships because of the much larger ecosystem that Delta operates and attracts, and these opportunities to create value will continue to be nurtured as we extend our brand beyond traditional airline boundaries. With June profitability in the books, we're now in the restoration phase of recovery and focused on harnessing the power of our differentiated brand and our resilient competitive advantages to drive sustainable profitability in the second-half 2021 and enable long-term value creation. Specifically, for the September quarter, we expect a mid-single-digit pre-tax margin as demand continues to improve with the return of corporate travel and gradual reopening of international markets. We are starting to see signs of a resurgence of business and international travel, both of which are supporting the next leg of the revenue recovery. And we're well-positioned to take advantage of both, with leading domestic corporate share and a strong global network. Around the country, more and more offices are opening, and people are reconnecting to their businesses and to each other. With 72% of our employees vaccinated, we officially reopened our own offices last month in June. And as I interact with other CEOs, I'm encouraged to hear about their own plans to accelerate their return to office. That sentiment is coming through loud and clear in our most recent corporate survey, with almost 95% of our accounts indicating they'll be returning to their offices by the end of this year. Domestic corporate volume grew from 20% base in March of this year, in the March month that is, to 40% recovered in the June month, and we expect it to be close to 60% recovered by September, based largely on these reopenings. I'm also encouraged by the strength that we're seeing in international. While we know international demand recovery will be very choppy and uneven, we're seeing strong bookings to Europe when countries open their borders. From our experience in the U.S., we are seeing the impact that widespread vaccinations have on reopening the economy. We know the same will be true for the rest of the world over time, but are mindful of the risks that new variants pose to the pace of recovery, and our team will stay very disciplined in restoring international capacity. As the recovery builds steam, we are making the required investments, including hiring frontline and reservations employees and investing ahead of the full recovery of the airline in places like maintenance and training. This will allow us to continue to provide industry-leading service levels and prepare the airline for success in a stronger-than-previously expected demand environment. These investments are key to the execution of our strategy to win, which is defined by providing best-in-class service to our customers and leveraging the brand while creating a simpler, more efficient airline. The power of our brand has come through the crisis stronger than ever, and we're seeing evidence of this across the business. The resilience of our American Express co-brand credit card program is a great testament to the increasing brand affinity that we have. Card spend on the Delta American Express portfolio in the month of June was 115% recovered to 2019 levels for the same month despite travel purchases still being off by 25% in that same period. We're continuing to renew and simplify our fleet. And yesterday, we announced that we're opportunistically adding seven Airbus 350s and 29 737-900ERs that will enter service over the next 12 to 24 months. These are current vintage to the aircraft that we operate in our existing fleet, and we're adding these pre-owned aircraft for substantially less than the cost of new planes. These aircraft align with our fleet strategy that's focused on simplification, scale, size and sustainability and create optionality for future growth or replacement in a capital-disciplined manner. These transactions accelerate our recovery plans, which also began with the exercise of 25 Airbus 321neo options in April. The A321neos, which will start to deliver in 2022, offer the lowest seat cost in our fleet and will strengthen Delta's gauge advantage relative to our competitors. Our recent actions on fleet enhanced efficiency throughout the cost structure. Gary will talk more about this shortly, and will highlight the progress that we're making on our balance sheet and journey back to investment-grade metrics. As our recovery path becomes clear, so does our future as a carbon-neutral airline. In 2020, we committed to our airlines carbon neutrality and we're taking actions today that are critical to our future. This includes the reduction in emissions that we're achieving with our fleet renewal, investments in sustainable aviation fuel, together with many corporate partners and the evaluation of long-term investments in carbon reduction and removal technologies. During the quarter, we released our inaugural 2020 ESG report, which expands on the corporate responsibility reports that we have issued in the past. You'll be able to hear more about our ESG commitments as well, importantly, as our multiyear financial targets and vision, moving forward, at Delta's capital markets day, which we will be holding in person in New York on December 16. This event will give everyone an opportunity to hear from our management team, which over the past year we've strengthened by bringing in outside perspectives and promoting our deep bench. That includes Allison Ausband, who during the quarter, pleased to announce, was named our executive vice president and chief customer experience officer. In addition, John Laughter, who I'm also pleased, we announced as our new executive president and chief of operations. Allison and John are Delta veterans who bring deep experience and unmatched expertise to their roles. In addition, our incoming CFO, Dan Janki, brings extensive business and financial skills to his role, as well as a broad global perspective and operational experience that will serve us well in the recovery and beyond. Dan's background makes him the ideal leader to advance our efforts to restore Delta to our pre-pandemic financial position. You'll hear from him briefly before Gary delivers the financial update. With this great team of servant leaders, we're building an airline that's positioned to drive long-term value for all our stakeholders, our people, our customers, our owners and our communities where we live, work and serve. I could not be more excited about our future. And now I'd like to turn it over to Glen.Glen Hauenstein -- President Thanks, Ed. And good morning, everyone. 16 months after the start of the pandemic, I'm encouraged by the pace of the recovery and excited about our future. Delta is well-positioned with a powerful brand, strong competitive advantages and a differentiated customer experience, all of which are increasingly driving deeper customer engagement. During the quarter, we saw consumer demand for travel return at an accelerated rate as pent-up demand drove an increase for air travel. As customers return to the skies, Delta is their airline of choice given our industry-leading service that's provided by the best employees in the industry. This resulted in a more than $2.7 billion improvement in revenue from the March quarter. Compared to 2019, revenues were 49% lower, beating our initial guide on 39% less sellable capacity. Bookings in domestic and short-haul Latin and leisure markets recovered to nearly 90% of 2019 levels. And during the quarter, we began experiencing strength in demand to select European countries as they reopened. Domestic business travel is on an improving trajectory with corporate volumes 40% recovered in the month of June, doubling from the 20% recovery rate in March. Small and medium-sized enterprise volumes continued to outperform corporates by 10 points and are now 50% recovered. I'll talk more about the encouraging trends we see in corporate in a few minutes. From April to June, passenger unit revenues improved by 25 points with both load factor and yield strengthening through the quarter. This is a great accomplishment considering that we had the middle seat block in place for the month of April, which when lifted on May 1 resulted in a 45% increase in sellable capacity with minimal incremental costs. So kudos to the Delta team for managing through this transition period and driving these outstanding results. I also want to congratulate our cargo team for an outstanding quarter with cargo revenues up 35% compared to the June 2019 quarter despite running a much smaller operation. We are also seeing momentum in daily bookings and net cash sales. Our average net cash came in 20% higher than forecast, doubling relative to the March quarter. Importantly, in the month of June, our average net cash sales are 70% restored to corresponding 2019 levels. That's earning about 10 points ahead of revenue recovery as customers are making travel plans out into the future. As Ed mentioned, we're exiting June with a demand environment that's much stronger than just three months ago. Since the start of the year, we've seen a sequential revenue improvement from 35% recovery versus 2019 in the first quarter to 51% in the second quarter. That trajectory is continuing, and we expect our September quarter total revenue to be 65% to 70% recovered on capacity that's 70% to 72% recovered when compared to the same quarter in 2019. This positions us for another significant sequential improvement in unit revenues. At the midpoint of our guidance, this represents another $2 billion sequential increase in revenue on approximately 10% higher capacity. We expect strong leisure demand to continue through the fall and winter, and we're starting to see the next leg of the recovery take hold with improving trends in business and international travel. Delta is well-positioned to take advantage of both with leading domestic corporate share and a strong global network. Corporate travel volumes accelerated in May and June with almost 95% of our accounts booked in travel in the month of June. We're also beginning to see a return of consulting and sales-related travel and higher volumes in traditionally business-heavy markets like New York City and Boston. Our recent corporate survey results show that over 90% of our corporate accounts anticipate travel volumes to increase in the September quarter, up from just 33% in the March quarter. In addition to these survey results, our close engagement with customers give us increased confidence of the acceleration of business travel, especially as we move toward the post Labor Day period as schools and offices continue to reopen. We expect domestic corporate volumes will recover between 55% and 60% of 2019 levels by the end of the September quarter, up from 40% at the end of the June quarter. Despite volatility in global COVID recovery trends, international travel is accelerating, with capacity and load factors increasing as we head into the fall. When we spoke last quarter, only two European countries had reopened for U.S. citizens. Today, more than 15 European countries are open, and we're seeing strong bookings follow as border closings lift. We are also helpful that 212(f) restrictions prohibiting inbound travel to the U.S. will be significantly reduced in the September quarter. The recovery in short-haul Latin exceeded 2019 levels. But in long-haul Latin, demand remains muted as many countries are still closed. Specific demand remains low and will likely be the last region to recover. Delta has a strong platform internationally due to the structural changes in the landscape, but more importantly, because of elements unique to Delta. First, we will have the No. 1 joint ventures in each entity, and our international partners will emerge from their restructuring efforts more competitive than before. We look forward to continuing our valuable strategic relationships with all of our global partners as they navigate through the COVID-19 crisis and as they position themselves to emerge from their restructuring processes. We are confident these strategic relationships will accelerate our international recovery in the years to come. Second, our hubs are powerful, offering extensive and efficient global coverage. The strengths of our global hubs resemble those of our core domestic hubs, namely strong presence and local share and the ability to connect traffic efficiently. Third, our wide-body fleet renewal will be instrumental in our recovery and path to higher margin. Adding the seven A350s announced yesterday build on our long-term plan efforts. Our wide-body fleet renewal program improves our product offering, enhances our cargo capability, reduces our unit cost and is more efficient -- fuel-efficient, contributing to a more sustainable future. As we rebuild the airline, we're optimizing the network for the return of business in international travel and are building on the strength of our core and coastal hubs where we've been able to improve our local share by three points from pre-pandemic levels. We also continue to put the customer at the center of everything we do, creating an enhanced premium experience. This is successfully de-commoditizing air travel on Delta, providing customers with the products and flexibility that they value most. Premium products are demonstrating resilience where demand is strongest, with domestic and short-haul Latin premium revenues outpacing main cabin by five to 10 points. We believe this will be reflected at the system level as premium revenue and other entities improves with a return of business and international travel at scale. We're also seeing increases in customer engagement and brand momentum. This is evident in SkyMiles acquisitions, which set an all-time record in the month of June, outpacing the prior record achieved in July of 2019. These acquisitions allow us to bring new customers into the Delta ecosystem. Engagement is also coming through the performance of our co-brand credit card program as customers are increasingly seeing the value proposition and continue to aspire for travel, status and premium experience. For the quarter, co-brand spend was 110% recovered to 2019 levels, driven by improving T&E spend indicating customers' desire to explore the world and reconnect with friends and family. We exited the quarter with co-brand spend around 115% recovered for the month of June. New co-brand account acquisitions improved more than 75% sequentially and were around 90% recovered to 2019 levels for the quarter. In addition, we're seeing more customers moving into premium co-branded cards given the value proposition for those products. The improving trajectory resulted in cash renumeration from American Express in the month of June exceeding 2019 levels. We expect renumeration will continue to remain at or above 2019 levels into the second half, with significant growth opportunities in the years ahead. In closing, the foundational building blocks for our long-term success are in place. With the industry's best domestic and global network, renewed and efficient fleet, a de-commoditized product and a highly valued brand and the industry's best employees, we continue to extend our commercial and financial lead. Combining that with our efficient cost structure puts us on a path to improve on our pre-pandemic margins and generate sustainable free cash flows, allowing us to reinvest in the business and restore our balance sheet strength. Delta's future is incredibly bright. And with that, I'd like to take this opportunity to welcome our incoming CFO to Delta. Dan, I'm looking forward to working with you. And now I'll turn the call over to you for a few minutes.Dan Janki -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Ed and Glen, for the warm welcome. I'm certainly pleased to be here and begin working closely with Ed, Glen and the entire executive leadership team to ensure that we continue to establish clear priorities, deliver on our commitment and build a more resilient, valuable Delta. There is no doubt it is an interesting time to join. But what really drew me to this opportunity at Delta is a unique culture, industry leadership and growing brand strength with customers. It's a combination like no other in the industry. It's really clear that there's a great deal of talent in the finance organization. I'm humbled and honored to lead this organization forward through this pivotal time. A key guiding principle for me will be open and transparent communication with the financial community. I look forward to speaking with all of you and getting to know the key stakeholders in the coming weeks and months, including many of you on the call. Now I'll turn it over to Gary for the financial update.Gary Chase -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Dan. And on behalf of the entire finance team, welcome to Delta. Good morning, everyone, on the call, and thanks for joining us. Delta people shined and carried our brand to new heights during the crisis. Those efforts, combined with the strong demand recovery Glen described and the benefits of operating a simpler, more efficient fleet, are enabling us to cross a number of key milestones on our journey to return to and exceed 2019 performance. Let me quickly review the second quarter, then provide color on our second-half cost outlook. I'll wrap with a discussion of our capital outlook and balance sheet. Starting with highlights from the quarter. We reported an adjusted pre-tax loss of $881 million, a more than $2 billion sequential improvement and generated a solid June month profit despite revenues for the month of June still 40% below 2019. Nonfuel costs rose 6% sequentially on 21% higher capacity as the teams continue to rebuild our network efficiently. Nonfuel CASM was 9% higher than 2019. We realized savings from tax credits and third-party rate reductions that were offset by rebuild expenses and maintenance and pilot training and a noncash expense for employee flight passes awarded to our employees in recognition of winning the J.D. Power award. Adjusted fuel price per gallon of $2.12 was 11% higher than the first quarter, including a $0.23 per gallon impact from refinery losses. We realized a 7.1% fuel efficiency gain versus the June quarter of '19, with the majority driven by fleet renewal. Demand momentum fueled cash sales across the booking curve, driving $1.5 billion of growth in our air traffic liability to nearly $7 billion, now $300 million higher than the same period in 2019. With the strength we see in the demand environment, we expect our air traffic liability to remain above 2019 levels into next year. Daily cash generation was substantially positive for the full quarter. More importantly, we generated nearly $200 million of free cash flow, excluding our $1.5 billion pension contribution and $2.5 billion in PSP grant proceeds. We are transitioning now away from daily metrics to focus on regular free cash flow, the best measure of value creation as we turn the corner on profitability and look to restore our financial strength. As we head into the second half, we're excited to shift our focus to returning to profitability, generating cash and restoring and exceeding our pre-COVID results and financial position. With continued recovery in limited cost growth, we expect to be profitable in both the September and December quarters at current fuel prices. Regarding the cost outlook, I'm very happy with the team's performance in the first half as we continue to rebuild the network efficiently. We remain on a path to achieve nonfuel CASM below 2019 levels by the fourth quarter, though the strength of demand recovery is creating some welcome cost pressure in the form of higher rebuild and selling-related expense. We have also experienced inflationary pressure from vendors. And our operating teams have accelerated hiring of frontline employees to ensure we maintain excellence in operations and service levels as we rescale. Despite these pressures, we will see continued leverage in key areas. For example, we expect an approximate 8% headcount growth through the end of the year on a nearly 15% increase in ASM production. We'll see our fleet utilization rise from 2Q levels, approximately 15% below 2019 to approximately 5% in the fourth quarter. Our airports will also see better utilization, particularly our coastal hubs as they move from 70% to more than 90% restored. As we accelerate maintenance and training to meet higher potential capacity in '22, rebuild expenses are stepping up in both the third and fourth quarters to a five- to six-point cost headwind versus three to four points in the first half. September quarter will see nonfuel costs grow sequentially at roughly the same rate as capacity due to the higher rebuild and revenue-related expenses I mentioned. With these factors, September quarter nonfuel CASM is expected to be 11% to 14% higher than 2019. We expect to close the gap to 2019 nonfuel CASM in the fourth quarter through continued volume leverage as capacity remains essentially flat from the third to fourth quarters instead of the more normal seasonal decline of approximately 15%. Adjusted fuel price per gallon for the third quarter is expected at $2.05 to $2.15. And fuel efficiency for the quarter is expected to remain better than the September quarter '19 period by approximately 5%. On the capital outlook, we now expect gross capex of approximately $3.2 billion in '21, up from our original guidance of $2.5 billion, driven by our aircraft announcements. Hats off to our fleet and technical supply chain teams for landing these compelling opportunities that meet three key criteria. These transition -- transactions are opportunistic and take advantage of attractive economics in the used market. These aircraft types are currently active in our fleet and entirely consistent with our fleet simplification strategy. In addition, these aircraft, along with the 321neo options we exercised in April, will support the potential for up to seven points of additional capacity restoration at compelling marginal economics by 2023. We have a lot of additional optionality in our fleet plan to flex capacity up or down at low cost depending on the shape of the recovery. Our 717 and 767 fleets are our largest levers. We're still flying these fleets at scale today and could retire additional units or reactivate parked aircraft to meet higher demand scenarios. Let me now move to the balance sheet. With improving financial performance and a strong liquidity position, we're using cash to reduce leverage and nonoperating expense while rebuilding unencumbered assets and managing our debt maturity profile. During the quarter, we prepaid $450 million in aircraft-related debt in addition to normal amortization of $875 million and contributed $1.5 billion to the pension plans. Additionally, we paid cash for all but three aircraft deliveries. Since October, our debt reduction initiatives have totaled $11 billion and freed up $6 billion in collateral. With the additional funding this quarter, we do not foresee the need to make any material pension contributions in the future. By year-end, we expect the plans to be fully funded on a Pension Protection Act basis and 90% funded on a GAAP basis. With this level of funding and the plans frozen to new participants, we are now reducing the investment risk of the portfolio to protect our funded status. The great work of our pension and treasury teams over the last decade in funding this obligation frees up roughly $1 billion in annual free cash flow that can be used in the future to further delever or otherwise create value. Adjusted net debt is expected to be approximately $19 billion at the end of the September quarter, modestly increasing from where we ended June as we pay cash for aircraft deliveries. As we turn the corner on profitability and look to the future, we're excited to shift our focus to restoring our business and delivering long-term value for our owners. Restoring our financial foundation remains a top priority as we position for the future, and we look forward to sharing more of our long-term vision with you in December. Let me conclude by congratulating the 75,000 people who make the Delta difference a reality every day. These excellent results are your scorecard and a reflection of all you do to delight our customers. With that, I'll turn the call back over to Julie to begin the Q&A.Julie Stewart -- Investor Relations Katie, can you please remind the analysts how to queue up for questions. 