
OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Freeport-McMoran First Quarter Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms. Kathleen Quirk, President and Chief Financial Officer. Please go ahead, ma'am.Kathleen Lynne Quirk -- President & Chief Financial OfficerThank you, and good morning, everyone, and welcome to the Freeport-McMoran conference call. We released our results this morning, and a copy of today's press release and slides are available on our website at fcx.com. Our call today is being broadcast live on the Internet, and anyone may listen to the call by accessing our website homepage and clicking on the webcast link for the conference call. In addition to analysts and investors, the financial press has been invited to listen to today's call, and a replay of the webcast will be available on our website later today. Before we begin our comments, we'd like to remind everyone that today's press release and certain of our comments on the call include forward-looking statements, and actual results may differ materially. Like to refer every one to the cautionary language included in our press release and presentation materials and to the risk factors described in our annual report on Form 10-K. On the call with me today is Richard Adkerson, our Chairman and CEO. We've got Mark Johnson, who leads our Indonesian operations; Josh Olmsted, who leads our Americas operations; Mike Kendrick, who leads our molybdenum business; Steve Higgins, who leads our commercial activities and is our Chief Administrative Officer as well; and Rick Coleman, who leads our project development activities. And I'll just start with briefly summarizing our financial results. We'll work through our slides and some prepared remarks, and then we will take your questions. Today, we reported first quarter 2021 net income attributable to common stock of $718 million, that was $0.48 per share.

 



And adjusted net income of $756 million or $0.51 per share after adjusting for net charges totaling $38 million or $0.03 per share, and a detail of those net nonrecurring charges are in the press release on Roman numeral VI. We reported adjusted earnings before interest taxes, depreciation and amortization or adjusted EBITDA during the quarter of $2.04 billion, and we've got a reconciliation of our EBITDA calculations on Page 36 of our slide deck. In the first quarter of 2021, we had copper sales of 825 million pounds, which approximated our estimate. Our gold production in the first quarter of 2021 was in line with our estimate in January. However, we had a deferral of certain shipments in Indonesia to the second quarter, and that resulted in a timing variance for our gold sales. In the first quarter, we benefited from improved pricing. Our first quarter average realized copper price was $3.94 per pound, substantially above the year ago quarter. And our gold price of $17.13 per ounce was also above the year ago realized price.We continue to focus on maintaining a low-cost position. Our consolidated average unit net costs for our copper mines average $1.39 per pound of copper in the first quarter. We generated strong operating cash flows totaling $1.1 billion, and that was net of $300 million of working capital uses. And the cash flow has exceeded capital spending, which totaled $370 million during the quarter. As you've seen, our Board, in February, adopted a new financial policy aligned with our strategic objectives of maintaining the strong balance sheet, increasing cash returns to shareholders and advancing opportunities for future growth. We ended the quarter in a strong financial position with $4.6 billion of consolidated cash, $9.8 billion of debt and our net debt -- our debt, net of cash, was $5.2 billion at the end of March.Richard, I'd like to turn the call over to you, and we'll start reviewing the slide materials that are on our website.Richard C. Adkerson -- Chairman & Chief Executive Officer

 



Thanks, Kathleen. I couldn't be more pleased to be able to review with you our first quarter performance and particularly the exciting progress we've achieved over the past year where we all faced such uncertainties. It's a special, active invigorating time here at Freeport. Our teams are working safely. We remain vigilant with COVID as we have successfully executed our operations' plans, and we're now working on projects for future growth. Our Grasberg underground ramp up is proceeding on schedule, that's key for our strategy. Production in the United States is increasing with our newly commissioned Lone Star mine, the first quarter start -- restart of our Chino mine in New Mexico, and from increased mine rates where we -- at Morenci, our flagship mine in the U.S., the largest in North America, where we could curtail production a year ago to conserve cash. In South America, we're working to restore production levels to prepandemic levels, and we'll achieve that over the next 12 months. The Cerro Verde team in Peru and our El Abra team in Chile are doing an outstanding work in navigating these issues. We are focusing on sustainability initiatives as all businesses are. This has always been key to Freeport in managing our operations. We are moving to certify each of our operations with the new Copper Mark. This Copper Mark is an industry framework that was recently developed by the International Copper Association to ensure responsible production consistent with UN Sustainable Development Goals. To date, we lead the industry with six of our operations now certified, and we're working to get all certified. Going to the slides, I have just a few slides to review with you. On Slide 3, our annual sustainability report has been published and is now available on our website.This is the 20th year we've reported on sustainability. We're working to make it better. I encourage all of you -- each of you to read it. We are proud of our good work on sustainability and remain committed to continuous improvement. Past years, we released this report with our annual shareholders at our Annual Shareholders' meeting. We moved it up. We've added new resources to our Freeport team working on sustainability issues. And I congratulate this team for their efforts to make this report available now earlier so that we can facilitate our expanding engagements with a broad set of constituencies that are now focused on our sustainability performance and initiatives. Last year, we published our initial report on climate. Our 2021 report is forthcoming. We recently published our annual report to shareholders with what I think is a great theme, charging ahead, responsibly, reliably and relentlessly. This theme portrays where we are currently positioned at Freeport. As a leading and growing global copper producer, we are determined to succeed and operate responsibly, and the Freeport tradition will be relentless in the execution of our strategy. Slide 4. Our first quarter production was in line with our targets. We increased our 2021 sales guidance 3.85 billion pounds of copper and our 2022 volumes to 4.4 billion pounds. The Grasberg ramp up that I referenced earlier continues to progress in a simply outstanding fashion.We've now achieved 75% of our annualized targeted long-run metal production run rate. We are on track to be at 90% by the third quarter and full rates by year-end. After all these years of hard work, reporting this progress is simply a highlight of my career. The credit, though, goes to our team on the ground in Indonesia, supported by our global team of technical experts. This is a historical major accomplishment as we've converted -- as we are finalizing the conversion of the Grasberg open pit to this massive underground operations. Americas businesses are going well. We are achieving production and cost targets. And now we're actively focusing and working on future growth opportunities, generating strong cash flows, improving our balance sheet. Over the past 12 months, net debt was reduced by over $3 billion to $5.2 billion by the end of this first quarter. But during this period, copper price averaged $3.13. It's now over $4.25. Many are predicting higher prices near term. Our near-term outlook of copper and gold sales volumes is substantially higher. Our recent performance, this large reduction in debt with lower commodity prices, lower production volumes, demonstrates the current strength of our company in generating cash flows. Our strong performance and the positive outlook for our business and the commodities has enabled our Board to adopt a new financial policy, which will provide increasing cash returns to shareholders while providing flexibility for growth and building a very strong balance sheet. We've also added two new directors: David Abney, the retired Chairman and CEO of UPS, with its massive global supply chain operations; and Bob Dudley, the retired CEO of BP, a longtime leader in the global extractive industry, have joined our Board. Each of these men have strong knowledge and experience in global markets and with issues we face in managing our business. Bob and David had many opportunities to join other Board. Their decisions to join our Board is personally gratifying and appreciated.They are really enthusiastic about working with their fellow directors at Freeport and our management team and creating value responsibly for our stakeholders. Moving to Slide 5. Countries around the world are responding to COVID with aggressive fiscal and monetary policies. This is an important element of near-term demand for copper, extending beyond China. China has been the driver of copper demand growth over the past two decades. Now the source of new demand is expanding. In addition to continuing strong copper consumption in China, higher copper consumption in developed countries with COVID recovery initiatives and the increasingly important demand in emerging markets driven by global growth, copper now has major new sources of demand from global investments in carbon reduction, infrastructure and expanded technology, 5G, artificial intelligence and data analytics broadly all require more copper. Importantly, copper is essential to the transition to a global cleaner energy future. Roughly 70% of copper is used to deliver electricity. As clean energy initiatives are implemented, copper intensity in the economy expands in a major way. The outlook for copper has never been better. Slide 6. Significant demand growth is inevitable. Supply to meet this growth is severely challenged. It's going to require meaningfully higher prices to support mine investment. The combination of rising demand, scarcity of new supplies point to large impending structural deficits, supporting much higher copper prices than previously anticipated. I'm sure you've noted this in recent forecast by mining group of industry analysts. Freeport is notably well positioned to benefit from these fundamentals, a leading responsible large-scale producer of copper with near-term and longer-term growth embedded in our portfolio.

 



The scarcity value of a portfolio, like ours, is unique. It's extremely valuable now and it's going to be even more valuable as large market deficits emerge. Slide seven highlights our near-term growth. For 2021, copper volumes are anticipated to be 20% higher and gold volumes 50% higher than in 2020 -- 55% higher than in 2020. Volumes are expected to grow further in 2020 in the 15% to 20% range for both copper and gold. The capital to achieve these near-term higher volumes and the execution risks are largely behind us. Higher volumes with low incremental costs will yield expanded margins. At prices ranging from $4 to $5 for copper, we would generate annual EBITDA for 2022 and 2023 of over $12 billion to the range of $17 billion per annum. That's big numbers. Page eight describes this new financial policy adopted -- our Board adopted earlier this year. It's designed first to support a strong balance sheet, increased returns to shareholders and provide funds for our investments for the future. The current market for copper and its favorable outlook are providing substantial cash flows to meet these objectives as I just outlined. Our Board approved a base dividend of $0.30 per annum per share. Our first quarterly dividend will be paid in May after -- as we resume dividends, after reaching a target net debt in the $3 billion to $4 billion range, which at today's prices will do by the end of this year.Our Board's policy establishes as a performance-based payout framework for additional cash return to shareholders through dividends and potentially stock buybacks. Returns to shareholders will be determined by allocating available cash flow of up to 50% to shareholder returns and the balance available for future growth and potentially further debt reduction below our targeted $3 billion to $4 billion. Our Board will assess the additional payout, at least, annually. With the current level of copper prices and the outlook for copper and gold prices, the numbers noted above point to a large cash returns to shareholders with substantial financial resources available for future growth investments. Slide nine describes some of these growth investments. We have multiple options across our portfolio. We resumed our work that we suspended a year ago because of COVID to evaluate in the timing and the initiation of these opportunities. In the U.S., we're looking at expansions at Lone Star and Bagdad and also evaluating opportunities to increase production from leach recovery technologies. That's really exciting. The Lone Star mine is our newest mine. It's adjacent to our existing operations in Southeast Arizona where the company's operations go back to the 1800s.There, we have strong community support. We have great relationships with the Native American groups. We're evaluating expansions of Lone Star's oxides ore, which we're now producing and which are growing in terms of the availability of ores. But importantly, we're also conducting these longer-range planning for the development in what looks to be a potentially world-class sulfide resource right in the midst of this historical mining area. At Bagdad, in Northwest Arizona, we have an opportunity to construct a new concentrator to double production. We have a very long reserve life there. Also, there, we have strong community support. I keep emphasizing this because that's a challenge for new supply development around the world. We are focused on technology to reduce capital intensity in these projects. Leach technology initiatives provide substantial opportunities in this regard to add value all across the portfolio. We're continuing to evaluate an attractive, potentially significant expansion of our El Abra mine in Chile where we're partnered with CODELCO. This project would require larger investment and longer lead times than our U.S. project. Resource is attractive and very large. This signifies that a major future expansion of El Abra is likely. We're evaluating the development of a new deposit, an undeveloped deposit, at PT-FI in Papua, Indonesia. It's called Kucing Liar. This copper-gold project involves a large block cave mine using the substantial infrastructure already in place for Grasberg. It would benefit from our expertise and long track record of success in block caving. We're also -- and this is a lot of fun in evaluating a series of interesting investments in projects that support our carbon reduction and other sustainability goals. This involves ideas of developing new energy generation.It's clean, renewable for our operations and nearby communities. And we're advancing plans for an exciting projects at Atlantic Copper and Spain to recover valuable metals through recycling electronic devices, which, again, is good from a sustainability standpoint. Now we have these opportunities. We're going to be disciplined by making new investments, by being selective and measured in deploying capital, focused on value-added investments and do this because we have such long live reserves, established license to operate and we're going to work with communities effective by new investments. Slide 10 points to this reserve position. Our reserve life is over 30 years. Now that's proved and probable economically recoverable reserves. In addition, we have identified over 100 billion pounds of copper from metal resources beyond reserves, all part of our existing operations. We're going to be working to incorporate these into future reserve additions and mine plants. It is becoming increasingly more challenging and costly for our industry to develop supplies to meet the dramatically increasing demand for copper. And our team literally loves where our Freeport is situated in this environment. Slide 11.We have strong operating franchises in the U.S., South America and Indonesia. In all of these localities, we've earned the trust and respect of our partners, our customers, suppliers, financial markets, and most importantly, our workers' communities in the countries where we operate. We have significant development in large-scale operating expertise -- development and large-scale operating expertise. We have all the capabilities now to undertake new projects anywhere in the world, regardless of the ore or the situation in a responsible and efficient manner. I want to close by recognizing the people of Freeport around the globe. Their commitment, dedication are remarkable achievements over the past year of COVID is really special. In the context of all the challenges our team has faced over the years and we have overcome, I'm just immensely proud of this team. Building on these accomplishments with an increasingly bright future, Freeport is charging ahead responsibly, reliably and relentlessly.Kathleen is going to review the financial results with you.Kathleen Lynne Quirk -- President & Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Richard, and I'll just make some brief comments on our financial and operating matters, and then we can take your questions. Starting on Slide 14, we provide some additional details on our operating activities. You can see, in the U.S., the Lone Star mine is operating well. We see opportunities to continue to increase our stacking rates there and fill up the tank house, which has a capacity in the 285 million pound per annum range. With continued success in increasing the mining and stacking rates, we'll have an opportunity for relatively low incremental investments, increased production from the Lone Star oxides well above the original design. We restarted Chino in the first quarter at a 50% rate. And as we gain the efficiencies we are targeting there, we'll likely have opportunities to ramp up further. At Morenci, we're increasing mining rates by about 10%. This was previously planned for 2022, but we are accelerating this, which will give us additional production in 2022 compared with the earlier plan and set us up for growing production over time. In South America, the team was able to achieve stronger rates compared with our plan. Because of the operating restrictions in Peru, we felt it was prudent to maintain our plan this year at a milling rate of 360,000 tonnes per day, and we expect to ramp that up over the next 12 months to the 400,000 tonne per day level as COVID restrictions are lifted. At El Abra, we're making great progress increasing our operating rates to provide additional copper in 2022. As Richard mentioned, at Grasberg, we made excellent progress in the first quarter, continuing to execute the ramp-up plan to achieve our targeted metal run rates by the end of the year. We ended the first quarter with more inventory than originally expected, and these sales will be recorded in the second quarter. You will note from our detailed schedules in the reference material that we made some small changes in the Grasberg Block Cave and Deep MLZ mine sequencing.The net effect of these were not material to our metal production, and the outlook is similar to the prior plans. We're very encouraged with the scale of the ramp up going on both at Grasberg Block Cave and Deep MLZ. We'll be adding a second crusher at Grasberg Block Cave this quarter, which will set us up to continue to increase rates there. On the next slide, we provide an update on our plans to develop new smelter capacity in Indonesia to meet our commitments to the government. We're proceeding with our Japanese partners at PT Smelting to expand the existing smelter. This can be done on a relatively low-cost basis and would reduce the required capacity for the new smelter to 1.7 million tonnes of concentrate per annum. The cost for PT Smelting is roughly $250 million. And PT-FI would fund these costs through a bank financing, which is currently in progress. As you've read, we have been engaging in discussions with third-party for the balance of the requirement, whereby this party would build the new smelter under a structure similar to what we developed for the PT smelting existing smelter in the 1990s. To date, the parties have had extensive negotiations, but we have not yet reached acceptable commercial terms. In the interim, we're continuing our planning on the greenfield project in East Java. As we show on this chart on the right, you'll see that the long-term cost, the economics for the financing of the smelter, which we would plan to finance with debt, would be offset by a phaseout of the 5% export duty we're currently paying. So the economic impact for PT-FI is not material.On slide -- on the next slide, Slide 16, we provide our 3-year outlook for copper volumes, gold volumes and molybdenum volumes. We're increasing our copper sales volumes in 2021 to 3.85 billion pounds from the prior estimate of just over 3.8 billion pounds. And we've increased our 2022 guidance by 100 million pounds to 4.4 billion pounds of copper, and that's reflective of incremental increases in the U.S. The rest of the sales estimates are largely unchanged. As Richard mentioned, we're continuing to assess additional incremental near-term growth opportunities while we conduct our longer-range development planning. We provided on Slide 17 an overview of our estimated unit net cash cost for the year. You will note that we have updated our estimate to average $1.33 per pound of copper in net unit cash costs compared with the prior estimate of $1.25 per pound. A large portion of this increase is associated with higher royalties, duties and profit sharing related to the change in price assumptions from $3.50 per pound of copper to $4 per pound. We've also increased our cost estimates to reflect higher energy costs, principally oil related, which our forecast is now higher by about 25%. Our team continues to do a great job in managing costs efficiently. We have seen some increases, but they have not been significant. Our team continues to look for creative ways to maintain a low-cost position. On Slide 18, we show the significance of cash flow generation using our volume and cost estimates. And we provided sensitivities ranging from $4 per pound copper to $5, and we hold gold flat at $1,750 per ounce and molybdenum an $11 per pound. The growth in volumes at low incremental costs results in very significant EBITDA generation. You can see here, ranging from over $12.5 billion per annum on average for 2022 and 2023 at $4 copper to $17 billion per annum at $5 copper. Operating cash flows under these price scenarios would range from nearly $9 billion to $12 billion.And these cash flows are significantly above our planned capital spending, providing substantial free cash flows as we go forward. On Slide 19, we show our capital project forecast and we show projected capital of $2.3 billion in 2021, that includes potential spending on the Indonesian smelter, which again would be debt financed. But these -- the 2021 guidance numbers are very similar to what we had in our previous reports. Our 2022 capital of $2.2 billion on a consolidated basis is about $200 million higher than our previous forecast and that incorporates an acceleration of mining investments to bring volumes forward and provide capacity assurance for our plans. We've entered -- we are in a strong financial position and have entered a period of exceptional free cash flow generation. Slide 20 kind of shows you that the exceptional cash flow generation that we have in the business. You can see on the slide, where in a 6-month period of time, our cash balance has increased by over $2 billion. Our long-lived asset base, our growing production profile, strong markets provide the ability to continue to strengthen our balance sheet, provide cash returns to shareholders and build additional values in our asset base. Our financial policy that Richard talked about earlier is designed to tick all of these boxes, and we look forward to executing on these plans. And in closing, I'd just say, to echo what Richard said, it's an exciting time at Freeport. We've got the right assets at the right time, and we're staying focused on continuing our momentum.And now operator, I would like to open the call for questions.