
OperatorGood morning and welcome to the Seagate Technology Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2021 Financial Results Conference Call. My name is Tabitha and I'll be your coordinator for today. [Operator Instructions]At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Shanye Hudson, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations and Treasury. Please proceed, Shanye.Shanye Hudson -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations and Treasury

 



Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone and welcome to today's call. Joining me are Dave Mosley, Seagate's Chief Executive Officer and Gianluca Romano, our Chief Financial Officer. We posted our earnings press release and detailed supplemental information for our June quarter and fiscal year 2021 on the Investors section of our website.During today's call, we will refer to GAAP and non-GAAP measures. Non-GAAP figures are reconciled to GAAP figures in the earnings press release posted on our website and included in our Form 8-K that was filed with the SEC. We've not reconciled certain non-GAAP outlook measures, because material items that may impact these measures are out of our control and/or cannot be reasonably predicted. Therefore a reconciliation to the corresponding GAAP measures is not available without unreasonable efforts.As a reminder, this call contains forward-looking statements including our September quarter financial outlook and expectations about our financial performance. Market demand industry growth trends planned product introductions, ability to ramp production, future growth opportunities, possible effects of the economic conditions worldwide resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic and general market conditions. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions and information available to us as of today should not be relied upon as of any subsequent date. Actual results may vary materially from today's statements. Information concerning our risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause results to differ from these forward-looking statements are contained in our most recent Form 10-K and 10-Q filed with the SEC, our Form 8-K filed with the SEC today and the supplemental information posted on the Investors section of our website. As always, following our prepared remarks, we'll open the call for questions.I'll now turn the call over to you, Dave.

 



Dave Mosley -- Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Shanye and a warm welcome to everyone joining us today. Seagate ended fiscal 2021 on a strong note, delivering outstanding June quarter performance and fiscal year revenue that exceeded expectations. These results reflect broad-based demand across the mass capacity end markets and incredible execution by our global team, which together, but the faster than anticipated progress toward our long-term financial targets. In the June quarter, revenue topped the $3 billion mark for the first time in six years. And we delivered non-GAAP EPS of $2 per share, which was at the top most end of the upwardly revised guidance range that we provided in early June. Additionally, we expanded non-GAAP gross margin to 29.6% and expect to be inside our long-term target range of 30% to 33% ahead of schedule. The demand strength and favorable mix has accelerated the timeframe to achieve better supply demand equilibrium which is supporting firmer pricing conditions.We are reporting these exceptional results of time of optimism in parts of the world as vaccinations for grants and economies begin to reopen. In fact, we are hosting today's call from Dublin for the first time in six quarters. While the pandemic remains a difficult reality for many parts of the world and we remain vigilant and continue to manage the business through this period, it is clear the macro level that recovery is underway in the markets that we serve. Seagate is entering this recovery period in a very strong position helped by the fact that we executed incredibly well throughout the crisis. For fiscal year '21, we generated nearly 2% year-over-year revenue growth exceeding our expectations. We grew operating profit faster than sales and achieved operating margin of 15.4% for the year showing the leverage in the business. And we returned substantial amount of capital to shareholders, including $2.7 billion in dividends and share repurchase, retiring more than 13% of our outstanding shares in fiscal 2021.In addition to recording strong financial results, our innovation engine has not slowed down. We extended our HDD technology leadership as evidenced by Seagate being the first company to commercialize HAMR technology and the first to deliver dual actuator performance drives, which we're now shipping in high volume to support multiple customers. We leveraged our areal density gains to streamline our product road map making us better able to meet changing customer demand requirements, while maintaining an attractive cost profile. We also leveraged the strength of our common mass capacity platform to execute our 18 terabyte RAM plans to meet customer demand. We expect to begin shipping 20 terabyte PMR drives in the second half of this calendar year.

 



Finally, we expanded our product and service offerings with the launch of Lyve edge to cloud platforms and remain on track with the buildout of our four Lyve cloud metro edge locations by calendar year end. A year ago when the business challenges posed by the pandemic were very acute, I made the statement that Seagate would emerge from the crisis stronger than ever. With the financial performance and innovations that I've just highlighted, I believe that our team has delivered on that claim. And I think it is stronger than ever. We are continuing to focus on unlocking more value for our customers and shareholders. For example, last month, we introduce CORVAULT to our family of cost efficient high density sources. CORVAULT combines Seagate's internally designed storage systems ASICs with our intelligent self-healing software and data security technologies, which results in a high reliability storage solution at petabyte scale, ideal for private cloud and macro edge datacenters.We are also working directly with customers to unlock value. Many of our hyperscale customers already employing AI and machine learning to reduce the amount of human intervention necessary to maintain and repair that are logically the storage price. We recently teamed with Google Cloud to take data intelligence one step further. Together, we developed models that help predict drive failures before they occur. These model comes to lower operational costs and prevent potential problems to their end users, a clear win-win.Let's turn now to the current market environment, starting with an area that has garnered significant interest in recent weeks. Storage-centric blockchain such as those used by Filecoin for decentralized storage applications with Chia cryptocurrency which is considered an environmentally friendly alternative to other blockchains that utilize energy intensive computational power to validate transactions have significant interest. During the June quarter, we saw meaningful increase in HDD demand due in part to the initial buildout of the Chia net space which is comprised of both new and repurposed HDDs. By our estimation, new Chia demand represented at most a mid-single digit percentage of total industry exabyte shipments during the quarter, primarily into the distribution channel. This incremental demand served to tighten HDD supply dynamics and an increase in the robust demand environment.While the future growth outlook in this space remains unclear, we are excited by the potential applications associated with innovations and decentralized file storage. For Seagate, strong growth in the traditional mass capacity market remains the primary driver of HDD demand. In the June quarter, mass capacity represented close to 70% of Seagate's HDD revenue supported by broad-based demand for our nearline drives and the third consecutive quarter of sales growth in the both cloud and enterprise customers. Cloud datacenter demand has remained healthy and steady for the last 18 months and current indicators suggest that that trend will continue.While it's clear that the pandemic played a big role in accelerating digital transformation, hyperscale industry leaders expected digital adoption curve to continue accelerating even as COVID recedes. At the same time businesses are preparing for employees to return to the workplace which is reinvigorating On-Prem IT infrastructure investments and supporting ongoing recovery in the enterprise markets.We also experienced stronger than anticipated recovery in the VIA markets during the quarter due in part to tighter supply conditions. We currently foresee relatively stable demand through the second half of the calendar year. Looking ahead, secular demand for mass capacity data combined with signs of macro recovery represent significant opportunities for Seagate and set the stage for continued strong financial performance and cash flow generation. These factors combined with our broad product portfolio underpin our forecast to grow revenue in the high single-digit percentage range or more in fiscal 2022 which is well above our long-term financial model range.I'll now hand the call over to Gianluca to cover the financial results.Gianluca Romano -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Dave. Seagate executed extremely well in the June quarter, delivering very strong top and bottom line growth that was fueled by accelerating demand in the mass capacity market and distribution channel. Revenue was $3.01 billion, up 10% sequentially and 20% year-over-year. Non-GAAP operating margin expanded to an 18.1% in the upper end of our long-term target range of 15% to 20% of revenue. And non-GAAP EPS was $2 per share, up 35% sequentially and 67% year-over-year.Ongoing demand momentum for our mass capacity product supported a third consecutive quarter of record hard disk drive capacity shipments for totaling 152 exabytes, up 9% sequentially and 20% year-on-year. More than 80% of total exabyte were shipped into the mass capacity market, which include Nearline, VIA and NAS products. Mass capacity shipment hit the record 123 exabyte in the June quarter, up 11% sequentially and 36% year-over-year. We are continuing to leverage our manufacturing agility and drive operational efficiencies to meet our customers' timing. Mass capacity now represents close to 70% of total HDD revenue, further demand for our nearline drive, a strong recovery in the VIA market of record mass capacity revenue of $1.9 billion, up 16% sequentially and up 29% compared with the prior year period. Sales of our Nearline product grew strongly quarter-over-quarter reflecting the rapid uptick in demand from store-centric blockchain layered on top of healthy cloud datacenter demand and improving enterprise OEM customer TAM [Phonetic] as we discussed last quarter.We attribute incremental sales of our mid to high capacity Nearline products in distribution channels to Chia partners, while our cloud and OEM customers consumed a majority of our high-capacity supply including our 18 terabyte drives which are shipping in high volume. Overall nearline shipment increased to 101 exabyte, up 6% sequentially and 28% year-on-year from record levels in each of the comparable quarters. Stronger-than-expected demand in the VIA market lead to a sharp sequential increase in revenue. Extended project got underway and customers invested to supporting future demand.Looking ahead, we expect relatively stable demand into the second half of the calendar year. The legacy market end up well in the June quarter with revenue of $854 million compared with $864 million in both the prior quarter and the prior year period. Exabyte shipments remained flat quarter-over-quarter as roughly 29 exabyte. Ongoing demand for our mission-critical drive and better than expected sales of our consumer products partially offset the anticipated decline for PC drives. We expect relatively stable demand for both mission critical and customer drives over the next couple of quarters which would result in more moderate year-over-year revenue decline for the overall industry market.Finally, turning to our non-HDD business, revenue increased 16% sequentially and 42% year-over-year to a record $276 million. We continue to drive momentum in our system business which help a simple and scalable petabyte solutions targeted for enterprise and private cloud customers. In the June quarter non-GAAP gross profit increased to $892 million compared with $749 million in the March quarter and $686 million in the prior year period. We incurred $32 million of COVID related cost during the quarter. Calendar year-to-date, the vast majority of these costs are attributed to validated state charges which we expect to persist through fiscal 2022. However given the uncertainty around when or if these costs will abate, starting in fiscal Q1, we plan to stop calling them out.Our resulting non-GAAP gross margin expanded by 219 basis points to 29.6% including slightly more than 1% headwind from COVID related costs. Total HDD margin really inside our targeted range of 30% to 33% and we now expect total company non-GAAP gross margin to be at the low end of the range in the September quarter reflecting better alignment in supply and demand and the transitions to mass capacity project that has taken place. Non-GAAP operating expenses came in at $346 million, up 5% sequentially reflecting higher variable compensation associated with a strong performance. We are tightly managing expenses and expect to maintain opex at approximately the same level for the next few quarters.The combination of higher sales and margin expansion resulted in non-GAAP operating income of $546 million, up 30% sequentially and over 46% year-over-year. Non-GAAP operating margin was 18.1%, up 274 basis points sequentially and 330 basis points year-over-year. And solidly inside our long-term target range of 15% to 20% of revenue. Based on the little share count of approximately 233 million share, non-GAAP EPS for the June quarter was $2 per share, the highest level since fiscal '12. Capital expenditures were $124 million in the June quarter and just under $500 million for the fiscal year which represent 4.7% of our revenue [Phonetic] in line with our long-term target range.Through strong expense discipline and efforts to improve manufacturing efficiencies we reduced capex by about 15% in fiscal 2021 exiting the year with better supply demand balance. Inventory was $1.2 billion, down 6% sequentially with days inventory outstanding declining for the third consecutive quarter to 51 days. Our teams have done an outstanding job of working with our suppliers and partners to manage strategic inventory levels and mitigate supply chain disruption including the recent COVID-related restrictions in Asia, which we compare to closely monitoring.In the June quarter, we increased free cash flow to $354 million up 29% both quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year. Our focus on optimizing profitability and cash generation provides flexibility to reinvest in the business and total capital to our shareholders. We use $154 million to fund the quarterly dividend and $228 million to repurchase 2.6 million ordinary shares, exiting the quarter was 227 million shares outstanding and approximately $4.2 billion remaining in our authorization. We retired 34 million shares during fiscal year 2021 and returned, a total of $2.7 billion for dividend and share repurchases. Based on our current outlook, we expect to maintain a robust capital return program in fiscal 2022 while maintaining a strong balance sheet and liquidity profile.Cash and cash equivalents remain relatively stable at $1.2 billion and total liquidity was approximately $3 billion, including our revolving credit facility. These levels are more than adequate to support our operations and business needs. As we entered the fiscal 2022, the demand environment remained strong and we continue to execute our product and technology roadmap to deliver on our customer requirements while driving value for Seagate.Looking ahead to our outlook for the September quarter, we expect revenue to be in the range of $3.1 billion plus or minus $150 million. We expect non-GAAP operating profit to grow faster than sales resulting in non-GAAP operating margin as the upper end of our long-term range of 15% to 20% of revenue, and we expect non-GAAP EPS to be in the range of $2.20 per share, plus or minus $0.15 representing a sequential growth of 10% at the midpoint.In summary, we continue to achieve outstanding results supported by our unwavering focus on operational and strength of our product and technology portfolio. We are already demonstrating performance consistent with our financial target and then for fiscal '22 well positioned for top and bottom line growth.I'll now turn the call to Dave for final comments.Dave Mosley -- Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Gianluca. Seagate is executing well delivering financial performance at or above our commitments, maintaining relentless focus on total customer experience and deploying capital to enhance value for all stakeholders. We kept fiscal '21 with our strongest performance of the year and we expect that positive momentum to continue moving forward. We've demonstrated strong leverage in our business model to grow operating profits faster than revenue and in turn drive free cash flow generation.Our ability to consistently generate free cash flow provides the flexibility to fund future growth and employee robust shareholder return program as well. Based on the current outlook, we expect to grow free cash flow appreciably in fiscal 2022. Our employees have been crucial to Seagate's current success and key to driving our future. Over our 40-year history, Seagate has transitioned many times to address the evolving storage industry landscape. For example, we've recently pivoted in our factories and technology to deliver mass capacity solutions and have emerged a leader.Now, we are focused on addressing the next mass data challenge with our live product platform. To keep pace with these changes, we are investing to reskill and redeploy Seagate employees as needed to support our future growth and respond to the changing demands of the business. For example, we launched a tool called career discovery earlier this year, which has already helped Seagate to establish networking and mentor connections as well as redeployment opportunities for hundreds of employees. Seagate has a broad bench of talent with decades of hardware and software experience, formidable supply chain management manufacturing skills, deep knowledge of chip design and data analytics. This expertise and strong customer relationships allow Seagate to understand the global mass capacity ecosystem and its architecture is better than anyone.Tools such as Career Discovery are helping us deploy our diverse resources to support our future needs while enabling Seagate to maintain opex efficiencies. We are confident that this focus on people will put us in a firm footing for continued growth and success. As we close, I want to thank both Seagate's employees and those in our supply chain whose efforts enable our ongoing leadership in mass data solutions. Our customers and our shareholders are equally deserving a thanks for their ongoing trust and support at Seagate.Gianluca and I are now happy to take your questions.