
OperatorGood afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the CH Robinson Second Quarter 2021 Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Chuck Ives, Director of Investor Relations.Chuck Ives -- Director of Investor RelationsThank you, Stacey. And good afternoon everyone. On the call with me today is Bob Biesterfeld, our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Mike Zechmeister, our Chief Financial Officer.

 



Bob and Mike will provide a summary of our 2021 second quarter results and then we will open up the call for live questions. Our earnings presentation slides are supplemental to our earnings release and can be found in the Investors section of our website at investor.chrobinson.com. However, our prepared comments are not intended to follow the slides. If we do refer to specific information on any of the slides, we will first let you know which slide we're referencing.I'd also like to remind you that our remarks today may contain forward-looking statements. Slide 2 in today's presentation lists factors that could cause our actual results to differ from management's expectations. And with that, I'll turn the call over to Bob.Robert Biesterfeld -- Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Chuck. Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us today. During the second quarter, we delivered record financial results by staying focused on serving the needs of our customers and keeping their global supply chains moving in a capacity constrain environment. We're pleased that we returned to truckload volume growth. We delivered record volume and less than truckload in ocean and air and we believe that our tech plus strategy that combines industry-leading technology with great logistics experts and great processes is the right strategy. As part of our global suite of services, our largest services delivered both year-over-year and sequential growth in total volumes, revenue, and adjusted gross profit or AGP, which resulted in quarterly highs for Robinson in total volumes, revenues, AGP, and operating income. Excluding the fourth quarter of 2012, when we sold our TTEC business, our earnings per share was also a record high. I'll talk about how we achieved these results as I walk through my prepared comments on our second quarter results.

 



In our largest service of NAST truckload, we grew our adjusted gross profit by $34 million or 4% [Technical Issue] year-over-year. This came through a 6% increase in volume and a 7% increase in adjusted gross profit per load. This included an increase in spot market volume of nearly 30% year-over-year due in part to an 85% increase in quotes and 160% increase in volume, that was driven through our proprietary real-time dynamic pricing engine. 40% of our spot or transactional business was priced via integrations with our dynamic pricing engine in the second quarter, delivering real-time pricing with capacity assurance from the largest network in capacity in North America.While our business in the spot market increased significantly, our volume in the contractual business declined approximately 10% during the quarter, as we continue to reshape our portfolio and pursue profitable volume growth. This included a balance of two things; first, honoring our contractual commitments with strategic customers, which is still resulting in a higher than normal percentage of loads with negative adjusted gross profit margins due to ongoing increases in the cost of purchased transportation; and second, managing acceptance rates in order to limit negative loads and to manage our business for profitability.We closed the quarter with an approximate mix of 55% contractual volume and 45% transactional volume versus a 65-35 mix in the year ago period, and this was consistent with our mix in the first quarter of this year. Our average truckhaul linehaul cost per mile paid to carriers, excluding fuel surcharges, increased 47.5% compared to the second quarter of last year. Our average linehaul rate billed to our customers, excluding fuel surcharges, increased 42% year-over-year. This resulted in the highest cost and price per mile on record and a 12% year-over-year increase in our truckload adjusted gross profit per mile. This combined with a 4.5% decrease in average length of haul resulted in a 7% increase in adjusted gross profit per truckload. We continue to reprice our contractual business in the second quarter, including some underperforming contractual positions. The bid process continues to be a dynamic one and 40% of our awarded contracts in second quarter were for terms between three and six months.Having said this, greater than two-thirds of our bid volume awarded to us in the second quarter was still on 12-month contracts. During the quarter, we saw a routing guide depth of tender in our Managed Services business declined slightly from 1.8 in March to 1.6 in June. However, the average in second quarter of 1.7 was unchanged from the market conditions in first quarter. In the second quarter, we welcomed an additional 6,900 carriers to our network, which represented an 88% increase over the carriers added in the second quarter of last year. Leveraging the scale and the information advantage that comes from the size of our carrier network, is just one of the ways that we help customers navigate capacity constrained marketplace. Given the current structural constraints around the expansion of truckload supply, coupled with the continued reopening of the economy, as well as other factors, we do expect the current market conditions will persist through 2021. And as I said last quarter, we expect to grow our truckload volume during the remaining quarters of this year.

 



In our second largest service line of ocean forwarding, we grew our adjusted gross profit by $72 million or 92% year-over-year. This came through a 29% increase in shipments and a 49% increase in adjusted gross profit per shipment. Strong demand continues to outpace supply with container and equipment shortages and other market disruptions continuing to constrain capacity. Our team has done a great job with strengthening our carrier relationships, procuring incremental capacity to better serve our customers. The forwarding team continues to add new commercial relationships with strategic multinational customers that are leading to increased award sizes, while also ensuring that our existing customers have access to the capacity that they need to meet their needs. Our customers and our results are benefiting from the investments we've made in digitization, data and analytics, as well as our global network that are supporting our expanded geographical and vertical expertise. We believe that these strategies and competitive advantages, will enable us to create more value for customers and in turn win more business and sustain the market share gains that we've achieved. There continues to be a robust pipeline of new business from both new and existing customers and as we move toward the peak holiday shipping season and into next year, we do expect that ocean demand will remain strong into early 2022.As part of our growth strategy, less than truckload or LTL business, which is our third largest service continued its strong momentum by growing [Technical Issue] the gross profit by $23 million or 22% year-over-year. This came through a 23% increase in volume and a slight decline in adjusted gross profit per order. We're seeing balanced growth across our LTL modes and across customer segments. Through our strategic focus on the LTL market, we've built a $3 billion LTL business through a blend of organic growth, digital investments, and strategic acquisitions such as Freightquote and Prime Distribution, which has made us the largest and most comprehensive provider of retail consolidation services in the industry. This portfolio expansion has capitalized on e-commerce growth and combines a full suite of LTL technology and services, including common carrier, warehousing and retail consolidation, temperature control, parcel, home deliveries, and reverse logistics. Our value proposition, which includes highly automated systems that are easily scaled for high volume growth continues to resonate with shippers of all sizes and across industry verticals. This includes small businesses that utilize our Freightquote by C.H. Robinson platform, as well as large enterprise shippers that look to us as a strategic partner to manage and optimize their LTL freight networks.In total, NAST overall second quarter volume grew approximately 16% year-over-year compared to a 30% increase in industry volume, as measured by the Cass Freight Index. Due to a large pandemic related decline in the index in the second quarter of last year that we did not experience at the same level. While our growth for the quarter did not exceed the industry benchmark over a one-year time frame, we've outperformed the index for the two, three, four and five-year timeframes.Finally, our fourth largest service, international air freight, delivered strong results again behind a 43% increase in metric tons shipped. Adjusted gross profit was up 1% over second quarter of last year when we delivered 104% adjusted gross profit growth. Demand has been incredibly strong, partially driven by conversions of some ocean freight to air and recovery of demand in Europe. Air freight capacity has continued to be strained and we continue to position charter flight capacity to support demand from both new and existing customers. Our Global Forwarding customers that utilize our air, ocean and customs and project logistics services, continue to value working with and relying on Robinson's global experts, and offices around the world, that can deliver a full suite of global logistics services and customized solutions. We've built sustainable competitive advantages in our Global Forwarding business that will continue to deliver solid returns for our shareholders and benefits for our customers in the quarters and the years ahead. Because of the efforts of our Robinson team members across the globe and our advanced technology, our total company adjusted gross profit per business day improved by 5% sequentially in second quarter, 22% year-over-year, and 8% over the pre-pandemic quarter of second quarter of 2019.Bolstering our results were continued benefits of our digital investments, which continue to unlock productivity gains and deliver customer value in new and exciting ways. Our three primary areas of investment in digitization are focused on creating value for customers, value for carriers, and driving productivity improvement for our teams, which in turn drives improvements to both our top online results.Looking at the impact basin through the lens of customer and carrier adoption, the number of daily and monthly average users across our customer and carrier facing platforms continues to grow with 27% year-over-year growth in daily average users of our customer platforms as just one example.As I mentioned earlier, the amount of customer quotes and volume that is being delivered through our real-time dynamic pricing tools has grown significantly, enabling these digital connections; improves efficiency for our customers, improves our response time per quote requests, and improves our win rates. We also continue to add digital connections with our customers at an accelerated pace during the quarter, with over 100 new customers connected via TMS and ERP connections in the second quarter of 2021. Our customers now have access to real-time pricing via our Navisphere customer web portal, directed at TMS ERP integrations, as well as via Freightquote by C.H. Robinson. In total, we've been able to use these dynamic pricing capabilities for over 87,000 customers across these point of connection.On the carrier side, we continue to deliver new capabilities and benefits to our carriers through our web and mobile versions of Navisphere carrier and Navisphere driver. During the quarter, we had over 290,000 fully automated bookings in our NAST truckload business.And finally, as it relates to productivity, we've again highlighted a couple of key metrics for NAST on page 5 of our earnings presentation. We continue to show year-over-year improvement in productivity as indicated by the 1670 point favorable spread in our NAST Productivity Index, which represents the difference between [Technical Issue] per year change in NAST volume and the change in full time equivalents in NAST, another key metric that we review is shipments per person per day. That was up 17% in second quarter compared to the same quarter last year. Both of these charts show very clearly the relationship between the timing of our increased digital investments and the impact of these key operational metrics. We're encouraged with the progress that we're making in our digital and technology journey and the impact these investments are delivering for our customers, for our carriers, and the impacts to our overall results.Leading the industry with the most powerful supply chain technology and data platform has been a top strategic priority for Robinson and part of our competitive advantage in the marketplace. We've increased our investments and strengthened our technology and innovation capabilities with our customers' needs and experience in mind. We constantly listen to the voice of our customers and are focused on continually enhancing our customer and carrier experience. We got bold ambitions to continue to evolve as a platform company, giving our employees, customers and carriers the products and the information needed to succeed. Our customers rely on us to be an extension of their team, able to provide a global suite of services, create market leading solutions that work, and drive smarter solutions to our information advantage.And as we can create differentiated value for the nearly 200,000 carriers and customers of Robinson, I'm excited to have Arun Rajan join our executive team as Chief Product Officer on September 1, reporting directly to me. Arun will lead our Global Product Strategy and its organization will sit at the intersection of our business strategy and technology platforms to provide a consistent industry leading customer experience and to drive our global digital capabilities across our suite of products. Arun is a seasoned and inspiring leader who brings decades of products and technology experience developing and deploying products that enrich the customer experience and create value with industry leading companies such as Whole Foods, Zappos and Travelocity. Arun's deep product and leadership experience will be invaluable as we drive the next generation of innovation for our industry, while creating sustainable long-term value for our customers, our carriers and our shareholders.I'll now turn the call to Mike to review the specifics of our second quarter financial performance.Mike Zechmeister -- Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Bob, and good afternoon everyone. As Bob mentioned, we delivered solid quarterly financial results across a variety of top line and bottom line metrics in Q2, driven by strong performance in a favorable market as we continue to leverage our technology plus strategy. In Q2, we established quarterly total company records in volume, total revenue, adjusted gross profit and operating income. Our total company AGP was up 22% compared to Q2 of 2020 driven by strong performance from ocean, truckload, LTL, and air. On a sequential basis, each of our business segments delivered AGP growth compared to Q1. On a monthly basis compared to 2020, our total company AGP per business day was 21% in April, up 12% in May, and up 35% in June. With the cost per mile and price per mile in our truckload business reaching all time highs in Q2, our AGP margin percentage [Technical Issue]. This is simply a function of a larger denominator in the AGP margin equation. To illustrate that, I'll share some facts about our Q2 AGP per mile versus our AGP margin percentage.Our Q2 truckload AGP per mile was approximately 3% higher than our 10-year average, while our AGP margin percentage was more than 350 basis points below our 10-year average. As truckload pricing is predominantly determined by dollars per load as opposed to percentage markup, having an all time high priced results in a compressed margin percentage.We continue to be focused on growing our overall AGP dollars by optimizing volume growth and AGP per shipment across our service offerings. With our customer focus and digital investments continuing to drive growth inefficiency into our model, we have solid strategies to generate sustainable long-term growth.Turning now to expenses. Q2 personnel expenses $62.9 million, up 20.8% compared to Q2 of last year, due to higher incentive compensation costs and the impact of short-term pandemic related cost reductions in Q2 last year. Our Q2 average headcount increased 0.7% compared to Q2 of last year, and our average full time equivalents were up 3.1%. Headcount was added primarily to deliver on our long-term growth expectations, particularly in our Global Forwarding business. In addition, the June 3 acquisition of our Combinex Holdings BV in our European Surface Transportation business, added approximately a 100 new employees to Robinson. Given our increase in headcount and higher incentive compensation associated with our 2021 profit expectations, we now expect our 2021 personnel expenses to be to 1.42 billion to 1.48 billion dollars, which is up from our prior guidance of 1.4 billion.Q2 SG&A expenses of $125.7 million were up 0.4% compared to Q2 of 2020. We continue to expect 2021 total SG&A expenses to be approximately $0.5 billion, which includes travel expenses building in the back half of the year. 2021 SG&A is expected to include approximately $90 million to $95 million of depreciation and amortization. This is up from our prior guidance of $85 million to $90 million, but down from the 102 million in 2020, primarily due to the completion of amortization related to a prior acquisition.Second quarter interest and other expense totaled $13.5 million, up approximately $3.3 million versus Q2 last year, due to the impact of currency revaluation. Q2 results included a $1.9 million loss due to unfavorable currency revaluation, compared to a $1.8 million gain on FX in Q2 last year.I'm pleased to report that we've completed the work that delivers the $100 million per year of long-term cost savings that we committed to a year and a half ago. Our annualized run rate savings surpassed $100 million in Q1 of this year. Going forward, we will continue our efforts to drive efficiency into our business model, primarily through process redesign and automation across the enterprise. Our Q2 income from operations was an all-time quarterly high at $260.6 million and our adjusted operating margin of 34.8% was up 410 basis points compared to Q2 last year. Q2 net income was $193.8 million, up 34.6% compared to Q2 last year. And diluted earnings per share finished at $1.44, which was up 35.8% year-over-year.Turning to cash flow. Our Q2 cash flow from operations was approximately $149 million, a decrease of $298 million compared to Q2 of last year, driven primarily by the outsized improvement in working capital in Q2 last year. [Technical Issue] Q2 operating working capital increased by $81.8 million or 5.6% versus Q1 compared to a sequential increase of 6.7% in AGP. Over the long term, we expect our working capital to continue to grow at a rate slower than our AGP. Capital expenditures were $16.3 million in Q2, up from $10.3 million in Q2 last year, primarily driven by increased investments in hardware and software. Year-to-date, through Q2, our capital expenditures were $30 million and we continue to expect 2021 capital expenditures to finish in the range of $55 million to $65 million.We returned approximately $205 million of cash to shareholders in Q2 through a combination of $135 million of share repurchases and 70 million of dividends. That level of cash return to shareholders represents a 199% increase versus Q2 of last year when we were not repurchasing shares, out of an abundance of caution, due to the pandemic. During Q2 this year, we repurchased approximately 1.4 million shares at an average price of $97.47 per share and at the end of Q2, we had approximately 5 million shares of remaining capacity on our 15 million share repurchase authorization from May of 2018.Our cash balance at the end of Q2 was $173 million, down $189 million compared to Q2 of 2020. We intend to carry only the cash needed to fund operations and to efficiently repatriate excess cash from foreign entities. We ended Q2 with $902 million of liquidity, comprised of $729 million of committed funding under our credit facility, which matures in October of 2023 at our Q2 cash balance. Our debt balance at quarter end was $1.37 billion, up $274 million versus Q2 last year, driven primarily by share repurchases and increased working capital.Our net debt to EBITDA leverage at the end of Q2 was one 1.2 times down sequentially from 1.3 times at the end of Q1. From an M&A standpoint, the deal flow in the market remains robust and we expect to see more industry consolidation, through the end of 2021. While we don't comment on specific companies or transactions, we do see the potential for Robinson to play a role. We continue to be focused on value creation with our capital allocation and remain disciplined in that regard. We continue to prioritize companies that can expand our geographic presence, particularly in Global Forwarding, at or improve, our service offerings, offer compelling cross selling opportunities, help us build scale to leverage our flywheel, or to enhance our digitization efforts to deliver growth, quality of service or efficiencies. A strong fit with Robinson culture is also important in our M&A efforts.Overall, we're making excellent progress against our strategic initiatives to drive growth and efficiency into our model. That said, we have tremendous opportunities for growth and efficiency ahead of us as we still represent just a small percentage of the overall addressable market in global logistics landscape. From a capital allocation standpoint, we continue to be committed to disciplined capital stewardship maintaining an investment grade credit rating and generating sustainable long-term growth to our shareholders.Thank you for listening this afternoon. And I'll turn the call back over to Bob now for his final comments.Robert Biesterfeld -- Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Mike. Our record quarterly volumes, revenues, adjusted gross profit and operating income demonstrated the strength of our non-asset-based business model that includes a diverse portfolio of services. As I said earlier, with bold ambitions to continue to evolve as a platform company and we're committed to creating better outcomes for our customers and carriers by delivering industry-leading technology that's built by and for supply chain experts and by leveraging our unmatched combination of experience, scale, technology and information advantage. We'll stay the course with our strategy of pursuing market share gains that align with our profitability expectations. And we'll continue to invest back into the business in order to drive innovation, improved service to our customers and carriers, and drive growth across our global suite of [Inaudible] services.I believe that the team at Robinson is the most capable team of supply chain experts in the world and I'm incredibly proud of our team as thousands of customers navigate globally disrupted supply chains, while delivering strong results for our shareholders. As we continue to create differentiated value for the nearly 200,000 carriers and customers of Robinson, I'm thrilled to have Arun Rajan join the Robinson team to drive our next generation of innovation. I'm also excited by our return-to-office that our US employees began this month, coming back to a more flexible and hybrid work model. And we look forward to seeing more of our people around the world return to the office as appropriate guided by local health guidelines.I'd like to thank the Robinson team members around the world for learning to work and collaborate in new ways, for rapidly advancing our digital capabilities, for creating a more open and inclusive environment, and for ensuring the health and safety of our people across the globe, while continuing to help us emerge stronger. This concludes our prepared remarks.And with that, I'll turn it back to Stacy for the live Q&A portion of the call.