  OperatorGood day, everyone, and welcome to the ExxonMobil Corporation second-quarter 2021 earnings call. Today's call is being recorded. And at this time, I'd like to turn the call over to the vice president of investor relations and secretary, Mr. Stephen Littleton. Please go ahead, sir.Stephen Littleton -- Vice President of Investor Relations and Secretary

 



 Thank you, and good morning, everyone. Welcome to our second-quarter earnings call. We appreciate your participation and continued interest in ExxonMobil. I am Stephen Littleton, vice president of investor relations. Joining me today are Darren Woods, chairman and chief executive officer; and Jack Williams, our senior vice president, overseeing downstream and chemical. In a moment, Darren will make some introductory comments. I will then cover the quarterly financial and operating results, and then Jack and Dan will provide their perspectives on the business. Following those remarks, we will be happy to address any questions.Our comments this morning will reference the slides available on the Investors section of our website. I would also like to draw your attention to the cautionary statement on Slide 2 and to the supplemental information at the end of this presentation. I will now turn the call over to Darren. Darren Woods -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thank you, Stephen, and good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining us today. Before Stephen takes us through the second-quarter results, let me start by covering the significant developments in the quarter. Starting with the extensive engagement the board and I had with our shareholders in the months leading up to our annual meeting. We received some very explicit feedback that we found valuable and are incorporating in our plans as we move the company forward. In future, the directors, the management committee and I look forward to continuing the active shareholder engagement and discussing the good work going on at the company and the progress we are making on all fronts. Since our annual meeting, we welcomed our new directors. Greg Goff, Kaisa Hietala, and Andy Karsner with a number of discussions that included myself; our lead director, Ken Frazier; other board members; and senior managers of the company. In June, we began the new members' onboarding process with in-depth reviews of our businesses and key topics, such as our energy outlook and our approach to the energy transition. While the board has met virtually on a couple of topics since the annual meeting, this week was the first in-person regular meeting of the board. We had very substantive and productive discussions across both of the committees and the full board that were informed by the extensive shareholder engagements of the past several months. I'm pleased to say that without exception, our directors are focused on improving the performance of the company, addressing the challenges faced by our industry and increasing long-term shareholder value. There is very good alignment on the importance of leveraging the diverse experience and skills of the board. The important role ExxonMobil will have in the transition, helping to lead to the development and deployment of critical technologies, advocating for necessary policy and making strategically and financially accretive investments. The need to improve transparency and engagement with our shareholders, actively listening and more explicitly addressing concerns and, of course, driving total shareholder return in both the short and long run. While there is still much to do, I think we're working from a very strong foundation.

 



 ExxonMobil is proud to be a global leader in the industry. As the energy system evolves with society's needs, we look forward to continuing our role as a leader, helping lead society through the transition leveraging the deep thinking and analytical rigor of our 20,000 scientists and engineers and the hard work of all of our people. Another important development in the quarter was the addition of Kathy Mikells to our management committee as senior vice president and chief financial officer. On behalf of the board, the other members of the management committee, and our entire organization, I want to welcome Kathy and express how excited we are to have her on board. She joins us formally next month and brings significant CFO and investor relations experience from her time at Diageo, Xerox, United Airlines, and ADT. In addition to the financial functions, Kathy's portfolio will include corporate strategic planning, investor relations, and a number of our global business services, like IT and procurement. We look forward to the depth of experience and perspectives she'll bring. While welcoming Kathy, I'd like to also recognize Andy Swiger's retirement, which was also recently announced. I'd like to take the opportunity to express our gratitude for the many contributions Andy has made during his 43 years with the company. He has certainly earned his retirement, and we all wish him and his wife, Sherry, the very best. Also of significance in the quarter was the continuing market recovery, which obviously underpins our results. As you will hear, the organization remains very focused on continuing to leverage the changes we've implemented over the last several years and on delivering the plans we've discussed with you in March. As the margin improves, we've maintained a disciplined approach doing more with less. We remain focused on delivering industry-leading operating performance, continuing to significantly reduce costs, advancing our portfolio of high return advantage projects, executing value-accretive divestments and rebuilding the strength of our balance sheet. In addition, as the need for climate solutions beyond wind, solar and electric vehicles grow, we are working to expand our portfolio of strategically and financially accretive low-carbon solutions investments. While still in the early stages, I'm pleased with the progress we're making. I'll come back to this later in the call. At this time, I'll hand it back to Stephen.Stephen Littleton -- Vice President of Investor Relations and Secretary Thanks, Darren. I will now walk through development since the first quarter. Across all three businesses, demand recovery has improved results. In the upstream, liquids realizations improved significantly versus the first quarter. Production was lower due to seasonal gas demand in Europe and higher scheduled maintenance activity, notably in Canada. We continue to explore and progress development in our advantaged deepwater assets with two discoveries announced in Guyana during the second quarter and a third discovery, Whiptail, announced this week. We also completed final investment decision for the Bacalhau development offshore Brazil. In the downstream, global demand improved in line with economic recovery. However, we did see the impact of regional lockdowns resulting from COVID outbreaks. While there is improved demand for gasoline and diesel, margins continue to be impacted by product oversupply and depressed jet demand driven by lower international travel. The chemical business achieved record quarterly earnings with strong reliability and high polyethylene and polypropylene margins, specifically in North America and Europe due to continued strong demand, tight industry supply and ongoing shipping constraints. During the quarter, we announced the sale of our global Santoprene business to Celanese for more than $1.1 billion. The transaction includes two manufacturing sites in Pensacola, Florida and Newport, Wales and is expected to close in the fourth quarter. Earnings improvements across all businesses resulted in increased cash flow from operations, enabling debt reduction of $2.7 billion in the quarter. Finally, our Low Carbon Solutions business signed two MOUs to progress large-scale carbon capture and storage projects in Scotland and France. Let's move to Slide 5 for an overview of second-quarter results. The table on the left provides a view of second-quarter results relative to the prior quarter. Earnings, excluding identified items, were $4.7 billion, an increase of approximately $2 billion versus the first quarter, primarily due to higher prices and margins and strong reliability. There was a $700 million hurt compared to the prior quarter from mark-to-market impacts on open financial derivatives for which the physical trading strategy had not closed. We expect to realize the full earnings benefit of these trading strategies when they close in the future. Consistent with prior disclosures, planned maintenance activity impacted earnings by about $800 million in the quarter and was partially offset by lower corporate expenses and favorable tax items. On the next slides, I will cover a brief summary of quarterly results for each business. Upstream earnings improved more than $630 million compared to the first quarter. Higher prices increased earnings by about $1 billion, partially offset by mark-to-market impacts of unsettled derivatives. Tighter supply demand balances increased liquids realizations by 12%. Gas realizations also increased, driven primarily by higher European and LNG gas prices. Increased planned maintenance, primarily in Canada and Australia impacted earnings by $360 million. Next quarter, we expect lower levels of planned maintenance. Other items were a help of $310 million and included favorable asset management and one-time tax items. On the next slide, I will cover a brief summary of upstream volumes. On average, upstream volumes decreased by about 200,000 oil equivalent barrels per day compared to the first quarter. Gas and liquids were both lower in the quarter with seasonal gas demand reductions, primarily in Europe, lower entitlements due to higher prices and the planned maintenance activity that I mentioned earlier. These impacts were partially offset by improved reliability, primarily in Canada and the U.S., and recovery from winter storm impacts experienced in the first quarter. Moving to Slide 8. Downstream earnings improved by approximately $160 million in the second quarter. During the quarter, margins improved by nearly $600 million but were partially offset by the unsettled mark-to-market impacts I mentioned earlier. We had our best ever lubricants quarterly earnings driven by improved base stock margins. We have also seen demand improve, particularly in North America retail fuels. During the quarter, planned maintenance and turnarounds reduced earnings by $220 million. We optimize the timing of our downstream maintenance in the first half of 2021, which positions us well for the continuing economic recovery as we move through the year. We also benefited from the absence of the first-quarter refinery to terminal conversion provision for our Altona, Australia and Slagen, Norway refineries, which was included in the other factor. Moving to chemical on Slide 9. Chemical had its best ever quarterly earnings, delivering over $2.3 billion, more than a $900 million improvement versus the first quarter. Margins improved by approximately $1.1 billion, reflecting our continued reliable operations and tight industry supply conditions, particularly in the polyethylene and polypropylene markets in North America and Europe. Planned seasonal maintenance and turnarounds in Europe reduced earnings by $180 million. The next slide summarizes results versus the second quarter of 2020. Compared to the second quarter of last year, earnings increased by $7.7 billion, driven by a total price margin improvement of about $6.7 billion and increased sales of $802 million. We had $850 million in planned maintenance as we successfully stretched maintenance intervals out of 2020 into the first half of this year. This position us well for a continuing economic recovery in the second half of 2021. Structural efficiencies, lower corporate and financing expenses and favorable tax items delivered additional earnings benefit Slide 11 provides further details on investing and cost management. Excluding energy and production taxes, cash operating expenses were $18.7 billion during the first half of 2021. In addition to reducing structural costs by $3 billion in 2020, the company has captured over $1 billion in further structural savings in the first half of 2021. The company remains on pace to achieve through 2023 total structural cost reductions of $6 billion relative to 2019. The cost associated with turnarounds, winter storm repairs and other market and activity-based factors were a partial offset. Capital expenditures were $3.8 billion in the second quarter and $6.9 billion year to date. Consistent with our plans, we started the year with lower levels of investment to provide flexibility for responding to market conditions. We remain on track with full-year spending on the lower end of our $16 billion to $19 billion range. Investments in the second half of the year are expected to be higher due to the timing of spend for major upstream and chemical projects, including Guyana, Brazil, Permian and chemical performance products. Moving on to the summary of cash flow on Slide 12. Cash flow from operating activities was $9.7 billion in the quarter. Excluding working capital effects, this is up about $2 billion from the first quarter, reflecting continued market improvement and ongoing benefits of our cost reductions. Consistent with our capital allocation priorities, total debt was reduced to $60.6 billion in the quarter, bringing year-to-date reductions to over $7 billion. We ended the quarter with $3.5 billion of cash. Turning to Slide 13 for the third-quarter outlook. In the upstream, we expect higher volumes with lower planned maintenance. The sale of the U.K. Central and Northern North Sea assets is now expected to close by the end of the year, subject to regulatory and third-party approvals. In the downstream, we anticipate demand improvement with continued economic recovery, lower turnarounds and maintenance are planned for the quarter. In chemical, we anticipate some easing and the tight supply demand balance as industry downtime improves and additional capacity comes online. We also expect lower turnaround impacts next quarter. Corporate and financing expenses are expected to be about $600 million, and we anticipate further debt reductions if prices and margins remain at current levels. With that, I will now turn the call over to Jack.Jack Williams -- Senior Vice President, Overseeing Downstream and Chemical Thank you, Stephen, and good morning. We're very pleased with the company's performance for the first six months of this year from a number of perspectives, including safety, reliability, earnings, cash flow, and debt reduction. We've also made progress in our efforts to reduce emissions, advance lower carbon solutions and further advance the depth and quality of our portfolio. I'll spend a few minutes providing some highlights and perspectives on this progress, and let's start with a look at the business environment. Second quarter saw a rapidly recovering environment with significant improvement in all our product markets. Oil and gas prices increased materially since the fourth quarter of last year, and we're back within the 10-year range, driven largely by economic recovery as the pandemic-related restrictions were relaxed. Downstream margins moved close to the low end of the 10-year band. They continue to be impacted by an unbalanced global refining system, resulting primarily from an oversupply of distillates from low international jet demand. Nonetheless, U.S. demand growth drove substantial improvements from the historic lows of the fourth quarter. Importantly, significant earnings potential remains as the downstream continues to recover from the lingering effects of the pandemic. And to build on that point and demonstrate just how quickly things can change, chemical prices and margins were far above the 10-year band and drove record earnings. Chemicals record results were driven by strong base reliability, robust demand and tight supply for both polyethylene and polypropylene in the North American and European markets. Looking ahead, although we anticipate lengthening of supply and rising feed across the regions, our outlook is for chemical margins to remain strong in the coming months. Given the dynamic market and record results, I'd like to spend a few minutes talking more deeply about the chemical markets in our business. Starting with a closer look at the current market environment. The last 18 months have been a testament to the underlying resiliency in demand for chemical products, and that is especially true in a surging global economic recovery as these products are widely needed for food packaging, hygiene and the recovering automobile sector, among others. This year, polyethylene and polypropylene margins across North America and Europe increased by more than 140% versus the fourth quarter of last year. The recovery in Asia has been more challenging due to pockets of COVID resurgence, higher supply and increased crude and naphtha prices. The strong margins in the Atlantic Basin are the result of several factors. First, hurricane impacts in late 2020, followed by Winter Storm Uri earlier this year, which reduced inventory levels; second, unplanned industry shutdowns and turnarounds; third, global shipping constraints of finished products caused by port congestion, container availability and increased shipping costs from Asia to the U.S.; and then finally, demand growth in the U.S. commensurate with growth in GDP. Our chemical business has benefited from this tightness with 70% of our polyethylene capacity located in these regions. A material portion of this is typically exported to Asia, but was redirected to Europe and North America enabling us to capture more than our share of demand growth. The scale, global footprint and multitude of product lines in our chemical business provides competitive advantage and strong earnings potential is amplified in tight markets like today, and is also durable when looking at longer time frames. ExxonMobil chemicals earnings over the past decade were 80% higher than the industry average. In the first quarter, our earnings were double the industry average. And our second-quarter result is materially higher than the first. The core strategy of our chemicals business is growing technology-driven, higher-value performance products. These have proven, over the test of time, to add significant value for our customers versus commodity chemical products. Our diverse product offerings and global reach are significant advantages. ExxonMobil chemical is no. 1 or no. 2 in more than 80% of the markets where we compete. This provides resiliency across a wide range of market scenarios and upside in a market like today. In addition to the product diversity, I want to highlight the benefits we've seen this year from three important drivers: first, our ability to optimize feed and unit operations at our integrated facilities and leverage regional feedstock supply chains has generated about $1.4 billion of earnings for the first six months of this year; second, as we discussed during investor day, we've sharpened our focus on making our chemicals business a leader in cost efficiency. As a result, costs were down significantly in 2020. And even with the higher sales volumes this year, ongoing structural efficiencies, such as digital enhancements, manufacturing efficiencies, and previously announced staffing reductions, are expected to support $1 billion in annual reductions versus 2019; and third, the recent advantaged project investments, including the world-scale U.S. Gulf Coast steam cracker and polyethylene reactors, delivered $600 million in earnings in the first half of this year. And there are more advantaged projects in flight today that will grow our supply performance products and have an even larger impact on earnings. These projects will grow our supply of performance products by 70% by 2027. And grow the earnings contribution by 100% due to the higher value slate of new products. These products bring significant benefits to our customers. They support lower emissions, improve the performance of technologies that enable the energy transition and improve efficiencies. And those advantages ultimately are reflected in higher margins. For example, polyethylene packaging has lower life cycle emissions compared to alternatives. Performance polyethylene like our Exceed XP is stronger, enabling thinner films for the same applications. We're developing the capability to produce certified circular polymers from plastic waste using our proprietary advanced recycling technology. And polypropylene used to reduce the weight of vehicles, improve fuel economy and battery life. The projects gained advantaged not just from the higher-margin products they produce, but also from advantaged fee, scale, proprietary catalyst technology and the integration with our existing chemical and downstream facilities and logistics. Our focus going forward remains on advancing a number of major chemical and also downstream projects that will further strengthen our integrated manufacturing platforms and upgrade our product mix to meet a range of future demand scenarios. As you may recall, many of these projects were paced to preserve cash during the market downturn last year. Our global projects organization has done an excellent job managing this activity to preserve long-term value. This group of projects are expected to still be completed within the FID estimate. As an aside, this is the same organization that we'll be delivering future carbon capture projects advancing through our Low Carbon Solutions business. This capability continues to be an enduring competitive advantage and will only increase in importance going forward. In the chemical business, our large Corpus Christi Chemical complex is ahead of schedule and under budget. We just announced a mechanical completion of the three derivative units, including a monoethylene glycol unit and two polyethylene reactors. Full-site start-up is anticipated by year end. Progress is ongoing at the polypropylene growth project in Baton Rouge, start-up anticipated next year. Our Baytown Chemical Plant expansion will include a new Vistamaxx unit and a full range linear alpha olefins unit, is on track for the 2023 start-up. Our China One Venture captures the advantaged of being located in the world's largest growth market. We signed several important agreements to advance the project, including a contract with Sinopec for basic engineering, design, procurement, and construction. In the downstream, we're moving crude to the Wink to Webster Pipeline from the Permian Basin and are preparing to ship third-party production in the fourth quarter of this year. At Beaumont, process unit modules are on site, and we're ramping up construction activity for start-up in 2023. And our Singapore and Foley projects are also progressing. However, they are a bit further out in terms of a full project restart. Even in the current challenging refining environment, these downstream projects are still attractive and materially improve the competitiveness of our integrated sites. If these four projects were online at today's margins, they would be contributing more than $1 billion in annual earnings. For example, our Singapore Zidd project will produce 20,000 barrels a day of high-quality lube base stocks that would have added to our strong lubricants result this quarter. Collectively, this world-class chemical and downstream project portfolio delivers 30% returns at 10-year average margins. That's more than $4 billion of annual earnings at 10-year average margins and $2 billion of 10-year low margins. We're also benefiting from ongoing attractive upstream investments as well, especially in the Permian as development performance continues to improve, resulting in rapidly growing value. We produced 400,000 oil equivalent barrels a day this quarter, which was up approximately 50,000 oil equivalent barrels a day versus the second quarter of last year, excluding the impact of the economic curtailments. We expect to grow production a further 40,000 oil equivalent barrels per day in the third quarter. And importantly, value is growing even faster as operating and development performance continues to improve at a rate exceeding our plans. Relative to 2019, we've more than doubled the lateral feet we're drilling per day and recently set an industry record by drilling a Delaware Basin 12,500-foot lateral in just 12 days. At the end of the second quarter, our drilling rates are approximately three times more efficient than in 2019. So another way to think about this is that the eight rigs we're running today are achieving the same lateral length as it took close to 25 rigs to drill just two years ago. Completions are improving, too. Our frack rates are around 50% faster. This has resulted in a reduction in drilling and completion costs of more than 40%. And on top of that, we've also improved lease operating expense by about 35%. Our environmental performance also continues to improve. We achieved record low flaring intensity levels during the quarter, which was top quartile in the industry. As we've discussed previously, the advantaged short-cycle development profile of the Permian gives us flexibility within the portfolio. The parameter setting our pace of development have not changed. First, delivering positive free cash flow across a broad range of price scenarios; second, demonstrating we are achieving industry-leading capital efficiency; and third, ensuring double-digit returns and $35 a barrel or less. This low price resiliency also applies to our deepwater developments in Guyana and Brazil. In Guyana's Stabroek block, we've added three new discoveries since the first quarter, including the Whiptail discovery announced this week. The Uaru-2 well encountered 120 feet of high-quality oil-bearing reservoirs. The Longtail-3 well encountered 230 feet of net pay and both of these results included newly identified intervals below the zones originally discovered. Resource quantification is ongoing. The Whiptail-1 well encountered 246 feet of net pay and drilling is ongoing at the Whiptail-2 well, which has encountered 167 feet of net pay both in high-quality oil-bearing sandstone reservoirs. This additional resource will add to the nine billion oil equivalent barrels we discussed at investor day, further increasing our confidence in the resource size and quality in the area east of Liza and supporting our view of an ultimate blockwide footprint of seven to 10 developments. The projects in progress remain on schedule with the expected arrival of the Liza Phase 2 Unity FPSO in Guyanese waters early in the fourth quarter. Payara, the third major development on the block is on track for a 2024 start-up with topside construction ongoing. And pending government approval, we're targeting a final investment decision on Yellowtail, our fourth major development later this year with start-up planned for 2025. Offshore Brazil, we confirmed the final investment decision on the Bacalhau development during the second quarter. And expect this 220,000 barrel a day project to start up in 2024. It will deliver more than a 15% rate of return at $50 a barrel. I'll now turn the call back over to Darren to discuss our Low Carbon Solutions business and long-term plans.Darren Woods -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Jack. Let me shift focus now to the wide range of activities we are pursuing to ensure ExxonMobil plays a key role in the energy transition while continuing to grow shareholder value. You'll recall that earlier this year, we established our Low Carbon Solutions business to develop potential carbon capture and storage opportunities using both established and emerging technologies and progress commercialization of other lower emissions technologies. We believe that the depth and breadth of our operating experience, history of process innovation, project execution, subsurface expertise and ability to scale technology gives us a competitive advantage in what is expected to be a fast-growing market for Low Carbon Solutions. We also believe that the time is right, given the developing market for emission reduction credits and growing recognition of the importance of carbon capture and storage, hydrogen and biofuels by both governments and investors, all critical for broad-scale commercialization. The new organization is making steady progress in developing a wide range of attractive opportunities weighted initially toward carbon capture and storage. We provided a few examples here to give you a sense of the opportunities. Next year, we anticipate final investment decisions for a large CCS expansion at our LaBarge facility in Wyoming and a new carbon capture technology pilot associated with the Porthos project in Rotterdam. This quarter, we signed an MOU to explore the development of CO2 infrastructure to help decarbonize the industrial basin in the Normandy region of France, and an MOU to participate in the recently announced Acorn CCS project in Scotland. We are continuing to pursue several Gulf Coast opportunities, including our Houston Hub concept, which are all gaining industry and third-party support. In addition to carbon capture and storage, we're advancing a number of options to produce low emissions biofuels. These include new projects, repurposing existing refinery units, co-processing biofeeds and purchase agreements. These plans would enable the production of more than 40,000 barrels per day of low-emission fuels by 2025. We also recently completed a successful trial to co-process biofeed across our existing refining circuit. Coprocessing biofeed is a key technology that can be rapidly scaled to help society quickly lower emissions, provided the right policies are in place. In addition, during the quarter, we expanded a previous agreement with alternative fuels developer, Global Clean Energy, to annually purchase up to five million barrels of renewable diesel. This is basically a drop in lower carbon fuel that meets all finished product specs for today's engines. Commercial production is expected to begin next year. In markets where low-carbon fuels policies incentivize the development of lower emission fuels like California and Canada, scale opportunities exist. We see the potential to leverage our existing facility footprint, proprietary catalyst technology and decades of experience in processing challenging feed streams to develop attractive low-emission fuels projects with competitive returns, and effectively designed low-carbon fuel standard in the U.S. could accelerate significant CO2 reductions in the hard-to-abate transportation segment at a cost much lower than some existing policy. While we advocate for needed policies, such as a carbon tax or low-carbon fuel standard and develop future projects, we continue to lead the industry in developing and deploying new technologies to address another important issue, reducing methane emissions. To that end, we have conducted more than 23,000 league surveys on more than five million components at over 9,500 locations. We are eliminating high-bleed pneumatic devices across our U.S. unconventional production and participating as a founding member and industry initiatives to improve detection and reduction of methane leaks ExxonMobil is also the first company to file an application with the EPA to use airplanes equipped with methane detection technology to conduct large fly over inspections, and we're evaluating satellite technology in support of our 2025 reduction plans for both methane intensity and absolute methane emissions. These ongoing efforts to commercialize low-carbon solutions and reduce emissions are central to our long-term plan to grow shareholder value. As markets and policies continue to evolve, we will be there playing our part, contributing where we bring the most value. In the near term, as we begin the development of next year's plan, our organization is focused on continuing to deliver industry-leading operating performance, building on last year's record results in safety and reliability and extending our trend of annual reductions in emissions intensity by accelerating the pace of reductions and establishing more aggressive objectives. This will enable us to reduce our own emissions at a pace faster than what the countries have committed to under the Paris agreement. It will also help accelerate our objective of industry leadership in greenhouse gas performance by the end of the decade. Of course, we remain focused on sustained financial discipline. We are developing plans consistent with our existing commitments to deliver $6 billion of annual structural savings by the end of 2023, manage future capital investments, including new low-carbon projects within previously announced capex ranges and restoring the strength of our balance sheet, returning debt to levels consistent with a strong AA rating. As our results demonstrate, we've made good progress in improving our competitiveness, but we're not satisfied. Our plans will focus on driving a further step change. We see a significant opportunity to capture scale and integration benefits from our recent reorganizations, improving efficiency, effectiveness and growing additional cash flow. To strengthen the earnings and cash flow potential of our assets, our plans will continue to advance high-return, advantaged projects and high-grade our existing assets through accretive divestments. Finally, as I have illustrated, we're stepping up and accelerating efforts to ensure the company plays a meaningful role in the energy transition. Our plans will reflect the continuing development and deployment of needed technologies, and where the appropriate incentives are in place, accretive investments. As we finalize our plans later this year, we'll provide additional updates with a more detailed review at our next investor day. Reflecting back on the past half year, we're pleased with the results the organization's hard work has delivered in a recovering market. We made a lot of progress as demonstrated by our year-to-date performance. And we're excited about the opportunities ahead. We appreciate your participation in today's call and look forward to answering your questions.Stephen Littleton -- Vice President of Investor Relations and Secretary Thank you, Darren. Operator, please open up the phone line. 