  OperatorGreetings, and welcome to the Huntington Bancshares first quarter 2022 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Question-and-answer sessions will follow the formal presentation. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. I would now like to turn the call over to your host, Tim Sedabres, director of investor relations. Thank you. You may begin.Tim Sedabres -- Director of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, operator. Welcome, everyone, and good morning. Copies of the slides that will be reviewed today can be found in the investor relations section of our website www.huntington.com. As a reminder, this call is being recorded and a replay will be available starting about one hour from the close of the call. Our presenters today are Steve Steinour, chairman, president, and CEO; and Zach Wasserman, chief financial officer; Rich Pohle, chief credit officer, will join us for the Q&A. As noted on Slide 2, today's discussion including the Q&A portion will contain forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on information and assumptions available at this time and are subject to changes, risks, and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially. We assume no obligation to update such statements.For a complete discussion of risks and uncertainties. Please refer to this slide and material filed with the SEC, including our most recent Form 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K filings. Let me now turn it over to Steve. Steve Steinour -- Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thanks, Tim. Good morning, everyone, and welcome, and thank you for joining the call today. It's been an eventful start to the year, we entered 2022 with momentum and we carried forward that trend to deliver a strong first quarter. We are managing through a turbulent macroeconomic environment, high inflation, persistent labor, and supply chain constraints, that interest rate tightening, rapid moves in the yield curve, and the devastating crisis in Ukraine all have made for a challenging backdrop. Now on to Slide 4. I'm pleased to highlight our excellent first quarter performance. First, our colleagues are delivering on revenue-producing initiatives, supporting our strong results. We're generating profitable growth and building momentum including executing on our revenue synergies. Second, operating with disciplined expense management, we posted another quarter of sequential reductions in core expenses. Our targeted cost savings are on track for full realization this quarter and we are capturing these benefits even earlier than originally guided. Third, we had record low net charge offs this quarter with overall exceptional credit quality. Our disciplined risk management continues to be a strength. Lastly, we are confident in our full-year outlook and our ability to drive additional profitability. We are revising our guidance higher to incorporate the recent rate curve outlook and we remain confident that we will achieve our medium-term financial targets in the second half of '22. On Slide 5, let me share more detail on our first quarter performance. Our robust loan growth, higher net interest income, and planned reductions in expenses are supported by our record PPNR.

 



 Average loan balances, excluding PPP, grew 10% annualized and are driven by new loan production across both commercial and consumer portfolios. We continue to see strong customer demand and growing loan pipelines and are confident this momentum will continue over the course of this year. Our teams are fully aligned and executing on the revenue synergy opportunities from TCF. We are seeing terrific momentum in these initiatives as we expand into new markets with enhanced capabilities. In the Twin Cities, our new wealth management, business, banking, and middle-market teams are already contributing to revenues. Likewise in Colorado, our business banking and middle-market teams are. Capturing. Market share and generating revenue. We're also pleased with our inventory finance business, which has seen seasonal growth and is exceeding our expectations. Additionally, we are seeing increased productivity and positive reception to the Huntington product set and customer service experience. We continue to execute our strategic initiatives across the bank. In March, we announced the next evolution of our leading Fair Play product set, including the soon-to-be-released instant access feature, as well as an enhanced credit card offering through the launch of our cash-back credit card. In addition, our continued expense discipline has enabled us to support investments that are yielding results. This is evidenced by a record first quarter of sales in wealth management and also by another quarter of robust growth in our capital markets businesses. Just last month, we announced the signing of a definitive agreement to acquire Capstone Partners, a top-tier middle-market investment bank and advisory firm that will add significant capabilities and expertise to our capital markets businesses. The transaction is expected to close late this quarter. Capstone is a terrific fit with Huntington, both strategically and culturally, and we're excited about the synergistic growth opportunities. The addition of Capstone better positions us to serve the full range of needs of clients in our footprint, as well as those we serve on an increasingly national basis. The transaction adds key verticals that complement our existing industry specialization and adds new capabilities and expanding sectors. We expect Capstone will meaningfully increase our capital markets revenues by about 50% and we're excited to welcome our new colleagues to Huntington. Finally, we are proud to share a few of the awards we received during the quarter. We were honored to be recognized by Forbes in 2022 as one of America's best large employers, where we ranked number 7 in the banking and financial services industry. We were also recognized in the middle market and small business banking with numerous Greenwich Excellence and Best Brand Awards for 2021. And lastly, we are proud that the National Diversity Council named Donald Dennis, our chief diversity equity and inclusion officer, as a top 100 Diversity Officer nationally. Before moving on, I'd like to take a moment to welcome Brant Standridge to Huntington, who joined us earlier this month as our president of consumer and business banking. Brant comes to us with a broad set of experiences, including a customer-focused foundation that aligns well with our strategies. As Brant joins us, a special thank you to Steve Rhodes, who will continue to lead our business banking division. Slide 6 shows our continued trajectory of profitable growth. We've been driving sustainable profitability for years, supported by our prior strategic investments and our long track record of managing positive operating leverage. We are confident that this increasing trend will continue and will further benefit from the underlying earnings power unlocked from TCF. We are poised to have outsized PPNR growth this year and expect it to expand sequentially over the remainder of the year. Zach over to you to provide more detail on our financial performance.Zach Wasserman -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Steve, and good morning, everyone. Slide 7 provides highlights of our first quarter results. We reported earnings per common share of $0.29. Adjusted for notable items, earnings per common share were $0.32. Return on tangible common equity or ROTCE came in at 15.8% for the quarter, adjusted for notable items ROTCE was 17.1%. We were pleased to see accelerated momentum in our loan balances, with total loans increasing by $1.7 billion and excluding PPP loans increasing by $2.6 billion. Total average and ending deposits also increased, driven by strong trends in both consumer and commercial balances. Pre-provision net revenue grew 4.2% from last quarter, reflecting our continued focus on self-funding, revenue-producing strategic initiatives, as well as net interest income expansion. Consistent with our plan. We reduced core expenses by $27 million from last quarter, driven by the realization of cost synergies. Credit quality was exceptional with record low net charge offs of 7 basis points and non-performing assets reduced to 63 basis points. Turning to Slide 8. Accelerated loan growth momentum continued with average loan balances increasing 1.5% quarter over quarter, totaling $111.1 billion. Excluding PPP, total loan balances increased by $2.6 billion or 2.4%, largely driven by commercial loans. Within commercial, excluding PPP, average loans increased by $2.2 billion or 3.8% from the prior quarter. We continue to see broad-based demand across lending categories that is supporting strong new production. We are also benefiting from slowing prepayments and modest increases in line utilization. The middle market, asset finance, corporate, and specialty banking all contributed to higher net balances within commercial and have all expanded for two quarters in a row. Commercial real estate balances also increased during the quarter by $485 million. Inventory finance contributed to growth this quarter, with balances increasing by $666 million, driven by the expansion of client relationships and the expected seasonal increase in utilization levels. Auto Dealer floorplan increased with balances up by $251 million as new client relationships and a modest uptick in utilization both supported growth. In consumers, we had a record first quarter performance in indirect auto and RV/Marine originations. This drove balances higher in auto and RV/Marine by $108 million and $63 million, respectively. Additionally, on the sheet, residential mortgages increased by $550 million. These were offset by lower home equity balances. Across the enterprise, our bankers are executing disciplined calling strategies, driving sustained growth in both early stage and late-stage loan pipelines. Both of which are higher from the prior quarter and the prior year. We are seeing strong demand from our customers and the realization of pipelines support our high degree of confidence in our 2022 outlook. Turning to Slide 9, we delivered solid deposit growth with balances higher by $614 million. On a spot basis. Total deposit balances increased by $3.7 billion or 2.6% from the prior quarter. Ending commercial balances increased by $2.5 billion, and consumer balances increased by $1.5 billion from the prior quarter. This growth reflects continued consumer deposit gathering and our focused relationship deepening within commercial customers. On Slide 10, we reported net interest income and NIM expansion. Core net interest income excluding PPP and purchase accounting accretion increased by 3% to $1.119 billion. Consistent with our prior guidance net interest margin increased versus the prior quarter. And we are on track for further NIM expansion throughout 2022. Turning to Slide 11, we are dynamically managing the balance sheet to remain asset sensitive and capture the benefit of expected higher rates while incrementally providing downside protection as opportunities present themselves. We have a peer-leading NIM and we're positioned to expand margin as rates increase. During the quarter, we modestly increased our downside protection by executing a net $2.7 billion of received fixed swaps. As noted on the slide, these explicit hedging actions reduced asset sensitivity in the quarter by 0.3% to 1%. The overall estimated asset sensitivity at an up 100 basis point ramp scenario ended the quarter at 3.1%, down from 4.6% at year-end. The remaining change in this metric beyond our hedging actions was driven by other ancillary modeling impacts, such as the denominator impact of the higher projected base, net interest income, slower prepayments, and other balance sheet mix shifts. At the bottom of the slide is our loan portfolio composition. As you can see, we are well-positioned for the expected higher interest rates throughout the year with an attractive mix of floating and fixed-rate loans. Furthermore, our indirect auto portfolio has a weighted average life of approximately 25 months, with roughly half of that portfolio repricing each year. Moving to Slide 12. Non-interest income was $499 million, up to $104 million year over year and down $16 million from last quarter. Fee revenues were impacted by a decline in mortgage banking, primarily due to lower saleable originations. As well as typical seasonality resulting in lower cards and payments activities compared to the fourth quarter. Given our robust SBA pipelines and attractive market opportunity, we reinitiated our SBA loan sales in the quarter, driving a $27 million increase. In addition, our record first quarter performance and wealth management sales contributed to an increase in investment-related revenues. Overall, we continue to be pleased with the traction and growth outlooks for our key fee-generating businesses within payments, capital markets, and wealth advisory. Moving on to Slide 13. Non-interest expenses declined $168 million from the prior quarter and excluded notable items, core expenses declined by $27 million to $1.07 billion as we delivered cost savings from the acquisition. As we showed previously, we expect core expenses to be approximately $1 billion by the second quarter. Even as we're driving down expenses, we're also investing in initiatives that are driving sustainable revenue growth throughout the company. Slide 14 highlights our capital position. Common equity Tier 1 was 9.2% at quarter-end. Our dividend yield remains at the top of our peer group at 4.6%. We did not repurchase any shares during the quarter due to our announced signing of a definitive agreement to acquire Capstone. As you can see on Slide 15, credit quality continues to perform very well. As mentioned, net charge offs were a record low of 7 basis points. Benefiting from a net recovery position in commercial portfolios and continued strong consumer credit quality. Non-performing assets and criticized loans. Both declined from the previous quarter. Our ending allowance for credit losses represented 1.87% of total loans, down from 1.89% prior to quarter-end. Slide 16 covers our medium-term financial targets, which remain unchanged. As Steve mentioned, we're fully committed to achieving this by the second half of 2022 as our loan growth momentum continues, our first capital priority remains to fund this organic growth. And we are encouraged by these trends to the extent that our loan growth remains as robust as we expect. I would anticipate share buybacks will be de minimis for the remainder of the year. We are comfortable operating at or around these current capital levels as we balance our expected 2022 growth plans and the possible longer-term scenarios for the global macroeconomic outlook as we head into 2023. Finally, turning to Slide 17. Let me share our updated outlook. The guidance we provided in January assumes continued economic expansion aligned to market consensus, as well as the interest rate yield curve expectations as of early January.  Our updated guidance continues to assume further economic growth and the rate curve as of the end of March. As a result of the rate curve outlook, we are revising upward our guidance in net interest income. We now expect core net interest income on a dollar basis excluding PPP and purchase accounting accretion to grow in the mid to high teens. This is higher than our previous guidance of high single-digit to low double digits growth. In fee income, while we are seeing encouraging trends in our payments, capital markets, and wealth advisory businesses, we are also impacted by the industrywide mortgage banking pressure. Based on this, we have revised and lowered our fee guidance to flat to down low single digits, excluding the impact of Capstone. On the topic of Capstone, we are anticipating closing the acquisition at the end of this quarter. Based on estimates created during due diligence, we believe the business could add approximately $20 million to $30 million of fee income on a quarterly basis. This would be incremental to the stand-alone Q4 Huntington guidance. We'll provide further information on the impacts of Capstone as we complete the acquisition and finalize our financial forecasts. On expenses excluding notable items, we are still tracking our $1 billion run rate for this quarter and again, this guidance is excluding Capstone. Finally, given our continued exceptional credit performance across our portfolios, we are revising our full year net charge offs down to approximately 20 basis points from less than 30 basis points previously. Now let me pass it back to Steve for a couple of closing comments before we open for Q&A.Steve Steinour -- Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Zach. Slide 18 recaps what we believe is a compelling opportunity. Huntington stands as a powerful top ten regional bank with scale and leading market density, as well as a compelling set of capabilities both in footprint and nationally. We are focused on executing our strategic plan, which we believe will drive substantial value creation for our shareholders. We are well-positioned to deliver sustainable revenue growth, which is bolstered by new markets, new businesses, and expanded capabilities. As our revenue synergies accelerate and gain traction, we also remain committed to our proactive and disciplined expense management. As a result, we are increasingly confident in our robust return profile, with expectations for 17% plus ROTCE as we deliver on our medium-term financial targets in the second half of the year. Tim let's open up the call for Q&A, please.Tim Sedabres -- Director of Investor Relations Thanks, Steve. Operator, we will now take questions. We ask it as a courtesy to your peers, each person asks only one question and one related follow-up, and then if that person has additional questions he or she can add themselves back in the queue. Thank you. Operator, let's open up for questions. 