  OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the first-quarter 2021 Albemarle corporation earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker host, Meredith Bandy, vice president of investor relations and sustainability. Please go ahead.Meredith Bandy -- Vice President of Investor Relations and Sustainability All right. Thank you, Olivia, and welcome to Albemarle's first-quarter earnings conference call. Our earnings were released after the close of the market yesterday, and you'll find our press release, presentation and non-GAAP reconciliations posted to our website under the investors section at albemarle.com. Joining me on the call today are Kent Masters, chief executive officer; Scott Tozier, chief financial officer. Raphael Crawford, president, catalysts; Netha Johnson, president, bromine specialties; and Eric Norris, president, lithium, are also available for Q&A. As a reminder, some of the statements made during this call, including our outlook, guidance, expected company performance and proposed divestitures and expansion projects may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws. Please note the cautionary language about forward-looking statements contained in our press release and presentation. That same language applies to this call.Please also note that some of our comments today refer to financial measures that are not prepared in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation of these measures to GAAP financial measures can be found in our earnings release and the appendix of our presentation, both of which are posted to our website. And with that, I'll turn the call over to Kent. Jerry Masters -- Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer OK. Thanks, Meredith. Good morning, and thanks to you all for joining us today. On today's call, I will highlight our recent accomplishments and discuss our strategy as it relates to accelerating growth and creating a more sustainable business. Scott will give us more detail on our results, outlook and capital allocation. This was another strong quarter for Albemarle with solid financial results. We generated net income of $96 million and adjusted EBITDA of $230 million, up 17% from last year. We benefited in part from several lithium customers that accelerated orders under long-term agreements, as well as favorable volume and customer mix in our Bromine business. We continue to see strong market demand for lithium, especially from EVs. First-quarter EV sales were up 135% versus last year, led by China. European and North American sales were also up significantly. All that said, remember that we are sold out in bromine and lithium. Therefore, we are maintaining our previously reported company guidance for the full year. Scott will provide additional detail on this in just a few minutes. We are advancing our growth plans with the progress being made at our Wave 2 lithium projects. These two projects, La Negra 3 and and Kemerton 1 and 2 are expected to add volume beginning next year. As you are probably aware, during the first quarter, we successfully completed a $1.5 billion equity offering and then subsequently reduced our debt. This enabled us to achieve two strategic goals. First, we are now well positioned to execute on our high-return wave 3 growth projects for lithium and bromine. And second, we have maintained our investment-grade credit rating, which was recently upgraded to a BBB rating by S&P Global. I'm also proud to say that we have signed the U.N. Global Compact, joining the efforts of corporations and stakeholders worldwide to advance sustainability. On Slide 5, I want to update you on those two projects at La Negra and Kemerton, our two ongoing projects to increase lithium production from our world-class resources. These conversion facilities are in the final stages of construction and when complete, are expected to double our nameplate capacity to 175,000 metric tons per year. This added capacity will provide much needed volumes to support our customers' growth ambitions and will enhance our ability to drive further earnings expansion. Construction is on track for completion later this year. We are watching the Western Australia labor situation closely, but currently, we do not expect any impact to our schedule. Once complete, we move into final commissioning and customer qualification, which typically takes about six months. We expect to begin producing commercial volume from both projects in 2022. These two sites will complete our wave 2 lithium projects and enable our team to focus on the execution of Wave 3, which represents a further 150,000 metric tons of conversion capacity. We expect to make investment decisions on the first projects from Wave 3 as early as the middle of this year. This includes a greenfield site in China and potentially the acquisition of a Chinese conversion plant. I would like to mention that the Chilean Nuclear Energy Commission, or CCHEN, has confirmed that our resource and reserves report is in full compliance following the additional data we provided in January. We are committed to complying with our regulatory obligations around the world, and we are pleased to reach a satisfactory and collaborative resolution with CCHEN. Finally, in bromine, we are accelerating our growth projects and expect to see the benefit of these projects beginning in 2022. I'll now turn the call over to Scott to review the first-quarter results.Scott Tozier -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Kent. I'll begin on Slide 6, and I'm happy to report on a strong start to the year. For the first quarter, we generated net sales of $829 million, a 12% increase from last year. This was driven by increased volumes across our three core businesses, as well as a favorable customer mix within our bromine unit. GAAP net income was $96 million. Adjusted EPS of $1.10 excludes the cost of early debt repayment that we incurred when we delevered in March following our equity raise. Our sales growth enabled us to generate adjusted EBITDA of $230 million, up 17% from last year, giving us an early start to meeting our guidance for the full year. Now turning to Slide 7 for a look at adjusted EBITDA by business. Adjusted EBITDA in total was up $34 million over last year, thanks to stronger lithium and bromine results and a foreign exchange tailwind. Lithium's adjusted EBITDA increased $30 million versus the prior year as some customers accelerated orders for battery-grade carbonate and hydroxide into the first quarter. To meet this demand, we drew down lower cost inventories resulting in Q1 margin expansion. Average realized pricing was down 10% as expected due to lower carbonate and technical-grade pricing. However, increased volumes more than offset the lower price. Market demand remains very strong, but our plants are sold out, which limits our ability to increase volumes in 2021. Bromine's adjusted EBITDA grew by about $8 million compared to the first quarter of 2020, an increase of 9%. The strong quarter was due primarily to higher sales volumes across the product portfolio. Pricing was also higher, in large part related to a favorable customer mix. The U.S. Gulf Coast winter storm reduced production and increased cost by about $6 million in the quarter. And just like lithium, we drew down inventory in Q1 and our bromine plants are sold out for the year, making it difficult to offset the production losses from the storm. We expect to see the impact from lost production in the Q2 and Q3 timeframe. Catalysts' adjusted EBITDA declined $23 million, primarily due to the U.S. Gulf Coast winter storm, which impacted production in Bayport and Pasadena, Texas. These sites incurred increased electric and natural gas costs, production downtime and repair expenses that totaled $26 million. Our Q1 catalyst results from last year included $12 million of income that was later corrected as an out-of-period adjustment, which further complicates the year-over-year comparison for this quarter. Without this and the storm impact, our catalysts EBITDA would have been up 31%. Our corporate and other category adjusted EBITDA increased by $4 million, primarily due to lower corporate costs. Slide 8 highlights the company's financial strength. With the proceeds from our $1.5 billion equity offering in February, we repaid debt. By deleveraging in the short term, instead of holding the proceeds as cash, we were able to reduce interest expense and create the debt capacity that will allow us to accelerate our growth for the lithium and bromine businesses, funding investments as they are approved. You can see how we are executing on our commitment to grow our dividend and maintain our investment-grade credit rating. We increased our dividend for the 27th consecutive year, which speaks to our ongoing success and a track record of shareholder returns, which we are proud to maintain. On Slide 9, we provide a look at our guidance for the year. I would like to note that our company guidance for the year includes a full year of Fine Chemistry Services results. In February, we entered into an agreement to sell the FCS business for proceeds of approximately $570 million. The transaction is expected to close in the second quarter of 2021. We've also given a breakout of second half guidance for FCS for modeling purposes. As we've discussed, our lithium and bromine businesses outperformed expectations for the quarter, primarily driven by accelerated customer orders and a favorable customer mix. We do not expect to see the same upside over the next 3 quarters, mostly because our lithium and bromine businesses are effectively sold out and we don't have excess inventory to meet increased demand. Timing of orders can shift from quarter-to-quarter but the outlook for full year volumes is mostly unchanged, except for modest increases in lithium. We continue to monitor the chip shortage at automotive manufacturers for impacts to lithium and bromine. And so, far, we've not seen an impact. This may be due to our position in the supply chain. In May, IHS revised their forecast for 2021 EV production, down 3% from prior forecasts related to microchip shortages and supply chain issues. EV production is still though expected to be up 70% year over year. We are maintaining our company guidance for the full year and continue to expect net sales to be in the 3.2 to $3.3 billion range, which is slightly higher than last year. The demand we saw during the first quarter and sold out volumes speak to the importance of investing in our lithium and bromine businesses to add to our future earnings potential. Our 2021 guidance for adjusted EBITDA remains between $810 million and $860 million. We continue to expect CapEx to be around 850 to $950 million for the year as we complete our Wave 2 lithium projects and begin focusing our efforts on Wave 3. Net cash from operations are also tracking on plan. As the year progresses, we expect higher inventories as we start to commission the two new lithium plants, and higher cash taxes. Expectations for adjusted diluted EPS of $3.25 to $3.65 are on track, reflecting higher taxes, depreciation and increased share count and lower interest expense. While our total company guidance has not changed, the outlook for our lithium and catalyst businesses has, as shown on Slide 10. Our outlook for the lithium business has improved due to higher lithium volumes driven by plant productivity improvements, and we have added some tolling of lithium carbonate. We expect lithium prices to improve sequentially through the remainder of the year due to tightening market conditions. Overall, average realized pricing for the year will be flat compared to last year. We continue to expect higher costs in 2021 related to project start-ups, but this will be partially offset by efficiency improvements. In total, Lithium EBITDA is now expected to be up high single digits on a percentage basis. The outlook for our catalyst business is lower than we had originally planned, offsetting the upside we expect from lithium. On a year-over-year basis, total catalyst results are projected to be down about 30% to 40%. This is primarily due to the impact of the U.S. Gulf Coast winter storm and delays in customer FCC units. Our outlook for the bromine business has not changed. While we had a very strong first quarter, we do not expect the favorable customer mix to continue in future quarters and we will not be able to make up the lost production in the first quarter. In addition, raw material costs are moving higher. We continue to expect results to be modestly higher than last year due to continued economic recovery and improvements in certain end markets, including electronics and building and construction, along with ongoing cost savings and improved pricing. Finally, as to our quarterly progression for the full company, we expect Q2 to have modest growth in EBITDA and the second half to have a modest decline. We continue to expect that 2022 results will benefit from accelerated growth plans in bromine, recovery in catalyst and the initial lithium sales from La Negra 3 and 4, Kemerton 1 and 2. And with that, I'll hand it back to Kent.Jerry Masters -- Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Scott. As I mentioned earlier, in April, we signed the U.N. Global Compact, a voluntary leadership platform for the development, implementation and disclosure of responsible business practices. In addition to supporting the UNGC principles, we are aligning our sustainability framework to the U.N. Sustainable Development Goals, the largest corporate sustainability initiative in the world. Over the past year, we've increased ESG disclosure, published updated sustainability policies and made public commitments to advance sustainability. Sustainability is, by its nature, a long-term commitment. But I'm pleased to report that we are beginning to see the benefits of our efforts. For example, Albemarle was recently recognized and added to the S&P 500 ESG Index. You can expect more details on these and other sustainability-related initiatives in our 2020 Annual Sustainability report due to be issued in June. Now, on Slide 12, I'd like to reiterate our corporate strategy. We have started 2021 with a strong quarter and continue to make progress on our four strategic pillars. We are completing our Wave 2 projects and plan for those to deliver commercial volumes and generate sales in 2022. We are making plans to execute on our Wave 3 lithium projects, as well as expand our bromine resources to align with growing customer demand. And we are laser-focused on operational discipline to drive maximum productivity across our businesses. We continue to expect around $75 million of productivity improvements this year, and we will continuously work to improve efficiencies within our operations. With a revitalized balance sheet, we are well positioned to invest in high-return growth maintain our investment-grade credit rating and support our dividend. Finally, sustainability remains a top priority and key component of our value proposition to our customers, and we are dedicated to exploring opportunities such as the U.N. Sustainable Development Goals to help us implement these efforts. With that, I'd like to open the call for questions, and we'll hand over to Olivia. 