
OperatorGreetings, and welcome to the Huntington Bancshares Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mark Muth, Director of Investor Relations.Mark Muth -- Senior Vice President & Director of Investor RelationsThanks, Joe. Welcome. I'm Mark Muth, Director of Investor Relations for Huntington. Copies of the slides we'll be reviewing can be found on the Investor Relations section of our website, www.huntington.com. This call is being recorded and will be available as a rebroadcast starting about one hour from the close of the call. Today's presenters are Steve Steinour, Chairman, President and CEO; and Zach Wasserman, Chief Financial Officer. Rich Pohle, Chief Credit Officer, will join us for the Q&A. As noted on Slide 2, today's discussion, including the Q&A period, will contain forward-looking statements.

 



Such statements are based on information and assumptions available at this time and are subject to changes, risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ materially. We assume no obligation to update such statements. For a complete discussion of risks and uncertainties, please refer to this slide and material filed with the SEC, including our most recent Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K filings. Let me now turn it over to Steve.Steve Steinour -- Chairman, President & Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Mark, and happy birthday. Welcome, everyone. Slide three provides an overview of Huntington. We're now a top 25 bank holding company with $175 billion in total assets. The TCF acquisition expanded our leadership position and density in Michigan, bolstered scale in markets such as Chicago and added new growth markets in the Twin Cities, Denver and Milwaukee. Importantly, we have #1 branch share within our footprint, which allows us to leverage our brands, convenience and digital channels to continue to efficiently grow the customer base.Huntington brings an expanded set of capabilities to these markets and to the TCF customer base, including middle market and corporate banking with specialty verticals, treasury management, capital markets, trust and investment and insurance products in addition to our #1 in the nation SBA lending program. So we're excited by the opportunity to introduce our Fair Play approach and leading digital offerings to our customers in these markets. Over the past several years, we've been pleased by the number of independent affirmations of the superior customer service our colleagues provide and the customer-centric products and services we've introduced. Just last month, J.D.

 



Power announced Huntington ranked highest in customer satisfaction among regional banks for our mobile app for the third consecutive year. Additionally, we were ranked first in our region for consumer banking customer satisfaction. Now these are important affirmations of the considerable investments we've made in our culture and digital technology. Slide four provides an overview of Huntington's strategy to build the leading people-first, digitally powered bank in the nation. Huntington is a purpose-driven company, and organic growth and sustainable top quartile financial performance remain core tenets of our strategic vision.The acquisition of TCF is additive on both fronts as it supports continued organic growth opportunities and allows us to leverage the incremental scale to drive efficiencies and deliver top-quartile financial returns. We're very well positioned to benefit from the strength of the economic recovery. Our accelerated investments during the past year are driving new customer acquisition and retention, and we expect to continue to capture market share gains and increased share of wallet in the second half of '21 and beyond.On a macro basis, labor constraints and wage inflation remain a concern for many of our business customers. However, confidence levels are very high and leading economic indicators are positive. Many of our customers continue to see record cash flows and profitability, driving unprecedented levels of liquidity, which continue to weigh in on growth in line utilization rates. We expect borrowers may opt to carry more liquidity than they had previously given what we all experienced with the pandemic, the supply chain issues and ongoing labor constraints. But nonetheless, our loan pipelines are strong and continue to build. And we remain optimistic that conditions favorable for improved loan growth will strengthen during the second half of '21 and as we move into '22. Turning to Slide 5. I'd like to give an update on the TCF integration.We continue to be on track for all key integration activities. We closed the acquisition in early June and completed Phase one of branch consolidations, closing 44 Meijer in-store branches. We expect to close the required branch divestiture in the third quarter and to complete the majority of the remaining system conversions over Columbus Day weekend. The final three phases of branch consolidations are expected to be completed by month end October. In addition to our focus on systems, product and customer conversion, we're also focused on fully integrating our new TCF colleagues into Huntington's culture.

 



I think the strategy of building the nation's leading people-first, digitally powered bank begins with our people, our colleagues, both legacy and new TCF colleagues acting together are the key to our success. And I see and appreciate our colleagues and the differences they make in customers' lives and our communities every day. We're very fortunate. We have a tremendous team. With commercial banking, the businesses we've added from TCF such as inventory finance and vendor finance, to name a few, continue to be complementary and additive to our overall strategy.In Consumer Banking, TCF had progressed on customer experience, but now the opportunity to introduce our digital capabilities, our products, our services, combined with our Fair Play philosophy, will significantly bolster the customer experience as they convert to Huntington. As we introduce the Huntington brand, our products and services and the commitment of our colleagues to our new markets and expanded customer base, we clearly see opportunity to gain additional market share, to deepen relationships and to drive organic revenue growth. Turning to Slide 6, while the TCF acquisition is an important part of our growth plan, we remain focused on the larger organic growth strategies we have been executing.Our investments in digital and technology continue to drive strong returns for our business. Nearly half of new consumer deposit accounts are now open digitally, while consumer checking households as well as business checking relationships have each increased by 8% annualized year-to-date, 8% annualized year-to-date. Last month, we launched compelling new digital products, including Standby Cash and Early Pay, which are part of our road map to continue to innovate and advance our customer-centric Fair Play banking philosophy.We are continuing to innovate with initial new products and features to be launched later this year and next. And we're seeing traction in customer acquisition, and we've restored marketing investments to pre-pandemic levels. So as we continue to build out our specialty banking efforts within commercial, we're seeing strong sales activities, growing pipeline and momentum in originations. Before I turn it over to Zach, I want to take a moment to say thank you to Mark for his hard work and dedication to Huntington as he's led our Investor Relationship team for the last eight years -- seven years. Mark will be taking on a finance leadership role as CFO of our important vehicle finance division.We're pleased to welcome Tim Sedabres as our new Director of IR. Congratulations to Mark on your new role, and welcome to Tim. Zach, over to you to provide more detail on our financial performance.Zach Wasserman -- Chief Financial Officer & Senior Executive Vice PresidentThanks, Steve, and good morning, everyone. Slide seven provides the highlights for the second quarter, which included closing the TCF transaction, delivering strong new loan production and maintaining solid credit quality as well as robust liquidity and capital positions. On a fully reported basis, including all impact of the acquisition, we reported a net loss per common share of $0.05 for the second quarter. Earnings were impacted by acquisition expenses of $269 million and the so-called CECL double count provision expense of $294 million. Earnings per common share adjusted for these notable items were positive $0.35 per share.As Steve mentioned, we closed the TCF acquisition in June, and we remain on track for the realization of the deal economics. Even as we brought on TCF, our teams did not lose focus on driving organic growth across the bank. We saw underlying loan growth ex TCF in many of our consumer loan portfolios, namely mortgage, auto and RV/Marine. We also saw encouraging new commercial loan production and building pipelines. Fee income was also a bright spot in the quarter as we saw increases in our underlying Huntington business, including treasury managements, card and payments, capital markets and our wealth and investment businesses. With respect to credit, net charge-offs were 28 basis points.The allowance for credit losses ended the quarter at 2.08% and was driven by provisioning of $294 million from the acquired TCF loan book, offset against $145 million of reserve release from the legacy Huntington book. Detailed loan and credit marks related to TCF are included on Slide 25 of the appendix. Liquidity remained elevated as we continue to see growth in deposit balances. This gives us ample opportunity to deploy into incremental lending opportunities and securities to support net interest income growth in the coming quarters. Additionally, we fully exited the capital protection hedging position that utilize interest rate caps, closing out a very useful hedge and replacing them with alternative capital protection tools which have less earnings volatility as they qualify for hedge accounting. Finally, common equity Tier one ended the quarter at 9.97%.Turning to Slide 8. FTE net interest income increased, primarily driven by the addition of TCF in the quarter. On a linked-quarter basis, net interest margin decreased 82 basis points to 2.66%, primarily driven from the net change in the interest rate caps from the prior quarter. Looking for a moment at the underlying NIM dynamics. The impact in the second quarter from the mark-to-market on the caps was negative 17 basis points, while we saw three basis points benefit from purchase accounting accretion.Therefore, the underlying NIM, excluding the caps in PAA, was approximately 2.8% for the second quarter. This compares to 2.98% on the same basis in the prior quarter. As we have noted in previous calls, we had expected a reduction in NIM into Q2, driven in part by a nine basis point step-down in the benefit of our existing interest rate hedging positions as well as forecasted PPP dynamics and yield curve impacts on spread. At the Morgan Stanley conference in June, we guided to a second quarter NIM in the low 2.80s. The underlying second quarter NIM of 2.80% was a few basis points below expectations due to the additional impact of excess liquidity as deposits yet again increased in the quarter and elevated Fed caps represented an 18 basis point drag on the NIM in the quarter.Looking ahead, we continue to expect Q2 to be the low point for NIM for the year, driving a positive trend will be the addition of TCF assets that will benefit margin as we get a full quarter impact of those acquired assets in the third quarter. Also the continued execution of our balance sheet optimization program will provide benefits from our ongoing focus on funding cost optimization, asset mix and customer level pricing. And over time, we expect the elevated liquidity levels that I mentioned to normalize, reducing that 18 basis point drag back down to 0 as it does.These positive factors will offset some continued spread pressure from competition for high-quality assets and the absolute level of interest rates as well as impacts from the roll-off of hedges, as illustrated on the next slide. All told, these changes are expected to bring us to a net interest margin in the 2.90s next quarter. Our outlook continues to point to NIM stability at approximately those levels for the foreseeable future going forward. Turning to Slide 9. In the second quarter, the interest rate caps resulted in a $55 million negative mark-to-market driven by lower rates at quarter end. However, cumulatively, over the life of these caps, the strategy was highly effective and resulted in a $94 million pre-tax gain, $75 million net of tax, but as we intended, offset approximately 46% of the negative impact on capital from rising rates.As the securities portfolio gradually grew during the last two quarters and prepayment speeds on that portfolio have reduced, we now have the opportunity to utilize a more traditional hedging structure to accomplish the same capital protection objective. Hence, we fully exited the caps during the second quarter and replaced them with $4 billion of forward starting swaps, which qualify for hedge accounting and reduce earnings volatility while achieving a similar level of capital protection. Additionally, we moved $4.5 billion of securities available for sale into held for maturity during the quarter in order to further minimize volatility in OCI as a result of the changes in interest rates.Turning to Slide 10. Average loan balances increased by 9% year-over-year driven by the added TCF balances and continued growth in our consumer loan portfolios. Period-end loan balances ended the second quarter at $112 billion. We continue to have near record origination levels in our consumer portfolios in the second quarter with RV/Marine, automobile and residential mortgage all continuing to post sequential quarter growth. Despite the inventory constraints in auto and RV/Marine, consumer demand remains very high, driving continued strength in originations. The same can be said for home lending, where origination activity is quite robust despite ongoing home inventory constraints. The calling activity and origination volumes in the commercial portfolios also continued to be robust.However, overall commercial growth is constrained by pressure on utilization rates. Auto dealer floor plan balances remained a headwind in the quarter, driven by inventory supply constraints. But we're optimistic that we're nearing the floor for these balances. The outlook is expected to slowly recover from these levels as OEMs deliver increased inventory to dealers. The inventory finance business from TCF has been facing a similar headwind as inventory levels have been depressed and outstandings have been near multiyear lows.Commercial utilization rates for our middle market and corporate portfolios remained relatively stable in the second quarter. Cumulatively, these three areas of commercial lending combined represent $5 billion to $6 billion of incremental loan growth opportunity as utilization rates recover. With respect to investment securities, we completed a repositioning of the acquired TCF portfolio to improve both yields and to reduce duration. We also deployed an incremental $4 billion of excess liquidity into additional securities. Inclusive of these actions, the securities portfolio ended the quarter at $35 billion. Given the level of excess liquidity we had at quarter end, we would expect to grow the securities portfolio incrementally by approximately $4 billion over the remainder of 2021.Slide 11 provides an update on PPP. In total, we originated $11.4 billion of PPP loans, inclusive of TCF's activity. We continue to expect approximately 85% of balances from the programs to ultimately be forgiven. PPP loans totaled $4.2 billion at quarter end, with a significant acceleration in the pace of forgiveness during June. We anticipate forgiveness of the majority of balances to be completed in the second half of the year, with a portion trailing into early 2022. Turning to Slide 12.Average total deposits increased 13% sequentially due to the acquisition of TCF and increased customer liquidity levels at Huntington. We continue to leverage excess liquidity to manage wholesale funding balances and costs lower. Slide 13 illustrates the strength of our capital and liquidity ratios. As I mentioned, common equity Tier one ended the quarter at 9.97% and is near the top of our 9% to 10% operating guideline. These strong capital levels, coupled with the ongoing economic recovery and our merger integration proceeding as planned, gave us confidence to relaunch our share buyback program earlier than previously expected.The Board has authorized $800 million of common stock repurchases over the next four quarters that will likely be overweighted toward the earlier part of that time. Our capital plan entails managing our CET1 ratio toward the lower half of our 9% to 10% operating range over the medium term. This plan is supported by our finalization of the marks on the acquired portfolio and our confidence in the pro forma earnings power and return on capital profile of the company. Slide 14 provides a view of our allowance for credit losses. The second quarter ending ACL represents 2.08% of total loans, down from 2.17% at prior quarter end. The allowance includes the previously mentioned TCF credit mark, which was partially offset by an 8% reserve release on the legacy Huntington portfolio.Slide 15 provides a snapshot of key credit quality metrics for the quarter. Our overall credit performance remained strong. Net charge-offs represented an annualized 28 basis points of average loans and leases below our 35 to 55 basis point through-the-cycle average target range. Consumer charge-offs were quite low this quarter at just two basis points as auto and home equity portfolios both reported net recoveries. Year-to-date, consumer net charge-offs have been nine basis points. Our criticized assets and NPA ratios were both modestly higher as a result of the TCF acquired portfolios. These portfolios came over as expected consistent with our detailed due diligence work, and we remain comfortable with the acquired book. The ACL coverage on NPAs is strong at 229%.Finally, turning to our outlook on Slide 16. We've provided a set of medium-term financial targets, including a 17% return on tangible common equity, a 56% efficiency ratio while remaining committed to investing in our people-first digitally powered strategy. These metrics, in addition to sustainable top line revenue growth, slightly above nominal GDP will drive earnings-per-share growth over time. Our efficiency ratio will benefit from expense synergies from the TCF acquisition and incorporates our commitment to continued investment in technology and digital capabilities. Annual positive operating leverage remains a core principle of our strategy.We believe these metrics, revenue growth, return on capital and annual positive operating leverage, are a compelling set of financial performance indicators and closely aligns with value creation for our shareholders. Now let me turn it back over to Mark, and we'll get to your questions.Mark Muth -- Senior Vice President & Director of Investor RelationsThank you, Zach. We will now take questions. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.