
OperatorGood morning and welcome to Air Products' Fourth Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]Beginning today's call is Mr. Simon Moore.Simon Moore -- Vice President of Investor Relations, Corporate Relations and Sustainability

 



Thank you, Christina. Good morning, everyone. Welcome to Air Products' Fourth Quarter 2021 Earnings Results Teleconference. This is Simon Moore, Vice President of Investor Relations, Corporate Relations and Sustainability. I am pleased to be joined today by Seifi Ghasemi, our Chairman, President and CEO; Dr. Samir Serhan, our Chief Operating Officer; Melissa Schaeffer, our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Sean Major, our Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. After our comments, we'll be pleased to take your questions. Our earnings release and the slides for this call are available on our website at airproducts.com. This discussion contains forward-looking statements. Please refer to the forward-looking statement disclosure that can be found in our earnings release and on slide number two. In addition, throughout today's discussion, we will refer to various financial measures. Unless we specifically state otherwise, when we refer to earnings per share, EBITDA, EBITDA margin, the effective tax rate and ROCE, both on a companywide and segment basis, we are referring to our adjusted non-GAAP financial measures, adjusted earnings per share, adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin, adjusted effective tax rate and adjusted return on capital employed. Reconciliations of these measures to our most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found on our website in the relevant earnings release section.Now I'm pleased to turn the call over to Seifi.Seifi Ghasemi -- Chairman, President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Simon, and good day to everyone. Thank you for taking time from your very busy schedule to be on our call today. Before we discuss the results, I would like to say that despite the well-known global challenges in 2020 and 2021, the talented, committed and motivated people of Air Products demonstrated resilience and resolve and delivered excellent results, and in addition, continue to execute our growth strategy. I want to thank every one of our employees for standing together, working hard and delivering for our customers and shareholders. Now please turn to slide number three, where you can see some of our key highlights for this year. We delivered strong EPS this year, achieving 11% compounded annual growth since fiscal year 2014, and we increased the dividend for the 39th consecutive year. We were again recognized by prestigious raters and organizations for outstanding sustainability performance, including one we just announced this week, the EcoVadis for the fifth year in a row.

 



Our growth strategy and sustainability strategy are one and the same. And to that end, we proudly completed the asset acquisition and project financing transaction for the $12 billion Jazan joint venture with Aramco, ACWA Power and Air Products Qudra, as we announced last week. In conjunction with the government of Canada and the province of Alberta, we announced the new net-zero hydrogen energy complex in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. This modest-scale energy complex will begin with a transformative $1 billion net-zero hydrogen production and liquefaction facility expected onstream in 2024. And just a few weeks ago, we announced the $4.5 billion world-class clean energy complex in Louisiana. Air Products will build, own and operate this mega project, which will produce over 750 million standard cubic feet per day of blue hydrogen for local and global markets by 2026. We will also capture and permanently sequester five million metric tons per year of carbon dioxide, making it the largest carbon capture for sequestration facility in the world.By combining our core strengths and competencies, we successfully develop, execute and operate these larger-scale gasification, carbon capture and hydrogen projects to address the significant energy and environmental needs of the world. This is fully aligned with our higher purpose as a company. Now please turn to slide number four. As always, safety is the most important focus for all of us at Air Products, and our goal will always be to achieve 0 accidents and incidents. Despite the challenging COVID-19 condition this year, our team continues to focus on working safely, following our strict protocols to help protect our own employees, our customers and our communities. We are pleased with the focus by the team that improved our safety performance in fiscal year '21 versus last year. slides number, six and seven, which we have shared with you many times before, includes our goal, our management philosophy and our five-point strategic plan. These are the principles that we follow every day, and they will continue to guide us in the future.Now please turn to slide number eight. As we speak, world leaders are gathered in Glasgow to work on closing the gap between climate aspirations and climate action. We are actively engaged in this rapidly evolving global dialogue and committed to ensuring that Air Products is best positioned to deliver on behalf of all of our stakeholders through this critical period of energy transition. We believe a successful energy transition requires successful development and execution of large-scale mega projects. Without that, the job cannot be done. The scope and complexity of these projects require talented people with a variety of skills and backgrounds from different parts of the world to work together as one team. This is the higher purpose of our company. We can overcome the world's significant energy and environmental sustainability challenges with our focus and united people working together to provide real solutions for our customers. Now please turn to slide number nine.As I have said before, we believe that hydrogen is one of the energy sources of the future along with electricity. We are scaling hydrogen production and developing a structure -- infrastructure to ensure this successful adoption as a sustainable fuel. Hydrogen will be the sustainable fuel of the future. Our customers count on us to deliver this hydrogen produced in a highly efficient manner. Meanwhile, we are making significant investments in new facilities to produce low-carbon and carbon-free hydrogen made from hydrocarbons. By executing on new clean hydrogen projects in Alberta and Louisiana, we will be a leader in blue hydrogen as well as green hydrogen as we continue to execute our innovative new green hydrogen project in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.

 



Now with that background, I'm happy to turn the call over to Dr. Samir Serhan, our Chief Operating Officer, to talk about our major projects. Dr. Serhan?Dr. Samir J. Serhan -- Chief Operating OfficerThank you, Seifi. Now please turn to slide 10, which highlights our key growth projects. We are committed to our growth strategy and continue to execute and pursue exciting projects around the world. In June, we announced the world-scale $1 billion net-zero hydrogen project in Alberta, Canada, with the strong support of the Canadian federal and local governments. This project will use natural gas to make net-zero hydrogen, which has the same zero carbon footprint as a green hydrogen made from renewable energy. 95% of the CO2 resulting from our net-zero project will be permanently sequestered, and the remaining 5% will be offset by exporting a clean electricity produced by the clean hydrogen. The project provides a road map for hydrocarbon-based economies to significantly reduce their CO2 emissions. Just a few weeks ago, we had the honor of joining the Governor of Louisiana and state officials to announce our world-scale $4.5 billion blue hydrogen project.This will also be the world's largest permanent CO2 sequestration operation. This project will provide clean hydrogen to our customers along our 700-mile U.S. Gulf Coast hydrogen pipeline system and also produce blue ammonia, targeting heavy transport around the world. The pipeline will be able to carry a variety of carbon intensity hydrogen, including gray and blue. These two projects will use advanced gasification technologies available to Air Products to produce clean hydrogen while using hydrocarbon feedstock in a sustainable way. Both projects also combine in one project the three pillars of our growth strategy: gasification, carbon capture and hydrogen. We have made good progress on our Jiutai project, and we expect the facility to be onstream in fiscal year '23. We also expect the Debang project onstream in fiscal year '23. Successful execution of the Gulf Coast ammonia project continues with field construction on Air Products' largest single train, 175 million standard cubic feet per day of hydrogen steam methane reformer as well as the related 90 million standard cubic feet per day nitrogen ASU facility and related utilities. Construction is also progressing well on the 30-mile hydrogen pipeline network expansion to our world's largest hydrogen pipeline network.The project onstream schedule remains as originally planned for the first half of fiscal year '23. We're forging ahead in Indonesia and making good progress despite some challenges with COVID. We expect to complete this project in '25. For NEOM, as you can see in the picture on the slide, we are laying the groundwork for the project, preparing the land and doing detailed engineering. We're even more excited now about this project since our announcement last year. We're forecasting to export the zero carbon hydrogen in the form of ammonia in 2026. In addition to our mega projects, Air Products has also continued to make significant investments in small and midsized on-site generators in our regional industrial gases business with fiscal year '21 being a record year for investments in this category. These on-site plants, which typically have project investment values from USD0.5 million to USD50 million, cover a range of technologies from a PRISM hydrogen generators; PRISM oxygen VSA, vacuum swing adsorption; and small/midsized PRISM ASUs.Specifically, fiscal year '21 was a record year for investments in our PRISM Oxygen VSA product line, with the new projects in North America, Europe, India, China and South Korea predominantly supplying several major glass manufacturers around the world. The Oxygen VSAs are frequently integrated with Air Products' oxy-fuel burner technology, which help reduce emissions, provide fuel savings, improve productivity and deliver operational savings for the customer.Now I'm pleased to turn the call back to Seifi.Seifi Ghasemi -- Chairman, President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Dr. Serhan. Please turn to slide number 11. As we shared with you last week, we, along with our joint venture partners, completed the asset acquisition and project financing transaction of the $12 billion air separation unit, gasification and power joint venture with Aramco, ACWA Power and Air Products Qudra in Jazan, Saudi Arabia, making a significant milestone after the hard work of our people as well as our customers and partners. The project return is expected to be better than we originally envisioned. As we said last week, we expect Phase one of the project to contribute an annual run rate of $0.80 to $0.85 of earnings per share, starting as of last week. The project is expected to contribute about $1.35 to $1.40 for the first 10 years after first -- Phase two closes. Now please turn to slide number 12, which shows our EPS growth. We remain vigilant and motivated to deliver excellent financial results, consistent with our strategy. As you can see, we have delivered 11% annual EPS growth on average since 2014 while laying a strong foundation for our future growth. The excellent results and key milestones we have achieved this year are just the beginning of our journey, delivering gasification, carbon capture and hydrogen solutions to the world.I am very optimistic about our company's prospects, completing -- participating in a very meaningful way in the energy transition. Now please turn to slide number 13. As a reminder, we share our earnings growth directly with our investors. Both our EPS and dividend have grown by double digits since 2014. We are committed to deliver increased dividend while we continue to execute our growth opportunities. We have significant cash flow that supports our substantial dividend. And as you know, we have increased that now for the 39th consecutive year. And finally, slide number 14, as always, my favorite slide, shows that our EBITDA margins are up 1,100 basis points since 2014. Our margin is down in recent quarters, impacted by higher energy pass-through, which increases our sales but doesn't impact profits. 2/3 of the margin decline from our peak margin is due to the impact of higher energy pass-through. But I do want to stress that we are determined and focused on improving our margins back to around 40% by increasing prices to cover significant increases in energy costs and by improving productivity.Now I'm happy to turn the call over to Melissa Schaeffer, our Senior Vice President and Chief FinancialMelissa Schaeffer -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Seifi. We have made great strides at building our growth strategy this year, completing multiple projects and winning exciting new projects. At the same time, we continue to focus our base business and deliver excellent results for the quarter and the year. We grew our EPS 8% this year, overcoming various external challenges and absorbing the cost of additional resources needed to support our growth strategy. Our distributable cash flow remains strong at $2.7 billion. Furthermore, these large-scale projects currently under development will substantially add to our earnings once we bring them on stream. I share Seifi's conviction that for Air Products, the best is indeed yet to come. This is a testament to the hard work and commitment of the people of Air Products. And I, too, want to thank them.Now please turn to slide 15 for more details on our full year results. Sales grew 17% to more than $10 billion. Volume and price together gained 7%. The 5% volume growth was primarily driven by our EMEA and Global Gases segment. Although the adverse impact from the pandemic has eased through the year, it still had a negative impact on FY '21. Price improved every quarter in all three regions and across most major product lines. Overall, price increased 2% and our merchant price was up 5%. EBITDA was up 7%, approaching $4 billion due to favorable price, currency and equity affiliate income, which was partially offset by higher costs. EBITDA margin declined 330 basis points, of which 200 basis points are attributed to higher energy pass-through, which increases sales but negatively impacts margin. ROCE was 160 basis points lower. The increase in the denominator from our additional $5 billion of debt raised last year reduced ROCE by about 300 basis points. Adjusting for the cash on our balance sheet, our ROCE would be 14.2%. We expect ROCE to improve as we deploy the cash and bring projects onstream. Now please turn to slide 16 for a discussion of full year EPS. Our full year adjusted EPS from continuing operations was up $0.64 or 8%.Price net of variable cost was again strong, favorable $0.34, the fourth consecutive year of double-digit EPS net price improvement. Volume was flat as acquisitions, new plants, merchant recovery and higher sale of equipment activity were offset by lower contribution from Lu'An. Different business mix caused volume to have a positive impact on sales but minimum impact on profit. Our costs were $0.46 unfavorable, primarily due to the addition of resources to support our future growth and higher planned maintenance costs. Currency was favorable $0.35, primarily driven by the Chinese RMB, euro, British pound and South Korean won. Our equity affiliates also had strong underlying business results, adding $0.23, with several joint ventures reporting stronger medical oxygen sales. Nonoperating income was $0.16 favorable, primarily due to lower pension expense. Interest expense was $0.12 favorable due to the $5 billion of debt to support our future growth projects. Our effective tax rate of 18.9% was roughly equal to last year, and we expect an effective tax rate of 19% to 20% in FY 2022. Now please turn to slide 17 for a brief discussion on our fourth quarter results. Compared to last year, sales increased 22% to more than $2.8 billion.Volume, price, energy pass-through and currencies were all up. Volume improved 9% as strong hydrogen and merchant demand and new assets more than offset reduced Lu'An contribution. Prices were up again with improvement in all three regions. This is the 17th consecutive quarter of year-over-year price gain. Overall, prices were up 3% in total, which equaled a 6% increase for the merchant business. We experienced significantly higher energy costs in our merchant business this quarter. The situation is particularly challenging in EMEA due to the extremely high natural gas and electricity costs. Our onsite business, about half of our total company's sales, has contractual protection from energy cost fluctuations. We are actively executing additional price actions across product lines to recover the higher energy costs impacting our merchant business. EBITDA climbed 11%, exceeding $1 billion mark as favorable volume, price, currency and equity affiliate income more than offset higher costs. EBITDA margin declined 380 basis points primarily due to higher energy pass-through, which negatively impacted margins by about 300 basis points. Sequentially, sales were up 9%, supported by 5% stronger volumes and 1% higher price.EBITDA grew 7% sequentially as better volume, price and equity affiliate income more than offset higher energy costs. Now please turn to slide 18. Our fourth quarter adjusted EPS was $2.51, which is $0.32 or 15% above last year. Volume was a favorable $0.19 and price, net of variable costs contributed $0.04 as our price increases exceeded variable cost inflation driven by higher power costs. Like the prior few quarters, our plans to add resources and strengthen our organization to support growth have increased our costs. We also saw higher costs due to disruptions across the supply chain in all three regions. Currency and foreign exchange contributed $0.06, primarily due to the Chinese RMB and British pound. Equity affiliate income added $0.09 on strong underlying business results. The $0.04 of nonoperating income was primarily driven by lower pension expense. The effective tax rate of 18.1% was 130 basis points higher than last year due to the last year's higher share-based compensation benefits and a tax benefit associated with the PBF acquisition. Now please turn to slide 19.The stability of our business allows us to continue to generate strong cash flow. Over the last 12 months, we generated about $2.7 billion of distributable cash flow or almost $12 per share. From our EBITDA of about $3.9 billion, we paid interest, taxes and maintenance capital. Note that our maintenance capital is a little higher than usual, driven in part by spending on our new global headquarters, which is essentially now complete. From the distributable cash flow, we paid $0.45 or about $1.3 billion as dividends to our shareholders and still have about $1.4 billion available for high-return industrial gas investments. This strong cash flow, even in uncertain times, enables us to continue to create shareholder value through increasing dividends and capital deployment. Slide number 20 provides an update of our capital deployment. As we discussed last quarter, we've extended our time horizon another five years to fiscal 2027. We see tremendous project opportunities beyond 2022 and the investment potential far exceeding the original capacity of $15 billion. Based on this updated view, we see our capital deployment potential reaching approximately $34 billion through fiscal 2027.The $34 billion includes roughly $10 billion of cash and additional debt capacity available today, almost $17 billion we expect to be available by 2027 and about $7 billion already spent. We still believe this figure is conservative given the potential for additional EBITDA growth, which generates additional cash flow, and therefore, additional borrowing capacity. We will continue to focus on managing our debt balance to maintain our current targeted A/A2 rating. So you can see we have already spent 21% and have already committed 67% of the updated capacity we show here. I should note that this is as of September 30, so it does not reflect the closing of the Jazan Phase one but does include the Louisiana project. Before I turn the call back to Seifi, I would like to share with you that we plan to reorganize our reporting segments starting in Q1 of FY '22. Our EMEA segment will be separated into Europe and a Middle East and India segment to reflect the addition of the significant Jazan project in the Middle East segment and to provide more visibility for our geographic regions. In addition, our Global Gases and Corporate segment will be combined. We will provide historical resegmented financial information before the year-end.Now to begin the review of our business segment results, I'll turn the call back over to Seifi. Thank you very much, Melissa. Now please turn to slide number 21 for our Asia results. Sales increased 6% compared to last year on 5% favorable currencies and 1% positive price increase, the 18th consecutive quarter of year-on-year price improvement in this region. Volumes were flat with new plants, mostly outside of China, offsetting the lower Lu'An contribution. Regarding Lu'An, there is no change for the -- from the previous updates that we have given you. The plant continues to operate at full capacity despite the coal shortage in China. As I said last quarter, under the interim supply agreement, we are recognizing reduced fees through fiscal year '22 before we return to the full year fee in 2023. This quarter, China's effort to reduce energy usage and intensity, the so-called dual control had a modest adverse effect on our results. It reduced some merchant customers' demand and caused isolated disruptions in operations. We continue to monitor this developing situation very closely. In the long term, though, we do see positive growth opportunities as China continues to focus on reducing its carbon intensity. EBITDA for this region grew 3%, supported by favorable currencies and price. Costs compared unfavorably primarily due to higher variable energy costs, resources needed to support project and start-ups, the timing of China government incentives last year and the disruption called by its dual control policy to reduce energy consumption. Sequentially, EBITDA and margins were lower as higher costs more than offset better volumes. Price is up but rounded to zero. Now I would like to turn the call over to Dr. Serhan to talk about our Americas results. Dr. Serhan?Dr. Samir J. Serhan -- Chief Operating OfficerThank you, Seifi. Now please turn to slide 22 for a review of our Americas results. Sales increased more than 20% versus last year, and EBITDA posted another double-digit gain. Volume grew 3%, primarily due to better hydrogen and merchant demand. Although Hurricane Ida interrupted our U.S. Gulf Coast operations this quarter, our team worked very hard to limit the impact to our business. While most of our merchant products have returned to pre-COVID levels, our hydrogen volume has increased but has not yet fully recovered. Demand for jet fuel, which consumes more hydrogen on a unit basis compared to gasoline, is still lagging. Also, the industry continued to use more light sweet crude, which requires less hydrogen. We are confident in the long-term growth of hydrogen demand, particularly in the U.S. Gulf Coast. Price for the quarter was again strong.The 4% gain for the region was equivalent to 10% on the merchant business. Price was better across all major products. This is the 13th consecutive quarter of year-on-year price improvement. Energy cost pass-through drove a 15% sales increase with the much higher natural gas prices. EBITDA was 16% ahead of last year as positive volume price at our equity affiliate income and lower maintenance costs more than offset higher inflation. EBITDA margin was 230 basis points lower. However, energy cost pass-through negatively impacted EBITDA margin by approximately 500 basis points. In other words, EBITDA margin would have been significantly up excluding energy pass-through. Sequentially, energy pass-through drove margin 250 basis points lower.Now I would like to turn the call back over to Simon to discuss our other segments. Simon?Simon Moore -- Vice President of Investor Relations, Corporate Relations and SustainabilityThank you, Dr. Serhan. Now please turn to slide 23 for a review of our Europe, Middle East and Africa region results. Our EMEA team delivered another set of outstanding results this quarter. Sales jumped 33% versus last year and EBITDA was up 14%. Volume was strong, increasing 14%, driven primarily by improved hydrogen and merchant demand and new assets. Our liquid bulk partially recovered from the pandemic, but packaged gases and hydrogen are still below pre-COVID levels. Price increased for the 15th consecutive quarter and was higher across most major product lines and subregions. The 4% price gain for the region corresponds to a 6% improvement for the merchant business. Consistent with what most consumers and businesses are experiencing, our European business faced unprecedented energy cost escalation this quarter. Supply chain-related interruptions further exacerbated the difficult situation. Our team has done an excellent job coping with these challenges, executing pricing actions and keeping our customers supplied.As Melissa said, our onsite contracts allow us to pass through the higher energy costs. For our merchant business, we continue to work hard to recover the recent cost increases through additional pricing actions already underway. Currencies were favorable 3%, primarily due to the strong British pound versus the U.S. dollar. EBITDA was up 14% to about $230 million, primarily due to the strong volume, while better price, equity affiliate income and favorable currencies offset most of the energy cost increase. EBITDA margin was down 560 basis points, with higher energy pass-through responsible for about 400 basis points. The remaining roughly 150 basis point reduction was mainly attributable to unfavorable costs, partially offset by favorable equity affiliate income and better volume. Compared to prior quarter, sales climbed 8% primarily due to pass-through, while positive price and volume were offset by unfavorable currencies. Operating income was 3% below last quarter as the positive price and volume were more than offset by higher costs. Meanwhile, EBITDA was 8% higher due to the inclusion of positive equity affiliate income.And as Melissa mentioned, we will separate the current EMEA segment into two segments, Europe and Middle East and India, starting next quarter. Now please turn to slide 24, Global Gases, which includes our non-LNG sale of equipment businesses as well as central costs. Sales and profit were up on higher project activities. We continue to add resources to support project development. Please turn to slide 25, Corporate, which includes LNG and other businesses as well as our corporate costs. Corporate segment sales were higher this quarter, driven by increased project activities as we continue to execute multiple large LNG and other projects, but profit was lower on higher corporate costs. Sequentially, sales and profits were better than last quarter. Again, as Melissa said, we will combine Global and Corporate starting next quarter.Now to provide closing comments, I'll turn the call back over to Seifi.Seifi Ghasemi -- Chairman, President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you very much, Simon. Air Products continues to deliver consistent results despite significant ongoing challenges in the world. Our volumes, price and profit all grew in 2021, overcoming the pandemic, the storms, supply chain disruption and rising costs globally. I truly believe that we have become an even stronger company and fully expect to deliver significant earning growth as the economies around the world recover and our projects come onstream. Now please turn to slide number 26. For fiscal year 2022, our earnings per share guidance is $10.20 to $10.40, up 13% to 15% over last year. For quarter one of fiscal year '22, our earnings per share guidance is $2.45 to $2.55, up 16% to 20% over last year, and will include about two months of the Phase one of the Jazan project. We see our capex at around $5.5 billion (sic) $4.5 billion to $5 billion for fiscal year '22, including approximately $1.5 billion of Phase one of the Jazan project. Now please turn to slide number 27. We are confident that the security of employment and compensation that we provided to our employees during this difficult pandemic period positions us very well and very strongly for the future. We demonstrated to our people that we will support them in times of difficulty. We are committed to this approach since the only sustainable long-term competitive advantage of any company is the degree of commitment and motivation of the people in the enterprise.The strong results and significant milestones we achieved this year are just part of our continued growth. As I said before, Air Products is supported by and supportive of the world's focus on sustainability. Our customers choose Air Products because they know we can help them meet their sustainability goals, and we continue to innovate so that we can be a partner on their sustainability journey for the future. The Board's environmental and sustainability challenges are immerse -- immense. There are huge issues that need to be addressed. And our growth strategy, which is focused on gasification, carbon capture and hydrogen, is designed specifically to address these critical needs. We know that our continued success depends on the expertise, dedication and commitment of our talented people around the world. And we consistently have been adding resources around the world in order to position ourselves properly to meet the growth demand and the execution of the projects that we have undertaken. Rising to the energy challenges that face our world today, we are committed to having a diverse workforce, significant development of applications and mega project expertise and a collaborative spirit within our companies. I believe Air Products is uniquely positioned to help the world transition to a cleaner and better future. It's a better future we believe in and in which we have already totally invested.Now we are pleased to answer any questions that you have.