
OperatorGood afternoon, and welcome to the Ross Stores' Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Release Conference Call. The call will begin with prepared comments by management, followed by a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]Before we get started, on behalf of Ross Stores, I would like to note that the comments made on this call will contain forward-looking statements regarding expectations about future growth and financial results, including sales and earnings forecasts, new store openings, COVID-related costs and other matters that are based on the Company's current forecast of aspects of its future business. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical performance or current expectations. Risk factors are included in today's press release and the Company's fiscal 2020 Form 10-K and fiscal 2021 Form 10-Q and 8-Ks on file with the SEC.Now, I would like to turn the call over to Barbara Rentler, Chief Executive Officer.

 



Barbara Rentler -- Vice Chair and Chief Executive OfficerGood afternoon. Joining me on our call today are Michael Hartshorn, Group President and Chief Operating Officer; and Connie Kao, Group Vice President, Investor Relations. We'll begin our call today with a review of our second quarter performance, followed by our outlook for the third quarter and fiscal year. Afterwards we'll be happy to respond to any questions you may have.As noted in today's press release, we are pleased that both second quarter sales and earnings substantially exceeded our expectations. Sales benefited from customers' positive response to our broad assortment of great bargains. In addition, our results were bolstered by a number of external factors, including ongoing government stimulus, increasing vaccination rates, and a diminishing COVID restriction.Earnings per share for the 13 weeks ended July 31, 2021 grew 22% to $1.39 on net income of $494 million. This compares to $1.14 per share on net earnings of $413 million for the 13 weeks ended August 3, 2019. Total sales for the quarter rose 21% to $4.8 billion with comparable store sales up a robust 15%.

 



For the first six months, earnings per share were $2.73 on net earnings of $971 million, up from $220 -- up from $2.29 per share on net income of $834 million for the same period in 2019. Sales for the first half of 2021 rose 20% to $9.3 billion with comparable store sales up 14%.For the second quarter, Ross' sales trends across merchandise areas and regions were fairly broad based with children's and the Midwest performing the best. Additionally, dd's DISCOUNTS trends remained robust during the period as both sales and operating profit gains significantly exceeded our expectations.At quarter-end, total consolidated inventories were down 5% while average selling store inventories were up 3% versus 2019. Packaway levels ended at 30% of the total compared to 43% for the same period in 2019 as we used a substantial amount of packaway merchandise to support ahead of planned sales. In addition, there were receipt delays due to supply chain congestion.Turning to store growth. We now expect to open approximately 65 total locations this year, comprised of about 45 Ross and 20 dd's DISCOUNTS. As usual, these numbers do not reflect our plans to close or relocate about 10 stores. As mentioned in last quarter's call, in 2022, we expect to return to our normal annual opening program of approximately 100 new stores.

 



Now, Michael Hartshorn will provide further details on our second quarter results, third quarter guidance and updated outlook for the year.Michael J. Hartshorn -- Group President and Chief Operating OfficerThank you, Barbara. As we previously stated, comparable store sales increased 15% in the quarter, mainly driven by a larger average basket with traffic up slightly versus 2019.Operating margin was well above plan and up versus 2019 at 14.1%. Cost of goods sold decreased by 45 basis points in the quarter. Merchandise margins and occupancy improved by 80 basis points each, while buying costs declined by 10 basis points. Partially offsetting these items were higher distribution expenses, which grew 40 basis points, primarily from wage increases, while worsening industrywide supply chain congestion drove higher freight cost of 85 basis points.SG&A for the period rose 5 basis points as leverage from strong sales gains was offset by COVID expenses and higher incentives given our better-than-expected second quarter results. Total net COVID-related expenses for the period were approximately 45 basis points, the vast majority of which impacted SG&A.During the quarter, we repurchased 1.4 million shares of common stock for a total purchase price of $176 million. We remain on track to buy back a total of $650 million in stock for the year.Now let's discuss our third quarter guidance. As a reminder, our projections compare to the same period in 2019. Looking ahead, there remains much uncertainty on the sustainability of the positive external factors that benefited our first half results as well as the potential risks we could face from the spread of COVID variants and worsening industrywide supply chain congestion.As a result, we are forecasting comparable store sales to be up 5% to 7% for the third quarter, with earnings per share projected to be in the range of $0.61 to $0.69. The operating statement assumptions that support our third quarter guidance include the following. Total sales are projected to grow 9% to 12%. We expect operating margin to be 7.3% to 7.9%. This forecast reflects significant escalation of freight costs as well as higher distribution expenses. In addition, ongoing COVID-related costs are projected to negatively impact EBIT margins by approximately 45 basis points in the period. We plan to open 28 stores during the third quarter, consisting of 18 Ross and 10 dd's DISCOUNTS.Net interest expense is estimated to be about $19 million. Our tax rate is expected to be approximately 24% to 25%, and weighted average diluted shares outstanding are projected to be about 354 million.Based on our first half results and third quarter guidance, we now project full-year comparable store sales gains of 10% to 11% and earnings per share to be in the range of $4.20 to $4.38 compared to $4.60 in 2019.Now, I'll turn the call back to Barbara for closing comments.Barbara Rentler -- Vice Chair and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Michael. While we're pleased by the better-than-expected results we reported today, as Michael noted, there is a high level of uncertainty on a number of external factors and how they may affect our business over the balance of the year. That said, we believe we are well positioned as a valued retailer and remain confident in our ability to continue to deliver great branded bargains.Moving forward, we remain optimistic about our prospects for continued growth in both sales and profitability over the longer term, especially given consumers' increasing focus on value and convenience. Moreover, the significant number of retail closures and bankruptcies in recent years further enhances our ability to gain additional market share in the future.At this point, we'd like to open up the call and respond to any questions you might have.