  OperatorGreetings, and welcome to the Penn National Gaming first quarter conference call. During the presentation, all participants will be in a listen-only mode. Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator instructions]. It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Joe Jaffoni, investor relations. Please, go ahead.Joe Jaffoni -- Investor Relations Thank you, Tina, and good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining Penn National Gaming's 2022 first quarter conference call. We'll get to management's presentations and comments momentarily, as well as your questions and answers, but first, I'll review the safe harbor disclosure. In addition to historical facts or statements of current conditions, today's conference call contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, which involve risks and uncertainties. These statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminologies such as expects, believes, estimates, projects, intends, plans, seeks, may, will, should or anticipates, or the negative or other variations of these or similar words or by discussion of future events, strategies or risks, and uncertainties, including future plans, strategies, performance, developments, acquisitions, capital expenditures, and operating results. Such forward-looking statements reflect the company's current expectations and beliefs, but are not guarantees of future performance. As such, actual results may vary materially from expectations. The risks and uncertainties associated with the forward-looking statements are described in today's news announcement and in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the company's reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q. Penn National Gaming assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.Today's call and webcast will include non-GAAP financial measures within the meaning of SEC Regulation G. And when required, a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP, can be found in today's press release as well as on the company's website. Thank you for your patience with that. And it's now my pleasure to turn the call over to company's CEO, Jay Snowden. Jay, please go ahead. Jay Snowden -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Joe. Good morning, everyone. Here with me in Wyomissing this morning is our CFO, Felicia Hendrix; and our head of operations; Todd George, as well as several other members of our executive team, should you have any questions for them. We did provide a link to the investor presentation in our earnings release. So I'd encourage you to either print that out or pull it up and maybe, reference it while we're talking, because we'll speak to a few of the slides in the investor deck. We did talk on our last earnings call about what sets Penn apart from the competition and what our strategic objectives and expectations are for the first quarter, in terms of our core business, our interactive segment, investing in new technology and the launch of the theScore Bet in Ontario. And I'm proud to say our corporate property and interactive teams have delivered on all fronts in the first quarter. And I want to begin this morning by thanking our team members at all levels of the organization for their continued hard work and dedication and delivering best-in-class products and services to our guests. And we don't always do this, but I'm going to take a few minutes to call out a few of our top performers and some highlights across the company. I'll start in Louisiana, where our properties led by Harold Rowland, Barry Regula, Kim Ginn, and Dan Kennedy, continue to post robust results in what are some of the most competitive markets in the U.S. Their team's focus on profitable revenue drivers, guest service enhancements and a more efficient cost structure, has resulted in market share gains across the board and margins that are the best in all the property's history. I couldn't be more proud of all of our team members in the State of Louisiana. Two of our properties under competitive pressure, due to new build-outs and expansions in Black Hawk, Colorado, and East Chicago, Indiana led by Sean Demeule and Ryan Coppola have quickly reimagined the way in which we run the business and compete. These properties are both pacing to deliver EBITDAR in the same range, if not higher, than what they generated in 2019, despite the new competition, which is not an easy feat. So hats off to them as well. And in Las Vegas, Hussain Mahrous and our creative team at The M Resort are now generating more EBITDA per quarter than what the property did annually just a few years ago. And with the growing population in that part of the Las Vegas Valley, we expect to see those results only get stronger in the coming years. In St. Louis, Mike Jerlecki and Steve Peate and their teams are finally again able to compete on a level playing field after the elimination of COVID mandates that were much more restrictive for our properties operating in a different county versus the nearby competition and are back to profitably growing market share and breaking EBITDA records along the way. Our teams in Central Pennsylvania, led by Dan Ihm, Ruben Warren, and Marc Guastella has successfully opened two new properties in the last year and have done a terrific job growing the overall database for the company and ensuring we are looking at all three businesses and our results there on an incremental basis. Cannibalization in Central Pennsylvania has been minimal and early combined results have been very encouraging. And then lastly, our Interactive business is led by John Kaplowitz and the Levy family in Toronto, continue to demonstrate that there is a different way to approach the online vertical in North America. Disciplined organic marketing, omnichannel cross-sell, great products and owning our media strategy with our friends at Barstool, Sportsbook, and theScore has led to growth in our net gaming revenue market share results in the first quarter. We believe our differentiated approach will benefit us going forward is the relationships we have and continue to build with our customers are based on delivering great products and customer service, media integration, branded and experiential events and promotions, and a direct connection to our users via live streams and social media engagement with our content creators, led by Dave Portnoy and Big Cat. We don't lead with discounts. These structural advantages are already proving themselves out real time and will deliver what we believe will be best-in-class margins over the long term. I'm super fortunate to be working alongside so many talented people every day, and we collectively couldn't be more excited about our future prospects. Now transitioning to our first quarter results. You'll see on Slide 5, we achieved record first quarter revenues of $1.56 billion and adjusted EBITDAR of just under 495 million, which grew 23% and 11%, respectively over 2021 levels, driven primarily by strong property level performance across all segments, including the older core demographic who are reengaging through both increased visitation levels and spend per visit. We're also encouraged by the ongoing visitation of our younger demographic. We remain focused on reimagining our properties and offerings to enhance the entertainment appeal to the steadily growing segment of customers. Now turning to Slide 8. During the quarter, our industry-leading mychoice customer database grew across all worth segments and we also added 355,000 new members to our ecosystem. Life to date, we have increased our database by over 1 million from digital registrations alone for the mychoice app, providing valuable cross-sell opportunities. More specifically, we've seen 28% year-over-year growth in our VIP segment and 11% in our core segments, driven by our new online and retail Sportsbook offerings in our recently opened Hollywood casino properties in New York and Morgantown, Pennsylvania. On Slide 9, you'll see we're starting to realize early benefits from our 3Cs, which, as a reminder, is cashless, cardless, and contactless technology which powers our mywallet experience. We have exceeded 53,000 mywallet downloads and more than 25 million in deposits. 3Cs technology is now live at nine properties in three states and has increased the value of our guests in terms of visitation frequency and time on device. We plan to introduce the 3Cs in an additional 14 properties in eight states over the next two quarters, of course, pending regulatory approvals. As noted on Slide 10, our Interactive segment grew revenues year over year by 94%, exclusive of tax reimbursements from our third-party skin partners, led by strong growth in online sports betting, iCasino, and media. We remain focused on profitable growth with our integrated media retail operations, helping to deliver the lowest customer acquisition costs in the industry. In addition, during the quarter, we introduced our market-leading retail Barstool Sportsbook at Penn National Race Course in Pennsylvania and at L'Auberge Lake Charles in Louisiana, and we plan to roll out additional Barstool Sportsbook at six more properties throughout the remainder of the year. Slide 12 shows the benefits of our integrated retail Barstool Sportsbook and gaming areas, which are helping to maximize cross-sell opportunities on table game play, particularly in the younger segments, comparing first quarter of this year to first quarter of 2019, we've seen a 53% increase in Table Theo for ages 21 to 44 at our properties with retail sportsbooks. On slide 13, you'll see theScore Bet in Louisiana has been a great story for us. And our market-leading properties and partners at Barstool Sports are a huge reason why. Dave and Big Cat hosted a Super Bowl Watch Party at L'Auberge Lake Charles and Louisiana lead by Ben Mintz and Megan Making Money embarked on a show around the state to help promote our Barstool Sportsbook app. This powerful combination of Barstool talent and our best-in-class retail Sportsbook offerings underscores the benefits of our differentiated strategy. Notably, we secured more than 6,000 pre-registrations from our casino database and generated almost 11% NGR with limited external marketing spend. Our interactive segment had an adjusted EBITDA loss of 10 million this quarter. Later this month, we expect to make a second 12.5 million installment toward the California sports betting initiative, while not originally contemplated in our interactive segment guidance for 2022. We remain on track however, to generate an EBITDA loss of approximately 50 million from this segment in 2022 as we continue to scale operations and infrastructure. Following our first quarter results, we anticipate the most significant losses will occur in the second and third quarters as we continue to ramp in our new markets and prepare our products and tech stack for football season. Fourth quarter will likely be closer to breakeven. By 2023, we expect to be generating positive adjusted EBITDA as we start to realize the benefits of our wholly owned tech stack. In addition to the successful launch of our Barstool Sportsbook app in Louisiana on January 28, we became -- which became our 12th state, excuse me, one of the top highlights of the quarter is undoubtedly the launch of theScore mobile app in Ontario on April 4. As highlighted on Slide 18, while still early, theScore Bet's performance thus far in Ontario has exceeded our expectations, due in large part to theScore's incredible brand recognition and media footprint as well as the support from Barstool Sports in the popular team from Spittin Chiclets, the number one Hockey Podcast in Canada. As a reminder, with a population of 15 million people, Ontario would rank as the fifth largest state in the U.S. on a population basis. Since launch, theScore Bet ranked as Canada's number one most downloaded sports betting app. and he number one rated betting app in the iOS 4 Early results reflects strong cross sell opportunities, currently 79% of all bidders in Ontario are theScore Media app users and 50% of theScore's Sportsbook users have wagered on the iCasino products. Just after launch, theScore announced an exclusive 10-year gaming partnership with the Toronto Blue Jays. This deal grants theScore Bet national marketing rights that extend across all gaming categories, including sports betting, casino, online casino, and fantasy sports. The Blue Jays and theScore Bet also plan to create a branded premium 365 days a year flagship sports bar and restaurant at the Rogers Center that will serve as an entertainment hub and destination for fans. theScore Bet app is built on theScore's state-of-the-art account -- player account management system, excuse me, and bonus engine, which provides highly customized features and seamless integration into theScore media app. In the third quarter, we expect to transition as planned, theScore Bet in Ontario to theScore's proprietary risk and trading platform as well, which will allow us to significantly bolster the product's features and capabilities, including expanded betting markets and parlay options. Meanwhile, we remain on track to transition the Barstool Sportsbook to the theScore's PAM and trading platform in the third quarter of 2023 as previously communicated, which will provide meaningful cost and revenue synergy opportunities. We are excited to have two very strong sports brands in our portfolio in theScore in Barstool Sports. As we mentioned on previous calls, we plan to lead with theScore Bet in Canada given its strong brand equity there, while focusing on the Barstool Sportsbook brand in the US. We feel the best way to maximize the value of both brands in the US is to fully integrate the Barstool Sportsbook app into theScore media app, which will occur during the second half of this year. As noted on Slide 14, the Barstool Sportsbook app has gained market share in the three states that report net gaming revenue by operator despite our spending a fraction of what our competitors do on promo and paid media. We continue to believe NGR is a more relevant measure of performance as opposed to handle market share, which doesn't mean as much when revenues are largely diluted by marketing and promotional expenses. And while our popular Barstool Sportsbook app is tied for the type or first on the Apple iOS store among sports betting apps with an average customer rating of 4.8 on a scale of five, we are continuing to add new features to drive further adoption. You'll see on slide 15, we introduced MLB Same Game Parlay, Parlay Plus option and will launch new withdrawal methods, including Mastercard and Apple Pay in the second quarter of this year. Notably, approximately 90% of our withdrawals are now instant, which we're very proud of. Finally, we expect to add a search function and the ability to use mycash as currency later this summer. Meanwhile, our Barstool-branded iCasino business continues to grow as we improve our products, add new games, and leverage our casino database and creative marketing by Barstool Sports. For example, Barstool recently launched an iCasino focused Twitch channel, called the Coin Boys, which already ranks in the top 1% of all Twitch programming with an average of 5,000 viewers per stream and a staggering average view time of just under two hours. Flipping ahead to Slide 17. We're also excited about the initial slate of games from our Penn Game Studios, which are drawing rave reviews and have contributed nearly 30% of Barstool Casino's online handle across Michigan, New Jersey, and West Virginia. We have high expectations for our first batch of games in Pennsylvania, which launched last week. On the media front, we continue to build momentum as theScore grew revenue 42% year over year in the first quarter and continues to garner high levels of engagement. Barstool has also continued to expand its audience and reach while pursuing new outside-the-box growth opportunities. On March 18, the second stand-alone Barstool Sports bar opened in Philly to very strong demand and two additional locations are under development in major metropolitan locations. In addition, in April, Franking and Trent from the Barstool Gulf podcast attended the PGA Zurich Classic, providing video commentary, which garnered four million views and over 100,000 engagements. On May 7, Barstool will broadcast an alternative commentary to the Canelo Fight on DAZN, representing a further extension of the Barstool brand into live sporting events. Looking forward, we believe there is significant upside for the media business, and we'll talk a lot more about that in coming quarters as we begin to realize the benefits of cross promotion with Barstool Sports an additional monetization opportunities with both Barstool and theScore. And with that, I'll turn it over to Felicia.Felicia Hendrix -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Jay. As Jay mentioned earlier, we reported record first quarter revenues of 1.56 billion and adjusted EBITDAR of 494.7 million, which grew 23% and 11% year over year, respectively. I'm happy to report the robust demand that Jay described in the first quarter has continued quarter to-date. Overall, the competitive environment has largely remained stable. And further, we continue to work on mitigating inflationary pressures by adjusting our offerings and pricing strategies to keep costs in line. As we look toward the remainder of the year and take note of our growing mychoice data base, the tangible benefits of our technology investments at our retail properties and our momentum in our Interactive segment, we are increasing our prior 2022 revenue guidance range to 6.15 billion to 6.55 billion and our EBITDAR to a range of 1.875 billion to 2 billion. We continue to believe that our property level EBITDA margins are sustainable at 37%. Now looking at our first quarter 2022 cash expenses. In the first quarter, corporate expense, inclusive of cash settled stock-based awards was 24.7 million. Our cash rent payments to our REIT landlords were 229.3 million. Cash interest on traditional debt was 30.8 million. Cash taxes were 1 million and total capex was 65.6 million of which 54.6 million was a combination of maintenance and return-generating projects, including the three Cs and our Barstool retail sportsbook. The balance was project capex associated with our new Hollywood York and Morgantown projects in Pennsylvania. As of March 31, 2022, we had 183.4 million fully diluted shares outstanding. Regarding certain 2022 modeling metrics for your free cash flow forecast, we expect 22 corporate expense of 98.8 million, inclusive of our cash settled stock-based awards. Total capex remains roughly 300 million, of which 100 million is return-generating discretionary projects. We forecast 2022 cash interest expense of 98.3 million. Cash taxes will be 110 million net of refunds received, and for the full year fully diluted shares are expected to be 183.4 million shares, which is before any incremental share repurchases. Now talking about share repurchases, we were quite active in the quarter under our share repurchase authorization given our view that the market was undervaluing our shares. We repurchased 3.8 million shares of our common stock in open market transactions for 175.1 million at an average price of $46.04 per share. There is 574.9 million remaining under our 750 million authorization. As I mentioned on our fourth quarter earnings call, our balance sheet gives us the flexibility to be opportunistic in a dynamic marketplace and to return capital to shareholders. We continue to see a dislocation between where we value our shares and where they are currently trading, and we expect to allocate capital accordingly if this dislocation persists. Now I'd like to call your attention back to Slide 7 of our earnings deck. We remain very proud of our balance sheet, which provides us with a great deal of flexibility. The statistics on the page speak for themselves. And on May 3, we entered into a second amended and restated credit agreement with our various lenders, which provides for a $1 billion revolving credit facility undrawn at close and upsized from our prior 700 million revolver and a five-year 550 million term loan A facility and a seven-year $1 billion term loan B facility. The proceeds from the credit facilities were used to repay the existing term loan A facility and term loan B1 facility balances. The transaction was leverage neutral and strengthens our balance sheet even further as pro forma for the refinancing, our liquidity is 2.78 billion, and our earliest maturity is now 2026. And with that, I will turn it back to Jay.Jay Snowden -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Felicia. On April 26th, in conjunction with the filing of our proxy, we published our 2021 corporate social responsibility report, which highlights the many ways Penn is continuing to live up to its commitment to being a good corporate citizen. I'm really proud of the report, which shines a spotlight on the tireless efforts of our team members at all levels of our organization to support those in need in our communities to further our diversity, equity and inclusion efforts and to help preserve our finite natural resources. Some notable examples include the launch of a $4 million STEM scholarship fund and internship program at historically black colleges and universities in states where we operate. We also contributed more than $7 million to help fund COVID-19 and hurricane relief efforts, as well as supporting worthwhile charities and civic organizations around the country with thousands of hours of volunteer work by our team members in addition to our financial donations. Most recently, on March 23rd, members of my executive team and I hosted Louisiana Governor, John Bel Edwards and other local and state dignitaries. At the Annual Metanoia Gala at our L'Auberge Casino & Hotel in Baton Rouge to help raise funds to support adolescent victims of human trafficking. It was a very emotional evening, having visited this group's one of a kind shelter for girls aged 11 to 18 years gold were there, provided care for their mental, physical, and spiritual well being as well as instruction in academic, life skills and job training. We're super proud to support this organization's critically important mission today and going forward. At Penn, we also spent the month of March, celebrating women's history, which included a women behind theScore Bet, virtual panel to recognize the critical role our female team members played in the development of theScore Bet app. I look forward to continuing to update you on our ongoing ESG efforts throughout the year. And with that Tina will open it up to questions. 