
OperatorGood morning. Welcome to the Quest Diagnostics Fourth Quarter -- First Quarter 2021 Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]. The entire contents of the call, including the presentation and question-and-answer session that will follow, are the copyrighted property of Quest Diagnostics, with all rights reserved. Any redistribution, retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the written consent of Quest Diagnostics is strictly prohibited.Now, I'd like to introduce Shawn Bevec, Vice President of Investor of Investor Relations for Quest Diagnostics. Go ahead, please.Shawn Bevec -- Vice President of Investor Relations

 



Thank you and good morning. I'm here with Steve Rusckowski, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President; and Mark Guinan, our Chief Financial Officer.During this call, we may make forward-looking statements and we'll discuss non-GAAP measures. We provide a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to comparable GAAP measures in the tables to our earnings press release. Actual results may differ materially from those projected. Risks and uncertainties, including the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic that may affect Quest Diagnostics' future results include, but are not limited to, those described in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequently filed quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K.The company continues to believe that the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on future operating results, cash flows and/or financial condition will be primarily driven by the pandemic's severity and duration; healthcare insurer, government and client payer reimbursement rates for COVID-19 molecular tests, the pandemics impact on the US healthcare system and the US economy, and the timing, scope and effectiveness of federal, state and local governmental responses to the pandemic, which are drivers beyond the company's knowledge and control. For this call, references to reported EPS refer to reported diluted EPS and references to adjusted EPS refered to adjusted diluted EPS.References to base testing volumes or base business refer to testing volumes, excluding COVID-19 testing. Growth rates associated with our long-term outlook projections including total revenue growth, revenue growth from acquisitions, organic revenue growth and adjusted earnings growth, our compound annual growth rates. Finally, revenue growth rates from acquisitions will be measured against our base business.

 



Now, here is Steve Rusckowski.Stephen H. Rusckowski -- Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and PresidentThanks, Shawn, and thanks everyone for joining us today. While Quest had a strong first quarter with our base business continuing to recover to near pre-pandemic levels. Contributions from acquisitions and PLS relationships accelerated growth in the base business that helped offset the reduction in demand for COVID-19 testing which was in line with industry trends.In March, for the first time since the pandemic began, monthly organic revenue in the base business grew versus our 2019 baseline. As we noted at our recent Investor Day, Quest is well-positioned to grow as the US exits the pandemic and people return to normal activities and address the routine care issues that have been requested over the past year.

 



Also, as you saw in our press release this morning, our Board of Directors increased the company's share repurchase authorization by $1 billion for the second time this year and we expect to launch an accelerated share repurchase or ASR in the amount of $1.5 billion in the coming days.This morning, I'll discuss our performance for the first quarter of 2021, provide perspective on industry dynamics and update you on our base business, and then Mark will provide more detail on our financial results. But before we get into the details of the quarter, we wanted to share our perspective on the ongoing role of COVID-19 testing, more than a year into the pandemic, as well as provide our thoughts on recent news regarding PAMA. COVID-19 testing remains critical as supply of the vaccine continue to be available to all Americans.Testing will help control the spread of the virus in addition to reducing hospitalization and saving lives, continued testing will be key to helping segments of the economy reopen as more Americans become vaccinated. Vaccination is front and center in the minds of most people now and testing remains a critical element of safely returning to life. I'd also like to share our perspective on some of the most recent developments regarding PAMA. So when it occurs that this count recently reported that this is exploring alternative collection efforts under PAMA that are less burdensome for laboratories.One of the alternatives mentioned is surveying a representative sample of Independent Hospital and Physician Office Laboratories instead of reporting all laboratories to submit data. We can say for years that CMS stopped the data collection process long and didn't follow the extensive progress. [Indecipherable] from the hospital outreach and physician office labs reported higher fatal rates in the test labs and the independent labs were over-represented in the first round of PAMA data reported. We agree on both counts. The independent analysis by [Indecipherable] also provides evidence that the Medicare clinical lab fee schedule would have been 10% to 15% higher if CMS have used more representative sample that included more data from hospitals and physician office labs. Departments [Indecipherable] CMS collecting more hospital outpatient and physician office labs here would have impacted the rates tested by CMS.We believe that accurate and reliable testing remains critical, not just as part of our nation's ongoing response to the pandemic, but also for the millions of seniors that required routine screening and care over the past year. We need to fix PAMA to avoid the next round of [Indecipherable] in 2022 and to help ensure seniors have continued access to critical lab services they need and rely on. Additionally, we were disappointed by the recent dismissal by a US report of [Indecipherable] challenge to PAMA. We are working with [Indecipherable] to determine the next steps with respect to this litigation. We can continue to work with policymakers to establish critical lab scheduled that is truly representative of the whole market and supports continued innovation and access to vital laboratory services that the Congress originally intended.Now turning to our results for the first quarter. Total revenues grew by more than 49% to $2.7 billion. Earnings per share increased by more than 375% on reported basis to $3.46 and nearly 300% on an adjusted basis to $3.76. Cash provided by operations nearly tripled to $731 million.As I mentioned earlier, in the first quarter our base business performed at its highest level since the start of the pandemic and continued to recover throughout the quarter. Demand for COVID-19 testing slowed in the quarter reflecting an industrywide trend. We performed an average of 101,000 COVID-19 molecular tests per day in the first quarter, which is well below our current capacity of approximately 300,000 tests per day.We are engaged on several fronts to bring immediate testing to schools, businesses and industries like travel and entertainment which rely on bringing people back together safely and in large numbers. With the current focus on schools, Quest is well-positioned to help with our extensive logistics network as well as our ability to offer high quality, cost-effective classroom PCR testing using pooling. We want to help get the kids back to school and we're working with the range of partners to get this done quickly and efficiently.We continue to make progress on our two-point strategy to accelerate growth and drive operational excellence. We discussed our strategy in detail a few weeks ago at our Investor Day. So we talk today [Indecipherable] few highlights of the quarter. We are excited about our agreement to acquire the Outreach Laboratory Services business to Mercy, one of the nation's most highly integrated, multi-state healthcare systems. And as we indicated in Investor Day, we are having board discussion with leaders of modern health systems like Mercy. The Mercy's outreach laboratory services business currently operates from 31 hospitals and clinical laboratory service providers and patients in Arkansas, Kansas, Missouri and Oklahoma. And we're on track to complete this acquisition by mid-year.Our professional laboratory services relationship with Hackensack Meridian Health began in January. And it's off to a good start contributing revenue for the quarter. We recently announced the sale of our 40% minority share in Q2 Solutions to IQVIA for $760 million. IQVIA have the strategic vision and ability to lead Q2 Solutions on the next phase of the journey as a global leader in special lab services. And Quest will support it as a strategic lab partner.We made good progress taking advantage of co-planned access in the first quarter. United Healthcare implemented initiative removing other network benefits for insured groups in selective states. We also broadened leakage and redirection efforts with the [Indecipherable] eight more states in the quarter and we're seeing benefits from these initiatives. And then finally, we renewed our long-standing strategic relationship with Anthem Health, provide comprehensive clinical laboratory services for more than 3 million members of Anthem Health and its affiliates United Care.Turning to our strategy to drive operational excellence. We are on track to once again deliver 3% savings across the business. In the process, we're also improving the customer experience and quality. And in the quarter we achieved year-over-year improvement in 14 of 19 top tier quality metrics, which we track to gauge our operational performance.Now, I'll turn it over to Mark to provide more details on the financial performance. Mark?Mark J. Guinan -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Steve. In the first quarter, consolidated revenues were $2.72 billion, up 49% versus the prior year. Revenues for Diagnostic Information Services grew approximately 52% compared to the prior year, which reflected ongoing demand for COVID-19 testing services and to a lesser extent continued recovery in our base testing revenue which increased versus the prior year. Volume measured by the number of requisitions increased 25.6% versus the prior year with acquisitions contributing 4%.The impact of severe winter weather during the quarter, negatively impacted volumes by approximately 2.5%. Compared to our first quarter 2019 baseline, total base testing volumes increased 1.5% and benefited from M&A and new PLS partnerships that began in 2020. Excluding the net impact of weather in the first quarter as well as M&A and new PLS wins over the last year, base testing volumes declined approximately 7% in the first quarter versus the 2019 baseline, and down 5% in March. This represents more of a same-store view of the recovery in our base business since the pandemic began.While COVID-19 testing volumes declined faster than expected throughout Q1 the decline coincided with reduced demand across the industry. Importantly, these volumes have stabilized over the last several weeks. We resulted approximately 9.1 million molecular tests and nearly 900,000 serology tests contributing nearly 21% to volume growth in Q1 versus the prior year. We exited the first quarter averaging approximately 73,000 COVID-19 molecular tests and 8,000 serology tests per day.Revenue per requisition increased 20.5% versus the prior year, driven largely by COVID-19 testing. Modest unit price headwinds were in line with our expectations. Reported operating income in the first quarter was $660 million or 24.3% of revenues, compared to $175 million or 9.6% of revenues last year. On an adjusted basis, operating income in Q1 was $708 million or 26% of revenues compared to $225 million or 12.3% of revenues last year. The year-over-year increase in operating margin was driven by the strong revenue growth in the first quarter due to continued demand for COVID-19 testing and the ongoing recovery in our base business. Reported EPS was $3.46 in the quarter compared to $0.73 a year ago. Adjusted EPS was $3.76 compared to $0.94 last year.Cash provided by operations was $731 million in the first quarter versus $247 million in 2020. We completed $410 million in share repurchases in Q1, and we ended the quarter with approximately $1.2 billion in cash on the balance sheet. Including the net proceeds from the Q2 divestiture in April, we currently have more than $1.8 billion in cash available for deployment. Following the $1 billion increase in our share repurchase authority that we announced today, we now have the ability to execute approximately $2.5 billion in additional buybacks this year. We expect to launch an accelerated share repurchase transaction of approximately $1.5 billion in the coming days.Turning to guidance. We've updated our outlook for the first half of 2021 as follows: Revenue is expected to be between $5 billion and $5.2 billion, an increase of approximately 37% to 43% versus the prior year. Reported EPS expected to be in a range of $7.51 and $8.01, and adjusted EPS to be in the range of $6.30 and $6.80. Cash provided by operations is expected to be at least $1 billion and capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $200 million.Before concluding, I'll briefly review some assumptions embedded in our updated first half outlook and considerations to think about for the remainder of 2021. We expect continued steady improvement in our base business throughout 2021. On a same-store view, excluding M&A and new PLS wins, we see the base business remaining slightly below our 2019 baseline in the second quarter. We continue to anticipate a full recovery in our base business compared to our 2019 baseline in the second half of 2021. We are assuming COVID-19 molecular testing volumes will average roughly 50,000 tests per day in Q2 and no meaningful change in COVID-19 serology testing volumes compared to Q1.Given the significant progress of vaccination in the US, we continue to expect the decline in clinical demand for COVID-19 molecular testing in the second half of 2021 versus our expectations for the first half. Return to life testing, such as the K-12 school testing program should partially offset declining clinical demand later in the year. While we continue to believe strongly in the value of COVID-19 serology testing, we are not assuming a material increase in demand for serology testing going forward.Finally, COVID-19 molecular reimbursement held relatively steady in the first quarter and we currently expect this trend to continue through Q2 with the Public Health Emergency being extended through mid-July. This is likely to trend lower in the second half of the year, as our mix of COVID-19 molecular volume shift from clinical diagnostic testing to return to life surveillance testing.I will now turn it back to Steve.Stephen H. Rusckowski -- Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and PresidentThanks, Mark. And to summarize, we are off to a very strong start in 2021. Our base business continues to recover back to near pre-pandemic levels as people address the routine care issues that they have neglected over the past year. And then finally, I'd just like to thank all Quest employees who continue to serve the needs of people, who rely on Quest every day. And so with that, we are happy to take your questions. Operator?