
OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the First Quarter 2021 Sealed Air Earnings Conference call. [Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions]I would now like to hand the conference over to your host, Lori Chaitman, Vice President of Investor Relations.Lori Chaitman -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



Thank you, and good morning, everyone. I hope you and your family are healthy and staying safe. With me today are Ted Doheny, our CEO; and Chris Stephens, our CFO. Before we begin our call today, I would like to note that we've provided a slide presentation to help guide our discussion. Please visit our website where today's webcast and presentation can be downloaded from our IR website at sealedair.com. I would like to remind you that statements made during this call stating management's outlook or predictions for future periods are forward-looking statements. These statements are based solely on information that is now available to us. We encourage you to review the information in the section entitled Forward-looking Statements in our earnings release and slide presentation, which applies to this call.Additionally, our future performance may differ due to a number of factors. Many of these factors are listed in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and as revised and updated on our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, which you can also find on our website at sealedair.com or on the SEC's website at sec.gov. We also discuss financial measures that do not conform to U.S. GAAP. You will find important information on our use of these measures and the reconciliation to U.S. GAAP in our earnings release. Included in the appendix of today's presentation, you will find U.S. GAAP financial results that correspond to the non-U.S. GAAP measures as we reference throughout the presentation.I will now turn the call over to Ted. Operator, please turn to the next slide. Ted?Ted Doheny -- President and Chief Executive Officer

 



Thank you, Lori, and thank all of you for joining our first quarter earnings call. We had a solid start to the year despite the ongoing pandemic and winter storm Uri impacting the global supply chain. Our team has been doing a great job leveraging our supply network to ensure business continuity. As you can see on slide three, our purpose, we are in the business to protect, to solve critical packaging challenges and to make our world better than we found it. Our purpose is clear and continues to guide us. On today's call, I'll recap our first quarter 2021 performance. I'll share how we are managing through the current environment, how our global markets are evolving and the growth opportunities we see ahead. We're leading the way with automation, digital and sustainability. Chris will review our financial results and outlook in more detail. I will end with closing remarks before opening the call for Q&A. Let's turn to slide four for a review of our first quarter 2021 results. Net sales increased 8% with strength in e-commerce, automated equipment, food retail and industrials. Adjusted EBITDA increased 6%. Volume growth and Reinvent SEE productivity improvements more than offset material inflation and supply disruption costs. EBITDA margins were 21.2%, a modest decline compared to last year.Our operating leverage of 16% was impacted by the inflationary environment and timing of our price actions and formula pass-throughs. This near-term pressure is expected to continue through the second quarter. Adjusted earnings per share was $0.78, up 7%. We generated free cash flow of $36 million, which compares to the use of cash of $8 million in the first quarter last year. We are raising our 2021 outlook across all key metrics to reflect our first quarter results, topline momentum and operating leverage improvement in the second half. Looking beyond 2021, on slide five. We want to reiterate the objectives of our SEE operating model. Automation, digital and sustainability is expected to drive above-market growth. Our organic sales target is 3% to 5% or approximately 200 basis points above our addressable market growth. We serve a stable market that historically has grown 1% to 3% a year. With innovation and sustainability, we expect to accelerate growth on our basis business to 2% to 4% and add another 100 basis points of growth with automation. Our operating leverage target is over 30%, which translates into adjusted EBITDA growth of 5% to 7% per year.With our capital allocation strategy in place, we're targeting adjusted earnings-per-share growth of greater than 10% and free cash flow conversion greater than 50%. Let's turn to slide six, our movie real slide, which pictorially shows some of our new solutions powered by our iconic brands. You can see a play button on the slide, which is to encourage you to visit our website, where you will find exciting success stories. Our automated and sustainable packaging solutions maximize food safety, protect goods, minimize waste and deliver savings to our customers through increased productivity. In the first quarter, we had strong growth across our protective end markets, led by e-commerce, retail and consumer goods, logistics, medical and life sciences and the recovery in industrials. We're leading a dramatic shift to a touchless, automated environment in fulfillment centers, resulting in double-digit growth in our automated solutions portfolio further enabled by our APS acquisition. In consumer goods and logistics, we're capitalizing on global e-commerce growth. In medical and life sciences, we're playing a key role in the global COVID-19 vaccine distribution and benefiting from growth in online shipments of medical equipment and pharmaceuticals.Our industrial markets, including general manufacturing, electronics and transportation has gained momentum since year-end, particularly in Asia Pacific and Europe, where we have a high exposure to electronics and automotive end markets. In the Americas, we experienced favorable trends despite the winter storm supply disruptions. There continues to be an imbalance across the food industry, with strong demand in the retail channel, offset by softness in food service. We were encouraged by our performance given the end market environment and the tough year-over-year comparable, particularly in North America. We saw strong growth in our automated equipment and favorable trends in retail applications across all proteins, including cheese and seafood. Going forward, we expect food service to recover at restaurants, sporting events, conferences and other large public venues reopen. On a global basis, our meat-packing customers are investing in automation and materials that improve productivity, enhance employee safety and address their sustainability goals. We are at the table, staying connected online with our customers, demonstrating our new automated touchless and sustainable solutions. In Europe, we're gaining momentum with our industry-leading Cryovac Barrier Bags optimized for recyclability.

 



We're experiencing an increase in demand from quick service restaurants. They're investing in new Cryovac Auto Pouch solutions for soups, sauces, condiments, wine and spirits. Our high-performance sustainable materials are integrated with automated equipment and services disrupting the rigid container market. Now turning to slide seven. For an update on SEE Automation touchless solutions. Equipment, systems and services sales were up 18% in the quarter and accounted for 8% of our net sales. We are on track to achieve approximately $425 million or 12% growth in 2021, of which more than $250 million will come from equipment and systems. Our sales pipeline for automated equipment is strong, and we are confident in our organic target of over $500 million by 2025. When you factor in a 3 times plus solutions multiplier, including growth in parts and service from the installed base and the flow-through of materials, this results in a $5 billion-plus potential growth opportunity over the 10-year solutions life cycle. We're working closely with our customers to prioritize projects to create less than a three year payback. We're creating tremendous value for our customers and are excited to lead the way to a more touchless digital environment. Now let me turn to slide eight and share how we're leading through this pandemic.We are investing in our own e-commerce platform to drive our transformation to a digitally driven world-class company. Our smart and intelligent packaging value proposition is enabled by our proprietary digital printing technology. This is enabling unique designs on high-speed packaging systems in multiple colors, food-grade ink and even invisible links that with our unique SEE Marks will enable blockchain tracking to billions of packages. Our vision is to digitally connect sustainable packages inside our facilities, to our customers and to consumers' homes through e-commerce.I will now pass the call to Chris to review our results in more detail. Chris?Christopher J. Stephens, Jr. -- Senior Vice President And Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Ted, and good morning, everyone. Let's start on slide nine to review our quarterly net sales growth by segment and by region. In the first quarter, net sales totaled $1.3 billion, up 8% as reported, up 6% in constant dollars. Food was flat in constant dollars versus last year on a tough comp, and Protective accelerated 14%. Our fastest-growing region was Asia Pacific, which delivered 12% constant dollar growth; EMEA increased 7%, which is the highest organic growth rate for the region in the last four years; and our largest region, the Americas, was up 4%. On slide 10, you see organic sales volume and pricing trends by segment and by region. In the first quarter, overall volume growth was up 5%. Volumes in Food were flat with favorable trends in Asia Pacific and EMEA, offsetting a 2% decline in the Americas. Protective volumes were up 13%, with double-digit volume growth in all regions. As Ted indicated, on a global basis, strength in e-commerce, automation and food retail and improving trends in industrials more than offset softness in food service. Q1 price was favorable 1%, mainly due to U.S. dollar-based index pricing in Latin America.Most of the pricing actions corresponding to the current raw material and supply chain environment are taking hold in the second quarter, and formula pass-throughs largely in food, North America, are just beginning to turn. On slide 11, we present our consolidated sales and adjusted EBITDA walks for the first quarter. Having discussed sales results, let me comment on our adjusted EBITDA performance. We delivered adjusted EBITDA of $268 million, up 6% compared to last year and margins of 21.2%, down 40 basis points. You can see on our EBITDA walk that higher volume and operational benefits offset higher input costs. Adjusted EPS in Q1 was $0.78 compared to $0.73 in Q1 2020. Our adjusted tax rate was 27.6%, essentially in line with last year's adjusted rate in the same period. Our weighted average diluted shares outstanding in the quarter were 155 million. Turning to slide 12. Here, we provide an update on Reinvent SEE. In 2021, we remain on track to realize approximately $65 million of Reinvent SEE benefits, with roughly 50% flow-through from actions taken in 2020. Our commercial work stream is accelerating innovation and driving new customer wins in core and adjacent markets. As Ted noted, we are seeing strong growth in our equipment order pipeline in both Food and Protective.Turning to segment results on slide 13, starting with Food. In Q1, Food net sales of $702 million were flat on a constant dollar basis, similar to the year-over-year trends we experienced in the fourth quarter. Cryovac materials were down slightly due to low single-digit declines in barrier bags and pouches, which combined represents nearly 50% of segment sales and have the highest exposure to food service. This was offset by modest growth in case-ready and roll stock retail applications, which represents just over 40% of the segment. Equipment, parts and service sales, which accounts for approximately 7% of the segment, were up approximately 10% in the quarter.Our customers around the world are investing in their processing plants to upgrade aged assets and drive productivity. We are also seeing equipment opportunities in Asia and Eastern Europe, where emerging countries are focusing on domestic production of multiple types of proteins. Adjusted EBITDA in Food of $157 million in Q1 was essentially flat compared to last year, with margins at 22.3%, down 30 basis points given higher input costs and timing of pricing. On slide 14, we highlight Protective segment results. In constant dollars, net sales increased 14% to $565 million. Fulfillment, which is largely driven by e-commerce growth, was up approximately 20% on a global basis with similar growth trends across all regions. Industrial was up high single digits, driven by end market strength in general manufacturing, electronics and automotive. We leveraged our broad portfolio and global scale to meet increasing demand despite supply disruptions.I also want to highlight approximately 55% of our Protective sales are derived from industrial end markets and the remaining 45% from fulfillment and e-commerce. Adjusted EBITDA of $110 million increased $17 million or 18% in Q1, with margins at 19.5%, up 30 basis points. Now let's turn to free cash flow on slide 15. In the first three months of 2021, we generated $36 million of free cash flow compared to a use of cash of $8 million in the same period a year ago, largely driven by higher adjusted EBITDA, lower restructuring payments and a $24 million tax refund we received in the quarter associated with the retroactive application of the revised U.S. GILTI regulations. On slide 16, we outline our capital allocation strategy. We will maintain a strong balance sheet while driving attractive returns on invested capital and supporting our profitable growth initiatives. On this slide, I want to highlight our organic growth investments. We are focusing our capex on breakthrough processes, automation, digital and sustainability. With SEE Ventures, we are investing in early stage disruptive technologies and business models that are expected to accelerate our strategy and innovation efforts across Sealed Air. As it relates to returning capital to shareholders, in Q1, we were an active buyer of our stock.We repurchased four million shares for $177 million, reflecting confidence in our vision, strategy and execution. We have approximately $500 million for additional share buyback remaining under current Board authorization. And you can see in the takeaway, we updated our financial policy leverage ratio objective to be 3.5 times or below from previously communicated 3.5 to 4.0 times. Let's turn to slide 17 to review our updated 2021 outlook. We are raising our guidance across all key metrics, reflecting strong Q1 performance and outlook for the remainder of the year. For net sales, we now estimate $5.25 billion to $5.35 billion or 7% to 9% as reported growth and 6% to 8% in constant dollars. This compares to our previous guidance of $5.1 billion to $5.2 billion or constant dollar growth of 2.5% to 4.5%. The higher sales guidance reflects increased volume growth in Protective and additional price in both segments, given the current supply chain environment. In Food, we now expect constant dollar growth of 4% to 6% as compared to previous guidance of 2% to 4%. And in Protective, we now expect constant dollar growth of 8% to 10%, which compares to previous guidance of 3% to 5%.On a reported basis, adjusted EBITDA is now expected to grow 7% to 9%. We anticipate adjusted EBITDA to be in the range of $1.12 billion to $1.15 billion, a $20 million increase at the midpoint from previously provided guidance. Higher sales from volume and price are expected to offset increased material and supply disruption costs. In terms of currency, we now expect favorable FX translation on 2021 sales and adjusted EBITDA of approximately 1.5%. We are raising our 2021 outlook for adjusted EPS to $3.40 to $3.55, and we continue to expect approximately 45:55 first half, second half percentage split. Our outlook now assumes approximately 154 million average shares outstanding, a three million share reduction from our prior guidance, reflecting our share repurchases in the first quarter. We continue to estimate an adjusted tax rate of 26% to 27%. And lastly, our revised free cash flow outlook of $520 million to $570 million reflects the higher range for adjusted EBITDA.There is no change to our outlook for 2021 capex of approximately $210 million and Reinvent SEE restructuring associated payments of approximately $40 million. As you could see on this slide, we wanted to provide a few variables as it relates to our 2021 guidance range. The low end of our range would suggest a slower recovery in food service and supply chain headwinds persisting longer than anticipated. The high end implies continued strength in equipment, e-commerce and food retail, along with an acceleration of the industrial rebound and overperformance of our SEE operating engine.With that, let me now pass the call back to Ted for closing remarks. Ted?Ted Doheny -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Chris. Before we open up the call for questions, I want to emphasize how our One SEE Operating Engine is driving sustainable earnings power. We're capitalizing on growth opportunities in front of us and investing in our future. Our broad and innovative portfolio, global scale and agility truly differentiates us in the markets we serve. Our focus on automation, digital and sustainability is accelerating our growth in our core business and enabling us to expand into new and adjacent markets. We are making significant progress on our plastics pledge, with nearly 50% of our solutions designed for recyclability. Our SEE Operating excellence processes are driving productivity improvements, flawless quality and enhancing customer experiences. We're on a journey of transforming Sealed Air to a world-class sustainable company automating global packaging. We are reinventing everything we do, from how we innovate to solve our customers' most critical packaging challenges. Our strategy is working, our team is delivering, and we are focused on creating sustainable long-term value for our stakeholders and making our world better than we found it.With that, I'll now open up the call for questions. Operator, we'd like to begin the Q&A session.