  OperatorGood morning, and welcome to the Vornado Realty Trust first-quarter 2021 earnings call. My name is Vanessa, and I will be your operator for today's call. This call is being recorded for replay purposes. [Operator instructions] I will now turn the call over to Ms. Cathy Creswell, director of investor relations. Please go ahead.Cathy Creswell -- Director of Investor Relations Thank you. Welcome to Vornado Realty Trust first-quarter earnings call. Yesterday afternoon, we issued our first-quarter earnings release and filed our quarterly report on Form 10-Q with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These documents, as well as our supplemental financial information package are available on our website, www.vno.com, under the investor relations section. In these documents and during today's call, we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliation of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included in our earnings release, Form 10-Q and financial supplement. Please be aware that statements made during this call may be deemed forward-looking statements, and actual results may differ materially from these statements due to a variety of risks, uncertainties and other factors. Please refer to our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020, for more information regarding these risks and uncertainties.The call may include time-sensitive information that may be accurate only as of today's date. The company does not undertake a duty to update any forward-looking statements. On the call today from management for our opening comments are: Steven Roth, chairman and executive officer; and Michael Franco, president and chief financial officer. Our senior team is also present and available for questions. I will now turn the call over to Steven Roth. Steve Roth -- Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Cathy, and good morning to everyone. I hope all of you continue to be safe and healthy and that you're all vaccinated or on your way to being vaccinated. We are full speed ahead on the Penn District and are confident of its success. Farley as well along, we delivered half of Facebook 730,000 square feet on January 1, and we will deliver the second half on June 1, just one month from that. At PENN1, we will deliver the 34th Street lobby in July, the building's enormous amenity package in October and the 33rd Street lobby at year end. And PENN2 and the Long Island Railroad concourse developments are now under full-scale construction. This transformation will take over a couple of years to complete. The decision to permanently close the Hotel Pennsylvania will allow us to get this site ready for development in less than two years from now, which is perfect timing for the next phase of our Penn District mega project. I believe that the Hotel Penn site will be the best development site in town. Notwithstanding that we will be delivering for tenants the most robust and unique amenitized offering in the city, with the aided convenience of being directly on top of New York's main transportation hub, our strategy here is to price PENN1 and PENN2 below our neighbors to the West under their price umbrella. Since we are coming off $60 rents, this will be an outstanding outcome. Over time, as we continue to remake the Penn District, I fully expect rents will aggressively rise to the premium that they deserve. Over the summer and into the early fall, we will be reopening and returning to normal. All of our tenants are telling us that they are anxious to bring their employees back to the office, and we are anxious to welcome them back. We remain strong in our belief that working from the office will be the preferred mode of work for companies and their employees post pandemic. The kitchen table may be a place for some, but I continue to believe the urban office is the workplace of the future. As I have said, I believe we will come out of this difficult year in an economic boom, fueled by a tsunami of government stimulus, of which New York is a very major beneficiary. The financial sector is now booming. Tech is now booming. Health care is now booming. Retailers like Walmart, Target and Home Depot are now booming, and there is enormous pent-up demand from consumers eager to travel, meaning tourists returning to New York and spend on all manner of goods and services. This is beginning to happen all across the country. Importantly, the major tech companies are telling us that they intend to continue growing their office footprints in New York's deep and diverse talent pool is unrivaled anywhere. As you can tell, we are very bullish on New York. Finally, a word about ESG. We filed our 2020 ESG report on Form 8-K on April 12. We continue to demonstrate our leadership here, and we're proud of the many awards and recognitions we have received. This is an important topic that we believe in. Please do take a look at this important report. Now over to Michael for comment on our numbers and our businesses.Michael Franco -- President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Steve. Good morning, everyone. I too hope you're all safe and healthy and look forward to seeing you again in person soon. Let me start with our first quarter financial results, and I'll end with a few comments on the leasing and capital markets. First quarter comparable FFO as adjusted was $0.65 per share compared to $0.77 for last year's first quarter. A decrease of $0.12, primarily due to the effects of the COVID shutdown. One change you will note is that the Hotel Pennsylvania results removed to non-comparable given our decision to permanently close the hotel. The decrease this quarter is reconciled for you in our earnings release on Page 4 and in our financial supplement on Page 6 and was driven by the following items: $0.04 of our variable businesses, trade shows, signage, garages and BMS still being offline, $0.07 from tenant vacancies and bad debts, primarily the JCPenney and New York and Company lease rejections last year; $0.03 from Penn District space taken out of service; $0.03 from Macy's lease cancellation income in last year's first quarter, partially offset by $0.05 from G&A and interest savings. These items are not new news and are right in line with our statements over the past few quarters. Most of these are temporary, and the income will return over time. Furthermore, the first quarter results are consistent with the sequential fourth quarter run rate we discussed last quarter, adjusted for the accelerated vesting of equity awards, for retirement age executives in the first quarter. With respect to rent collections in the first quarter, overall rent collections were 96%, a continued improvement from the prior quarters. We collected 97% of office rents and 90% of retail rents. April collections ran at the same level. While the aggregate headline same-store cash NOI numbers for the first quarter are negative on their face, excluding the variable businesses, our core New York office business actually was positive 3.9%. Blending in Chicago and San Francisco, our office business overall was a positive 1.9%. The big takeaway here is that our core office business, representing over 80% of the company is continuing to hold on its own in this challenging environment, protected by long-term leases with credit tenants. And while the retail same-store numbers are down, overall retail NOI is flat quarter over quarter, again, consistent with our recent guidance. Finally, we have planned to see us for significant growth as the pandemic recedes and the city returns to normal level of activity. In addition to the savings we will realize from the previously announced overhead reduction program, we expect significant growth from the return of our variable businesses. From the Farley Buildings fully coming online in 2022, followed by the delivery of PENN1 and PENN2, and reduced interest costs as we roll over our debt. One of the analysts even predicted the Vornado will have the highest growth rate in our sector over the next several years. Now turning to leasing markets. We are seeing improved conditions in the office leasing market with the pace of activity up nicely in the past 60 days. The phones are ringing, tour volume is up, proposals are coming in and leases are being signed with the flight to quality trend accelerating. According to the brokerage houses, leasing volume is certainly up versus 2020 numbers. The first quarter had the most activity of any since the fourth quarter of 2019, with most of the actions occurring in Midtown. At the same time, we are realistic and recognize that availability across all submarkets remains high. But an encouraging sign, sublease space has recently come down some. Almost 600,000 square feet of sublease space has been removed from the market by occupiers who plan to reoccupy the space. Moreover, a substantial portion of the sublease inventory is challenged space, either physically, by way of the over tenant having poor credit quality or turn constrained, roughly a one-fourths of the sublease space in the market today has less than three years of term. During the first quarter, we completed 12 office leases totaling 208,000 square feet. The two largest leases of the quarter were both new to our portfolio. Young Adult Institute for 74,000 square feet at 825 7th Avenue for the new state-of-the-art schooling facility; and FuboTV Inc. a new world content streaming platform coming off their successful IPO launch for 55,000 square feet in the base of 1290 Avenue of the Americas. Both of these leases represented expansions from their prior locations. We are currently negotiating paper on 300,000 square feet, of which 200,000 square feet is with new tenants. And in addition, we have a growing pipeline of 1.4 million square feet, which is up meaningfully from recent quarters. Last year, we completed the two largest leases in the year, Facebook and NYU. The current sweet spot for deal making in the market is with small to mid-sized firms looking to relocate into new or redeveloped assets. Remember, all of our space is redeveloped, only the Penn District, which is under redevelopment. This dynamic matches up well with our current vacancy, where our largest available blocks are only 180,000 square feet at 330 West 34th Street and 117,000 square feet at share at 85 Tenth Avenue. As a reminder, our office expirations in 2021 and 2022 are very modest, with less than 5% of our space rolling each year and a portion of this in PENN1. Our leasing team is now in full stride in the Penn District with multiple presentations, tours and meetings each day with brokers and tenants across all industry types. Using our new Penn District Experience center to showcase PENN1, PENN2 and our grand plans for the Penn District really brings everything to life. The reception to our vision for the district and our best market differentiated project offerings has been nothing short of phenomenon. Turning now to Chicago and San Francisco. In Chicago, we are also seeing more activity at the market. During the first quarter, we completed 85,000 square feet of leases including a 45,000 square foot office renewal, along with 18 showroom transactions totaling 40,000 square feet, of which 15 were renewals. We currently have a 90,000 square foot renewal lease in negotiation. And a pipeline of 500,000 square feet showing real interest in the property. Importantly, we will be restarting the trade show business in October this year with the NeoCon show, beginning to bring back that income stream. In San Francisco, 555 California continues to be in a league of its own coming off the heels of our recent large renewals with both Bank of America and Goldman Sachs. In April, we executed a lease renewal with KKR in the triple digits for its 50,000 square feet in the tower. Our occupancy here is 98% with minimal expirations until 2023. Turning to retail now. Retail leasing in New York City is beginning to come out of a period of inactivity to a phase of retailers who are succeeding and even thriving are now looking for opportunities. All current leasing activity is very price driven. The tourists driven higher rent markets of Fifth Avenue and Times Square have seen the least activity as retailers remain on pause until there is greater visibility and when the 60-plus million tourists will return. During the quarter, we completed 11 retail leases for 46,000 square feet. These included two long-term renewals at 1290 Avenue of the Americas, including a lease with JPMorgan Chase for a flagship branch, and a seven-year extension with the luxury retailer Tods at 650 Madison Avenue. Our leasing also included another six leases assigned at the Farley concourse, where demand remains strong, and we are in negotiations with tenants to fill the balance of the concourse space. Overall, we are upbeat about the future of our markets, our leading position in them and our prospects for creating value. Turning to the capital markets now. First, let me congratulate Jan LaChapelle on her promotion to Executive Vice President, Head of Capital Markets. The real estate financing markets continue to improve with both the CMBS marketwide open and banks beginning to lend again a high quality office. Spreads in all-in coupons are at very attractive levels as evidenced by our recent strong refinancings of One Park and 909 Third Avenue, both of which were at significantly reduced rates. The unsecured market for real estate companies also continues to be very strong, and it is likely that we may shift over time to a more balanced approach between unsecured and secured debt. Finally, our current liquidity is a strong $3.94 billion, including $1.76 billion of cash and restricted cash and $2.18 billion undrawn under our $2.75 billion revolving credit facilities. With that, I'll turn it over to the operator for Q&A. 