  OperatorGood day, and welcome to the Seagen fourth quarter and full-year 2021 financial results conference call. All participants will be in listen-only mode. [Operator instructions] After today's presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator instructions] Please note, this event is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to Peggy Pinkston, senior vice president, investor relations. Please go ahead.Peggy Pinkston -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, operator, and good afternoon, everyone. I'm pleased to welcome you to Seagenís fourth quarter and full-year 2021 financial results conference call. This afternoon, we issued a press release with our results and that press release and supporting slides are available on our website in the Investors section, Events and Presentations page. Speakers on today's call will be Clay Siegall, president and chief executive officer; Chip Romp, executive vice president, commercial U.S.; Todd Simpson, chief financial officer; and Roger Dansey, chief medical officer. Following our prepared remarks, we'll open the line for questions. We aim to keep this call to one hour and so ask that you limit yourself to one question to give everyone an opportunity to participate in Q&A during our call today. Today's conference call will include forward-looking statements regarding future or anticipated events and results, including the company's 2022 financial outlook, anticipated product sales, revenues, costs and expenses and potential clinical and regulatory milestones, including data readouts, regulatory submissions and potential marketing and reimbursement approvals. Actual results or developments may differ materially from those projected or implied in these forward-looking statements.Factors that may cause such a difference include the difficulty in forecasting sales, revenues and expenses, impacts related to the COVID-19 pandemic and the uncertainty associated with the pharmaceutical development and regulatory approval process. More information about the risks and uncertainties faced by Seagen is contained under the caption Risk Factors included in the company's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2021, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the company's subsequent reports filed with the SEC. And now I'll turn the call over to Clay. Clay Siegall -- President and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thank you, Peg, and good afternoon, everyone. Today, we reported $1.4 billion in 2021 net product sales, a 38% increase over 2020, driven by solid growth across our commercial portfolio. Royalty revenues increased to $151 million in 2021, a 19% year-over-year increase, reflecting sales growth by our collaborators. Our total revenue guidance for 2022 is $1.67 billion to $1.75 billion, excluding TIVDAK. With a strong balance sheet and a cash position of $2.2 billion, we are well-positioned to advance our pipeline through internal and external investments. Todd will walk us through our 2022 financial guidance. But first, I'd like to begin by reflecting on another exceptional year for Seagen. We achieved important milestones in 2021 and continued to expand our global infrastructure and portfolio. I'll begin with our commercial products. ADCETRIS is a U.S. standard of care in frontline Hodgkin lymphoma and peripheral T-cell lymphoma and forms the foundation of our core business from a revenue standpoint. ADCETRIS has received approval in more than 75 countries, and we and our partner, Takeda, continue to provide this important drug to patients in need. Notably, last week, we announced that the Phase 3 ECHELON-1 clinical trial demonstrated a statistically significant improvement in overall survival in advanced Hodgkin lymphoma patients treated with ADCETRIS plus chemotherapy in the frontline setting. Over 30 years ago, ABVD was established as standard of care for treating Hodgkin's disease. And almost 15 years ago, data regarding intensified BEACOPP was initially released. We are thrilled that ADCETRIS plus AVD has now improved overall survival, and we believe these groundbreaking data further demonstrate ADCETRIS clinical value and importance in this disease.

 



 PADCEV is a first-in-class ADC, which has become a standard of care in the U.S. for previously treated metastatic urothelial cancer. PADCEV has been broadly adopted by U.S. oncologists to treat more than 6,500 patients to date. Last year, PADCEV received regular U.S. approval and was also granted a cisplatin-ineligible second-line indication. Together with our partner, Astellas, in 2021, we secured approvals in Canada, Switzerland, Israel and Japan. We are progressing regulatory submissions across Asia Pacific and the Americas. PADCEV received a positive CHMP opinion in December 2021. Recently, the European Commission decision-making process was paused for additional CHMP questions related to severe skin reactions in a French compassionate access program. This side effect is described in the USPI and since launch has been well managed by U.S. prescribing physicians. We believe that the risk/benefit profile of PADCEV remains unchanged. We are committed to working with European authorities to get this important drug approved for urothelial cancer patients. Beyond these global regulatory activities, we are advancing a robust clinical development program with PADCEV as monotherapy and in combination with KEYTRUDA in earlier lines of therapy. We completed enrollment of EV-103 Cohort K and expect data in the second half of this year, which could potentially support accelerated approval in the U.S. in 2023 for first-line metastatic urothelial cancer. We are also exploring earlier stages of bladder cancer, which represent larger market opportunities. In muscle invasive bladder cancer, we will report neoadjuvant monotherapy data at ASCO GU later this month, and we are now enrolling patients in a trial for non-muscle invasive bladder cancer. Finally, we are conducting a basket trial evaluating PADCEV in other Nectin4 expressing solid tumors. TUKYSA is a best-in-class HER2 tyrosine kinase inhibitor with broad potential in HER2 cancers. Overall survival data and inclusion in key treatment guidelines reflects its clinical value in second and later-line HER2-positive breast cancer patients with and without brain metastasis. TUKYSA is approved in 36 countries, and we have commercially launched in the U.S., Germany, France, Switzerland and Austria. We are working to secure reimbursement and our planning launches in additional European countries over the course of 2022. We recently announced the appointment of Lee Heeson as executive vice president, commercial international. We look forward to Lee's contributions toward our continued ex U.S. expansion. Our strategic partnership with Merck extends to TUKYSAís reach outside of the U.S., Europe and Canada. TUKYSAís broad clinical development program includes HER2-positive breast cancer, colorectal cancer, gastric cancer and other HER2-amplified or mutant tumors. Notably, we expect data from the Phase 2 MOUNTAINEER trial in the second half of this year, which could potentially support accelerated FDA approval in colorectal cancer in 2023. Seagen's fourth approved product is TIVDAK, which we launched in collaboration with Genmab. TIVDAK, which is a tissue factor-targeted ADC was approved for recurrent or metastatic cervical cancer patients with disease progression on or after chemotherapy. It represents an important new drug in a disease that is characterized by low objective response rates and poor outcomes. TIVDAK 's clinical development program is designed to support global regulatory applications and maximize its future potential in cervical cancer and other solid tumors. As we look to expand TIVDAK in cervical cancer, we recently presented promising combination data in earlier lines of treatment, which could lead to use in much larger patient populations. In 2021, we also drove key advancements across our deep and diverse pipeline. For example, we in-licensed the late-stage novel ADC, disitamab vedotin, which utilizes a high-affinity HER2 antibody with enhanced internalization compared to trastuzumab. DV received conditional approval in China for third-line gastric cancer and recently in second and later lines of metastatic urothelial cancer. Our clinical development program prioritizes monotherapy and combination approaches in breast, bladder, gastric and other cancers. DV utilizes our vedotin-based ADC technology. And leveraging our expertise, we are working to maximize its development, potential value and global reach. Turning to our earlier stage work. We recently initiated two trials for two novel ADCs: SGN-PDL1V and SGN-B7H4V. And we have also submitted an IND, which just cleared for SGN-ALPV. We are developing new ADC technologies in order to widen the therapeutic window of this exciting class of drug with a focus on improving tolerability. In addition, we have four programs that use our proprietary sugar-engineered antibody technology. Overall, we are advancing more than 17 programs across our pipeline and approved products in the range of solid tumors and hematologic malignancies. Next, I want to provide a brief update on the Daiichi Sankyo litigation. Recently, the arbitration hearing record was reopened by the arbitrator to consider additional evidence. As a result, the decision may occur after the first quarter of 2022 as previously anticipated. Our 2021 achievements have helped to bolster our resilient core business and the solid foundation we continue to build upon. We expect to achieve many milestones in 2022, including important clinical data readouts, global regulatory and commercial progress and advances across our pipeline, which will help drive future growth. As we look to deliver continued innovation and develop transformative therapies, we remain focused on three key areas. First, we are working to maximize the potential of our approved portfolio through exceptional commercial execution, clinical development and strategic partnerships. We've expanded our commercial portfolio from one to four products in under two years and have treated over 110,000 patients to date. Robust clinical development programs will generate the potential for future label expansions and opportunities. Second, we are advancing our deep and diverse pipeline of assets as we look to bring drugs 5, 6 and 7 to market in the coming years. We believe our ADC leadership and R&D expertise in empowered antibodies provides us with a competitive advantage when it comes to expanding and progressing our pipeline. Finally, we are well-positioned for continued innovation and growth, having built and optimized our infrastructure and capabilities. Our expanding geographic footprint and over 50 strategic partnerships maximize our ability to reach patients across the globe. Our strong corporate development team and significant financial strength allows us to execute upon deals that will further accelerate our trajectory. Next, I'll turn the call over to Chip, who will provide an update on our commercial performance. Then Todd will discuss our financial results and 2022 guidance. After that, Roger will detail our clinical development activities and pipeline. Chip?Chip Romp -- Executive Vice President, Commercial U.S. Thanks, Clay. The commercial team delivered another strong quarter to close out a very successful year for Seagen. We've effectively scaled and executed in our efforts to maximize the potential of our commercial portfolio of four products. ADCETRIS fourth quarter 2021 sales were $176 million, an 8% increase over the fourth quarter of 2020. Our focus remains on driving share in frontline Stage 3 and 4 Hodgkin lymphoma. We were pleased to see the recent update to the NCCN treatment guidelines that recognize the significance of the five-year ECHELON-1 data. We are excited to now have overall survival data from the ECHELON-1 Phase 3 study, and we will continue to monitor uptake in the frontline setting. Moving on to PADCEV. Fourth quarter 2021 U.S. sales were $93 million, a 34% increase over the fourth quarter of 2020. We have now seen broad adoption of checkpoint inhibitors as maintenance therapy for patients in the frontline metastatic setting, which has helped PADCEV become the preferred standard of care in the second-line post-maintenance setting. In addition, the indication for patients who are ineligible for cisplatin-containing chemotherapy continues to represent a meaningful option and a modest incremental growth opportunity. We expect growth in 2022 to be driven by existing indications and look forward to potentially promoting to an additional U.S. patented label in the frontline metastatic urothelial cancer setting next year. Moving on to TUKYSA. Fourth quarter 2021 sales were $94 million, a 53% increase over the fourth quarter of last year, with growth coming from both the U.S. and Europe. TUKYSA remains the most utilized product in second and later lines in the U.S. in patients with brain mets. Updated overall survival data in these patients that recently was presented at the San Antonio Breast Cancer Symposium has been well received and is a promotional focus. We are monitoring the evolving HER2 metastatic breast cancer treatment landscape, and we have incorporated this into our annual revenue guidance, which Todd will detail shortly. TUKYSA sales in Europe for the quarter continued to grow, and we look forward to gaining reimbursement in additional countries in 2022. We are pleased with TIVDAK sales of $6 million for the first full quarter since approval and launch is going as planned. We are navigating the eye care requirements and have gained valuable insights that are allowing us to enhance our educational efforts. Although the initial indication represents a modest opportunity, TIVDAK is an important treatment option and early feedback has been positive. With that, I'll turn the call over to Todd.Todd Simpson -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Chip, and thank to everyone for joining us on the call this afternoon. Our financial results reflect significant advances made across the business in the past year. Today, I'll summarize our financial results for 2021 and then discuss our outlook for 2022. Total revenues were $430 million in the fourth quarter and $1.6 billion for the full year in 2021. This included net product sales of $369 million in the fourth quarter and $1.4 billion for the full year, representing an increase of 38% over the year in 2020. This reflects growth in product sales across our portfolio and particularly for TUKYSA and PADCEV. Royalty revenues were $46 million in the fourth quarter and $151 million for the year in 2021. The 19% year-over-year annual growth in royalty revenues is primarily driven by increasing sales of ADCETRIS by Takeda and, to a lesser degree, sales of Polivy by Roche and Blenrep by GSK, both of which are ADCs that utilize Seagen technology. Collaboration revenues were $15 million in the fourth quarter and $38 million for the full year in 2021. 2021 collaboration revenues decreased as a result of $250 million recognized in the fourth quarter and $975 million recognized for the full year in 2020. These amounts related to the ladiratuzumab vedotin and TUKYSA collaborations with Merck that we entered into in 2020. Cost of sales was $87 million in the third quarter and $312 million for the full year in 2021. This included product cost of sales and royalties for each of our brands, the gross profit share due to our collaborators and noncash amortization of acquired technology costs for TUKYSA. R&D expenses were $304 million in the fourth quarter and $1.2 billion for the full year in 2021. This is an increase over 2020 and included the $200 million upfront payment to RemeGen for in-licensing disitamab vedotin, as well as continued investment across our early and late-stage pipeline. SG&A expenses were $211 million in the fourth quarter and $716 million for the full year in 2021. These are increases over 2020, reflecting investments to support the ongoing launches of TUKYSA across Europe and, more recently, the launch of TIVDAK in the U.S. Next, I'll turn to our financial outlook for 2022, beginning with our revenue guidance. Across our three key commercial brands, we are guiding to product sales of $1.48 billion to $1.55 billion, representing an increase of 7% to 12% over 2021. ADCETRIS sales are expected to be in the range of $730 million to $755 million, reflecting modest growth while we advance a broad clinical development program intended to secure additional labels. PADCEV sales are projected to be in the range of $435 million to $455 million. We expect growth in 2022 to be driven primarily by continued utilization within its two current indications. While we expect to report data from Cohort K of the 103 trial in the second half of this year, our guidance does not include the impact of a potential label expansion. TUKYSA sales are expected to be in the range of $315 million to $335 million. And as Chip mentioned, our guidance reflects the ongoing evolution of the treatment landscape. While we expect to report data from the MOUNTAINEER trial later this year in colorectal cancer, we do not anticipate label expansion in 2022. We continue to engage with individual country authorities to secure broader European reimbursement, which can take up to two years post-EMA approval. And since we are still early in the launch of TIVDAK, we are not including sales estimates in our 2022 guidance at this time. Next, we expect royalty revenues to be in the range of $160 million to $170 million, primarily reflecting sales of ADCETRIS by Takeda in its territories, along with contributions from Polivy and Blenrep. Finally, we expect collaboration revenues to be in the range of $25 million to $30 million. As a reminder, collaboration revenues include our profit share from Astellasí sales of PADCEV in its territories. This now includes royalties from sales in Japan and in future years is expected to include a profit share from the EU 5. Now I'll turn to 2022 expense guidance. Cost of sales is expected to be in the range of $380 million to $420 million. This is driven by increased product sales across all brands and the higher profit share payments to our collaborators. Cost of sales also reflects third-party royalty owed, as well as noncash amortization. R&D expenses are expected to be in the range of $1.2 billion to $1.3 billion, primarily related to two items: first, investment in clinical trials to further expand ADCETRIS, PADCEV, TUKYSA and TIVDAK into additional indications; and second, increased investment to advance our earlier stage agents, including more than 13 other programs in the pipeline. We believe that these investments are important to our long-term growth. SG&A expenses are expected to be in a range of $780 million to $860 million as we continue to focus on commercial execution to drive growth of our approved products. The guidance also includes investment to support the global infrastructure for the continuing launches of TUKYSA in Europe. Noncash expenses are expected to be in the range of $280 million to $310 million, the majority of which is stock-based compensation. Taken together, our guidance reflects our strategy to expand the commercial opportunity of our portfolio and to advance new product candidates. Now I'll turn the call over to Roger, who will highlight our development activities.Roger Dansey -- Chief Medical Officer Thank you, Todd, and good afternoon, everyone. I'm happy to share recent clinical development updates for both our approved medicines and our pipeline. I'll begin with ADCETRIS. We are extremely pleased that ADCETRIS in combination with AVD has significantly improved overall survival compared with ABVD in newly diagnosed patients with advanced Hodgkin lymphoma. ADCETRIS was shown to reduce the risk of death by 41% with a hazard ratio of 0.59 and a p-value of 0.009. These data further demonstrate the meaningful difference that ADCETRIS brings to patients, and we look forward to presenting the results at an upcoming medical meeting. In addition, we were recently informed that a Phase 3 study of ADCETRIS in newly diagnosed pediatric patients with high-risk Hodgkin lymphoma, defined as Stages 2b with bulk 3b and 4 has met the primary endpoint of event-free survival as reported by the Data Safety Monitoring Committee. Trial AHOD-1331 is sponsored by the National Cancer Institute and run by the NCI-funded Children's Oncology Group. The study compared an ADCETRIS-containing chemotherapy regimen to a chemotherapy regimen that included bleomycin. We thank the Children's Oncology Group for their efforts, and we look forward to their presentation of these exciting data at an upcoming medical meeting. At ASH, we presented initial data of the combination of ADCETRIS plus nivolumab, doxorubicin and dacarbazine in frontline advanced Hodgkin lymphoma, which showed an objective response rate of 93% and a complete response rate of 88% at the end of therapy. We believe these promising results could form the basis in the future for testing this novel regimen in the frontline setting. Later this year, we plan to share results describing ADCETRIS' potential utility as an immunomodulator in combination with KEYTRUDA in solid tumors. We are also testing ADCETRIS in a Phase 2 study in HIV patients, which weíll begin enrolling this quarter. Turning to PADCEV, we remain focused on using this important product into earlier lines of urothelial cancer. In the frontline metastatic setting, we are evaluating PADCEV and KEYTRUDA in two studies, EV-103 Cohort K in patients who are ineligible for cisplatin therapy; and EV-302, which includes both the cisplatin eligible and ineligible patients. EV-103 Cohort K has completed enrollment, and we expect to report top-line results in the second half of 2022. The Phase 3 EV-302 global trial is assessing PADCEV plus KEYTRUDA compared to platinum-containing chemotherapy, and we are pleased that this trial is projected to complete enrollment this year. EV-302 is intended to be a confirmatory trial for Cohort K, as well as supporting global marketing applications. In muscle invasive bladder cancer, we, together with Astellas and Merck, are advancing two Phase 3 trials that are testing PADCEV in combination with KEYTRUDA as perioperative treatment in different populations. The KEYNOTE-B15 or EV-304 trial is enrolling cisplatin-eligible patients, and KEYNOTE-905 or EV303 trial is enrolling cisplatin-ineligible patients. Later this month at ASCO GU, we plan to present the results of the EV-103 exploratory Cohort H. In this cohort, PADCEV monotherapy was given as neoadjuvant treatment of cisplatin-ineligible muscle invasive bladder cancer patients for three cycles prior to cystectomy. Furthermore, we are pleased to announce that we have begun enrollment into the EV-104 trial of single-agent PADCEV in non-muscle invasive bladder cancer. In this study, PADCEV is administered intravesically in BCG nonresponsive patients. We are also studying PADCEV monotherapy in the basket trial of high Nectin4 expressing solid tumors, including lung, breast, head and neck, gastric and esophageal cancer. This study continues to enroll patients, and we await initial data this year to inform our next steps. Turning to TUKYSA, we continue to advance our broad development program in breast and GI malignancies, as well as other solid tumors. Today, I will highlight a new study, HER2CLIMB-05, which will evaluate TUKYSA in the frontline maintenance setting of HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer. Standard of care for these patients typically include six to eight cycles of a taxane with Herceptin and Perjeta, otherwise known as THP. Once the chemotherapy is complete, Herceptin and Perjeta are continued as maintenance. Despite the excellent results obtained with THP, patients remain at risk of relapse and death, including the risk of relapse in the brain. HER2CLIMB-05 randomizes patients who have completed THP to receive to TUKYSA, Herceptin and Perjeta or Herceptin and Perjeta alone. The primary endpoint is progression-free survival, and we expect to treat the first patient this quarter. In GI cancers, we are awaiting results of a Phase 2 MOUNTAINEER study, which are expected in the second half of this year. The study assesses to TUKYSA and Herceptin as treatment for patients with previously treated HER2-positive colorectal cancer. Additional trials are studying TUKYSA in combination with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in first-line GI cancers, as well as in combination with Herceptin in a basket trial for solid tumors with HER2 alterations. I'll turn now to TIVDAK, which received accelerated approval in the United States for the treatment of patients with recurrent or metastatic cervical cancer with disease progression on or after chemotherapy. A global Phase 3 trial in cervical cancer, innovaTV 301 is currently enrolling in the EU and Asia, including Japan, with plans to expand to other regions such as LatAm. This study is intended to serve as a confirmatory trial in the United States and, importantly, to support global regulatory applications. Our next goal for TIVDAK is to move into earlier lines of metastatic or recurrent cervical cancer. And in this regard, we presented combination data from the innovaTV 205 trial in the first and second-line setting at ESMO 2021. This study will be expanded to further investigate additional multidrug combinations, including TIVDAK combined with carboplatin and KEYTRUDA with or without bevacizumab. The results from these new combinations will inform further development of TIVDAK in the first-line setting. Beyond cervical cancer, we continue to study the potential for TIVDAK in other malignancies through an ongoing Phase 2 trial, innovaTV 207. Preliminary data evaluating TIVDAK as treatment of head and neck cancer is being presented later this month at the ASTRO Head and Neck Cancer Symposium in Arizona. Turning now to disitamab vedotin or DV. In the second quarter of this year, we expect to begin enrolling our monotherapy trial in urothelial cancer. We are also focusing on the development of DV and HER2 low breast cancer based on encouraging monotherapy data generated by our partner, RemeGen. I'd like to now briefly mention our early stage pipeline. We are evaluating multiple products in Phase 1 clinical trials across a range of solid tumors and hematologic malignancies. We recently reported first clinical data from two novel SEA programs. At ASH, we disclosed initial SEA-BCMA monotherapy data that demonstrated an encouraging early safety and efficacy profile in the first-line plus multiple myeloma setting. In addition, we recently shared SEA-CD40 data in combination with chemotherapy and an anti-PD1 in metastatic pancreatic cancer, in which we demonstrated evidence of immune activation in patients with an acceptable safety profile and encouraging antitumor activity. Follow-up for survival is ongoing and weíll inform future development decisions. We are also enrolling a basket trial to assess SEA-CD40 combination in other solid tumors, including melanoma and non-small cell lung cancer. In closing, we continue to make meaningful progress in our pipeline, and we look forward to providing you with updates on future calls. Now I'll hand the call back over to Clay.Clay Siegall -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Roger. I'm proud of the important milestones we have achieved in the past year, which have set the stage for our future. Our portfolio, proven commercial engine, expanded international infrastructure and strategic partnerships increased our global competitiveness and maximize the value of our approved medicines. We believe our significant financial strength, active corporate development, robust clinical development and key 2022 catalysts will continue to bolster our deep and diverse pipeline. We are well-positioned for future innovation and growth. At this point, we'll turn to Q&A. Operator, please open the line for questions. 