
OperatorHello, and welcome to Exelon's third quarter earnings call. My name is Justin, and I will be your event specialist today. [Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to turn today's program over to Emily Duncan, Vice President, Investor Relations. The floor is yours.Emily Duncan -- Vice President of Investor RelationsThank you, Justin. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining our third quarter 2021 earnings conference call. Leading the call today are Chris Crane, Exelon's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Joe Nigro, Exelon's Chief Financial Officer. They're joined by other members of Exelon's senior management team who will be available to answer your questions following our prepared remarks. We issued our earnings release this morning, along with this presentation, all of which can be found in the Investor Relations section of Exelon's website.

 



The earnings release and other matters which we discuss during today's call contain forward-looking statements and estimates that are subject to various risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ from our forward-looking statements based on factors and assumptions discussed in today's material and comments made during the call. Please refer to today's 8-K and Exelon's other SEC filings for discussions of risk factors and other factors, including uncertainties surrounding the planned separation, that may cause results to differ from management's projections, forecasts and expectations.Today's presentation also includes references to adjusted operating earnings and other non-GAAP measures. Please refer to the information contained in the appendix of our presentation and our earnings release for reconciliations between the non-GAAP measures and the nearest equivalent GAAP measures.I'll now turn the call over to Chris Crane, Exelon's CEO.Chris M. Crane -- President, Chief Executive Officer

 



Thanks, Emily, and good morning, everybody. And Emily, thank you for putting a hedge on everything we're about to say. We had a good quarter financially and operationally and had several very positive developments during the quarter. I'm starting on slide five. We earned $1.23 per share on a GAAP basis and $1.09 on a non-GAAP basis, and Joe will get into those details. Illinois passed, at the last minute, a landmark clean energy legislation which makes the state a national leader in clean energy. Illinois will achieve 100% carbon-free by 2045 by preserving and adding -- preserving the plants and adding tens of thousands of jobs. And we thank Kathleen Barron and her team and many others for the work they've done.As a result, we have reversed the retirement decision on Byron and Dresden. Our Illinois plants will continue to provide good-paying jobs, economic support to the communities and zero-carbon energy to the citizens of Illinois. We've begun to fill the 650 vacant positions, and we'll be investing more than $300 million in our plants over the next five years to catch up on what we pulled back from during the unknown period. The legislation also includes the provision that would transition to -- these out of the formula rates into a new multiyear, performance-based rate framework.In August, we completed the put transaction and acquired the EDF's portion of the CENG nuclear plants, adding 17 terawatts to our own zero-emitting nuclear generation. We did receive a grant from the U.S. Department of Energy to explore the potential benefits of on-site hydrogen production at our Nine Mile Point in New York, and we continue to believe that there's a very strong future for hydrogen. Hydrogen will be key in helping the nation address the climate crisis, and the nuclear plants can play a vital role in its production with its heat and capabilities.We're partnering with Nel Hydrogen and the national labs to demonstrate the integrated production storage and use of hydrogen on site to prove its commercial viability. Operations are expected to begin in 2022. On the regulatory front, Delaware PSC issued a constructive order in our Delmarva rate case. Last quarter, we announced our Path to Clean and our net-zero goal for the utilities, so we continue to strive to meet what our customers desire and our regulators desire. Each utility is building upon existing work and supporting a Path to Clean that aligns to the goals that are needed for their local jurisdictions and stakeholders. An example is PECO's climate solution.

 



It's a five-year action plan that will fill Pepco's -- I said PECO, Pepco's that will fill with the DC PSC's request last month. This filing outlines 62 different programs to help enable the district's road map toward decarbonization. Another example of helping our communities to meet their goals is through our energy efficiency programs, which are some of the nation's largest. Joe will talk about them in his remarks. We're committed to serving our communities and helping to drive equity and positive change. Last week, we launched a $36 million Racial Equity Capital Fund to expand access to capital for minority-owned businesses, so they can create jobs and grow their businesses and reinvest in the neighborhoods and the communities that we serve.It's the first-of-a-kind in our sector. In addition, we partnered with the UNCF to launch a $3 million Exelon fund for Corporate Scholarship Program to provide scholarships and internships that create opportunities for students attending historically Black colleges and universities that reside in the communities that we serve. Finally, we are closely watching the work in Washington on the infrastructure Build Back Better Agenda. The legislation will help us address climate change crisis through incentivizing clean technologies and infrastructure investments to make the grid more resilient and ready for clean energy technologies.It is clear from the proposal that the administration and Congress recognize the critical importance of maintaining the existing nuclear fleet to ensure that the nation can cost effectively address climate change, and we're confident that when the legislation pass -- does pass, it will include a production tax credit for the existing nuclear. Moving on to slide six, to our operations. Reliability remains incredibly strong. All the utilities are delivering a top decile outage frequencies and first quartile in outage durations. BGE, PECO and PHI were top decile for gas odor responses, which is very critical for us as we continue to fend gas as a source -- a bridge source to the future.Customer service is top-notch with BGE, ComEd and PECO achieving top decile and PHI top quartile. On the generation front, our generation fleet performed well during the quarter, even in the face of uncertainty in Illinois. Our nuclear plants produced 40.5 terawatts of zero-carbon generation, avoiding approximately 21 million tons of carbon dioxide that would be generated otherwise. The fleet had a 96% capacity factor over that period of time, and we're very proud of their operations with the uncertainty they faced. On slide seven, the progress on separation.We continue to make progress on separating the businesses into two independent Fortune 200 companies. FERC approved the separation in August. And in September, we received a private letter ruling from the IRS confirming the tax-free nature of the separation. The process for the NRC and New York PSC approvals are moving forward, as expected, and remain on track. Last week, the New York PSC staff held the first meeting of settlement negotiations. This is an important step in the process, and we've asked for authorization from the commission by December 16 on their scheduled meeting date. We have named the CEO of each company, as well as their direct reports, and we'll continue the staffing process over the course of the next few weeks and months to be ready for the close in the first quarter of next year.Joe Dominguez and I are both excited to lead our companies into the next chapter. Exelon will continue to be one of the nation's premier customer-focused energy delivery companies with more than 10 million customers. Joe is the right person to lead Constellation, will be America's leading clean energy company, producing 12% of the nation's clean energy and nearly two times more than any other clean energy company out there. We remain focused on setting each business up to be successful for the long term.Joe, I'll turn over to you for the financial update.Joseph Nigro -- Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Chris, and good morning, everyone. Today, I'll cover our third quarter results, our quarterly financial updates and our hedge disclosures. I will also provide an update on our full year 2021 guidance. Turning to slide eight first. We earned $1.09 per share on a non-GAAP basis for the quarter. Exelon Utilities delivered a combined $0.66 per share, net of holding company expenses, and this was primarily driven by above-normal summer weather in our non-decoupled jurisdictions, along with strong operational performance and the impacts of distribution rate cases.ExGen earned $0.44 per share in the third quarter. Generation and Constellation both performed well during the quarter. We continue to make progress on levers we identified to mitigate the Texas loss, and we expect it will take the full year to realize all of the savings. Realized gains in our decommissioning trust funds partially offset the unrealized losses from our Constellation technology venture investments which are mark to market every quarter until realized. At our holding company, we benefited from expected income tax favorability in the third quarter.And as a reminder, our holding company incurred $0.12 per share drag in the first quarter associated with how consolidated full year tax expenses are booked due to the impact of the losses incurred at ExGen in Texas. The remainder of the first quarter drag is expected to reverse in the fourth quarter and is not expected to impact our full year results. Turning to guidance. We are narrowing our 2021 EPS guidance range to $2.70 to $2.90 per share from $2.60 to $3 per share previously. Our updated guidance considers reversal of the retirements of the Byron and Dresden nuclear stations as well as execution of the EDF put and our continued additional -- a disciplined approach to cost management.We are delivering on our financial commitments and are confident we will be within our revised range at year-end. On slide nine, we show our quarter-over-quarter earnings walk. The $1.09 per share in the third quarter of this year was $0.05 per share higher than the third quarter of 2020. Exelon Utilities, inclusive of holding company earnings, were $0.08 per share higher compared to last year. The earnings growth was driven primarily by higher transmission and distribution rates associated with completed rate cases relative to the third quarter of 2020 and higher treasury rates on ComEd's distribution ROE.This was partially offset by costs related to the remnants of Hurricane Ida that swept through the PECO service territory in early September. The partial reversal of the first quarter tax expense at corporate also drove favorability relative to last year's results. ExGen's earnings were down $0.03 per share compared with last year, and the decrease was due to net unrealized and realized losses on Constellation venture investments; lower capacity revenues, primarily in PJM; and more planned nuclear outage days. This was partially offset by realized gains in our nuclear decommissioning trust funds and higher ZEC revenue due, in part, to increased volumes resulting from fewer planned refuel outages and ZEC pricing in New York.Moving to slide 10. Looking at our utility returns on a consolidated basis, we continue to meet our consolidated 9% to 10% target with a 9.3% trailing 12-month ROE as of the third quarter. Earned ROEs dipped modestly by 10 basis points since last quarter. Despite higher earnings driven primarily by distribution and transmission rates, the earnings were outpaced by increased equity infusions across all four utilities to support capital investments. Looking forward, we remain focused on delivering stronger returns at the utilities and supporting our growth targets to enable customer benefits.Turning to slide 11, there were some important developments on the regulatory front since the last call. First, on September 1, Delmarva Maryland filed an electric base rate case with the Maryland Public Service Commission seeking an approximately $29 million increase in electric distribution rates and reflecting an ROE of 10.1%. The case highlights Delmarva Power's strong record of reliability, reporting the second-best reliability performance in Maryland in 2019 and '20 behind only Pepco. Delmarva Power continues to make significant investments to improve reliability and customer service for our customers and communities. DPL Maryland expects to receive an order by March 30, 2022.Second, on September 15, Delmarva Delaware received a verbal order for its distribution electric rate case. The Delaware Commission approved approximately $14 million increase in annual base distribution rates, reflecting an ROE of 9.6%. As permitted by Delaware law, Delmarva Power implemented full allowable rates on October 6, 2020, subject to refund. We also have two rate cases pending final orders in the fourth quarter. On October 6, the administrative law judge presiding over PECO's electric distribution base rate case recommended the settlement with all parties be approved. The settlement provides for an increase of $132 million in annual electric distribution revenues, and we expect to receive an order in the fourth quarter.And then on November 2, the ALJ presiding over ComEd's 2021 distribution formula rate update issued a proposed order. There were no adjustments to ComEd's proposed revenue requirement increase of $45.8 million. We expect to receive a final order from the Illinois Commerce Commission by early December. We continue to have constructive regulatory relationships across our jurisdictions and are working with our regulators, states and communities to support their clean energy and climate goals. As a reminder, we expect nearly 100% of our rate base growth will be covered by alternative mechanisms by the end of our planning period, a differentiator for our utilities when compared to peers.More details on the rate cases can be found on slides 20 through 24 of the appendix. And as Chris mentioned, our energy efficiency programs highlighted on slide 12 is one example of how Exelon's utilities are helping their customers on the Path to Clean. Exelon Utilities are driving customer-driven emissions reductions in our communities through some of the nation's largest energy-efficiency programs and conservation efforts. These programs enable customer savings through home energy audits, lighting discounts, appliance recycling, home improvement rebates, equipment upgrade incentives and innovative programs like smart thermostats and combined heat and power programs.In 2020, through a combination of new and prior year investments, our utilities helped customers save over 22.3 million megawatt hours of energy. This equates to 8.1 million metric tons of CO2 emissions avoided, the equivalent of nearly 932,000 homes energy use for one year or the carbon sequestered by 10.5 million acres of U.S. forests in one year according to EPA's greenhouse gas calculator. Each of Exelon's utilities is building upon existing work and supporting a Path to Clean that aligns to the goals and needs of their local jurisdictions and stakeholders.Our approach allows jurisdictional flexibility, such that each utility may respond to their unique regions and markets and employ the strategies and solutions that best address their operational footprints and customer preferences. Before discussing our gross margin update on slide 13, I want to remind you that we expect to provide 2022 hedge disclosures at Analyst Day, which will be held closer to the completion of the separation. However, what I can say now is that we have continued to hedge on our ratable plan for future years, and this includes the length from the Byron and Dresden retirement reversals until the carbon mitigation contracts begin and Exelon's full ownership of the CENG assets.Turning to the table. Total gross margin increased $500 million since last quarter due to the plant retirement reversals in Illinois and full ownership of the CENG assets beginning on August 7. In 2021, open gross margin is up $1.6 billion relative to the second quarter, primarily due to higher prices in all regions and higher volumes driven by execution of the EDF put and the decision to reverse Byron and Dresden's early retirements. Capacity in ZEC dollars are up $100 million due to full ownership of the CENG assets.Mark to market of hedges were down $1 billion due to our hedged position, partially offset by the execution of power new business. We executed $200 million of power new business and $50 million of non-power new business during the third quarter. The non-gross margin impacts of the Illinois plant reversals and the full ownership of CENG are incorporated on page 32 of the appendix.Thank you, and I'll now turn the call back to Chris for his closing remarks.Chris M. Crane -- President, Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Joe. Turning to slide 14, I'll close on our ongoing priorities and commitments. As we've said in the past and we'll continue, we will meet or exceed our financial commitments, delivering earnings with our guidance range and maintaining a strong balance sheet. And that goes for both companies as we split. There's a commitment on both sides to do that. We'll complete the preparations to separate the businesses, including the organization, the cost structure for each company that will set each company up for long-term success at a strong investment grade. At Exelon Utilities, we are prudently and efficiently deploying $6.6 billion of capital to benefit our customers and help meet the needs of our jurisdictions' energy policy goals.We are working with our regulators to ensure timely recovery of these investments, as Joe discussed in his talking points. We continue to advocate for clean energy and climate policies with the new administration and Congress in our states to put the country on a path to meeting the carbon and air pollution reduction goals. There's more here than just carbon. We have a city in Chicago that is the third highest with lung disease. And it's not only carbon. It's the fumes from the industrial sources, and we need to do our part to help lower that. And we're partnering and supporting our customers and the communities that we serve.So with that, I thank you for your time today, and I'll open up the call to questions.