  OperatorThank you for standing by, and welcome to The Walt Disney Company's fiscal full year and fourth quarter 2021 financial results. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, today's program is being recorded. And now, I'd like to introduce your host for today's program, Tammy Munsey, vice president of investor relations. Please go ahead.Tammy Munsey -- Vice President, Investor Relations Good afternoon. It's my pleasure to welcome everyone to The Walt Disney Company's fourth quarter 2021 earnings call. Our press release was issued about 25 minutes ago and is available on our website at www.disney.com/investors. Today's call is also being webcast, and we will post a transcript of this call to our website. Joining me remotely today are Bob Chapek, Disney's chief executive officer, and Christine McCarthy, senior executive vice president and chief financial officer. Following comments from Bob and Christine, we'll, of course, be happy to take some of your questions. So with that, let me turn the call over to Bob to get started.Bob Chapek -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Tammy, and good afternoon, everyone. As we close out the fourth quarter, I'm pleased to say that it has been a very productive year for The Walt Disney Company, as we've made great strides in reopening our business while also taking meaningful and innovative steps to position ourselves for continued long-term growth. Despite the many ongoing challenges of the pandemic, we ended the quarter with adjusted EPS of $0.37 compared to a loss of $0.20 last year. Christine will go more in depth on the quarter and the coming year in her remarks. Last quarter, we talked about our strategic priorities for the future. And as we head into fiscal '22, we remain keenly focused on advancing them to drive our continued growth. First and foremost, telling the world's most original and enduring stories; second, maximizing the synergy of our unique ecosystem to deepen consumers' connection to our characters and our stories; and lastly, using the power of our far-reaching platforms and new technologies to give consumers the best entertainment experience possible. I'll briefly talk about how we are executing against these priorities in three key areas: direct-to-consumer, sports, and parks, experiences, and products. On the direct-to-consumer side, we are extremely pleased with the success of our portfolio streaming services, Disney+, ESPN+, and Hulu continued to perform incredibly well with 118.1 million, 17.1 million and 43.8 million subscribers, respectively, for a total of 179 million subscriptions. To put this growth in perspective, in the past fiscal year alone, we have grown the total number of subscriptions across our DTC portfolio by 48% and Disney+ subs, in particular, by 60%. I want to reiterate that we remain focused on managing our DTC business for the long term, not quarter to quarter, and we're confident we are on the right trajectory to achieve the guidance that we provided at last year's Investors Day, reaching between 230 million and 260 million paid Disney+ subscribers globally by the end of fiscal year 2024, and with Disney+ achieving profitability that same year. This Friday, we will celebrate the two-year anniversary of the launch of Disney+ with our first ever Disney+ Day, a global companywide celebration. We are enormously proud of all that we've accomplished with the service in just the first two years. It has exceeded our wildest expectations, and we are so excited for what's to come. With this in mind, we have numerous activations planned across the entire company for Disney+ Day, including the streaming premiere of Marvel's Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings, which has already surpassed $430 million at the global box office. Other content coming to the service on Disney+ Day includes the highly anticipated Disney+ original movie, Home Sweet Home Alone, the epic adventure Jungle Cruise, and hilarious new short from The Simpsons, and the first five episodes of season two of the fantastic National Geographic series, The World According to Jeff Goldblum. And there's more great content in the pipeline. On the heels of Disney+ Day, we'll premiere two amazing new original series, Marvel's Hawkeye on November 24, and the latest Star Wars adventure, The Book of Boba Fett on December 29. And of course, we're extremely excited about the Thanksgiving holiday weekend debut of The Beatles: Get Back, Peter Jackson's highly anticipated three-part documentary. Additionally, Marvel's Eternals, which has reached more than $161 million at the global box office in less than a week, and Disney's Encanto, which premiers in theaters on November 24, will come to the service after their exclusive theatrical runs. In total, we are nearly doubling the amount of original content from our marquee brands, Disney, Marvel, Pixar, Star Wars and National Geographic coming to Disney+ in FY '22, with the majority of our highly anticipated titles arriving July through September. This represents the beginning of the surge of new content shared last December at our investor conference 2.0. We recognize that the single, most effective way to grow our streaming platforms worldwide is with great content, and we are singularly focused on making new high-quality entertainment including local and regional content that we believe will resonate with audiences. Of note, we have 340-plus local original titles in various stages of development and production for our DTC platforms over the next few years. As you know, we announced at our last investor day that we expect our total content expense to be between $8 billion and $9 billion in fiscal 2024, and we will now be increasing that investment further with the primary driver being more local and regional content. We are expanding our global reach by introducing Disney+ in additional markets around the world. The service is now available throughout Japan, and we're thrilled to be launching it this Friday on Disney+ Day in South Korea and Taiwan, and in Hong Kong on November 16. In just two short years, we are now in over 60 countries and more than 20 languages. And next year, we plan to bring Disney+ to consumers in 50-plus additional countries, including in Central Eastern Europe, the Middle East, and South Africa. Our goal is to more than double the number of countries we are currently in to over 160 by fiscal year '23. Turning to sports. We continue to build out ESPN+ with exclusive sports content that makes our DTC offering the perfect complement to the ESPN linear experience. And with every new sports rights deal, we have considered both linear and DTC. In fact, all seven of the major deals we made in the last year and a half included a streaming component. Among them is our historic 10-year NFL rights agreement, which begins in 2023. We also recently signed a five-year deal with the league for Monday night wild card game, which runs through 2025. Another example is our seven-year rights deal with the NHL. 75 of the league's live national games are and will be available exclusively on ESPN+ and Hulu. And ESPN+ is the sole home for more than 1,000 out-of-market NHL games. By the way, this is another reason that Disney bundle is proving highly appealing to consumers because live sports are a key element and a key differentiator of our Disney ecosystem. The 90% of the most watched telecasts last year were sports and they continue to perform extremely well. For example, the NHL's opening night games on ESPN last month marked the highest viewed season opening doubleheader on record with an increase of 54% over the 2019, 2020 season opening doubleheader. And we are particularly pleased with the NHL's direct-to-consumer performance on ESPN+ and Hulu. Likewise, the hugely popular UFC, fresh off a strong card at Madison Square Garden last weekend, continues to be a top performer for ESPN+ with 6 of the top UFC on ESPN+ pay per views coming in the past year. At the same time, we continue to expand our original sports programming with innovative broadcasts like the hugely popular Monday night football with Peyton and Eli, which airs on ESPN2 and reached 1.9 million viewers by its second week, as well as the highly anticipated new shows like Man in the Arena: Tom Brady, the multipart docu series about the legendary quarterback premiering on ESPN+ on November 16, along with a host of fantastic new social and digital shows and podcasts. We're also moving toward a greater presence in online sports betting. And given our reach and scale, we have the potential to partner with third parties in this space in a very meaningful way. Suffice to say, we continue to see enormous opportunity in sports and all of this, the rights deals, our innovative programming and the flexibility achieved through our DTC business, which saw ESPN+ subscribers increased by 66% over the past fiscal year alone. All of this is a testament to the clear ambition we have in sports. One of the things that sets The Walt Disney Company apart is our unique access to an incredible number of consumer touch points across our businesses. That, of course, includes our parks and resorts, where we've achieved a number of important milestones since our last earnings call, including the first full quarter since the pandemic began with all of our parks around the world open to guests, albeit, with some limits on capacity and the return of our entire Disney Cruise Line. At the same time, the U.S. government's approval of vaccines for five- to 11-year olds and the reopening of borders to fully vaccinated international travelers are both important steps toward the recovery of our business. But what is perhaps most exciting is the work that we have done during the time our parks were closed to reengineer and reimagine the guest experience. We have introduced a number of exciting new offerings that enable guests to create their best Disney day. In late August, Disneyland Resort launched Magic Key, the new annual membership program that is resonating strongly with legacy annual passholders, while also attracting new passholders. In fact, about 40% of current sales are to new passholders. And most Magic Key holders have purchased the top two tiers, dream Key and Believe Key, with Dream Key selling out in just two months. We're also seeing a great response to the new annual passholder program at Walt Disney World, a testament to the demand for our in-park experiences and the success of our yield management strategy. Walt Disney World rolled out its new multitiered full-service app, Disney Genie, which allows guests to easily and efficiently navigate everything our parks have to offer in order to have the best experience possible. The response to the service in just its first month has been extremely positive. The majority of Genie and Genie+ users have said it improved their overall park experience with nearly one-third 3 of park guests upgrading to Genie+, making it possible for them to spend less time waiting in line and more time enjoying attractions, entertainment, dining and retail opportunities. We are very encouraged by what we're seeing and look forward to launching Disney Genie at Disneyland very soon. Alongside these transformative programs, we continue to invest in our parks and resorts themselves. We introduced a host of new attractions as part of Walt Disney World's 50th anniversary celebration, which kicked off on October 1. These include Remy's Ratatouille Adventure at Epcot, which has quickly become one of the park's top attractions, our new themed restaurant, Space 220, and two new nighttime spectaculars. And there is lots more in store in the coming months, including the highly anticipated indoor coaster Guardians of the Galaxy: Cosmic Rewind, and the one-of-a-kind Galactic Starcruiser experience. As part of this immersive two-night adventure, guests will become heroes of their own Star Wars stories. Reservations went on sale just three weeks ago and the first four months of voyages have virtually sold out for this premium experience. Disney Cruise Line continues to be one of the highest rated guest experiences of any of our offerings. As I said earlier, all four of our ships are now sailing and we continue to see tremendous demand for the incredible experiences we offer at sea. We are thrilled to be launching a new ship, the Disney Wish, in June of 2022, and we'll welcome her sister ships to the fleet in 2024 and 2025. Combined, these three vessels will help increase capacity and our footprint in a business that has historically generated a double-digit return on investment driven by a premium price point well above the industry average. Before leaving our parks and experiences, I want to mention the continued transformation of our consumer products business. We have almost completed the reduction of our physical footprint, which will enable us to pivot our approach with a focus on our e-commerce platform, ShopDisney, and on more compelling retail partnerships such as Disney Store Target, which will triple its locations by the end of the year. In short, our parks around the globe now have more to offer guests than ever before with our new offerings, and we're making it even easier for them to have the best time imaginable tailored specifically to their individual needs and preferences in a way only Disney can. Our company is truly unique and that we have a significant presence in the physical world through our parks and resorts, as well as media entertainment assets in the digital world. And it is incredible to see how our use of emerging technology and insights gained through our enumerable consumer touch points is enabling us to transform the way people interact with and experience our stories and products in both worlds. The Walt Disney Company has a long track record as an early adopter in the use of technology to enhance the entertainment experience, Steamboat Willie, the first cartoon with synchronized sound, our groundbreaking development and use of audio animatronics. We were the first to distribute downloaded content on the new Apple iPod back in 2005. Pixar has been a pioneer in computer animation. These are just a few examples. Suffice it to say, our efforts to date are merely a prologue to a time when we'll be able to connect the physical and digital worlds even more closely, allowing for storytelling without boundaries in our own Disney metaverse. And we look forward to creating unparalleled opportunities for consumers to experience everything Disney has to offer across our products and platforms wherever the consumer may be. As we look ahead to this next frontier, given our unique combination of brands, franchises, physical and digital experiences and global reach, we see limitless potential and that makes us as excited as ever about The Walt Disney Company's next 100 years. With that, I'll turn it over to Christine, and she'll talk in greater detail about the quarter and the year ahead.Christine McCarthy -- Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Bob, and good afternoon, everyone. Excluding certain items, diluted earnings per share for the fourth fiscal quarter was $0.37, an increase of $0.57 from the prior year quarter. For the full fiscal 2021-year, diluted EPS, excluding certain items, was $2.29 or an increase of $0.27 versus the prior year. As a reminder, these results take into account that fiscal 2020 was a 53-week year compared to our usual 52-week year in 2021. We estimate that the additional week in 2020 resulted in a benefit to pre-tax income of approximately $200 million primarily at the media and entertainment distribution segment creating an unfavorable comparison for fiscal year '21. I'll now turn to our results in the quarter by segment, beginning with parks, experiences and products where fourth quarter operating income increased by $1.6 billion year over year. A profitable fourth quarter at parks and experiences reflects our ongoing recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic. All of our sites were open for the entire quarter, although generally at reduced capacities. In the prior year quarter, Shanghai Disney Resort was open for the entire quarter, while Disney World Resort and Disneyland Paris were open for approximately 12 weeks. Hong Kong Disneyland Resort was opened for approximately four weeks and Disneyland Resort was closed for the entire quarter. Attendance trends continued to strengthen at our domestic parks, with Walt Disney World Q4 attendance up double digits versus Q3 and Disneyland attendance continuing to strengthen significantly from its reopening in the third quarter. Guest spending at our domestic parks also continued its strong trend with per caps in the fourth quarter, up nearly 30% versus fiscal 2019. Our forward-looking demand pipeline for domestic guests at Walt Disney World and Disneyland Resort remains strong, demonstrating our brand strength, as well as more normalized consumer behavior. Additionally, we are looking forward to the return of international attendance at our domestic parks and resorts. However, keep in mind that due to longer vacation planning lead times, we don't expect to see a substantial recovery in international attendance at our domestic parks until toward the end of fiscal 2022. At our cruise line business, as Bob mentioned earlier, our entire fleet has returned to sea with guest ratings as strong as pre-pandemic levels despite new health and safety protocols. While we expect social distancing restrictions on our ships to remain in place for at least the first half of fiscal 2022, booked occupancy on our ships for the second half of the year is already ahead of historical ranges at significantly higher pricing. And we are excited for the Disney Wish to set sale in June 2022 with the inaugural season already nearly 90% booked. At consumer products, year-over-year operating results declined in the fourth quarter, impacted by a tough comparison in our games business due to the prior year performance of two titles, marvel's Avengers and Twisted Wonderland. Turning to our media and entertainment distribution segment. Fourth quarter operating income decreased by approximately $600 million versus the prior year driven by lower results at Linear Networks, direct to consumer and content sales, licensing and other. At Linear Networks, you may recall that we guided to a decline in Q4 operating income versus prior year. Operating results at Linear Networks did decrease year over year by approximately $200 million driven by a decrease at in our domestic channels partially offset by an improvement at our international channels. At our domestic channels, both broadcasting and cable operating income decreased in the fourth quarter versus the prior year. Lower results of broadcasting were driven by lower results at ABC and the owned television stations. At ABC, the decrease was primarily driven by higher marketing and programming and production costs, reflecting a higher number of series versus the prior year due to last year's production delays, as we noted in the guidance we gave last quarter, partially offset by higher affiliate revenue. The decrease at the owned television stations was due to lower advertising revenue, reflecting comparisons to the 53rd week and stronger political advertising in the prior year. At cable, the year-over-year decrease in operating income was primarily driven by three factors: One, lower affiliate revenue primarily driven by the prior year benefit of the 53rd week. Two, an increase in marketing costs from more titles premiering in the current quarter, which we also discussed last quarter. And finally, to a lesser extent, lower advertising revenue. These impacts were partially offset by lower programming and production costs, which generally reflect COVID-19-related timing impacts from the prior year. Costs decreased from the NBA and MLB programming versus the prior year partially offset by increased costs for college football games. Domestic Linear Networks advertising revenue decreased in Q4 versus the prior year driven by our cable networks and owned television stations, both of which were impacted by the prior year benefit of the 53rd week. ESPN advertising revenue in the fourth quarter was comparable to the prior year as higher rates were offset by the prior year benefit of the 53rd week. First quarter-to-date domestic cash advertising revenue at ESPN is currently pacing above the prior year, benefiting from increased ratings for college football and the NFL. Total domestic affiliate revenue decreased by 6% in the quarter. This was driven by a benefit of six points of growth from higher rates, offset by a seven-point decline due to the 53rd week adjustment and a three-point decline due to a decrease in subscribers. International channel results increased versus the prior year driven by lower programming and production costs and higher advertising revenue partially offset by lower affiliate revenue. At direct to consumer, our fourth quarter operating results decreased by $256 million year over year, driven by higher losses at Disney+ and ESPN+ partially offset by improved results at Hulu. At Disney+, the higher loss versus the prior year quarter was driven by higher programming, marketing, and technology costs. These higher costs were partially offset by increases in subscription and premier access revenue. Higher subscription revenue reflects subscriber growth and increases in retail pricing, and the increases in costs reflect the ongoing expansion of Disney+. Higher premier access revenue was driven by Black Widow and Jungle Cruise in Q4 compared to Mulan in the prior year quarter. As Bob mentioned earlier, we ended the fourth quarter and the fiscal year with over 118 million global paid Disney+ subscribers reflecting over 2 million net additions from Q3, in line with the subscriber guidance we gave in September. Subscribers across our domestic and core international markets, excluding Disney+ Hotstar, grew by almost 4 million from Q3 to Q4. Disney+ Hotstar subs decreased versus the prior quarter and accounted for about 37% of our total Disney+ paid subscriber base as of the end of the fourth quarter. Disney+'s global ARPU in the fourth quarter was $4.12. Excluding Disney+ Hotstar, it was $6.24 or an increase of about $0.12 versus third quarter, continuing to benefit from recent price increases. At ESPN+, where we ended the fourth quarter with over 17 million subscribers versus nearly 15 million in Q3, the decrease in operating results year over year was driven by higher marketing and sports programming costs partially offset by subscription revenue growth. And at Hulu, higher operating results in the fourth quarter versus the prior year were due to subscription revenue growth and higher advertising revenue partially offset by increases in programming and, to a lesser extent, marketing costs. Google ended the fourth quarter with 43.8 million paid subscribers inclusive of the Hulu + Live digital MVPD service. Hulu + Live subscribers increased to $4 million from $3.7 million at the end of the third quarter. Moving on to content sales, licensing and other, results decreased in the fourth quarter versus the prior year to an operating loss of $65 million driven by lower theatrical and TV SVOD distribution results, both of which we noted as drivers in the guidance we gave during the last earnings call. While theaters have generally reopened, we are still experiencing a prolonged and gradual pace of recovery in this business. Lower theatrical results were driven by higher operating losses from more titles and release, as well as higher marketing expenses for future releases. Lower TV SVOD results were due to lower third-party content licensing of film content driven by the ongoing impact of COVID, as well as our strategic shift toward distribution on our DTC services partially offset by higher income from sales of episodic content due to lower write-offs versus the prior year. To conclude, as we progress into fiscal 2022 and beyond, there are a number of items I would like to mention. Our capital expenditures in fiscal 2021 were $3.6 billion or approximately $400 million lower than our fiscal 2020 capex of $4 billion. Capex for the year came in lower than the previous guidance we gave primarily due to spending delays across the enterprise. For fiscal '22, we expect capex to increase by $2.5 billion versus 2021 driven by the delivery of the Disney Wish, as well as other increased spending at DPEP and corporate. At DPEP, we expect that per cap spending at our domestic parks in fiscal 2022 will continue to significantly exceed pre-pandemic levels, and we are particularly encouraged by the early response we are seeing to Genie at Walt Disney World. However, we also expect that while we continue to pursue strong cost mitigation efforts certain costs will be elevated in fiscal '22 versus pre-pandemic levels, including, for example, inflationary pressure on wages, costs related to new projects and initiatives such as Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge, Avengers Campus, and the Epcot expansion, and a ramp up of expenses in support of our cruise ship expansion. And as we think about fiscal '22 results at DMED, there are a few things worth noting. First, we are excited about the 9 theatrical releases we have slated for the first quarter of fiscal '22. However, we expect that the prolonged recovery we are seeing in the theatrical market paired with the marketing costs associated with each release may adversely impact theatrical operating results in the first quarter by approximately $300 million versus the prior year quarter, which had only two releases. At Linear Networks, we expect that first quarter operating income will decrease by nearly $500 million versus the prior year, reflecting factors including higher contractual sports rights costs for college football and the NFL, timing of cricket expenses at Star India, and an adverse comparison to the prior year's political advertising revenue. Finally, as it relates to our expectations for Disney+. Looking at fiscal '22, we are thrilled about the quality of the content coming in the first three quarters of the year, but we will not yet be at our anticipated steady-state cadence of content releases. The fourth quarter will likely be more indicative of what our slate could look like once we have tent pole content flowing steadily from all of our industry-leading creative engines. Q4 will be the first time in Disney+ history that we plan to release original content throughout the quarter from Disney, Marvel, Star Wars, Pixar, and Nat Geo, all in one quarter. This includes highly anticipated titles such as Ms. Marvel, Andor and Pinocchio. And as Bob mentioned earlier, we are also increasing our local content offerings in Asia, India, Europe, and Latin America in fiscal 2022, with the majority of those titles also releasing in the back part of the year. As we've discussed before, we don't anticipate that sub growth will necessarily be linear from quarter to quarter. So putting this all together, and also taking into consideration the timing of our planned international launches in 2022, we expect Disney+ subscriber net adds in the second half of fiscal 2022 will be meaningfully higher than the first half of the year. Additionally, we now expect that Disney+ will reach its peak year of losses in fiscal 2022 instead of in fiscal 2021 as better-than-expected revenue and lower content expenses due to production delays contributed to lower-than-expected losses in 2021. As Bob mentioned, we are increasing our overall long-term content expense for Disney+, and we believe we are well positioned to achieve the subscriber target of 230 million to 260 million by fiscal 2024 that we laid out at last year's investor day. And we also remain confident in our expectation that Disney+ will achieve profitability in fiscal 2024. And with that, I'll now turn the call back over to Tammy, and we would be happy to take your questions.Tammy Munsey -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thanks, Christine. As we transition to the Q&A, let me note that since we are not physically together this afternoon, I'll do my best to moderate the Q&A by directing your questions to the appropriate executive. And with that, Jonathan, we're ready for the first question. 