
OperatorGood day and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Q1 2021 Pentair Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Jim Lucas. Thank you. Please go ahead.James C. Lucas -- Senior VP of IR & Treasurer

 



Thanks, Stephanie, and welcome to Pentair's First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. We're glad you could join us. I'm Jim Lucas, Senior Vice President, Treasurer, FP&A and Investor Relations. With me today is John Stauch, our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Fishman, our Chief Financial Officer. On today's call, we will provide details on our first quarter performance, as outlined in this morning's press release. Before we begin, let me remind you that any statements made about the company's anticipated financial results are forward-looking statements subject to future risks and uncertainties such as the risks outlined in Pentair's most recent Form 10-Q, Form 10-K and today's press release. Forward-looking statements included herein are made as of today, and the company undertakes no obligation to update publicly such statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. Actual results could differ materially from anticipated results. Today's webcast is accompanied by a presentation, which can be found in the Investor Relations section of Pentair's website. We will reference these slides throughout our prepared remarks. Any references to non-GAAP financials are reconciled in the appendix of the presentation. We will be sure to reserve time for questions and answers after our prepared remarks. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to turn the call over to John.John L. Stauch -- President, CEO & DirectorThank you, Jim, and good morning, everyone. Please turn to Slide #4 titled Executive Summary. I would first like to start by thanking the entire Pentair organization and the contributions they have made to help deliver on our commitments to all of our stakeholders. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank all of our global channel partners and suppliers for their patience and efforts and working with us and our consumers to meet our commitments despite the effects of decreases in the South, canal blockages, supply chain constraints and, of course, the ongoing pandemic. Building off the momentum from last year, we started 2021 strong, with sales up 22%, adjusted EPS increasing 56% and free cash flow improving significantly from the comparable period last year. Our residential business has led the way as Consumer Solutions experienced a 34% increase in sales. Encouragingly, we saw sales in all three businesses in Industrial & Flow Technologies return to growth for the first time in over a year. We announced the acquisition of Ken's Beverage earlier this week. This is a strategic bolt-on acquisition that provides Pentair a valuable national direct service network to expand our commercial water treatment business. We believe we will be in a position to seamlessly manage the full customer experience from product development, sales, installation and service to ensure the best quality products are matched with the most reliable and dedicated service network for all commercial applications.

 



We believe Ken's provides us a platform to grow from as well as an opportunity to continue to expand our products offered to this important channel. Our balance sheet remains in excellent shape, and we are well positioned to fund organic growth and inorganic growth opportunities and return capital to our shareholders through dividends and opportunistic share repurchases. With a strong start to the year, we are raising our full year adjusted EPS guidance to a range of $2.80 to $2.95. While inflation remains high, we have instituted a number of selling price increases across the portfolio that we expect to help mitigate inflation in the second half of the year. The strong start to the year and continued strength in our Residential businesses gives us confidence that we will have another strong year of growth for Pentair. Equally important are the signs of recovery in our commercial and industrial businesses. We plan to continue to invest in our strategic growth initiatives, and we will remain disciplined with our balance sheet. Please turn to Slide five labeled 2021 Execution Expectations. As we highlighted at the end of last year, we understand the importance of delivering the core while we also build our future. The focus has been and will remain on consistently making our commitments. Our actual results for the past three quarters have come in significantly better than our expectations as residential demand has been very strong. While we have experienced robust sales and EPS growth, we have also improved our cash flow and our balance sheet is the strongest it's been in years.Building our future means focusing on the things that are within our control. We look forward to providing more depth on this topic at our June 10 Investor Day. However, this is a continuation of the hard work we have been undertaking for the past several years. It starts with our focus growth initiatives primarily in our Consumer Solutions segment. We are a leader in the pool industry, and we continue to build on our leading position. Investments in this area include automation, smart and connected solutions, energy efficiency offerings and now better filtration solutions. Within water treatment, we have expanded from components into systems and services within both residential and commercial. We have made significant investments in digitally building our brand and expanding our reach. We recently created a transformation office as we embark on the journey to drive growth while being more agile and flexible. Transformation can have many meanings. But to us, it means that we will have the right strategy, organization, leadership and culture while accelerating growth and driving margin expansion by leveraging our internal capabilities and reducing complexity. This is not an either/or but a both/and. We recognize that we must grow and drive productivity in order to maximize our ability to deliver for customers and create value for shareholders. We plan to continue to accelerate our digital innovation, technology and ESG investments, and we expect to fund many of these initiatives through our complexity reduction efforts. We believe that we are better positioned to deliver consistent growth and margin expansion while also generating strong cash flow. Our goal has been and continues to be delivering consistently for our customers, employees, shareholders and the environment.I would now like to turn the call over to Bob to discuss our performance and our financial results in more detail. After which, I'll provide an update on our overall strategic position. Bob?Robert P. Fishman -- Executive VP, CFO & CAO

 



Thank you, John. Please turn to Slide six labeled Q1 2021 Pentair Performance. First quarter sales grew an impressive 22%, with core sales increasing 19%. Consumer Solutions grew in excess of 30%, and Industrial & Flow Technologies returned to growth for the first time in five quarters. Segment income was up nearly 50% as we saw strong drop-through, and return on sales expanded 330 basis points to 19%. Adjusted EPS jumped 56% to $0.81. We saw price and productivity offset inflation in the quarter. This was the third consecutive quarter of strong double-digit sales growth within our residential businesses. But just as encouraging was our commercial and industrial businesses showing sequential improvement and some pockets of growth. We were very pleased with our first quarter performance, and we believe the momentum should continue. Please turn to Slide seven labeled Q1 2021 Consumer Solutions Performance. Consumer Solutions sales growth was 34% as both businesses delivered double-digit growth. Segment income increased 54%, and return on sales expanded 330 basis points to 25.1%. Pool experienced remarkable growth of almost 50% in the first quarter. Traditionally, the first quarter is preparing for the upcoming pool season, but we saw strong demand flow through the channel as we believe pool dealers continue to do their best to keep up with robust demand. The theme of consumers investing in the backyard as part of their home oasis continued. Demand for new pools remained strong as many builders saw bookings well past the current pool season. An already strong pool maintenance space grew only stronger as the freeze earlier this year in the Southern U.S. caused many premature equipment failures due to water freezing within the equipment.Pool has experienced strong double-digit sales growth for three consecutive quarters, and this would not be possible without our operations and supply teams and their ability to continuously increase capacity and execute at historically high-volume levels. We saw strong demand for pumps during the quarter and continued to see broader adoption of our variable speed pumps as a new DOE regulation goes into effect later this year. Demand for heaters remains quite high, and we have significantly increased our production capacity. Water treatment delivered 12% sales growth as residential demand remained robust and the decline in commercial volumes showed further sequential improvement. Within residential products, we saw strong growth in valves, tanks, pitchers and faucets. We experienced strong growth in the U.S., Europe and especially in China. We're in the early stages of integrating Rocean, but we believe the acquisition will greater enhance our product offerings going forward. Within residential services, we continue to experience strong demand and healthy conversion of leads into actual orders. We've made good progress on our journey to become the trusted, nationally branded experience, led in part by our brand transition to Pentair Water Solutions. We are launching a number of new recurring revenue services, including preventative maintenance programs, service bolt-ons for plumbing services, cartridge change-outs and extended warranty programs. We are seeing continued signs of these foundational building blocks coming together, leading to more consistent, predictable growth. We believe that commercial demand is finally finding a bottom and expect comps to get easier going forward. We continue to build a strong new business funnel, particularly for our total water management offerings. We believe the addition of Ken's Beverage will help strengthen these offerings.Please turn to Slide eight labeled Q1 2021 Industrial & Flow Technologies Performance. Industrial & Flow Technologies sales increased 7% in the quarter, led by another quarter of double-digit growth in residential flow, and both commercial flow and industrial filtration encouragingly posted modest growth in the quarter. Segment income increased 12%, and return on sales expanded 60 basis points to 14.5%. Residential flow grew at a double-digit rate for the second consecutive quarter as demand remains strong across residential, irrigation and ag spray. We also experienced strong growth across retail, Pro and OEM channels. Commercial flow returned to growth, with backlog growing for the first time in many quarters. While infrastructure remains soft, we were encouraged by a growing backlog within commercial. We were pleased to see industrial filtration return to growth in the first quarter and improve its backlog both year-over-year and sequentially. While headwinds remain in our longer-cycle businesses due to caution in larger capital investments, we saw solid improvement in short-cycle component demand. Within our food and beverage business, we are beginning to see orders for our beer membrane filtration systems, including a new system for beer stabilization. In addition, we continue to expand our IoT offering with existing beer customers. Finally, we have seen a substantial increase in backlog for our biogas systems. Industrial & Flow Technologies remains focused on reducing complexity, selective growth and margin expansion, and we are encouraged by the improving top and bottom line to start the year. Please turn to Slide nine labeled Balance Sheet and Cash Flow. While the first quarter is historically a period of cash flow usage due to seasonal working capital being built, we were very pleased to see only minimal usage this year and over $150 million year-over-year improvement. This was driven primarily by our pool business and improved linearity.We expect another good year of free cash flow driven by strong demand and continued disciplined working capital management. We ended the quarter at 1.3 times leverage, and our return on invested capital was a strong 16.3%. As we look at our cash flow needs going forward, we have a bond maturing in the second quarter, and we will be paying our quarterly dividend. Beyond that, we will continue to be disciplined in our capital allocation as we continue to work the M&A pipeline, and we continue to have in our plan a buyback of at least $150 million of our shares this year. Please turn to Slide 10 labeled Q2 and Full Year 2021 Pentair Outlook. We are initiating second quarter and updating our full year 2021 guidance. For the second quarter, we expect sales to grow 13% to 16%, segment income to grow 12% to 20% and adjusted EPS to grow 17% to 25% to a range of $0.69 to $0.74. For the full year, we expect sales to grow 6% to 11%, segment income to increase 10% to 16% and adjusted EPS to grow 12% to 18% to a range of $2.80 to $2.95. We continue to work through material shortages and inflation that is impacting the second quarter. We believe that our pricing actions taken in the first half will help mitigate full year inflationary pressures. We have not factored in Ken's Beverage into our forecast as we are awaiting finalization of the transaction. Embedded in our full year sales guidance is anticipated low double-digit growth in Consumer Solutions, with pool expected to be up mid-teens and water treatment up high single digits to low double digits. Within Industrial & Flow Technologies, we expect the top line to be up low-to-mid single digits, with residential above the segment average. While we are experiencing an increase in orders for the short-cycle parts of our commercial and industrial businesses, we have not yet seen larger capital spending materialize. Below the operating line, we expect corporate expense to be around $65 million, net interest to be in a range of $16 million to $18 million, our tax rate to be around 15%, and the share count is expected to average between 167 million and 168 million shares for the full year. Capital expenditures are expected to be around $65 million, while depreciation and amortization is anticipated to be about $80 million. We continue to target free cash flow to be greater than or equal to net income.I would now like to turn the call over to Stephanie for Q&A. After which, John will have a few closing remarks. Stephanie, please open the line for questions. Thank you.