  OperatorGood morning and thank you for standing by. Welcome to Abbott's first quarter 2022 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] This call is being recorded by Abbott. With the exception of any participant's questions asked during the question-and-answer session, the entire call, including the question-and-answer session, is material copyrighted by Abbott. It cannot be recorded or rebroadcast without Abbot's expressed written permission. I would now like to introduce Mr. Scott Leinenweber, vice president, investor relations, licensing, and acquisitions.Scott Leinenweber -- Vice President of Investor Relations, Licensing, and Acquisition

 



 Good morning and thank you for joining us. With me today are Robert Ford, chairman and chief executive officer; and Bob Funck, executive vice president, finance and chief financial officer. Robert and Bob will provide opening remarks. Following their comments, we will take your questions. Before we get started, some statements made today may be forward-looking for purposes of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including the expected financial results for 2022. Abbott cautions that these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. Economic, competitive, governmental, technological and other factors that may affect Abbott's operations are discussed in Item 1A Risk Factors to our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021. Abbott undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as a result of subsequent events or developments, except as required by law.On today's conference call, as in the past, non-GAAP financial measures will be used to help investors understand Abbott's ongoing business performance. These non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled with the comparable GAAP financial measures in our earnings news release and regulatory filings from today, which are available on our website at abbott.com. Note that Abbott has not provided the GAAP financial measure for organic sales growth on a forward-looking basis, because the company is unable to predict future changes in foreign exchange rates, which could impact reported sales growth. Unless otherwise noted, our commentary on sales growth refers to organic sales growth, which excludes the impact of foreign exchange. With that, I will now turn the call over to Robert. 

 



Robert Ford -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Scott. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us. Today, we reported results of another strong quarter. Earnings per share were $1.73, reflecting more than 30% growth compared to the prior year. Sales increased 17.5% on an organic basis in the quarter, led by double-digit growth in medical devices, established pharmaceuticals as well as diagnostics, both with and without COVID testing-related sales. In addition to these strong results during the quarter, we continue to strengthen our strategic position and long-term growth opportunities with regulatory approvals of new products and expanded indications of use along with continued market uptake of several recently launched products in attractive growth areas. I'll now summarize our first quarter results in more detail before turning the call over to Bob. And I'll start with established pharmaceuticals, or EPD, where sales increased 13.5% in the quarter. EPD has now achieved double-digit organic sales growth in three of the last four quarters. Strong performance this quarter was led by double-digit growth across several countries and core therapeutic areas, including gastroenterology, respiratory and CNS pain management. Turning to nutrition, where our performance was mixed. Our adult nutrition business continues to perform at a high level with global organic sales growth of 11.5%, led by our Ensure and Glucerna brands.

 



 And we also achieved double-digit growth globally in our combined toddler nutrition products, which includes our market leading PediaSure and Pedialyte brands. As you know, however, we initiated a voluntary recall in February of certain infant formula products manufactured at one of our US facilities. It's important to highlight as part of our quality system, we retain in-house samples of products that we ship to customers. Testing of retained samples related to this recall action by both Abbott and the FDA have all come back negative for the presence of the bacteria that cause the reported illnesses. Importantly, the FDA and CDC found that there is no genetic match between the strains of the bacteria identified in non-product contact areas of our facility and available samples obtained from customer complaints, suggesting a different source of contamination. And lastly, no salmonella was found in our factory or product and, therefore, the FDA ruled out any link to our facility. We hope these findings get parents, caregivers and other stakeholders renewed confidence in our products. We know the situation has further exacerbated industrywide infant formula supply shortages. That's why we're doing everything possible to mitigate supply constraints by bringing in product from our FDA-registered facility in Europe and ramping up production at our other US plants. And of course, we're working very closely with the FDA on proactive actions and enhancements so that we can restart operations at the facility. Moving to diagnostics, where sales grew 35%. COVID test sales were $3.3 billion in the quarter, more than 90% of which came from our rapid test, including BinaxNOW in the US, Panbio internationally and ID NOW globally. Excluding COVID-related -- COVID testing-related sales, our global diagnostics sales grew 12% in the quarter, driven by the continued rollout of Alinity, our innovative suite of diagnostic instruments and expanding menus across our testing platforms. And I'll wrap up with medical devices, where sales grew 11.5% in the quarter. This strong performance was led by double-digit growth in diabetes care, structural heart, heart failure and electrophysiology. In diabetes care, sales of FreeStyle Libre grew more than 25% on an organic basis in the quarter and the user base has now reached approximately 4 million users globally. In cardiovascular devices, while procedure volumes were negatively impacted by elevated COVID case rates early in the year, we saw a steady improvement in procedure trends as the case rates came down in the second half of the quarter, which has continued into April. In addition to improving market trends and our strong results, this was also another highly productive quarter for our pipeline. In the US, we received FDA approval for Aveir, our leadless pacemaker to treat patients with slow heart rhythms. In Japan, expanded reimbursement for Libre will now cover all people with diabetes who use insulin at least once a day. CardioMEMS received an expanded indication in the US to treat more patients suffering from earlier stages of heart failure. And we received US FDA clearance for the latest generation of our EnSite X system, which provides a 360-degree view of the heart for improved cardiac mapping. So in summary, we're achieving strong growth overall and across several areas of our business. As the first quarter progressed and COVID levels decreased, we saw a steady improvement in the hospital-based procedure trends, which has continued into April. And we continue to advance our pipeline with new products, indications and reimbursement coverage in several attractive growth areas. I'll now turn over the call to Bob. Bob?Bob Funck -- Executive Vice President, Finance, and Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Robert. As Scott mentioned earlier, please note that all references to sales growth rates, unless otherwise noted, are on an organic basis, which excludes the impact of foreign exchange. Turning to our results. Sales for the first quarter increased 17.5% on an organic basis, which was led by double-digit growth in diagnostics, medical devices and established pharmaceuticals along with global COVID testing-related sales of $3.3 billion in the quarter. Excluding COVID testing-related sales, organic sales growth was 7.7% versus the prior year. Foreign exchange had an unfavorable year-over-year impact of 3.7% on first quarter sales. During the quarter, we saw the US dollar continue to strengthen versus several currencies, which resulted in a more unfavorable impact on sales compared to exchange rates at the time of our earnings call in January. Regarding other aspects of the P&L, the adjusted gross margin ratio was 59.1% of sales, which reflects higher than normal fall-through on COVID testing sales as a result of significant production volumes during the first quarter, partially offset by the impacts of the nutrition recall and somewhat higher-than-expected inflation on certain manufacturing and distribution costs in the quarter. Adjusted research and development investment was 5.6% of sales and adjusted SG&A investment was 23.1% of sales in the first quarter. Lastly, our first quarter adjusted tax rate was 14.5%. Before discussing our outlook for the full year, I want to provide an update on our strategic capital deployment initiatives completed in the first quarter, which included approximately $2.3 billion of share repurchases, $800 million of dividends, scheduled debt repayment of $750 million and $300 million of capital expenditures, which support future organic growth opportunities. We continue to generate strong cash flow, which provides the flexibility required to execute a well-balanced capital allocation strategy. Turning to our outlook for the full year 2022. Our adjusted earnings per share guidance of at least $4.70 remains unchanged. We now forecast total company organic sales growth, excluding the impact of COVID testing-related sales, to be in the mid- to high single digits, which is somewhat lower than our prior forecast of high single digits due to the recent recall event in nutrition. It is important to note, excluding sales impacted by the recall, we continue to forecast total organic sales growth in the high single digits for the remainder of our combined businesses, which includes medical devices, established pharmaceuticals, diagnostics, excluding the impact of testing-related sales and areas of nutrition, not impacted by the recall. We forecast COVID testing-related sales of approximately $4.5 billion with a significant portion of these sales expected to occur in the first half of the year. We continue to -- we'll continue to update our COVID testing-related sales forecast one quarter at a time throughout the year as appropriate. Lastly, based on current rates, we would now expect exchange to have an unfavorable impact of a little more than 3% on our full year reported sales. With that, we'll now open the call for questions. 