
OperatorMy name is Erica, and I will be your conference facilitator today for Amgen's Third Quarter 2021 Financial Results Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to introduce Arvind Sood, Vice President of Investor Relations. Mr. Sood, you may now begin.Arvind Sood -- VP of Internal RelationsErica, thank you. Good afternoon, everybody. Welcome to our Q3 call. I think the three key themes for this quarter are continued execution, pipeline advancement and preparedness to launch important new products. So let's get started. The slides have been posted. A quick reminder that we'll use non-GAAP financial measures in our presentation, and some of the statements will be forward-looking statements. Our SEC filings identify factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially. So with that, I would like to turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO, Bob Bradway, Bob?Robert A. Bradway -- Chairman, Chief Executive Officer & PresidentOkay. Hello, everyone, and thank you for joining our call. It was another solid quarter of growth for Amgen with total revenues rising 4%, driven by volume growth of 8% which reflects the strong global demand for many of our innovative medicines such as Repatha and Prolia as well as for our high-quality biosimilars. Earnings per share for the quarter grew 11%, thanks to disciplined management of our operating expenses. Shifting to the future. As we begin to see beyond COVID-19, I believe we've set ourselves up well to deliver attractive growth over the long term. By way of example, I'll draw your attention to our immunology and oncology portfolios where we are building on our successful track record through a combination of internally generated innovation and strategic business development, which we expect to contribute to our long-term growth. In inflammation, we're very excited about tezepelumab, a first-in-class treatment for severe asthma that we hope to launch in the U.S. next year. Given the millions of patients for whom existing asthma therapies are inadequate, we believe tezepelumab will be a significant growth driver for us for years to come. This product builds on our many years of success in inflammation, first with Enbrel and now, of course, with Otezla. We remain optimistic about the growth potential of Otezla. And as the next step, we're eagerly awaiting an expanded indication in the U.S. for mild-to-moderate plaque psoriasis, particularly at a time when concerns have emerged for some potential new competitors.We also continue to grow Otezla globally with the product now available in over 40 countries, up from 32 countries when we acquired it. Looking a bit further into the future, we expect to bring AMGEVITA, our biosimilar to HUMIRA to the U.S. in 2023. We expect to replicate the success we've had with AMGEVITA in many other markets around the world. We're also enthusiastic about AMG 451, a Phase III-ready potential first-in-class treatment for atopic dermatitis that we're studying with our partners, Kyowa Kirin, as well as a number of Amgen-discovered therapies currently in Phase II for lupus and celiac disease. In oncology, we're happy with the recent launch in the U.S. of LUMAKRAS our first-in-class KRAS G12C inhibitor, which treats non-small cell lung cancer and we look forward to additional approvals and launches in major markets around the world as we roll forward. LUMAKRAS joins a portfolio of medicines already generating some $10 billion a year in sales. Several of these medicines delivered double-digit sales growth in the third quarter, including KYPROLIS, BLINCYTO and MVASI. Looking ahead, we're excited about the growth potential of several other oncology assets in our pipeline. We've initiated already our first Phase III trial for bemarituzumab, a potential first-in-class molecule to treat gastric and gastroesophageal junction cancers.We're also making good progress with several of our internally discovered solid BiTE -- solid tumor BiTE molecules, including one for prostate cancer and another for small cell lung cancer. In short, we have a number of products now on the market with plenty of room to grow, more coming over the next several years from our pipeline, a compelling discovery research engine to continuously replenish that pipeline and the wherewithal to take advantage of compelling business development opportunities as they arise. All that gives me confidence in our ability to serve more patients around the world and to deliver strong financial performance for our shareholders. One final note, I'd like to thank my Amgen colleagues for their continued commitment to patients and to our business. We were delighted to be named last week by Fortune Magazine as one of the 25 best workplaces in the world and that's a reflection of our people and the passion and excellence they bring to their work. Dave, let me turn it over to you.David M. Reese -- Executive Vice President of Research & DevelopmentThanks, Bob, and good afternoon, everyone. I would like to begin by welcoming our new colleagues from Teneobio, who bring expertise and technologies that will accelerate our innovation. One of our core areas of interest in research and molecular engineering is the development of multi-specific drugs to make undruggable targets tractable. The Teneobio acquisition, combined with our previous incorporation of Nuevolution and its DNA encoded library technology provides capabilities to develop both large and small molecule multi-specifics and is a good example of how we are combining internal and external sources of innovation to advance the R&D portfolio. More than 60% of the molecules in our preclinical pipeline are multi-specifics. We will have more to say as those programs advance. Across R&D, we have focused on building a portfolio of complementary assets in certain disease areas to help drive the long-term growth of the company. Turning to our clinical programs, I'll highlight a few areas where we have made significant progress and are advancing multiple first-in-class molecules. In oncology, one key area of focus is lung cancer. As you'll hear from Murdo, the LUMAKRAS launch is off to an excellent start, and the clinical programs remain on track. We have initiated the Phase II study of LUMAKRAS monotherapy in first-line non-small cell lung cancer for patients with STK11 mutant and/or PD-L1 negative tumors.We continue to expect the top line results from the Phase III confirmatory study versus docetaxel as well as data from our PD-1 combination and SHP combination cohorts in the first half of next year. In the tarlatamab or AMG 757 BiTE program targeting DLL3 in small cell lung cancer, some patients with very advanced disease in the Phase I trial have now had responses lasting over a year, supporting our potentially registrational Phase II study, which we intend to launch by year-end. Finally, in squamous non-small cell lung cancer, we will initiate a Phase Ib study of bemarituzumab directed against FGFR2b in the coming months. Turning to gastrointestinal cancers. We will begin enrolling a Phase III trial of LUMAKRAS in combination with Vectibix in third-line colorectal cancer in the coming weeks. In first-line gastric cancer, we have initiated the first of multiple Phase III studies with bemarituzumab with additional trial starts in the coming months. These studies will address regional differences in the treatment of gastric cancer by exploring bemarituzumab in combination with either backbone chemotherapy or chemotherapy plus a checkpoint inhibitor. Prostate cancer is another area of focus in oncology. With the acquisition of Teneobio, we now have two distinct BiTE-specific T cell engager technologies targeting PSMA.We anticipate decision enabling data from the expansion cohort in the acapatamab, AMG 160 program, in the first half of next year and are now exploring outpatient administration. AMG 340, formerly TNB-585 continues to progress through dose escalation, and we anticipate having informative data by the middle of next year as well, allowing us to determine the best path forward for one or both of these PSMA molecules. Finally, rounding out our prostate cancer portfolio is AMG 509, targeting STEAP1, which is also progressing through dose escalation. We anticipate having decision-making data next year. In inflammation, we spoke at length a few weeks ago about the increasing activity in our portfolio of both innovative and biosimilar molecules, regulatory approvals and launches expected in each of the next several years. In the tezepelumab program, regulatory reviews in severe asthma are proceeding with an FDA action date in the first quarter of 2022. Studies in three additional indications are in progress to investigate the utility of tezepelumab across a range of inflammatory diseases. In skin autoimmune diseases, the FDA review of Otezla for mild-to-moderate psoriasis continues with a PDUFA date in December.A few weeks ago, we presented results from a Phase II study of AMG 451, KHK4083, a the first-in-class dual action anti-OX40 antibody we are developing for atopic dermatitis in collaboration with Kyowa Kirin. These data were very well received by the medical community as there is a clear need for innovative therapies with differentiated mechanisms of action for these patients. We have had productive regulatory interactions on the program and plan to launch Phase III trials in the first half of 2022. Finally, we also expect Phase III data from biosimilar candidates to STELARA, EYLEA and SOLIRIS in the inflammation portfolio next year. In cardiometabolic disease, in atherosclerosis, the Repatha of the VESALIUS trial, Phase III outcome study of approximately 12,000 patients at high cardiovascular risk, but without prior myocardial infarction or stroke is expected to complete enrollment in the coming weeks. Olpasiran, a small interfering RNA targeting Lpa and our first RNA-based therapy remains on track to read out Phase IIb data by the middle of 2022 and provides a potential complement to Repatha in the treatment of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, by serving patients whose pathology is not driven by LDL-cholesterol. In conclusion, with an innovative portfolio where approximately 3/4 of our clinical stage programs have first-in-class potential and a growing portfolio of biosimilars, we are well positioned to continue to deliver important new medicines for patients and growth for shareholders over the near and long term. Murdo?Murdo Gordon -- Executive Vice President of Global Commercial OperationsThank you, Dave. Third quarter product sales increased 4% year-over-year. Volumes increased 8% globally, and we had record quarterly sales for several of our key products, including EVENITY, KYPROLIS, XGEVA and Nplate. Our ex U.S. business grew 19% with volume growth of 25% year-over-year. We continue to execute our volume-driven growth strategy and see gradual recovery in our business from the impact of the pandemic. During the early part of Q3, we saw volatility in patient care dynamics due to a surge in COVID-19. As we progressed through the quarter, we saw improvement in patient visits and diagnoses. Total customer activity improved during Q3. However, face-to-face customer interactions remain below 2019 levels. Now let me review some product details, beginning with our general medicine portfolio, which includes Prolia, EVENITY, Repatha, and Aimovig. Overall revenue for our general medicine portfolio grew 22% year-over-year with 24% volume growth. In bone health, Prolia sales grew 15% year-over-year, driven by double-digit volume growth. In the third quarter, new and repeat patient demand continued to improve as osteoporosis diagnosis rates reached over 90% of pre-COVID levels. EVENITY, which complements Prolia in our bone portfolio, had record sales of $149 million for the third quarter, driven by strong volume growth.Given the severe impact of fractures on the lives of postmenopausal women, EVENITY provides an excellent therapy to build bone first. Moving to Repatha, which remains the global leader in the PCSK9 class. Repatha sales increased 33% year-over-year, driven by 42% volume growth. In the U.S., we saw 64% year-over-year volume growth. This was partially offset by lower net selling price stemming from an increase in the number of Medicare Part D patients receiving Repatha and who entered the doughnut hole. Outside the U.S., volumes grew 24% year-over-year. We remain confident in our ability to grow Repatha globally to address the significant unmet medical need in treating high-risk cardiovascular patients. Moving to our inflammation portfolio, Otezla sales increased 13% year-over-year with 7% volume growth. Since its launch, Otezla has been used by over 750,000 patients globally. And in the U.S., it is the leader in bio-naive psoriasis patient share. Otezla has 92% commercial payer coverage and is an affordable, safe and efficacious option for psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis patients. We are now preparing for the anticipated U.S. approval of the mild-to-moderate psoriasis indication in the fourth quarter when we will have the opportunity for the first time to promote the use of Otezla in this patient population.Enbrel sales decreased 3% year-over-year, driven by a 2% decline in volume. This is the second straight quarter of slowing volume declines, thanks to Enbrel's long track record of efficacy and safety. Together with our partner, AstraZeneca, we're preparing for the launch of tezepelumab in the U.S. with an expected PDUFA date in early Q1 2022. Our sales force is fully staffed, trained and has been deployed to provide disease state education. We are actively engaging with payers to ensure access to patients for this breakthrough medicine. We look forward to bringing tezepelumab to the 2.5 million people around the world who live with severe uncontrolled asthma. Moving to the hematology and oncology business. Sales of our six innovative products and our MVASI and KANJINTI biosimilars collectively totaled $1.8 billion in the quarter, growing 12% year-over-year. Several brands had record sales in the quarter, including XGEVA, KYPROLIS, Nplate, and BLINCYTO. Neulasta Onpro maintained 50% volume share in the quarter and continues to be the preferred choice for physicians and patients. The most recent published average selling price for Neulasta in the U.S. declined 38% year-over-year and 10% quarter-over-quarter. Going forward, we expect increased competition to result in continued net price and volume erosion.. Our launch of LUMAKRAS is off to a strong start with revenues of $36 million in Q3 and cumulative sales of $45 million through the end of the third quarter. LUMAKRAS has been prescribed by over 500 oncologists in both academic and community settings. A majority of clinical laboratories have updated their testing reports to reflect KRAS G12C as an actionable mutation and approximately 75% of patients with non-small cell lung cancer are now being tested for the mutation at the time of diagnosis. Having been a part of several lung cancer launches in my career, I'm very pleased with the LUMAKRAS launch uptake in the U.S. Thanks to our broad payer access and the positive reaction from the oncology community. Outside the U.S., health authorities have also approved LUMAKRAS in Canada and LUMAKRAS in the U.K. Overall, I'm pleased with our results for the quarter, our record sales across a number of products and our increasing levels of customer activity. And with that, I'll turn it to Peter.Peter H. Griffith -- Executive Vice President & Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Murdo. I will briefly walk through our third quarter financial results before discussing 2021 guidance. Our team's quality of execution during the past 18 challenging months continues to provide us with the strength to make timely prudent investments as we see them in both internal and external innovation that will deliver long-term growth. Let's now turn to the business. The third quarter marked another period of solid performance with year-over-year revenue growth of 4% and non-GAAP EPS growth of 11%. As Murdo described, strong volume growth continued in the quarter with 8% year-over-year growth driven by Prolia, EVENITY, Repatha and MVASI. In addition, this quarter includes $147 million of favorable changes to estimated sales deductions previously recorded. In the third quarter last year, the favorable estimated sales deductions were $36 million, resulting in a $111 million year-over-year benefit in this quarter. Our established products, which include Neulasta, NEUPOGEN, EPOGEN, Aranesp, Parsabiv and Sensipar declined 21% year-over-year, driven by volume declines and lower net selling price. These products will continue to contribute meaningful cash flows to our broader portfolio and also to innovation. We do expect increased competition to result in additional erosion of these established products.Other revenues at $386 million increased 21% year-over-year primarily driven by shipments of the COVID-19 antibody therapy to Lilly. We expect full year 2021 other revenues to be in a range of $1.5 billion to $1.7 billion. Third quarter total non-GAAP operating expenses were flat year-over-year as continued focus on execution, productivity and efficiency fueled investments to drive long-term growth, including the third quarter share of the approximately $200 million of operating expenses expected for the full year related to the Rodeo, Five Prime and Teneobio acquisitions as well as the Kyowa Kirin collaboration. Through focused expense discipline, we now expect full year operating expenses on an absolute basis to increase approximately 3% to 4% over last year inclusive of the approximately $200 million related to these transactions. We will continue to execute on opportunities to allocate capital to important internal and external innovation opportunities. On a non-GAAP basis, cost of sales as a percent of product sales increased 1.5 percentage points on a year-over-year basis to 15.8%, driven primarily by product mix including COVID-19 antibody shipments to Lilly. For the full year, we continue to expect cost of sales as a percent of product sales to be 16% to 17%. Non-GAAP R&D spend in the quarter decreased 4% year-over-year. For the full year, we expect non-GAAP R&D spend will increase in the mid-single-digit percentage range as we progress our innovative pipeline programs, including the launch of registration-enabling trials in lung and gastric cancer.Non-GAAP SG&A expense in the quarter decreased 5% and we expect the full year to also decline as we continue our focus on execution efficiency and digitalization. Non-GAAP other income and expense net expenses increased on a year-over-year basis due to increased losses from our 20% share of BeiGene's results recorded under the equity method of accounting one quarter in arrears. We expect full year net expense in the range of $1.3 billion to $1.4 billion. We have financial flexibility with $12.9 billion in cash and investments on our balance sheet and strong cash flows. Additionally, our third quarter dividend was $1.76 per share, an increase of 10% over last year. Turning to the outlook for the business for 2021. We have invested in internal and external innovation to advance our pipeline in 2021 and continue to set ourselves up well for long-term growth. Moving to revenue. Based on underlying market dynamics, we are updating our 2021 revenue guidance range to $25.8 billion to $26.2 billion.We are increasing our non-GAAP EPS guidance range to $16.50 to $17.10. Our non-GAAP tax rate range is updated to 13% to 14%. Our capital expenditure guidance remains at $900 million, and our capital expenditures continue to include investments supporting our environmental activities and also support our commitment to attain carbon neutrality. We expect share repurchases for 2021 to be in the upper end of our range of $3 billion to $5 billion. We executed effectively in the third quarter and are well positioned for long-term growth. Before turning it over to Bob, I'd like to thank and recognize our 24,000 Amgen colleagues around the world for delivering another strong quarter of execution. Bob?Robert A. Bradway -- Chairman, Chief Executive Officer & PresidentOkay. Thank you, Peter. Why don't we open up the call now for questions. And let's remind our callers of the procedures and the request that we limit our questions to just one on the first go. Thanks.