
OperatorGood morning and welcome to the Allegion Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions].I would now like to turn the conference over to Tom Martineau, Vice President of Investor Relations and Treasurer. Please go ahead.Tom Martineau -- Vice President, Investor Relations, and TreasurerThank you, Andrew. Good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us for Allegion's third quarter 2021 earnings call. With me today are Dave Petratis, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Patrick Shannon, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Allegion.Our earnings release, which was issued earlier this morning, and the presentation, which we will refer to in today's call, are available on our website at investor.allegion.com. This call will be recorded and archived on our website.Please go to slides 2 and 3. Statements made in today's call that are not historical facts are considered forward-looking statements and are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of federal securities law. Please see our most recent SEC filings for description of some of the factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from our projections. The company assumes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements.Today's presentation and commentary include non-GAAP financial measures. Please refer to the reconciliation in the financial tables of our press release for further details. Dave and Patrick will now discuss our third quarter 2021 results, which will be followed by a Q&A session. Please, for the Q&A we would like to ask each caller to limit themselves to one question and one short follow-up. We would like to give everyone an opportunity given the time allotted.Please go to slide 4, and I'll turn the call over to Dave.David D. Petratis -- Chairman, President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Tom. Good morning and thank you for joining us today. Before we go into our third quarter results, I'd like to take a minute to acknowledge and congratulate my fellow Allegion team members for their ongoing dedication to the environment, society, and governance. I'm humbled and honored to share that just last week Allegion was recognized for ESG leadership through two different awards, the Robert W. Campbell Award and the Jackson Lewis Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Champion Award.The Campbell Award is an annual recognition by the National Safety Council, America's leading nonprofit safety advocate. It is the premier award for excellence in integrating environmental, health, and safety management into business operating systems. Winners have strong processes and show measurable achievements over a five-year period. In the EH&S performance that leads to productivity and profitability, and are expected to demonstrate a long-term track record of not just EH&S compliance, but also critical improvements.The prestigious award is also known for its rigorous application process with a systematic review and audit attached to it. Submissions are reviewed by management, labor, academic, and government experts from around the world, followed by a meticulous audit format at three or more of a company's global sites. With this in mind, Campbell Award winners are an elite group of organizations. Past winners include Boeing, Cummins, Dow Chemical, DuPont, Honeywell Aerospace and Johnson & Johnson. Allegion is proud to have our name added to this best-in-class list.We are also excited to have been named the Jackson Lewis Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Champion Award by the Indiana Chamber of Commerce. This is a statewide honor that recognizes an organization making significant strides in the workplace. The judge noted that Allegion was chosen as its first ever winner of this award because of our company's proactive and intentional diversity, equity, and inclusion efforts around the globe.We have strong momentum on our diversity efforts, and we know there's more work to be done. We're not asking the people of Allegion to agree on everything, but we need to be a place where racism and bias are rejected, where inclusion is a way of life, and where all employees feel they belong and contribute to our business success. Importantly, I've shared before that Allegion's ESG commitments are vital to how our company achieves results and the way we do business. ESG excellence will give us better long-term outcomes across the board, better employee safety, better employee engagement, better productivity, better creativity, better innovation, and stronger financial performance. We see this first-hand and external data points to it as well.Please go to slide 5. During the quarter, we experienced continued strength in demand, particularly in the Americas' non-residential market. This trend began in Q2 and accelerated through Q3. Leading indicators like ABI and Dodge new construction indices remain positive. Increased demand is for both discretionary projects and new construction and is across all verticals and product categories. The recovery has been faster than we originally anticipated and is expected to continue in the foreseeable future. Residential end-market demand is also favorable across both retail point-of-sale and new home construction.The strengthened demand continues to constrain the global supply chain's ability to fully meet demand requirements. Similar to last quarter, this was especially prevalent in electronic components in Q3. As I'm sure you're aware, this is a global issue and not isolated to Allegion or to any single industry. We have redirected resources and are taking actions such as reconfiguring and redesigning products as well as developing alternative sources of supply to help alleviate the pressures we are experiencing in procuring electronic components.Additionally, material and freight input costs continued to accelerate during Q3. We now anticipate material and freight inflation to be, approximately, $60 million higher compared to last year. In addition to the supply chain pressures we're seeing for electronics, there are also widespread industry shortages of labor and other components. Once again, these issues are not Allegion-specific, and we expect the global constraints driving these shortages to continue beyond 2021. These challenges led to margin deterioration in the quarter. We will leverage the strength of our supply chain management capabilities, as well as priced to help mitigate these impacts going forward.During the quarter, the continued robust demand coupled with the supply chain pressures resulted in record backlogs; approximately, four times normal levels. We estimate that widespread shortages have delayed approximately $80 million to $100 million of 2021 revenue. We believe this impact is evenly distributed across the third and fourth quarter. We do not believe this is lost revenue but expect it will be recovered as supply chain constraints ease.Now let's turn to the third quarter performance. For more details, please go to slide 6. Revenue for the third quarter was $717 million, a decrease of 1.6% on both a reported and organic basis. The organic revenue decrease was driven by lower volume in the Americas region related to the aforementioned electronics, components, and labor shortages. Currency tailwind and acquisitions offset the impact of divestitures. Patrick will share more details on the regions in a moment. Adjusted operating margins decreased by 330 basis points in the third quarter. Higher input costs, productivity challenges, and volume deleverage drove the majority of the decrease. Incremental investments important to our future growth caused 90 basis points of the decline. Adjusted earnings per share of $1.56 decreased $0.11, or 6.6%, versus the prior year. The decrease was driven by reduced operating income, offset by a favorable tax rate and share count. Year-to-date available cash flow came in at $327.7 million, an increase of $71.6 million, or 28% versus the prior year. The increased cash flow was driven by higher year-to-date net earnings along with improvement in net working capital and reduced capital expenditures.Patrick will now take you through the financial results and I'll be back later to discuss our 2021 outlook and wrap up.Patrick Shannon -- Senior Vice President, Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Dave, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining today's call. Please go to slide number 7. This slide reflects our earnings per share reconciliation for the third quarter. For the third quarter 2020, reported earnings per share was $1.58. Adjusting $0.09 for charges related to restructuring and impairment, the 2020 adjusted earnings per share was $1.67. Favorable tax rate drove a $0.13 increase in earnings per share. The negative tax rate for the third quarter reflects favorable settlements of uncertain tax positions, a benefit of mix of income, as well as a nonrecurring unfavorable tax impact in 2020 related to certain valuation allowances. Reduced share count drove another favorable $0.04 per share. Acquisitions and divestitures had a positive $0.02 per share impact.Operational results decreased earnings per share by $0.21, driven by higher material and freight costs, productivity challenges and volume deleverage, which more than offset the favorable impacts of price and currency. Investment spend increased during the quarter and reduced earnings per share by $0.06. As a reminder, the incremental investment spend is predominantly related to R&D, technology, and market investments to accelerate future growth. The combination of interest and other income drove another $0.03 per share reduction. This results in adjusted third quarter 2021 earnings per share of $1.56, a decrease of $0.11, or 6.6%, compared to the prior year. Lastly, we have a $0.03 per share increase driven by a gain on the sale of an equity method investment, offset slightly by the combination of restructuring charges and acquisition and integration expenses. After giving effect to these items, you arrive at the third quarter 2021 reported earnings per share of $1.59.Please go to slide number 8. This slide depicts the components of our revenue performance for the third quarter. I'll focus on the total Allegion results and cover the regions on their respective slides. As indicated, we experienced an organic revenue decline of 1.6% in the third quarter. The electronics, components, and labor shortages, primarily in the Americas region, had an impact on our ability to meet the continued strong demand. Still, we realized good price performance, which offset some of the volume decline. Currency continued to be a tailwind to total growth and offset the combined impact of acquisitions and divestitures. In total, reported revenue reduced by 1.6%.Please go to slide number 9. Third quarter revenues for the Allegion Americas segment were $524.4 million, down 2.7% on a reported basis and 3% organically. As previously stated, the supply chain pressures we are experiencing drove the revenue decline. We are still seeing strong market demand which has resulted in record backlogs, particularly in the non-residential part of the business. The region continued to deliver good price realization. Our latest price increase went into effect at the beginning of October, so we expect the price realization to accelerate in the future. On volume, Americas non-residential was down low-single digits driven by the electronics components and labor shortages. Americas residential was down high-single digits. This was uniquely driven by the prior year being inflated by channel refill coming out of the pandemic shutdowns experienced in Q2 of 2020. The shortage of electronic components also had a negative impact on residential performance, primarily in the DIY space of big box retail and e-commerce. Electronics revenue was down high-single digits driven by shortages of electronic, components in both the non-residential and residential businesses. Electronics and touchless solutions remain a long-term growth driver and is integral to our investment in innovation efforts. Americas adjusted operating income of $133.7 million decreased 19.7% versus the prior year period and adjusted operating margin for the quarter was down 540 basis points. The decrease was driven by higher material and freight costs, productivity challenges related to inconsistent supply, and volume deleverage. Incremental investments had a 100 basis point dilutive impact on adjusted margins.Please go to slide number 10. The Allegion International segment delivered another solid quarter. Third quarter revenues were $192.6 million, up 1.7% and up 2.5% on an organic basis. We continue to see strength in our SimonsVoss, Interflex, and in Global Portable Security businesses, which along with good price realization, drove the organic revenue growth. Favorable currency and acquisition impacts also contributed to total revenue growth and were slightly offset by divestitures. International adjusted operating income of $21.3 million increased 4.9% versus the prior-year period. Adjusted operating margin for the quarter increased by 40 basis points. The margin increase was driven primarily by volume leverage along with favorable impacts from divestitures and currency. The combination of price, productivity, inflation were an 80 basis point headwind to margins. Incremental investments reduced margins by 40 basis points.Please go to slide number 11. Year-to-date available cash flow for the third quarter 2021 came in at $327.7 million, which is an increase of $71.6 million compared to the prior-year period. The increase is attributed to higher year-to-date earnings, improvements in net working capital, and reduced capital expenditures. Our cash flow generation continues to be an asset to the company. Looking at the chart to the right, it shows working capital as a percentage of revenues decreased based on a four-point quarter average. The business continues to manage working capital efficiently and generates strong cash flow.I will now hand it back over to Dave for some comments on our full-year 2021 outlook.David D. Petratis -- Chairman, President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Patrick. Please go to slide number 12. On October 1st, we issued a pre-release to our earnings and updated our 2021 full-year outlook for revenue, earnings per share, and available cash flow. We are reaffirming those updated outlooks.We have talked at length about the demand strength in the Americas business as well as supply chain pressures that are having an impact on our ability to meet that demand which will delay an estimated $80 million to $100 million of revenue. The outlook for total revenue in the Americas is now projected to be at 1% to 1.5%, with organic revenue growth at 0.5% to 1%. In the Allegion International segment, we have not seen as large of an impact from component and labor shortages, and our SimonsVoss, Interflex, and Global Portable Security businesses continued to perform well. For that region, we expect total revenue growth to be between 12% and 13%, with organic growth of 9% to 10%.All in for total Allegion, total revenue is projected to be up 4% to 4.5% and organic revenue is expected to increase 3% to 3.5%. We are expecting reported EPS to come in in a range of $4.95 to $5.05 per share and adjusted EPS to be between $5.00 and $5.10. Our outlook for available cash flow is projected to be $460 million to $480 million. The outlook assumes investment spend of approximately $0.15 to $0.20 per share. The full-year adjusted effective tax rate is expected to be approximately 9%. The outlook for outstanding diluted shares is approximately 90.5 million.Please go to slide number 13. As we close the presentation and move on to Q&A, I wanted to take some time to stress Allegion's strong long-term fundamentals. First, even with the disruption caused by the global pandemic, our strategy around seamless access and electronic transformation remains strong. We expect electronic and seamless access solutions to be the future of access control, and we are using multiple innovation engines to lead the industry. You've seen proactive work from Allegion through Allegion Ventures, our recent acquisitions like Yonomi and in our Interflex business, accelerating our software and tech capabilities. We're making investments and expanding partnerships with mega-techs and leading access control platforms.We are making significant progress on our ESG journey. This is evident with the two awards that we received earlier this month. The Campbell Award given by the National Safety Council is a very prestigious honor, and we join an elite group of previous winners. I'm also proud of the Jackson Lewis Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Champion Award which we received from the Indiana Chamber, which recognizes our proactive leadership in diversity, equity, and inclusion. Congratulations to the Allegion team.All markets in America remain robust we continue to see positive trends from leading indicators like ABI and the Dodge new construction index and expect these trends to continue into 2022. With the International segment, the strength in our SimonsVoss, Interflex, and Global Portable Security business persist. We have aligned and adjusted resources to navigate and adapt the supply chain pressures that the world is experiencing. Actions taken including the redesign of products, the development of alternative supply sources, and we continue to leverage our pricing power. Allegion's supply chain will continue to differentiate us and the strength in our backlog would indicate that our channel partners believe we will navigate through the global pressures better than most.Demand remains strong. We have implemented pricing actions that will carry forward into next year, and there's substantial backlog to work down. With that backdrop, and assuming supply chain pressures related to inflation and component shortages begin to ease, we expect solid revenue growth with year-over-year margin improvement and continued strong cash flow generation into 2022. The future of Allegion remains bright.Now, Patrick and I will be happy to take your questions.