  OperatorGood morning. My name is Grace Lara, I'll be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Merck & Co. Q3 sales and earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. I would now like to turn the call over to Peter Dannenbaum, vice president of investor relations. Sir?Peter Dannenbaum -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you, Grace, and good morning. Welcome to Merck's third quarter 2021 conference call. Speaking on today's call will be Rob Davis, our chief executive officer; Frank Clyburn, president of human health; Caroline Litchfield, chief financial officer; and Dr. Dean Li, president of Merck Research Labs. Before we get started, I'd like to point out a few items. You will see that we have items in our GAAP results such as acquisition-related charges, restructuring costs and certain other items. You should note that we have excluded these from our non-GAAP results and provide a reconciliation in our press release. I would like to remind you that some of the statements that we make today may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provision of the U.S.Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are made based on the current beliefs of Merck's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. If our underlying assumptions prove inaccurate or uncertainties materialize, actual results may differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Our SEC filings, including Item 1A in the 2020 10-K, identify certain risk factors and cautionary statements that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any of our forward-looking statements made this morning. Merck undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements. During today's call, a slide presentation will accompany our speakers' prepared remarks. The presentation, today's earnings release as well as our SEC filings are all posted to the investor relations section of Merck's website. With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Rob. Rob Davis -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Peter. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining today's call. I'm very pleased to report significant progress across our key growth and strategic priorities in Merck's first full quarter as a more agile and focused science-driven company. We have strong momentum in our business. We have achieved notable clinical milestones, active on a significant business development opportunity consistent with our strategy and executed commercially to drive strong performance this quarter. We're also working with diligence and urgency, which is reflected in the speed with which we were able to bring forward our investigational COVID-19 antiviral, molnupiravir, and to rapidly file for emergency use authorization with the FDA. It's an exciting time at Merck, and we are determined to build on our recent successes as we pursue our mission to deliver innovations that save and improve lives and as we seek to create long-term value for both our patients and our shareholders. Dean will speak to the significant pipeline advancements we're making in a minute. But I first want to congratulate him and our research colleagues, as well as our partners at Ridgeback Biotherapeutics, on the meaningful clinical results we recently reported regarding the development of molmupiravir. From the onset of the pandemic, Merck has sought out opportunities to apply its scientific expertise in the global fight against COVID-19, and we are very pleased to now be in a position to make a meaningful difference. As you are aware, at a planned interim analysis of our Phase III trial in at-risk nonhospitalized adult patients with mild to moderate COVID-19, molnupiravir reduced the risk of hospitalization or death by approximately 50% compared with placebo. Based on these results and in consultation with the FDA, we stopped our trial early. We are now working with the FDA as the agency reviews our EUA application, and we look forward to next month's advisory committee discussion. I'm pleased with the progress we are making to enter supply and purchase commitments with numerous governments and healthcare systems around the world and with the success of our effort to rapidly build supply. I'm also proud that we will be positioned to provide access to patients around the world through voluntary license agreements, tiered pricing based on country affordability and to our agreement with the Medicines Patent pool. We've also taken a meaningful step toward augmenting our pipeline through business development, a key strategic priority. The announced acquisition of Acceleron is a perfect example of our effort to identify and bring in the strongest external science to supplement our own work. Acceleron's lead product candidates, sotatercept has the potential to become foundational as an add-on therapy in the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension, where there is a strong need for a new agent that can potentially address the underlying illness and not just the symptoms of this grievous disease. We look forward to the completion of our tender offer in the near future and to receiving the necessary regulatory approvals that will permit us to close the transaction. With its multibillion-dollar peak sales potential, and commercial exclusivity well into the next decade. Sotatercept can contribute meaningful revenue growth in the KEYTRUDA LOE period, an important attribute of this and potential future targets. Dean and I will continue to work with our team to identify additional scientifically compelling business development opportunities while also continuing to pursue a robust and growing internal pipeline. Our business performed exceptionally well this quarter, and the team continues to display superior and focused execution. We achieved very strong commercial and financial results with meaningful growth across our oncology Vaccines and Animal Health businesses and even greater growth in earnings. As expected, GARDASIL sales were particularly robust as we benefited from a sharp improvement in manufacturing output and availability of more doses to help address ongoing strong underlying demand. We are confident that the momentum we are seeing will continue through the end of the year, setting us up for continued growth over the next several years. We remain focused on our efforts to transform the way we work by evolving our operating model to be leaner, nimbler and more digitally enabled. My leadership team is fully aligned behind the need for Merck to work with more speed, urgency and agility across all aspects of our business. We must stay ahead of the evolving external environment to ensure we are able to make the significant investments required to deliver future innovations that will address unmet medical needs across the globe. In doing so, we aim to deliver important medicines and vaccines to patients while continuing to drive long-term sustainable growth and value creation for all of our stakeholders. Finally, I want to highlight the recent publication of Merck's Environmental, Social and Governance Progress Report. This year's report highlights important updates on metrics and goals around our four ESG priority areas, which include access to health; our employees, including their health and safety as well as engagement and diversity; environmental sustainability and ethics and values. These ESG efforts are grounded in the core values that have always guided our mission and support our business strategy. We look forward to providing ongoing updates on these important efforts. With that, I will pass it to Frank to review the details behind our Human Health performance.Frank Clyburn -- President, Human Health Thanks, Rob. Good morning. As Rob highlighted, the momentum in our Human Health business continued in the third quarter, and we achieved 17% growth, excluding the impact of foreign exchange. We have continued to invest with urgency in patient activation programs that improve patient awareness and encourage more normal levels of physician office visits, oncology screens and vaccination rates. These actions, while ended benefiting patient health, also meaningfully benefited our largely physician-administered portfolio in the quarter. In the United States, we are encouraged that wellness visits and surgical procedures remain at mostly normal levels. In oncology, while screening rates and diagnosis continue to improve, they are unfortunately still below pre-coated levels, and this is impacting new patient starts. Outside of the United States, our business performance remains strong despite lingering impacts from the pandemic in certain markets. Now turning to the third quarter performance of our key brands. My comments will be on an exchange basis. In oncology, KEYTRUDA sales grew 21% to $4.5 billion, reflecting continued robust global demand. In the United States, KEYTRUDA continues to demonstrate durable momentum across all key tumors, including growth from our recent launches such as KEYNOTE-522 in neoadjuvant adjuvant triple-negative breast cancer. KEYTRUDA is continuing to extend its very strong overall IO class leadership, improving new and total patient market share. KEYTRUDA continues to maintain its leadership position in lung cancer, capturing eight out of 10 eligible new patients despite continued competition. Outside of lung, key tumors contributing to growth include renal cell carcinoma, triple-negative breast, MSI high, esophageal and head and neck. We are also excited by the recent approval and upcoming launch of KEYNOTE-826, which is the first anti-PD-1 combination approved as a first-line treatment of cervical cancer. Outside of United States, KEYTRUDA growth continues to be driven by lung cancer indications and the ongoing launches in head and neck and renal cell carcinoma. We are continuing to see the opportunity to expand our reach into earlier lines of therapy materialize. We are very excited about the potential upcoming adjuvant launches of KEYNOTE-564 in renal cell carcinoma and KEYNOTE-716 in melanoma. In fact, in the United States, we expect over half of KEYTRUDA's growth to come from indications in early stage treatment settings through 2025 and to represent roughly 30% of total contributed sales by that time. Lynparza sales grew 25%, and it remains the leading PARP inhibitor. Growth was driven by our breast cancer indication and continued uptake of the most recent indications, including ovarian prostate, and we look forward to the potential launch next year in a broader prostate population based on the PROPEL trial. Lenvima sales grew 30%. In the United States, growth was driven by renal cell carcinoma and endometrial cancer. We've seen very encouraging early trends from the launch of KEYNOTE-581 in first-line renal cell carcinoma. Outside the United States, growth is reflective of increased demand following NRDL listing in China in March of this year. We're also excited by the recent approval of WELIREG for patients with certain VHL-associated tumors. We received very positive feedback from scientific leaders, providers and patients about the benefits of WELIREG, which is off to a promising start, and we are hopeful to extend the reach of WELIREG to broader RCC indications in the future. Our vaccines portfolio continued to deliver strong growth from GARDASIL, which grew 63% to $2 billion and has grown 35% year-to-date. In the United States, the increase in year-over-year growth was primarily driven by the timing of CDC purchases, which helped us overcome a below normal back-to-school season. Underlying demand for GARDASIL remains strong, and we are seeing some benefits from recovery of missed doses due to the pandemic. Outside the United States, growth was largely driven by strong underlying demand in China, as well as increased supply and our ability to reallocate doses. In our hospital acute care portfolio, BRIDION sales grew 15%, driven by our ability to capture increased market share within the growing neuromuscular blockade reversal plans. Turning to our outlook. The robust underlying demand for our products, paired with our continued excellent commercial execution, gives us confidence in the outlook for our business. Merck has shown increased urgency and agility across our organization that has resulted in improvements that will enable meaningful future growth. On GARDASIL, we continue to expect robust ex U.S. demand and increased supply to drive fourth quarter performance. We expect to see more normal seasonality for GARDASIL with the third quarter reflecting the highest in sales. Our teams have been working to ensure we have the right processes in place to appropriately allocate doses to areas of increased demand, particularly as COVID variants continue to impact certain geographies. These dynamics will drive very strong year-over-year growth for GARDASIL in the fourth quarter, driven by ex U.S. markets such as China. Given global HPV vaccination levels remain low, we continue to believe long-term growth opportunity for GARDASIL remains significant. In oncology, we are encouraged by our strong performance throughout the pandemic with new launches more than offsetting the headwinds seen from reduced new patient starts. We remain confident in the underlying demand for our broad and innovative portfolio, including KEYTRUDA, Lynparza and LENVIMA, and we expect to drive sustained growth across key tumor types and in earlier stages of disease. Next, let me provide a few comments on the outlook for monopirivir. As Rob mentioned, we are very excited about the potential to offer the first oral treatment option to at-risk adults with mild to moderate COVID-19 in an effort to help combat the pandemic. Merck is committed to providing widespread access to monoperivir globally and is implementing a tiered pricing approach based on World Bank country income criteria. We have announced a number of supply and purchase commitments to date, and we continue to have discussions on similar agreements with customers around the world. We are also encouraged by the recent unanimous vote by the Advisory Committee on Immunization practices. Upon adoption as a final recommendation by the CDC, this sequence would offer patients the broadest coverage against serotypes responsible for about two-thirds of invasive pneumococcal disease cases in adults. As we think about our pneumococcal portfolio more broadly, we are excited about the potential opportunity for Vacuvant in the pediatric setting, which represents a larger market segment. To conclude, there is continued momentum in our business, driven by demand and strong commercial execution, and we are well positioned as we move through the end of the year. The growth in the third quarter underscores our confidence in the underlying strength of our business and global demand for our innovative medicines and vaccines, and we look forward to driving that growth long into the future. With that, I'll turn the call over to Caroline.Caroline Litchfield -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Frank. Good morning. Our team drove exceptional financial performance in the third quarter. The investments we are making in our strong portfolio and pipeline, as well as in business development, are helping us deliver outstanding near-term performance while also positioning us to continue to deliver important innovations and long-term value to patients and shareholders. Now turning to our third quarter results. Total company revenues were $13.2 billion, an increase of 20% or 19%, excluding the positive impact of foreign exchange. The remainder of my comments will be on an ex exchange basis. As Frank highlighted, our Human Health business achieved improving momentum, growing 17%. Our Animal Health business also delivered robust growth with sales increasing 14% driven by strong global demand across both companion animal and livestock. Companion Animal sales increased 18%, driven by global demand in parasiticide, including the Bravecto line of products, as well as Companion Animal vaccines. Livestock sales increased 12%, reflecting strong global demand for ruminant and poultry products, including our Animal Health Intelligence products. I will now walk you through the remainder of our P&L, and my comments will be on a non-GAAP basis. Gross margin was 76.8%, an increase of 0.3 percentage points, reflecting the favorable effect of product mix, partially offset by higher manufacturing costs. Operating expenses increased 11% to $4.7 billion. This was driven by investments in our key growth pillars, particularly in supportive return to care activities and in our early and late-stage pipeline, including molnupiravir. Other expense increased by approximately $200 million, reflecting higher pension settlement costs. The effective tax rate was 13%, a decrease of 1.4 percentage points driven by discreet items [Audio gap] expecting significant growth of 25% to 26%. This range includes a positive impact from foreign exchange of approximately 2% using mid-October rates. As you consider your models, there are a few areas to focus on. Starting with molnupiravir revenue. We expect the global opportunity to be approximately $5 billion to $7 billion through 2022, including $0.5 billion to $1 billion expected to be realized this year. This assumes emergency use authorization in December. As a reminder, we will share any profit equally with our partner, Ridgeback. Merck is responsible for recording global revenues and costs and will reflect the profit share within cost of sales. For GARDASIL, we have had excellent momentum driven by strong demand and benefit from the step function increase in supply we are achieving this year. Fourth quarter sales will be lower than the third quarter due to normal seasonality and timing effects. However, we expect the growth in the quarter to remain very robust. Animal Health has had exceptional growth in the first three quarters of the year, driven in part by the pandemic effect on pet adoption and pet spending. In the fourth quarter, we will anniversary that effect, and we expect a more normalized year-over-year growth rate as a result. Our operating margin in the third quarter benefited from very strong revenue performance, including the normal seasonality of our vaccine business. As we move through the fourth quarter, we expect operating margins to normalize due to this seasonality and phasing of spend. More broadly, as we look out to 2024, we remain confident in our revenue potential and continue to believe it is underappreciated. And we remain on track to achieve our 2024 operating margin target of greater than 42%. Our capital allocation priorities remain unchanged. We will continue to invest in the business to drive the many significant near- and long-term growth opportunities we see in our risk portfolio and rich pipeline. We also continue to execute on our business development strategy, including our announced acquisition of Acceleron. We will pursue additional value-enhancing and strategic business development opportunities, and we retain significant balance sheet capacity to do so. We remain committed to the dividend with the goal of increasing it over time. To the extent we have excess cash, we will return it to shareholders through share repurchases. To conclude, Merck continues to make exceptional progress on its commitment to drive growth and value for patients and shareholders. We remain in a position of financial and operational strength which will enable us to deliver on that promise now and well into the future. With that, I'd now like to turn the call over to Dean.Dean Li -- President, Merck Research Labs Thank you, Caroline. Good morning, everyone. It is a pleasure to be here to provide a summary of progress made since our last quarter call. I will provide an update on our oral antiviral candidate, molnupiravir, highlight the proposed Acceleron acquisition, spotlight some recent progress with islatravir and finish with the synopsis of notable regulatory milestones and clinical updates from across the pipeline. The need for additional treatment options remains key in combating the COVID-19 pandemic. Interim analysis from move-out, our Phase III study evaluating monitarvir in at-risk non-hospitalized patients with mild to moderate COVID-19 showed an approximately 50% reduction in the risk of hospitalization or death compared to placebo. Of note, through day 29, no deaths were reported in patients who received molnupiravir compared to eight deaths on placebo. This is the first oral antiviral for a respiratory virus to demonstrate benefits based on robust clinical outcomes and the first to show a meaningful five-day window for therapeutic intervention after symptoms entree. Based on these positive results and at the recommendation of the intended data monitoring committee and in consultation with the FDA, recruitment into the study was stopped early. In light of these findings and given the urgency to address the pandemic, our teams worked tirelessly to submit a robust package to the FDA for EUA within 10 days of receiving data. We look forward to discussing the EUA submission at an upcoming meeting of the Antimicrobial Drugs Advisory Committee scheduled for November 30. And in the interim, we continue to engage with the FDA to support its review. Applications have also been submitted to multiple regulatory agencies around the world. I do wish to take a moment to thank the investigators, patients and their families for their participation in the move-out study. I am also grateful to our collaborators at Emory University, Ridgeback and Merck's internal teams with incredible work done in conducting this program during a very challenging time. A comprehensive vaccination strategy remains the best sustainable means to confront this COVID-19 pandemic. timely intervention following symptoms onset with an oral agent that can be self-administered at home may provide an additional meaningful option for patients, healthcare systems and public health, which could make a significant and positive impact on the pandemic. Based on a valuable viral sequence data, molnupiravir showed consistent efficacy against the gamma, delta and new COVID-19 variant. As a reminder, we continue to actively recruit participants in the Move Ahead trial, which is evaluating the safety and efficacy of molnupiravir and preventing the spread of COVID-19 within households as a post-exposure prophylactic with a planned readout in the spring of 2022. Now turning to the proposed Acceleron acquisition. Acceleron has an excellent scientific pedigree, which has yielded important treatment for anemia in adult patients with certain rare blood disorders. Their lead clinical candidate, separate, has the potential to be a foundational asset as an add-on therapy for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension and provide a complementary addition to our growing cardiovascular pipeline. As such, following the close of the deal, our strategy would be to advance the wide-ranging Phase III clinical program. Now on to the portfolio and pipeline, starting with HIV. We continue to generate clinical data that reinforces the foundational potential islatravir and HIV. At the European AIDS Conference in London this week, we presented data from the Phase II study evaluating doravirine and islatravir in previously untreated adults with HIV infections, which demonstrated continued maintenance of viral suppression through 144 weeks. We also recently reported positive top line results from two pivotal trials evaluating a once-daily oral regimen of daravarine and ezlosevir in a switch setting in adults with HIV infection who are virologically suppressed on other HIV therapy regimen. At 48 weeks, both trials met their primary efficacy endpoint for percentage of participants with levels of HIV RNA greater than or equal to 50 copies per milliliter, demonstrating comparable efficacy with those receiving the comparator anti virtual viral therapy. We plan to present these findings at upcoming medical congress and incorporate the data into global regulatory submission. This week, we also announced the start of a Phase II clinical study evaluating a once-weekly oral combination of islatravir and lenacapavir in people living with HIV who are virologically suppressed on an antiretroviral therapy. We have made great progress in our collaboration with Gilead and look forward to reporting our future developments, including our long-acting injectable co-formulation. Next, on to vacate. We received a positive opinion for back events from the European Medicine Agency's Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Youth in individuals 18 years and older. And more recently, in the U.S., the CDC's ACIP unanimously to provisionally recommend a new band followed by New Mobax as an option for pneumococcal vaccination in adult 65 years and older as well as for adults aged 19 to 64 with certain underlying medical conditions with both patient populations being studied in our clinical trials. Vaccine performance is multidimensional and includes eliciting a strong [inaudible] as well as providing coverage for important disease heritage. Our two-dose regimen accomplishes the best of both by listening a robust immune response across the 15 serotypes in Baxuvans, including serotype-3, as well as providing the broadest seritide coverage among current pneumococcal vaccine options, of which four that are unique to New Oba. Furthermore, [inaudible] fans has the most extensive clinical development program of the newly licensed TCV. This includes completed or ongoing evaluations among those with certain chronic for an immune compromised conditions that increase the susceptibility to and severity of pneumococcal disease. We also announced positive top line results for BAX events from the pivotal new PED study, evaluating immunogenicity, safety and tolerability in the pediatric setting and have submitted an application to the FDA. Evidence indicates the incorporation of serotypes 22F and 33F, as well as strong immunogenicity against serotype-3 has the potential to play an important role in the prevention of pneumococcal disease in infants and children. These three serotypes represent more than one-fourth of all cases of invasive disease in children under the age of five. We will present full results at an upcoming scientific congress. And finally, to oncology. The rich flow of data from our clinical development programs across tumor types continue. We maintain momentum in the development of new treatment options for women's cancer with the approval of KEYTRUDA plus chemotherapy with or without bevacizumab for recurrent or metastatic cervical cancer based on data from KEYNOTE A26. This study showed a meaningful 36% [inaudible] death. This is the first anti-PD-1 combination treatment option for patients in the first-line setting and together with our industry-leading human papillomavirus vaccine, GARDASIL and GARDASIL 9, we are uniquely positioned to address certain unmet needs in cervical cancer with a focus on both prevention and treatment. At ESMO in September, we presented final results from KEYNOTE-355, our study of KEYTRUDA in combination with chemotherapy for advanced triple-negative breast cancer, which showed a reduction in the risk of death by 27%. And KEYTRUDA is the only immuno-oncology agent approved in metastatic triple-negative breast cancer. This, along with additional data presented across endometrial and ovarian cancers reinforces the remarkable progress being made in our broad women's cancer portfolio. We are also making inroads in new cancer cuts, including prostate cancer. With our partners at AstraZeneca, we announced positive results from the Phase III PROPEL study for the frontline treatment of metastatic aspiration resistant prostate cancer. This study demonstrated the Lynparza, in combination with abiretinol, significantly delayed disease progression regardless of biomarker status. And part is the first PARP inhibitor to demonstrate clinical benefit in radiographic progression-free survival in combination with a new hormonal agent in this setting. We are encouraged by this study and the potential to help the increasing number of men diagnosed with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer. Results will be presented at an upcoming medical meeting and submitted to regulatory authorities globally. Next, to renal cell carcinoma, which represents an important area of expansion. In August, we received FDA approval for WELIREG, a first-in-class HIF2 alpha inhibitor therapy for the treatment of adult patients with boniflimdol disease who require therapy for associated renal cell carcinoma, central nervous system, hemangioblastomas or pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors, not requiring immediate surgery. This approval provides us a beat check as we evaluate weared potential in broader RCC indications and beyond. Also in RCC in partnership with ASA, following FDA priority review, we received approval for the combination of KEYTRUDA and Lenvima in the frontline setting based on results from the KEYNOTE-581 trial. This brings forth an important new first-line treatment option for patients with advanced RCC. We are also rapidly expanding programs into earlier lines of therapy. During the quarter, the FDA granted priority review for our application for KEYTRUDA as an adjuvant therapy for patients with RCC at intermediate high or high risk of recurring following effectively or following effectomy and resection metastatic lesions from the KEYNOTE-564 study. Additionally, we received priority review for KEYTRUDA for the treatment of patients with surgically resected high-risk Stage two melanoma based on results on the KEYNOTE-716 study that showed an improvement in recurring free survival compared to placebo. Both of these studies demonstrates the benefit of expanding the use of KEYTRUDA to earlier stages of disease, allowing us to extend treatment benefits to more patients sooner. We look forward to a decision on both studies by the end of the year. To conclude, I am proud of the progress across our broad pipeline and look forward to providing further updates on our scientific progress in the future. Now I turn the call back to Peter.Peter Dannenbaum -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you, Dean. Grace, can you please start the Q&A portion of the call? And I'd like to ask the questioners to limit themselves to one question today in order to get to as many different questions as possible. 