  OperatorWelcome to the Jack Henry & Associates third quarter fiscal year 2022 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Kevin Williams, chief financial officer and treasurer. Please go ahead.Kevin Williams -- Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer Thanks, Tom. Good morning, and thank you for joining us for the Jack Henry & Associates third quarter fiscal 2022 earnings call. I'm Kevin Williams, CFO and treasurer. And on the call with me today is David Foss, board chair and CEO. In just a minute, I will turn the call over to Dave, so he can provide some of his thoughts about the state of our business, financial and sales performance for the quarter, some comments regarding the industry in general and some other key initiatives that we have in place. Then after Dave concludes his comments, I will provide some additional thoughts and comments regarding the press release we put out yesterday after market close and also provide comments regarding our updated guidance for the remainder of our fiscal year 2022. We will then open the call, open the lines up for Q&A. First, I need to remind you that this call includes certain forward-looking statements, including remarks or responses to questions concerning future expectations, events, objectives, strategies, trends or results.Like any statement about the future, these are subject to a number of factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those which we anticipate due to a number of risks and uncertainties. The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise these statements. For a summary of these risk factors and additional information, please refer to yesterday's press release and the sections in our 10-K entitled Risk Factors and Forward-Looking Statements. Also on this call, we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures, including non-GAAP revenue and non-GAAP operating income. The reconciliations for historical non-GAAP financial measures can be found in yesterday's press release. With that, I'll now turn the call over to Dave. Dave Foss -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Kevin. Good morning, everyone. We're very pleased to report another quarter of revenue and operating income growth and an overall solid performance by our business. As always, I'd like to begin today by thanking our associates for all the hard work and commitment that went into producing those results for our third fiscal quarter. For Q3 of fiscal 2022, total revenue increased 10% for the quarter and increased 7% on a non-GAAP basis. As projected on our last call, deconversion fees were up more than $13 million over the prior-year quarter. Turning to the segments. We again had a good quarter in the core segment of our business. Revenue increased 12% for the quarter and increased by 7% on a non-GAAP basis. Our payments segment performed very well, posting a 10% increase in revenue this quarter and a 9% increase on a non-GAAP basis. We also had a strong quarter in our complementary solutions businesses, with a 10% increase in revenue this quarter and a 7% increase on a non-GAAP basis. As I mentioned in the press release, our core sales teams again had an extremely solid quarter and we continue to see core activity consistent with our pre-pandemic run rate. During the quarter, we inked 14 competitive core takeaways, so we continue at the approximately one deal per week run rate I've discussed on recent calls. In addition to our success signing new core clients, we signed nine existing on-prem core customers to move to our private cloud environment. In addition to the tremendous success we experienced in our core business this quarter, we continued to sign new clients to our digital banking suite. During the third quarter, we signed 38 new clients to our Banno platform, and we continue to see increased interest in this offering as well as the rest of our digital suite. On our last quarterly call, I mentioned that the sales team set an all-time sales booking record in our fiscal Q2. Although we didn't break that record in Q3, we did set a record for the strongest Q3 in history with sales bookings coming in almost 40% higher than the same quarter last year. This extraordinary sales performance in a quarter that is normally lighter than others is reflective of the interest in our company and demand for Jack Henry technology solutions in our market. Regarding our Banno Digital suite, as of March 31, we have just over 7.1 million users live on the Banno Platform. We continue to enjoy the highest consumer rating in the App Store, and we are regularly recognized as the fastest application in the industry. As I've said before, I expect our success in this area to grow as we continue to add new functionality and features to the platform. On our last quarterly call, I shared an announcement regarding our technology modernization strategy and how we believe it will help position our clients for greater success in the future. As many of you know, that announcement has been received very positively by many experts in our industry, and our strategy has been highlighted in a wide variety of publications. Several pieces are still in production, but so far, we've been interviewed for close to 40 different articles, podcast interviews and video podcasts for publications with a combined subscriber base of more than 53 million people. Hopefully, you've all seen the new corporate sustainability report that we published on March 31. I think it's an excellent representation of the key initiatives and accomplishments we've been working on since we published our last report more than a year ago. In this new report, we provided more detail on the demographic makeup of our workforce, a summary of our employee engagement survey results, more information about our data privacy and cybersecurity practices and a significantly enhanced update on climate-related risks. This year's report also includes an appendix with detailed disclosures aligned with the Sustainability Accounting Standards board, or SASB, and the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure, or TCFD. We continue to make great strides in the key areas of ESG and are committed to providing more detailed information about our progress over time. Although you regularly see Jack Henry recognized as the best place to work in various contests around the country, we received two new designations last quarter that recognize us as a company that isn't simply an outstanding employer. Inc. Magazine recognized us as one of America's best led companies and Newsweek recognized us as one of America's most responsible companies. Both awards are great recognition for our ongoing commitment to do the right thing for all of our Jack Henry stakeholders. As we announced a few months ago, Ted Bilke will be retiring at the end of June after 17 years with our company. Ted ran the Symitar division for many years but shifted to become our chief technology officer a few years ago to help us define and finalize our technology modernization strategy. Our modernization strategy benefited significantly from Ted's years of experience speaking directly with our customers about their technology wants and needs. I'd like to thank Ted for his many years of leadership and for helping us to drive consistent success for our customers and shareholders. As you are also aware, we've been working to find a new CFO, so Kevin can enjoy a much deserved retirement. That process has been slower than I had hoped, but we expect to name a new CFO in the near future. Kevin has graciously agreed to stay with us until we're ready to make the transition, so we still have no formal departure date for him. Today, however, we're announcing that Renee Swearingen has been named senior vice president and chief accounting officer for Jack Henry. Renee has been with the company for more than 25 years and is a key leader on our management team. You'll see a press release with this announcement later today, but I want to take this opportunity to congratulate Renee and thank her for her partnership for these many years. As we look forward to the end of our fiscal year, our sales pipeline is very strong, and we continue to be optimistic about the strength of our technology solutions, our ability to deliver outstanding service to our customers, our ability to expand our customer relationships, the spending environment and our long-term prospects for success. I look forward to seeing and chatting with many of you at our investor day in Dallas next Monday. With that, I'll turn it over to Kevin for some detail on the numbers.Kevin Williams -- Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer Thanks, Dave. Our service and support revenue increased 11% in the third quarter of fiscal 2022 compared to the same quarter a year ago. As Dave mentioned, our deconversion revenue was up $13.1 million for the quarter compared to last year's quarter. License, hardware and implementation revenue combined were essentially flat compared to the prior year and our data processing hosting fees in our private and public cloud offerings, which continue to show strong growth in the quarter compared to previous year growing by 11% for the quarter. On a non-GAAP basis, total support and services revenue grew 6% for the quarter compared to the prior year. And just a reminder, that non-GAAP essentially the only difference is backing out the deconversion revenue that was recognized in the quarter. Our processing revenue increased 9% in the third quarter of fiscal 2022 compared to the same quarter last year on both a GAAP and non-GAAP basis. The increase is primarily driven by higher card volumes and digital revenue continues to show strong growth as demand for our Banno Digital Platform continues to be very strong. Total revenue was up 10% for the quarter compared to last year on a reported GAAP basis and increased 7% on a non-GAAP basis. Cost of revenue was up 5% compared to last year's third quarter. The increase was primarily due to higher costs associated with customer maintenance and license costs, card and transaction processing increased in line with the related revenue growth and also higher personnel costs compared to a year ago. Research and development expense increased 12% for the third quarter of fiscal 2022 compared to last year. The increase is primarily due to increased personnel costs this year compared to last. And SG&A expense increased 13% in the third quarter compared to the same quarter of last year. Again, this increase was due primarily to increased personnel costs and also increased travel-related costs compared to the prior year. Our reported consolidated operating margins increased from 21% last year to 23.3% in the current year quarter for a 220 bp increase. On a non-GAAP basis, our operating margins expanded from 20.3% last year to 20.9% this year for a 60 bps expansion. The effective tax rate for the third quarter of fiscal 2022 increased to 23.6% compared to 21.5% in the same quarter a year ago, which is in line with the guidance we've provided for the year. Net income grew 19% to $84.7 million for the third fiscal quarter compared to $71.4 million last year with earnings per share of $1.16 for the current quarter compared to $0.95 last year, for a $0.21 or a 22% increase over the previous year quarter. Some comments on cash flow. Our total amortization increased 2.6% for the year to date compared to last year due to capitalized software projects being placed in service. Included in total amortization is amortization of intangibles related to acquisitions, which decreased to $12.4 million this year to date compared to $13.3 million last year's first three quarters of the fiscal year. Depreciation actually decreased 3.7% compared to the first nine months of the prior fiscal year. Operating cash flow was $301.4 million for the year to date, which is up from $266.3 million last year, which this is primarily due to increased net income during the first nine months compared to the previous year and the timing and change of various operating assets and liabilities considered in the calculation of operating cash flow. We invested $145.1 million back into our company through capex, purchase and capitalized software. Our free cash flow, which is operating cash flow less capex and cap software and then adding back net proceeds from disposal of assets was $156.4 million for the first nine months of the fiscal year. Also during the first nine months, we spent $193.9 million to purchase 1.25 million shares for the treasury, none in the current quarter, and we paid dividends of $103.4 million for a total return to shareholders of $297.3 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2022. A couple of comments on our balance sheet. As of June 30, our cash position was $39.8 million compared to $70.1 million a year ago. Our revolver balance was $225 million compared to $200 million a year ago, which the change in cash and our debt balance is primarily related to the 4.1 million shares we've purchased in the last 24 months. Our return on average assets for the trailing 12 months was 16%, our return on average equity for the trailing months was 27.2% and our return on invested capital for the trailing 12 months was 23.4%, all very solid returns. For updated guidance, in the press release yesterday, we provided both GAAP and non-GAAP revenue guidance. We also provided a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP revenue in the release following the segment information. However, just to be clear, this guidance continues to assume that the country continues to open and the economy continues to improve. For GAAP revenue growth for fiscal '22 based on the amounts in the release yesterday, our revenue guidance continues to reflect a little higher than 10% growth over fiscal '21, which we still anticipate deconversion revenue to be approximately $49 million to $50 million for the entire fiscal year. And as we thought, some of the Q4 actually pulled into Q3 so we are not anticipating very much deconversion revenue in Q4. For non-GAAP revenue growth, we continue to guide to be just under 9% growth for the fiscal year. We continue to anticipate GAAP and non-GAAP operating margins to improve a little in FY '22 compared to last year. But again, I continue to be somewhat cautious on guiding too much of a non-GAAP operating margin expansion as we continue to have headwinds on license and hardware revenue as we continue to move more core customers from on-premise to our private cloud. Also, our travel costs continued to increase significantly compared to the prior year. However, we are still comfortable that full year non-GAAP operating margins will expand approximately 50 bps or higher but also a reminder, the highest margin quarter is our Q1 due to software subscriptions in that quarter. Our effective tax rate for the year continues to be projected to be slightly higher than 23% compared to the prior-year rate. And our updated FY '22 GAAP EPS guidance is now a range of $4.80 to $4.85, which is an increase from the previous guidance of $4.75 to $4.80 a share. That concludes our opening comments, and we are now ready to take questions. Tom, will you please open the call lines up for questions? 