
OperatorGood afternoon and welcome to the F5 Networks Second Quarter Fiscal 2021 Financial Results Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] After the speaker's presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] If anyone has any objections, please disconnect at this time.I will now turn the call over to Ms. Suzanne DuLong. Ma'am, you may begin.Suzanne DuLong -- Vice President of Investor RelationsHello and welcome. I'm Suzanne DuLong, F5's Vice President of Investor Relations. Francois Locoh-Donou, F5's President and CEO; and Frank Pelzer, F5's Executive Vice President and CFO, will be making prepared remarks on today's call. Other members of the F5 executive team are also on hand to answer questions during the Q&A session.A copy of today's press release is available on our website at f5.com where an archived version of today's call will be available through July 25, 2021. Today's live discussion is supported by slides which are viewable on the webcast and will be posted to our IR site at the conclusion of today's discussion. To access the replay of today's call by phone dial (800) 585-8367 or (416) 621-4642 and use meeting ID 3461547. The telephonic replay will be available through midnight Pacific Time, April 28th. For additional information or follow-up questions, please reach out to me directly at s.dulong@f5.com.Our discussion today will contain forward-looking statements which include words such as believe, anticipate, expect, and target. These forward-looking statements involve uncertainties and risks that may cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these statements. Factors that may affect our results are summarized in the press release announcing our financial results and described in detail in our SEC filings. Please note that F5 has no duty to update any information presented in this call.With that, I'll turn the call over to Francois.Francois Locoh-Donou -- President, Chief Executive Officer and DirectorThank you, Suzanne, and good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. I am pleased to be with you and to share with you our strong Q2 results. With second consecutive quarter of 10% revenue growth and double-digit non-GAAP earnings growth in Q2, we are outperforming both our revenue and EPS goals.It is important to note that we achieved Q2 strong results with a different revenue mix than we expected early in the quarter. We delivered exceptional systems growth of 17% while software growth was more muted than our expectation at 20%. During this call, we will discuss the market dynamics behind our product revenue mix in the quarter.The transformation we have worked persistently to achieve has put us at the center of applications both traditional and modern with a truly multi-cloud approach. As a result, we are benefiting from strong and sustainable macro growth drivers, ultimately powered by application growth. Business and consumers' increasing reliance on applications has accelerated all prior expectations about the pace of digital transformation. Our customers across the globe are scaling the digital assets faster, resulting in growing demand for F5 application security and delivery solutions.With our strong overall results, our conviction in our opportunity both short and long-term is stronger than ever, driven fundamentally by accelerating application growth. We feel very good about our future given robust demand drivers and our strong and differentiated market position.I will turn the call over to Frank to walk you through our Q2 results and our Q3 outlook. Frank?Frank Pelzer -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Francois, and good afternoon, everyone. As Francois just outlined, our team delivered another very strong quarter. Second-quarter revenue of $645 million was up 10% year-over-year and at the top end of our guidance range. Please note, as I review our revenue mix, I will be referring to non-GAAP revenue measures for the year-ago period.Q2 product revenue of $309 million is up 18% year-over-year, representing a significant acceleration from 10% in the same period last year and even more so from flat growth in the second quarter of fiscal 2019. Product revenue accounted for approximately 48% of total revenue, up from 45% in the year-ago period. The progress we are making driving double-digit product revenue growth and the increasing mix of product revenue as a percentage of our total revenue are both strong indicators of our transformation momentum in the long-term health of our business model.As Francois noted, we are seeing stronger-than-anticipated demand across the board. Short term, more of that demand is coming from systems leading to the quarter's product revenue mix. Systems revenue of $201 million is up 17% percent compared to last year when systems were down 11%. Systems demand was higher than anticipated in the quarter, largely from a broad-based increase in application usage and the corresponding increase in application traffic continued growth of systems-based security use cases as well as the emergence of 5G-driven service provider demand.Against a particularly tough 96% growth comparison in the prior-year period, Q2 software revenue of $108 million is up 20% year-over-year representing 35% of product revenue. We continue to drive our transition to a subscription-based model, delivering record subscription volume in Q2 with subscriptions representing 79% of software revenue in the quarter. This is up from 73% in the year-ago period.Finally, our global services revenue of $336 million is up 4% compared to last year, representing 52% of revenue. Revenue from recurring sources, which includes term subscriptions as a service and utility-based revenue, as well as the maintenance portion of our services revenue totaled 64% of revenue in the quarter.On a regional basis in Q2, Americas delivered 6% revenue growth year-over-year representing 54% of total revenue. Our EMEA and APAC teams drove strong growth in their regions, with EMEA delivering 16% growth, representing 27% of revenue, and APAC, delivering 15% growth, accounting for 20% of revenue. The quarter strength spanned customer verticals with especially strong demand from enterprise and telco. Enterprise customers represented 68% of product bookings. Service providers and government customers each represented 16% of product bookings including 6% from U.S. Federal from within the government vertical.Let me now share our Q2 operating results. GAAP gross margin in Q2 was 80.1%. Non-GAAP gross margin was 83.4% reflecting higher systems revenue as well as higher levels of managed service solutions and our usual Q2 seasonal decline in global services margins. GAAP operating expenses were $463 million. Non-GAAP operating expenses were $342 million reflecting our usual Q2 operating expense seasonality and the addition of two months of Volterra-related operating expenses.Our GAAP operating margin in Q2 was 8.3% and our non-GAAP operating margin was 30.3%. Our GAAP effective tax rate for the quarter was 17%. Our non-GAAP effective tax rate was 20.2%. GAAP net income for the quarter was $43 million or $0.70 per share. Non-GAAP net income was $155 million or $2.50 per share.I will now turn to the balance sheet. We generated $128.5 million in cash flow from operations in Q2. Cash and investments totaled approximately $662 million at quarter-end, reflecting both the cash used for the Volterra acquisition and the initiation of a $500 million dollars accelerated share repurchase program. As a result of the ASR, we retired approximately $400 million of shares in Q2, reflecting 2.1 million shares purchased at an average price of $194.91 per share. We expect the remaining $100 million of ASR-related shares to be retired early in Q3.DSO was 52 days and capital expenditures for the quarter were $9 million. Deferred revenue increased 7% year-over-year to $1.4 billion. We ended the quarter with approximately 6,360 employees, up approximately 200 from Q1, in part as a result of the Volterra acquisition.Now, let me share our guidance for our fiscal third quarter. Unless otherwise stated, please note that my guidance comments reference non-GAAP metrics. Near term, we expect customers will continue to invest to support application growth and the modernization of their application infrastructures. We also anticipate continued focus on an investment in application security.It will come as no surprise that like others in the industry, we are seeing some tightening in our supply chain. Thus far, our team has navigated it well, particularly given stronger-than-anticipated systems demand. Obviously, this is an industrywide challenge and like others, we have mitigation efforts in place and we'll be watching it closely. With that as context, we are targeting Q3 fiscal year 2021 revenue in the range of $620 million to $650 million.We have accounted for the reduced supply chain visibility with a wider revenue range for our Q3 outlook lowering the bottom end of our range by $10 million. While we do not expect to routinely provide product revenue mix guidance, we expect software growth for fiscal year 2021 will be at or around 35% implying software growth in the back half of '21 exceeding what we delivered in Q2.Near term, we expect continued system strength with a slower growth rate likely in the fourth quarter. We expect Q3 '21 gross margins of 84% to 84.5% and we estimate operating expenses of $338 million to $352 million. We also expect to achieve our fiscal year 2021 non-GAAP operating margin target of 31% to 32%. We anticipate our effective tax rate for the year will be approximately 21%. Our Q3 earnings target is $2.36 to $2.54 per share. We expect Q3 share-based compensation expense of approximately $63 million to 65 million.With that, I will turn the call back over to Francois. Francois?Francois Locoh-Donou -- President, Chief Executive Officer and DirectorThank you, Frank. The big takeaway from our Q2 results is that across the globe, our customers are experiencing a pronounced growth in application traffic, which in turn is driving increased opportunity for F5. Customers across geographies and verticals are experiencing application demand well ahead of initial expectations and timelines. This escalating demand is coming on the heels of a prolonged period of sweating assets in anticipation of cloud modernization efforts, and more recently, pandemic-induced investment reprioritization.With no signs that application usage will slow, customers are urgently working to ensure they are able to support application traffic growth. The result for F5 is strong and sustainable overall demand for application security and delivery, as well as a temporary change in customer buying behavior evident in our Q2 product revenue mix. I will stress that while we believe the opportunity around application demand is a long-term one for F5, we expect the current trend favoring hardware-based delivery models is short-term. There remain a durable preference for software and SaaS-based application security and delivery that will once again be evident in our results over the next several quarters.So let us dig into the quarters' demand drivers. I will frame my discussion with the three growth drivers we discussed at our November 2020 Analyst Day. One, ongoing software and subscription momentum, two, systems-based demand, and three, growing demand for application security in both software and systems form factors.We continue to see rising demand for application security, and increasingly, F5 is seen by customers as an application security leader. In fact, Q2 was our highest security quarter yet with strength spanning both systems and software form factors across both traditional and modern applications. Where application security is threaded through virtually all of our customer interactions both software and systems, for the purposes of the discussion today, I've highlighted security use cases throughout both the software and systems form factor discussions.I will start our discussion with our software and subscription momentum anchored on trends we are seeing with application-driven demand. Our growth in modern applications continues to accelerate driven by NGINX container and cloud native deployments. We are seeing several top use cases emerge for NGINX including API Gateway, Kubernetes synchronous controller, and software-base load balancing.Customer's modernization efforts and the availability of NGINX controller and enterprise level app security with NGINX App Protect are also driving larger NGINX deal sizes as we anticipated. In one example, our sales team successfully layered NGINX controller with NGINX App Protect to enable one of the largest digital product companies in APAC to modernize more than 40 digital properties replacing multiple competitors with NGINX Plus, with App Protect, and controller. As a result, the customer got a much better ROI in a long term subscription framework.Customers are also increasingly aware and appreciative of NGINX's extreme versatility. For instance, during the quarter, we secured an NGINX win with a regulatory body in APAC. The customer was facing two distinct challenges. First, they needed to refresh their electronic payment systems, and second, they needed to deploy microservices in a VMware Tanzu Kubernetes environment.NGINX proved the ideal solution for both. In the first instance, the customer moved from NGINX open source to NGINX Plus for the additional functionality and the added benefit of world-class global services support. In the second, they opted for a flexible subscription agreement, which gives them the ability to scale NGINX both as a software ADC and as a Kubernetes ingress controller as they grow their microservices. And they are using controller for visibility and manageability across both use cases. Of note, NGINX was the only true multi-cloud solution they found able to work in both a VMware environment and the cloud.With pronounced application growth and an ever expanding threat landscape, we also see continued demand for application security in cloud environments and rising demand for fraud and bot defense. With our Shape anti-fraud and anti-bot solutions, we are learning our win rate is best when there is significant automated traffic that can often circumvent traditional WAF protections. This is Shape's sweet spot. As an example, during Q2, a large credit union faced a massive credential stuffing attack, which their existing WAF could not defend, Shape could and did.While momentum in NGINX and modern application security software use cases increased in Q2, we experienced a notable shift in customer's delivery preferences for application security and delivery for traditional workloads served by BIG-IP. We continue to see growing demand for BIG-IP software in multi-cloud environments and expect the resumption of large-scale modernization efforts will remain a powerful growth driver for BIG-IP over time.Short-term, however, we saw a mitigating factor to BIG-IP software demand which paradoxically was driven by continued application growth. Facing escalating application traffic, several customers opted to refresh and augment their existing infrastructure instead of transitioning to software or a cloud environment. When asked, they explain that the systems form factor offered an expedient way to get the urgent capacity their applications and users needed in a well-operationalized deployment motion. While cloud modernization and expansion are most certainly part of their future plans, they chose to deploy systems now. We expect this pattern with BIG-IP software is temporary and will moderate in the fourth quarter as customers resume BIG-IP software purchases in support of longer-term strategic projects and modernization efforts that COVID working conditions have made challenging.Stepping back, we continue to drive very positive software trends in the business. Our software subscription momentum continues with 79% of Q2 software revenues coming from subscription-based sales, up from 73% in the year-ago quarter. In terms of volume, the number of multi-year subscription agreements were up 32% quarter-to-quarter and more than 200% compared to last year.In addition, while it is early still, we are beginning to hit some multi-year subscription renewals and we are also seeing positive signs there. During Q2, we achieved a 100% renewal rates on the long-term subscription agreement that expire in the quarter. In addition, 75% of those renewals grew over prior levels. While we have yet to hit the inflection point for renewals, we are very encouraged by these early data points. In addition, we continue to see utilization improvements. Our Q2 customer success metrics show long-term subscription customers are achieving 100% utilization sooner than ever before.Turning to systems. Part of F5's value proposition is our ability to offer our customers enterprise-grade application security and delivery solutions in multiple form factors, systems, software, and increasingly going forward, SaaS. As I just discussed, sudden and rapidly accelerating growth in application usage led to accelerated customer demand for systems in Q2.Last quarter we articulated several systems demand drivers. Another quarter in, we believe we have additional clarity around the drivers of our systems growth and we can break them into two broad categories. One, accelerating application traffic, and two, security, including emerging 5G-driven demand. To a large extent, I have already spoken to the accelerating application traffic. With surging application consumption, customers have a urgent capacity demands to fulfill. As a result, several customers are opting to refresh and augment their infrastructure at a faster rate than we anticipated. Of note, they are doing so without a new systems platform from us. In some cases, the deployments coincide with the end of software development date we discussed last quarter, but broadly speaking, the underlying driver is the need for application security and delivery capabilities to deal with escalating application usage.We are seeing demand spend, geographies, and customer verticals from financial services to technology to global SaaS providers. As a case in point, one of our biggest systems deployment this quarter was with one of the planet's largest cloud-based software companies looking to build a scale model for organic growth and they scale within their existing systems architecture. Similarly, last quarter, we had a sizable systems deployment with one of the largest tech giants in support of their global web-based collaboration platform and they scale with their existing systems architecture.These are cutting-edge players and in all likelihood, they will be among the first to move to software and cloud-based infrastructure in the future. However today, because of the confluence of demand, the complexities of deploying and scaling in the cloud, and the challenges of taking on transformative projects in a COVID-influenced environment, they are solving their application and delivery challenges with systems from F5.Wrapping up our growth drivers discussion, let's talk about system-based application security, including a new driver, emerging 5G demand. As we have said for several quarters now, our systems business is benefiting from increasing demand for security use cases. Cross-sell of application security is driving systems growth as more customers look to consolidate vendors and combine ADC and application security functionality.Among enterprise and government customers, we also are seeing strong demand for web application firewall and continued strength in identity and SSL orchestration. The new driver that developed this quarter is emerging service provider 5G demand. We expected that as 5G traffic begin to flow from the radio edge into service providers' 4G core networks, we will benefit from increased demand given our strong position in 4G Gi LAN infrastructures. We initially and conservatively, estimated 5G-related demand would begin to materialize into late 2021 or early 2022.In Q2, we secured several Gi LAN expansion projects, including a large Gi LAN firewall expansion with a North American carrier. These wins and other active opportunities suggest that we are in fact beginning to see the emergence of 4G core expansion, driven by 5G demand.So what does all of this mean for our business and growth going forward? Fundamentally we expect customers to transition to more software and SaaS-based solutions over time. We are confident that the investments we have made, both organic and inorganic, and forward momentum our teams are driving position F5 as a significant beneficiary of that transition. This is true in the short term as Frank said, we expect our software growth in fiscal year 2021 to be at or about 35%. And it is also true in the long term as software and SaaS-based revenue accounts for more sizable portion of our total revenue.We expect the demand for application security will continue to grow as application demand grows and customer scale and modernize their applications. We believe that we are exceptionally well-placed with the right perspective and toolsets to solve our customer's most pressing application security challenges. Our opportunity in application security is even more exciting with the ongoing integration of F5 and Volterra, which will bring enterprise-grade F5 application security through the edge in an easily deployable SaaS model.We expect the recent high growth rates we have seen for BIG-IP systems will begin to moderate in the second half of this year. And we expect service providers' 5G-related demand will likely begin to migrate from systems to software in 2022 and their 5G cohorts start to hit production. In the meantime, we see demand for systems-based application security persisting over multiple quarters.Before I close our prepared remarks, I will say a few brief words about Volterra and our integration process. We launched our integration and value creation efforts immediately following the acquisition close on January 22nd. We are thrilled to have Ankur Singla and the Volterra team as part of our security organization led by Haiyan Song.While we have work ahead, we are very pleased with the initial positive customer response. Early indicators show our vision of F5 Edge 2.0 is resonating with customers. We have started a pilot program concentrating on specific use cases and focused on bringing F5 security to the edge with the goal of leveraging Volterra's organic momentum and early customer interest. Through this pilot, we will develop new business as well as the right customer behavior insights.As the first step in our long-term integration of F5 solutions and Volterra's platform, we have begun the process of strategically and methodically combining our best in web application and API protection security offerings and Volterra's innovative platform. We are also formulating our go-to-market approach and exploring ways to maximize the benefits with our channel partners. Only a few months into this integration, we are even more excited about the potential of this combination as we move into FY '22. We will continue to share our progress with you in the coming quarters.I will wrap up today's prepared remarks by thanking the entire F5 team again, as well as our customers and partners. In particular, our thoughts are with the F5 team in India, their families, and loved ones as they endure the extreme health risk and loss of life occurring there as a result of the current COVID-19 outbreak.With that, operator, we will now open the call to Q&A.