  OperatorGreetings, and welcome to First Republic Bank's fourth quarter and full year 2021 earnings conference call. Today's conference is being recorded. [Operator instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mike Ioanilli, vice president and director of investor relations. Please go ahead.Mike Ioanilli -- Vice President and Director of Investor Relations Thank you, and welcome to First Republic Bank's fourth quarter 2021 conference call. Speaking today will be Mike Roffler, president and acting co-CEO; Mike Selfridge, chief banking officer; Bob Thornton, president, private wealth management; and Olga Tsokova, chief accounting officer and acting chief financial officer. Before I hand the call over to Mike, please note that we may make forward-looking statements during today's call that are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions. For a more complete discussion of the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking statements, see the bank's FDIC filings, including the Form 8-K filed today, all available on the bank's website. And now, I'd like to turn the call over to Mike Roffler.Mike Roffler -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Mike. Let me begin by sending our best wishes to Jim Herbert, the bank's founder and co-CEO, who recently began a temporary medical leave of absence. Jim, I'm sure you're listening, and we look forward to your healthy return. 2021 was another very strong year for First Republic. This was the bank's 36th consecutive year of profitability since it was founded in 1985. First Republic continues to deliver safe, consistent organic growth by doing what we do best: providing exceptional client service. Now let me cover a few key results for the year. Total loans outstanding were up 20%. Total deposits have grown 36%. I would note that checking deposits made up 72% of total deposits at year-end, and wealth management assets increased 44%. This strong growth, in turn, led to strong financial performance. Year over year, our total revenues have grown 29% to more than $5 billion. Net interest income has grown 26%. Earnings per share have grown a very strong 32%, and tangible book value per share has increased more than 17% during the year. Importantly, our credit quality continues to be excellent. Consistently strong credit has been a hallmark of First Republic since our founding. Net charge-offs for the fourth quarter were only $64,000. Net charge-offs for the entire year were only $2.1 million, less than one basis point of average loans. Nonperforming assets ended the year at only eight basis points of total assets. Our capital remains very strong. At year-end, our Tier 1 leverage ratio was 8.76%. This includes the benefits from five successful capital raises in 2021. Olga will touch on this momentarily. This year's results demonstrate the power of our client service culture. Our culture is our competitive advantage. Each one of our 6,300 colleagues is dedicated to serving our clients and one another. The result is a client satisfaction level as measured by our Net Promoter Score that is over two times the banking industry average. Preliminary results from our 2021 Net Promoter Score survey indicate that our service level actually increased during the year. Importantly, a greater percentage of clients now consider us their lead bank. Highly differentiated service drives our organic growth through repeat business and client referrals. Each year, more than 80% of the bank's growth comes from these two sources. Our colleagues' focus and dedication are the foundation of our success. As a leadership team, we are collectively focused on empowering our people to be their best. Let me take a few moments to cover some of the other highlights of the year, leveraging technology to drive client satisfaction and scale our client-facing colleagues remains a top priority. To this end, in 2021, we continue to invest in technology and our regulatory infrastructure to further strengthen First Republic and enhance our client service model. For example, we have made significant progress in our core system conversion, an important project for First Republic. This initiative remains on schedule. In addition, we recorded tax credits for research and development for the first time, reflecting our continued investment in client service innovation. Olga will speak more about this in a moment. Taking care of our colleagues and communities also remains a top focus of First Republic. In 2021, we expanded our employee base by 15% to support the continued growth of the franchise. We also raised our minimum wage to $30 per hour. We supported the volunteer efforts of our colleagues who contributed more than 22,000 hours to nonprofit organizations. We also launched the First Republic Foundation, which expands and complements our existing philanthropic initiatives. And we enhanced our commitment to the environment by becoming carbon neutral for the first time in purchasing 100% renewable energy to cover our electricity needs. The simplicity of our business model has enabled us to remain focused on delivering exceptional client service. In 2021, the outcome once again was strong financial performance. Thank you to all of our colleagues for their great teamwork and collaboration in serving our clients. Now I'll turn the call over to Mike Selfridge.Mike Selfridge -- Chief Banking Officer Thank you, Mike. Let me begin with an update on our lending activities. Loan origination volume was a record for both the quarter and the year at $17 billion and $65 billion, respectively. Single-family residential volume for the year was also a record at $30 billion. Refinance activity accounted for 55% of single-family residential volume during the year, and a large portion of refinance activity came from clients with loans at other institutions. This continues to create an ongoing opportunity for new client acquisition. Multifamily volume for the year was also a record at $4.8 billion. In terms of credit, we continue to maintain our conservative underwriting standards. The average loan to value for all real estate loans originated during the year was just 57%. As we head into 2022, our clients remain very active, and our loan pipeline is quite strong, up from the same time last year. I would note that loan originations have some seasonality with the fourth quarter typically being strong and the first quarter typically being somewhat slower. Turning to business banking, it was a very strong year. We continue to deepen our relationships by following clients to the businesses that they own or influence. Our relationship-based model also leads to a strong level of referrals to new business clients. In 2021, our client business base grew by more than 20%. Business loans and line commitments, excluding PPP loans, were up a strong 23% year over year. During the fourth quarter, the utilization rate on capital call lines of credit increased to 42%. This is at the higher end of our utilization range. In terms of funding, it was an exceptional year. Total deposits were up $41 billion or 36% compared to a year ago. We continue to maintain a diversified deposit funding base. Checking deposits represented 72% of total deposits at year-end, our highest level ever. And business deposits represented 60% of total deposits at year-end. The average rate paid on all deposits for the quarter was just five basis points, leading to an overall funding cost of just 12 basis points. Our preferred banking offices continue to provide an important service channel for our clients and drive deposit gathering. In 2021, we opened two new preferred banking offices, both in New York, and we plan to open another six offices across our footprint over the next 18 months. Our strategy for acquiring and growing our next generation of client relationships, a strategy that was in place well over a decade ago, continues to deliver strong results. In 2021, millennial households accounted for nearly half of our growth in consumer households. Overall, our service model continues to resonate well with clients, driving strong growth across the franchise. Now I'd like to turn the call over to Bob Thornton.Bob Thornton -- President, Private Wealth Management Thank you, Mike. Wealth management had another very successful year. Assets under management grew 44% or $85 billion year over year. Of this, $51 billion came from net client inflow. The fourth quarter was particularly strong with AUM increasing by $28 billion with nearly 60% from net client inflow. In addition, wealth management households grew nearly 20% this past year. Wealth management fee revenue for 2021 was $760 million, up 44% from the prior year. We also continue to further diversify our wealth management revenue, growing our fee revenue for services that are less subject to market fluctuations. Brokerage, insurance, trust and foreign exchange fees, together, grew 57% during the year. These accounted for 27% of total wealth management fees, up 23% five years ago. The key strength of our business model is a collaborative approach to serving our clients across their banking and wealth management needs. The partnership between our bankers and wealth professionals reflects our non-followed approach. This benefits clients and drives growth from both a strong level of internal referrals and deepening of our client relationships. For example, in 2021, I would note that our bankers referred over $7 billion of AUM to wealth management, an increase of 22% from the prior year. In addition, our wealth management colleagues referred over $3 billion of deposits to the bank. Wealth management-referred deposits and sweeps now represent over 13% of total bank deposits. These deposits have grown at a compounded annual rate of 44% over the past three years. It is our integrated banking and wealth management model that makes First Republic an attractive destination for very successful wealth managers and other leading producers. And once hired, we continue to successfully integrate our new colleagues into our highly collaborative culture. During 2021, we welcomed 11 new wealth management teams to First Republic, and we're also delighted to have welcomed another highly regarded team in New York just last Friday. Overall, we're very pleased to have reached nearly $280 billion in assets under management in 2021, and we're looking forward to continued success in 2022. Now I'd like to turn the call over to Olga Tsokova.Olga Tsokova -- Chief Accounting Officer and Acting Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Bob. Let me review the results for the year and quarter and also offer some guidance for 2022. Our capital position remains strong. During 2021, we added over $2.8 billion of net new Tier 1 capital through five capital raises. This includes $740 million of 4.5% perpetual preferred stock issued during the fourth quarter. With this, our weighted average cost of preferred stock is less than 4.5%. Liquidity also remains strong. High-quality liquid assets were 17% of average total assets in the fourth quarter. Our credit quality remains excellent. For the fourth quarter, net charge-offs were only $64,000. Our provision for credit losses for the quarter was $24 million driven almost entirely by our strong loan growth. Our net interest margin was 2.68% for the fourth quarter and 2.67% for the full year 2021, in line with our guidance. Importantly, net interest income was up a very strong 26% year over year. This is primarily due to the robust growth in earning assets. Our efficiency ratio was 63.3% for the fourth quarter and 62.5% for the full year 2021, also in line with our guidance. The fourth quarter results included two unusual items. The first was a tax credit for our research and development activities, which reflect innovation and technology enhancements made over the past few years. This lowered our effective tax rate. The second was a one-time executive compensation expense. This increased the fourth quarter efficiency ratio by approximately 180 basis points. The net effect of these two items, mostly offsetting one another, was only a $0.03 decrease to earnings per share. Also, as previously disclosed, we prepaid $4 billion of FHLB advances in October, and the prepayment cost of $19 million is included in other expenses. Our effective tax rate was 16.1% for the fourth quarter and 19.1% for the full year 2021. Now let me provide some guidance for the full year 2022. Loan growth is expected to be in the mid-teens. Our net interest margin is expected to be in the range of 2.65% to 2.75%. Given our higher level of cash, we currently expect to operate near the lower end of this range. The efficiency ratio is expected to be in the range of 62% to 64%. As a reminder, our first quarter efficiency ratio is typically higher due to the seasonal impact of payroll taxes and benefits. With respect to income taxes, the full year tax rate is expected to be in the range of 20% to 21%. Overall, it was a very strong quarter and year. Now I'll turn the call back over to Mike Roffler.Mike Roffler -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Mike, Bob and Olga. It was a great quarter and year. The bank service model is as strong as ever. Our entire team remains focused on executing our client service strategy. This approach has driven remarkably consistent results for many years, and we have great momentum heading into 2022. Now we'd be happy to take your questions. 