  OperatorGood morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to The Mosaic Company's second-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] Your host for today's call is Laura Gagnon, vice president of investor relations of The Mosaic Company. Ms. Gagnon, you may begin.Laura Gagnon -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you and welcome to our second-quarter 2021 earnings call. Opening comments will be provided by Joc O'Rourke, president and chief executive officer, followed by a fireside chat as well as open Q&A. Clint Freeland, senior vice president and chief financial officer; Jenny Wang, vice president, global strategic marketing; and other members of the leadership team will also be available to answer your questions. We will be making forward-looking statements during this conference call.

 



 The statements include, but are not limited to, statements about future financial and operating results. They are based on management's beliefs and expectations as of today's date and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from projected results. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are included in our press release furnished yesterday and in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.We will also be presenting certain non-GAAP financial measures. Our second-quarter press release and performance data attached as exhibits to yesterday's Form 8-K filing also contain important information on these non-GAAP measures. Now I'd like to turn the call over to Joc. Joc O'Rourke -- President and Chief Executive Officer Good morning. Thank you for joining our second-quarter earnings discussion. I hope you've had a chance to review our posted commentary and slides as well as our news release and performance data, all made available on our website yesterday. Today, I will provide some additional context before we respond to questions we received last night, and then we'll conclude with a live Q&A session.

 



 Mosaic delivered excellent financial performance in the second quarter, and the second half of 2021 is set up to be one of the strongest periods in over a decade. Our earnings are driven by two key factors. First, strong underlying agricultural markets, coupled with tight fertilizer demand dynamics, are driving fertilizer prices higher. Second, and just as important, are the results of our effort to optimize our business to fully realize the benefit of these market trends. Throughout our long term and ongoing work to reduce costs, we've created significant earning leverage as this quarter's performance demonstrates. Looking ahead, we expect further upside. Our third-quarter order book is now 90% committed and priced. As a result, we expect a sequential increase of 90 to $100 per tonne in realized phosphate prices and 25 to $35 per tonne in realized potash prices. Beyond the third quarter, we are seeing buyer appetite for fourth-quarter commitments as well. All of this implies higher earnings in the third quarter and very strong results in the fourth and into 2022. The dynamics fueling the agricultural markets point to a period of strength that we believe will extend well beyond 2021. Grain stocks remain limited and global corn and soybean demand is growing driven in part by surging Chinese demand and biofuels. As a result, agricultural commodity prices remain high, and the outlook is promising for continued strong farm income. The world's farmers have solid incentive to maximize yields from every acre, and that is what drives higher fertilizer demand. Demand in the Americas is considerably stronger than we expected at the beginning of the year. Brazil is expected to once again set records for fertilizer shipments.

 



 Across the Americas, we saw a big recovery in 2020 and expected the demand growth to moderate this year. The opposite has happened. Demand for potash and phosphates is up substantially compared with last year, and nearly all of the fertilizer delivered this year has gone to the ground, which means channel inventories in most regions remain below historic norms. In North America, demand continues to be strong. Following the completion of our CVD petition, U.S. phosphate prices now trade at parity with global benchmarks. And the domestic market is benefiting from elevated imports from a more diverse pool of suppliers. This is reflective of a healthy market that's responding to the market signals. In India, farmer demand remains very strong, but importer economics have negatively impacted available supply in the country because of the disconnect in government subsidies. As a result, it is difficult for the Indian farmer to get the phosphates they desire. It is clear that more work needs to be done to rectify the imbalance, but we continue to see the region absorbing fertilizer supply. Given how depleted Indian inventories are, we see India as a source of pent-up demand for the future. Southeast Asian fertilizer demand is benefiting from the strength in palm oil, and China is incenting its farmers to maximize yield. While the demand dynamics for potash and phosphates are similar, driven by the strong underlying agricultural markets, the supply outlook is slightly different for the two products. In phosphates, new supply is limited and any new greenfield supply additions are several years from completion. Recently, Russia requested producers prioritize domestic demand to stabilize in-country pricing. And while supply from Chinese phosphate exports during the second quarter was elevated to meet global demand, Chinese exports are expected to decline in the second half of the year as in-country seasonal demand increases. This was reinforced by news last week that China's National Development and Reform Commission has begun requesting the export of fertilizer stop to ensure adequate domestic supply. In potash, demand growth continues to exceed new supply from higher operating rates recently announced by producers. As a result, prices continue to rise. In fact, price increases have largely offset the financial impact of our early closure of K1 and K2 shafts at Esterhazy. We recently resumed production at Colonsay and now expect our net production loss to be approximately 700,000 tonnes for the year, down from our original 1 million-tonne estimate. This also brings the sales impact down to approximately 500,000 tonnes as we draw down available inventory. Our earnings are leading to significant free cash flow generation, which has allowed us to proceed with the early retirement of our $450 million in long-term debt later this month. We are currently evaluating additional actions for capital deployment. Capital expenditures are expected to total $1.2 billion in '21. This includes accelerated K3 spending to speed up our ability to bring K3 to full production as well as approximately $75 million in additional high-returning opportunities within our businesses. Given the strong cash generation, we continue to evaluate opportunities that also allow us to further strengthen our balance sheet, grow the business, and share with our investors. Overall, Mosaic continues to execute and perform very well within this robust fertilizer market, and we expect to continue building momentum from here. With that, we will move on to your questions.Laura Gagnon -- Vice President, Investor Relations Joc, a number of analysts, including Adam Samuelson from Goldman Sachs, Ben Isaacson from Scotia, and Rikin Patel from Exane BNP are asking about fertilizer affordability. Specifically, globally, are you seeing any demand destruction due to affordability? Are there any regions or areas you're watching?Joc O'Rourke -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, folks. Now the way we look at this is actually it is the grain prices and higher grain demand that's driving the fertilizers. So from our perspective, it's demand for grains and oilseeds and the price that that's creating that's driving fertilizer demand, which is, of course, driving fertilizer pricing. So we see the supply and demand balance the other way around, if you will. Now we may see at some point the impact of high prices. Today, tight grain and oilseed markets are going to be tight for a while. They're not going to loosen in just one growing season. So this should last a while. And with global prices up, it seems that most growers have been comfortable with the prices we're seeing for fertilizer. Now the one area of concern, we've talked about this, is India. And this is not an affordability issue for the farmer but an affordability issue for the importer because of the Indian subsidy system. But sooner or later, low Indian inventories will mean that they have to buy fertilizer.Laura Gagnon -- Vice President, Investor Relations A handful of analysts, including Andrew Wong from RBC, John Roberts from UBS, and Steve Byrne from Bank of America have asked about Mosaic's realized price progression. It appears that price realization has lagged in potash when comparing spot pricing trends to the third-quarter guidance, but spot prices, and guidance appear to be fairly in line in phosphates. Can you discuss the underlying dynamics and what that means for price realization into Quarter 4?Joc O'Rourke -- President and Chief Executive Officer The lag between the potash prices we're seeing at the mine gate today and the actual international prices are driven by a couple of things. First of all, when we look at international shipments through Canpotex, Q1, we had delays due to port issues. In Q2, we're now seeing delays due to wildfires and rail impacts as we go through the British Columbia interior. So this is starting to push shipments back to their better-than-normal lag period that we're experiencing. Plus, you have to consider that these prices are the Asian prices, which are lagging as well from the Brazilian and North American prices. If we turn to North America, a lot of the tonnes that we're delivering now and will deliver through Quarter 3 are tonnes that were sold in early May for August shipment to meet summer fill demand. Then of course, those were delayed further due to the K1/K2 closure, which means a lot of the May volume won't be priced or shipped until October. And so the pricing lag is higher than it would normally be. But I will emphasize that we are in our distribution business seeing and selling at the $600-plus price that we're talking about being the spot market.Laura Gagnon -- Vice President, Investor Relations Joc, Steve Byrne, Rikin Patel, and Adrien Tamagno from Berenberg are asking questions about the impact of increasing ammonia volumes delivered under the CF contract. What do those increases mean for spot purchases? And are there any volume-related discounts provided or premiums required under the contract?Joc O'Rourke -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you. Historically, our ammonia tonnes have been split roughly evenly between produced spot and CF. With the increased CF supply in the second half, it means for the full year in the range of 75% of our total ammonia needs will be based on a natural gas price and be below today's market. This reinforces our competitive advantage in ammonia and the effectiveness of our hedging program to make sure that we have a number of supplies that buffer us against times like this.Laura Gagnon -- Vice President, Investor Relations In another raw material-related question, John Roberts and Ben Isaacson are asking about the potential for future sulfur supply disruptions through 2021 and into 2022. What risks do we see and how are we managing them?Joc O'Rourke -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you. Today, our position on sulfur is much better than it was a quarter ago. At this stage, you can see by the sulfur price, which just settled at about $195 per tonne versus $192 in the second quarter, that the refinery rates and the demand balance for sulfur has really equalized. Now it's a little too early to forecast Quarter 4, but what I can tell you is Gulf refinery operating rates have stabilized and gone to normal rates. We have really done a lot of work to get a good inventory of sulfur in our system, which we did not have coming out of Quarter 1. And if you remember, the issue we ran into in Quarter 1 was low operating rates in the refineries, some turnarounds in the refineries, and then freezing weather that shut down a lot of the Gulf refineries. So the combination of the three meant a normally tight situation was exacerbated quite a bit. So at this stage, we see the risk as significantly lower.Laura Gagnon -- Vice President, Investor Relations Joc, we had a number of analysts acknowledge accelerating cash flows. These analysts, including Seth Goldstein at Morningstar, Mark Connelly at Stephens, and Jeff Zekauskas from J.P. Morgan are asking how we'll deal with it, how we will allocate it aside from debt reduction and small growth capital, and looking for specific insight into how we are thinking about share repurchases and dividend increases.Joc O'Rourke -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, gentlemen. Let me reiterate, our strategy is and always has been that we will balance our capital allocation between debt repayment and working on our balance sheet, projects that offer a great return to us through growth, and then returning money to shareholders. In terms of the specifics, let me hand it over to Clint because I think he can give you a little more color on that.Clint Freeland -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Joc. I think as we go further into the year, I guess, one thing to note is that as we generate free cash flow and cash build on the balance sheet, we're not going to let it just sit idle. I think we've got options. And whether that is additional debt reduction through some of the maturities that are coming due, we've got existing share repurchase authorizations. We can always take a fresh look at the dividend. We also have a program in place to review some really high returning internal projects, like our opportunity capex, relatively small dollars, but very high-returning projects that we'll continue to look to invest in. But I think, again, I think as we look forward, I think we have a number of options. And again, I don't see us generating cash and letting it sit idle on the balance sheet. And I would expect that further into the second half of the year that we'll provide more clarity on what that allocation program is going to look like.Laura Gagnon -- Vice President, Investor Relations Andrew Wong and Adrien Tamagno are interested in more detail on our opportunity capital spending. Clint, can you elaborate on the new $75 million growth spending allocation. Would phosphate capacity expansion ever be on the agenda? And what can we expect to be allocated to the new soil health initiatives?Clint Freeland -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Laura. I think when we look at our opportunity, capex investments for this year, overall, I would say that it's about one-third in North America, about two-third in Brazil. I think there's more a focus in Brazil. But I would say that those investments are generally being made in a number of different areas, but I would include the following. A number of these investments are around automation. We've spoken about some of the next-gen investments that we're making in our production assets, and that is ongoing. That's part of this program. Then another example is down in Brazil, where we're looking to increase gypsum sales, and we need to make some investments in infrastructure to be able to accommodate that. In potash, we're looking to increase some of the aspire capacity. But again, as we look at these investments, they're all relatively modest investments, typically single-digit million-dollar investments, but with very, very significant returns, some in the triple-digit type of return on an after-tax basis. From a phosphate capacity expansion standpoint, I would say that really the things that we've focused on and talked about is along the lines of potentially increasing micro essential capacity in the future. Demand for that product continues to increase. And to the extent that we need to expand capacity there, I can see that. Beyond that, I think our rock and concentrate capacities are in fairly good balance at this point otherwise. When we look at the new soil health initiatives, again, those are relatively modest investments. Those are typically expensed because we treat that really more along the lines of R&D. And so I would say, overall, those are relatively immaterial investments, not additive to capex. And again, I think that's supplementing our R&D into new products for the future.Laura Gagnon -- Vice President, Investor Relations Joc, we've also had a number of questions related to our potash assets, including questions from Adam Samuelson of Goldman and P.J. Juvekar of Citi. So this is really a three-part question. One, what was the driver behind changing your volume-impacted guidance? And how does this change total production expectations for 2022? Second, what are the ARO costs associated with the closure of K1 and K2? And lastly, what does the cost structure look like in 2022?Joc O'Rourke -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Laura. Our volume production guidance was adjusted basically because of two things. First of all, the acceleration of our shaft at K3 and being able to move into production areas sooner in that K3 area, which will increase the contribution from that line in the fourth quarter. We also were able to optimize some of our turnarounds at the mills because they are being fully utilized. And then the second part is a successful restart of Colonsay, which really has come up very well, and we've been very pleased with the rate at which we've been able to get it into production, matter of fact, commissioned the mills just the other day. So we're fully ready to run there, Colonsay. And between the two of them, we've been able to accelerate our ability to produce tonnes at those two operations, which has mitigated some of the loss that we had from the early closure of K1 and K2. As far closure costs for K1 and K2, in the second quarter, they were $158 million, most of which was non-cash write-offs. $110 million was fixed asset write-downs. $37 million was ARO adjustments. And then had MRO write-offs, 4 million was contractor severance. In terms of the ARO itself, the $37 million brings the total up to about $120 million for ARO, of which 70 to $100 million, let's say, will be in the closure of those two mineshafts. Of that, 40% or so will be spent this year, and the rest will be spent next year and the final closure of that. For the third part of the question, our cost structures, if we do the sum of the parts, our K3 mine at 6 million tonnes operating capacity will be one of the lowest costs in the world. We said that in the $50 range already. Belle Plaine is also very low cost and very well positioned on the cost curve, and that's 3 million tonnes of our operating capacity. Colonsay costs are still expected to be in the $100 per tonne range as per our previous guidance. And we're looking at ways to reduce that amount. So if you kind of work it out from that that 80 to 90% of our costs will be at that very first quartile. And then we'll make up the difference with slightly higher costs from Colonsay at $100 a tonne, assuming we actually need those tonnes to meet the market requirements. Let me emphasize that at these prices, Colonsay tonnes are still very profitable, and we would expect that to have a very good margin in today's environment.Laura Gagnon -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you, Joc. Operator, at this point, we'd like to open it up for follow-up questions from the phones. 