  OperatorGood morning, and welcome to the Boston Scientific first quarter 2022 earnings call. [Operator instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Lauren Tengler, vice president, investor relations. Please go ahead.Lauren Tengler -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you, Andrew. Welcome, everyone, and thanks for joining us today. With me on today's call are Mike Mahoney, chairman and chief executive officer; and Dan Brennan, executive vice president and chief financial officer. We issued a press release earlier this morning announcing our Q1 2022 results, which included reconciliations of the non-GAAP measure used in the release. We have posted a copy of that release, as well as reconciliations of the non-GAAP measures used in today's call to the investor relations section of our website under the heading, financials and filings. The duration of this morning's call will be approximately one hour. Michael focused his comments on Q1 performance, as well as future catalysts and the outlook for our business, including Q2 2022 and full year '22 guidance. Dan will review the financials for the quarter, provide more details regarding our Q2 and full year 2022 guidance.And then we'll take your questions. During today's Q&A session, Mike and Dan will be joined by our chief medical officers, Dr. Ian Meredith and Dr. Ken Stein. Before we begin, I'd like to remind everyone that on the call, operational revenue growth excludes the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, and organic revenue growth further excludes acquisitions and divestitures for which there is less than a full period of comparable net sales. Relevant acquisitions excluded for organic growth are Preventice, Farapulse, and Lumenis surgical, which closed in March, August, and September of 2021, respectively, as well as Baylis Medical, which closed on February 14, 2022. Divestitures include the BTG Spec Pharma business, which closed on March 1, 2021. For more information, please refer to our financial and operating highlights deck, which may be found on our investor relations website. On this call, all references to sales and revenue, unless otherwise specified, are organic. This call contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws, which might be identified by words like anticipate, expect, may, believe, estimate, and other similar words. They include, among other things, the impact of COVID-19 pandemic upon the company's operations and financial results; statements about our growth and market share; new product approvals and launches; acquisitions; clinical trials; cost savings and growth opportunities; our cash flow and expected use; our financial performance, including sales, margins, and earnings; as well as our tax rates, R&D spend, and other expenses. Factors that may cause such differences include those described in the risk factors section of our most recent 10-K and subsequent 10-Q filed with the SEC. These statements speak only as of today's date, and we disclaim any intention or obligation to update them. At this point, I'll turn it over to Mike for his comments. Mike? Mike Mahoney -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Lauren. Thank you, everyone, for joining us today. We're very pleased with our first quarter performance and our outlook for the full year despite the impact of the ongoing pandemic and the macroeconomic headwinds. Growth in the quarter was fueled by improved procedure volume, our innovative portfolio, and strong execution across our global team. In the first quarter '22, total company operational sales grew 13% versus prior year, while organic sales grew 10% above the high end of our guidance range of 5 to 8. Importantly, this performance was strong across all regions, and we anticipate that most all of our businesses grew at or faster than their respective markets. First quarter adjusted EPS of $0.39 grew 6.5% versus prior year, achieving the midpoint of our guidance range of $0.38 to $0.40. And despite continued macroeconomic headwinds and resulting supply chain pressure, first quarter adjusted operating margin was 25.8%, which is higher than anticipated due to the overachievement of sales and lower spend. While we anticipate less of a global COVID impact and underlying procedure volumes for full year '22 versus '21, we continue to provide a wider guidance range to account for uncertainty related to COVID waves, staffing challenges, and supply chain pressures. However, we are increasing our full year 2022 operational growth to 9% to 11% and organic growth to 6.5% to 8.5%. For second quarter '22 revenue, we are guiding to operational growth of 6 to 9 and organic growth of 3 to 6. We're also updating our full year 2022 adjusted EPS guidance to a $1.74 to $1.79, and our second quarter adjusted EPS estimate to $0.41 to $0.43. Despite increased macroeconomic pressures, we continued to target adjusted operating margin expansion of 10 to 50 basis points, or 26% to 26.4%, for the full year. And Dan will provide some additional details. I'll now provide additional highlights in the first quarter along with comments on our '22 outlook. Globally, the impact from COVID varied by region during the first quarter. And within the quarter, we experienced a more significant COVID impact in both the U.S. and Europe in January and early Feb, with significantly improved volume growth during the remainder of the first quarter. Recently, our business in the U.S. delivered operational growth of 13% versus prior year, which includes an approximate 400 basis point tailwind from acquisitions. First quarter performance in the U.S. was particularly strong in WATCHMAN, PI, cardiology, and endoscopy. In Europe, Middle East, Africa, we grew 12% in operational basis versus prior year, while all businesses in the region experienced strong growth. We saw particular strength in structural heart, including TAVR, WATCHMAN, and other interventional cardiology therapies, as well as electrophysiology. In Asia-Pac, we grew 14% operationally versus prior year, with new product launches fueling the region's growth, notably POLARx and Ranger in Japan, and WaveWriter Alpha in Australia. The China team delivered another impressive quarter with double-digit growth in the first quarter, with broad strength across the region enabled by a diverse portfolio. Given the current COVID wave in China, we do anticipate more pressure on underlying procedural volumes in the second quarter. However, we remain confident in our team's ability in China to continue to drive toward double-digit growth for the full year 2022. Now, some additional thoughts on our business units. Urology and public health grew sales 7% organic and 16% operational. In the global integration, the Lumenis acquisition is going extremely well, with the innovative Moser laser platform, complementing our category-leading stone portfolio. Globalization remains a big opportunity in this business, and we're pleased with the approval of Rezum in China after a successful pilot, and we look forward to launching later this year. Additionally, we received approval in Canada for LithoView Elite, which is our next-generation flexible single-use ureteroscope, with advanced imaging and internal renal pressure-sensing capabilities. Turning to our Endoscopy business, sales grew nicely, 9% organic versus prior year. The underlying business remains very strong, and we continue to innovate with new product offerings, supporting continued above-market growth. We're seeing momentum across our franchises, including biliary hemostasis and our single-use imaging franchise as the SpyGlass DS visualization system continues to have strong growth, while our newer single-use scopes are gaining scale. Beyond products, we're also enhancing our digital capabilities with the recent launch of e-commerce platform to all endoscopy customers in the U.S.-based ambulatory surgical centers to enable easy online ordering for many device at any time. In neuromodulation, first quarter organic grew faster than the market at 8% versus prior year. In pain, we continue to see positive momentum in spinal cord stimulation as physicians continue to be pleased with the performance of the WaveWriter Alpha system with FAST therapy and our Cognita practice optimization suite of solutions. In brain, we received FDA approval in the U.S. for the neural navigator software with STIMVIEW earlier this month. This was developed in collaboration with BrainLab and enables more streamlined programming for clinicians with integrated visualization for lead placement and stimulation field modeling. In cardiology, organic sales grew 11% versus prior year and operational sales grew 16, with all business units growing high single digit or better in the quarter. Within cardiology, our interventional cardiology therapies business had organic sales of 8% versus prior year. Coronary franchise grew mid single digits, fueled by new product launches and globalization. And within the quarter, we received FDA clearance of the expanded portfolio of EMERGE PTCA dilatation catheters, making it the only complete portfolio of balloon sizes in the U.S. for the treatment of large vessels and lung lesions. We really had another strong quarter with double-digit growth in our structural heart valves franchise, led by ACURATE neo2 in Europe. We continue to take market share in our existing accounts while also continuing to gain new accounts, exceeding our sales expectations in the first quarter. Additionally, we have initiated our -- and also are currently enrolling patients in our early feasibility study called ACURATE PRIME XL, which is evaluating additional sizes for the ACURATE neo2 valve. Turning to WATCHMAN, organic sales grew 33% versus prior quarter -- versus prior year. WATCHMAN is on track to deliver full year double-digit growth with sustained momentum from the second-generation WATCHMAN FLX, ongoing clinical evidence, globalization, and commercial execution. Within the quarter, the ongoing surpass analysis of the NCDR LAAO Registry was presented at CRT, including more than 16,000 patients with real-world results that reinforce the differentiated safety and efficacy data seen in our pivotal PINNACLE FLX trial. In cardiac rhythm management, organic sales grew 7%, and operational sales grew 14% versus prior year. In core serum, we anticipate that our growth was in line to slightly above market with our low-voltage business growing high single digits and our high-voltage business growing low single digits, aided by stronger S-ICD sales. We look forward to the presentation of further clinical evidence at HRS later this week. Within the diagnostics franchise, we continue to be pleased with the performance of our differentiated portfolio with both the LUX-Dx implantable cardiac monitor and Preventice AECG portfolio outpacing the market in the first quarter. Electrophysiology sales grew 11% and organic 47% operationally versus prior year. International strength continues driven by our innovative portfolio and continued success of Farapulse, with late-breaking clinical data from the MANIFEST-PF survey presented at EHRA, highlighting the real-world performance of the system. And more than 1,700 patients investigators reported 99.9% success in achieving acute pulmonary vein isolation and excellent procedure times. We continue to further the body of clinical evidence elsewhere in the portfolio with real-world outcomes data from the POLARx ICE study, which was presented at EHRA and demonstrated a strong safety and efficacy of the POLARx cryoablation system. We also closed the Baylis acquisition in mid-February, and we're excited to bring a novel category leading technology and commercial synergies to our broader portfolio. In peripheral interventions, organic sales grew 10% versus prior year. The arterial franchise was led by double-digit growth within the drug-eluting franchise, supported by ongoing clinical evidence and, more broadly, our category leadership portfolio. And within venous, Varithena had another quarter of double-digit growth driven by a strong underlying market and penetration in new accounts. Our interventional oncology franchise continues to do very well, led by TheraSphere, which grew double digits in the quarter. And earlier this month, we received FDA IDE approval to initiate the FRONTIER study, which will assess TheraSphere as a treatment option for patients with glioblastoma, an aggressive cancer occurring in the brain or spinal cord. We also received FDA clearance for EMBOLD, which is a fiber embolization coil that further enhances our portfolio of embolization technologies. Boston Scientific's dedicated transforming lives through innovative medical solutions, while also minimizing the impact of the environment and making measurable contribution to the world. Corporate responsibility is core to our values and helps inform our priorities that advanced progress and aligned to our business goals. So, we're excited to share our progress in the 2021 performance report, which we expect to release in May. Also in 2021, we announced five acquisitions, strengthening our underlying market growth with innovative technologies and accretive growth markets. In 2022, we evolved our leadership structure to enhance customer focus and further enable our strategies. Joe Fitzgerald now leads the Cardiology segment, including interventional cardiology therapies, WATCHMAN, CRM Diagnostics, and electrophysiology; and Art Butcher now leads the MedSurg segment, including endoscopy, urology, and neuromodulation, while continuing to oversee Asia-Pac. This new structure supports agile business practices and drives collaboration and innovation across our similar call points, while also empowering our leaders to maintain our deep customer focus. We're excited about the outlook for 2022 and our long-range plans despite the macroeconomic challenges we continue to face. We remain committed to our financial goals, growing sales faster than the market, continuing operating margin expansion, and double-digit adjusted EPS growth with strong adjusted free cash flow. I'm extremely grateful to our employees for their resiliency, the strong results, and their winning spirit. And now I'll turn things over to Dan to review our financial performance in more detail.Dan Brennan -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Mike. First quarter consolidated revenue of $3,026 million represents 10% reported revenue growth versus first quarter of 2021 and reflects a $74 million headwind from foreign exchange, higher than our expectations, driven by the strengthened U.S. dollar. Excluding this 270 basis-point headwind from foreign exchange, operational revenue growth was 12.6% in the quarter. Quarterly sales from the acquisitions of Farapulse, Lumenis, and Preventice through February and Baylis post the February 14th close date, contributed 340 basis points, partially offset by the divestiture of the BTG Specialty Pharmaceuticals business in 2021, resulting in 9.7% organic revenue growth, exceeding the high end of our guidance range of 5% to 8% growth versus 2021. We saw a steady improvement in Q1 procedural volumes as COVID waned in most geographies throughout the quarter with a strong finish in March. April procedural volumes have continued to see minimal COVID impact with the exception of China, in line with our expectations. Top-line results drove Q1 adjusted earnings per share of $0.39, representing 6.5% growth versus 2021 at the midpoint of our guidance range of $0.38 to $0.40. Included in the $0.39 was a $0.02 headwind from tax and below the line. Adjusted gross margin for the first quarter was 70.3%. We expect Q2 adjusted gross margin to be in line with Q1 as we continue to face macroeconomic headwinds and resulting pressures on the global supply chain. Despite our expectation that these macroeconomic headwinds will continue throughout 2022, we anticipate a slight improvement to adjusted gross margin in the second half with the full realization of standard cost improvements and less unfavorable manufacturing variances. We now expect our full year adjusted gross margin to be in line with the second half of 2021 adjusted gross margin of 70.8%, which reflects an approximate $300 million headwind versus pre-COVID levels with nearly half of this headwind related to increased freight costs and the remaining headwind resulting from unfavorable manufacturing variances, driven by the availability of direct materials and the increased cost to procure them. First quarter adjusted operating margin was 25.8%, slightly higher than our expectations, driven by top-line revenue performance and disciplined spend management in the quarter. We continue to anticipate our full year adjusted operating margin to be within a range of 26% to 26.4%. Given the magnitude and level of persistence of the macroeconomic headwinds, it likely makes the high end of our adjusted operating margin guidance range, less certain, but we still believe the range is achievable. And on a GAAP basis, first quarter operating margin was 15.4%. Moving to below the line, adjusted interest and other expense totaled $110 million in Q1, slightly higher than our expectations, and, based on the timing of our debt refinancing within the quarter, included minimal benefit from the debt transaction, which I'll provide further detail on in a moment. Our tax rate for the first quarter was 14.3% on an adjusted basis, including unfavorable discrete tax items and the benefit from stock compensation accounting. Excluding these items, our operational tax rate was 13.9%, higher than our expectations, driven by differences in the treatment of interest expense in the issuing jurisdiction of our euro-denominated bonds. We ended Q1 with 1,438 million fully diluted weighted average shares outstanding. Our adjusted free cash flow for the quarter was $70 million, and free cash flow was an outflow of $171 million with a $58 million outflow from operating activities and $113 million of net capital expenditures. For full year 2022 adjusted free cash flow, we continue to aim to be at or above 2021 adjusted free cash flow of $2.2 billion. As of March 31, 2022, we had cash on hand of $325 million after closing the acquisition of Baylis Medical in February. Our top priority for capital allocation remains high-quality tuck-in M&A, and we'll continue to assess opportunities in conjunction with our financial goals. Within the first quarter, we completed an opportunistic transaction, refinancing approximately $3.3 billion of U.S. bonds funded through an offering of 3 billion Euro-denominated bonds. The transaction was debt neutral, and we remain committed to our long-term leverage goals of 2.25 to 2.5 times leverage. And as of March 31, our leverage was 2.76 times. I'll now walk through guidance for Q2 and full year 2022. We expect full year 2022 operational revenue growth to be in a range of 9% to 11% versus 2021, which excludes an approximate 200 basis point headwind from foreign exchange based on current rates and includes 250 basis point contribution from the acquisitions of Preventice, Farapulse, Lumenis and Baylis; and $13 million of pre-divestiture specialty pharmaceutical sales in 2021. As a result of our strong Q1 performance, we are raising our full year 2022 organic revenue growth range to 6.5% to 8.5% versus 2021, excluding the impact of closed acquisitions and divestitures. We expect second quarter 2022 operational revenue growth to be in a range of 6% to 9% versus 2021, which excludes an approximate 300 basis-point headwind from foreign exchange based on current rates and includes a 300 basis-point contribution from the acquisitions of Farapulse, Lumenis, and Baylis. Excluding the impact of acquisitions, we expect second quarter 2022 organic revenue growth to be in a range of 3% to 6% against a much tougher Q2 comp. We now expect our full year 2022 adjusted below-the-line expenses to be approximately $360 million, down from the $400 million guidance issued in February due to lower interest expense as a result of our debt refinancing transaction, partially offset by the cost to manage our VC portfolio and execute our hedging program. As a result of the difference in tax treatment of interest expense related to our debt refinancing transaction, we now expect our full year 2022 operational tax rate to be approximately 14% with an adjusted tax rate of approximately 13%, including the benefit of the accounting standard for stock compensation. We expect a fully diluted weighted average share count of approximately 1,443 million shares for Q2 and 1,445 million shares for the full year 2022. We now expect full year adjusted earnings per share to be in a range of $1.74 to $1.79 and for the second quarter expected to be in a range of $0.41 to $0.43. Please check our investor relations website for Q1 2022 financial and operational highlights, which outlines more detailed Q1 results. With that, I'll turn it back to Lauren, who will moderate the Q&A.Lauren Tengler -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thanks, Dan. Andrew, let's open it up to questions for the next 35 minutes or so. In order for us to take as many questions as possible, please limit yourself to one question and one related follow-up. Andrew, please go ahead. 