  OperatorGood morning, and welcome to the second quarter 2022 earnings conference call for D.R. Horton, America's Builder, the largest builder in the United States. [Operator instructions] I will now turn the call over to Jessica Hansen, vice president of investor relations for D.R. Horton.Jessica Hansen -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thanks, Holly, and good morning. Welcome to our call to discuss our results for the second quarter of fiscal 2022. Before we get started, today's call includes forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although D.R.

 



 Horton believes any such statements are based on reasonable assumptions, there is no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different. All forward-looking statements are based upon information available to D.R. Horton on the date of this conference call and D.R. Horton does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.Additional information about factors that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in D.R. Horton's annual report on Form 10-K in its most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q, both of which are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. This morning's earnings release can be found on our website at investor.drhorton.com, and we plan to file our 10-Q in the next day or two. After this call, we will post updated investor and supplementary data presentations to our Investor Relations site on the presentations section under News and Events for your reference. Now I will turn the call over to David Auld, our president and CEO. David Auld -- President and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thank you, Jessica, and good morning. I am pleased to also be joined on this call by Mike Murray and Paul Romanowski, our executive vice president and co-chief operating officers; and Bill Wheat, our executive vice president and chief financial officer. D.R. Horton team delivered an outstanding second quarter, highlighted by a 59% increase in earnings to $4.03 per diluted share. Our consolidated pre-tax income increased 60% to $1.9 billion on a 24% increase in revenues. And our consolidated pre-tax profit margin of 520 basis points to 23.5%. Our homebuilding return on inventory for the trailing 12 months ended March 31st was 40.3%, and our consolidated return on equity for the same period was 34%. These results reflect our experienced teams the production capabilities and our ability to leverage D.R. Horton scale across our broad geographic footprint. Housing market demand remained strong despite the recent increase in mortgage rates and we are focused on maximizing returns while continuing to aggregate market share. There are still significant challenges in the supply chain, including shortages in certain building materials and a very tight labor market. Our construction cycle times were extended further this quarter, and we continue to work on stabilizing and then reducing our cycle times to historical norms. After starting construction on 24,800 homes this quarter, our homes and inventory increased 30% from a year ago with only 600 unsold completed homes across the nation. With 33,900 homes in backlog, 59,800 homes in inventory, a robust loss supply and strong trade and supplier relationships, we are well-positioned for consolidated revenue growth of greater than 25% this year. We believe our strong balance sheet, liquidity, and low leverage position us to operate effectively through changing economic conditions. We plan to maintain our flexible operational, and financial position by generating strong cash flows from our homebuilding operations while managing our product offerings, incentives, home pricing, sales pace, and inventory levels to optimize returns.

 



 Mike?Mike Murray -- Executive Vice President and Co-Chief Operating Officer Earnings for the second quarter of fiscal 2022 increased 59% to $4.03 per diluted share compared to $2.53 per share in the prior-year quarter. Net income for the quarter increased 55% to $1.4 billion, compared to $930 million. Our second quarter home sales revenues increased 22% to $7.5 billion on 19,828 homes closed, up from $6.2 billion on 19,701 homes closed in the prior year. Our average closing price for the quarter was $378,200, up 21% from the prior-year quarter, while the average size of our homes closed was down 1%. Paul?Paul Romanowski -- Executive Vice President and Co-Chief Operating Officer Our net sales orders in the second quarter decreased 10% to 24,340 homes, while the value increased 10% from the prior year to $9.7 billion. Our average number of active selling communities increased 1% from the prior-year quarter and was up 4% sequentially. The average sales price of net sales orders in the second quarter was $400,600, up 23% from the prior-year quarter. The cancellation rate for the second quarter was 16%, compared to 15% in the prior-year quarter. New home demand remains very strong despite the recent rise in mortgage rates. We are continuing to sell homes later in the construction cycle to better ensure the certainty of the home close date for our homebuyers with virtually no sales occurring prior to the start of home construction. We expect to continue managing our sales pace in the same manner for the rest of the year. Bill?Bill Wheat -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Our gross profit margin on home sales revenues in the second quarter was 28.9%, up 150 basis points sequentially from the December quarter. The increase in our gross margin from December to March reflects the broad strength of the housing market. The strong demand for homes, combined with a limited supply has allowed us to continue to raise prices and maintain a very low level of sales incentives in most of our communities. On a per square foot basis, home sales revenues were up 4.8% sequentially. While stick and brick cost per square foot increased 2.5% and our lot cost increased 2.8%. We expect our cost will continue to increase. However, with the strength of today's market conditions, we expect most cost pressures to be offset by price increases in the near term. We currently expect our home sales gross margin in the third quarter to be slightly better than the second quarter. Jessica?Jessica Hansen -- Vice President, Investor Relations In the second quarter, homebuilding SG&A expense as a percentage of revenues was 6.8%, down 80 basis points from 7.6% in the prior-year quarter. This quarter, our homebuilding SG&A expense as a percentage of revenues was lower than any quarter in our history, and we remain focused on controlling our SG&A while ensuring that our infrastructure adequately supports our business. Paul?Paul Romanowski -- Executive Vice President and Co-Chief Operating Officer We started 24,800 homes during the quarter, up 5% from the second quarter last year, bringing our trailing 12-month starts to 95,300 homes. We ended the quarter with 59,800 homes in inventory, up 30% from a year ago. 26,000 of our total homes at March 31st were unsold, of which only 600 were completed. Our average construction cycle times for homes closed in the second quarter increased by almost two weeks since our first quarter and over two months from a year ago. Although we have not seen improvement in the supply chain yet, we continue working to stabilize and then reduce our construction cycle times to historical norms. Mike?Mike Murray -- Executive Vice President and Co-Chief Operating Officer At March 31st, our homebuilding lot position consisted of approximately 570,000 lots, of which 23% were owned and 77% were controlled through purchase contracts. 23% of our total owned lots are finished and 47% of our controlled lots are or will be finished when we purchase them. Our large capital-efficient lot portfolio is a key to our strong competitive position. Our second quarter homebuilding investments in lots, land, and development totaled $2.1 billion, of which $1.2 billion was for finished lots, $630 million was for land development, and $260 million was to acquire land. Paul?Paul Romanowski -- Executive Vice President and Co-Chief Operating Officer Forestar, our majority-owned residential lot development company continues to execute well. During the second quarter, Forestar reported total revenues of $421.6 million, and pre-tax income of $63.2 million. For the full year, Forestar expects to deliver 19,500 to 20,000 lots, and generate $1.7 billion of revenues with a pre-tax profit margin of 14% to 14.5%. At March 31st, Forestar's owned and controlled lot position increased 14% from a year ago to 96,500 lots. 57% of Forestar's owned lots are under contract with or subject to a right of first offer to D.R. Horton. $390 million of our finished lots purchased in the second quarter were from Forestar. Forestar is separately capitalized from D.R. Horton, and had approximately $580 million of liquidity at quarter end with a net debt-to-capital ratio of 29.9%. Forestar's strong capitalization, lot supply, and relationship with D.R. Horton positions them to continue their profitable growth. Bill?Bill Wheat -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Financial services pre-tax income in the second quarter was $92.8 million with a pre-tax profit margin of 41.8%, compared to $107.7 million and 47.8% in the prior-year quarter. For the quarter, 99% of our mortgage company's loan originations related to homes closed by our homebuilding operations and our mortgage company handled the financing for 68% of our homebuyers. FHA and VA loans accounted for 41% of the mortgage company's volume. Borrowers originating loans with DHI Mortgage this quarter had an average FICO score of 724 and an average loan-to-value ratio of 88%. First-time homebuyers represented 55% of the closings handled by the mortgage company this quarter. Mike?Mike Murray -- Executive Vice President and Co-Chief Operating Officer Our rental operations generated pre-tax income of $103 million on revenues of $223 million in the second quarter. During the quarter, we sold one multifamily rental property consisting of 126 units for $50 million, and we sold three single-family rental properties totaling 368 homes for $173 million. Our rental property inventory at March 31st was $1.5 billion, compared to $544 million a year ago. Rental property inventory at March 31st included approximately $600 million of multifamily rental properties and $900 million of single-family rental properties. As a reminder, our multifamily and single-family rental sales and inventories are reported in our rental segment and are not included in our homebuilding segments homes closed revenues, or inventories. During the quarter, our rental operations subsidiary, DRH Rental, entered into a four-year $750 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility. Availability under the rental revolving credit facility is subject to a borrowing base calculation based on unrestricted cash and the book value of DRH rental real estate assets. There were no borrowings outstanding on the rental credit facility at quarter end. We now expect our rental operations to generate more than $800 million in revenues during fiscal 2022. Our third quarter rental sales will be lower than the second quarter and fourth quarter sales will be the highest of the year. We also now expect our total rental platform inventories to grow by more than $1.5 billion in fiscal 2022 based on current projects in development and a significant pipeline of our future projects. We are positioning our rental operations to be a significant contributor to our revenues, profits, and returns in future years. Bill?Bill Wheat -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Our balanced capital approach focuses on being disciplined, flexible, and opportunistic. At March 31st, we had $3.2 billion of homebuilding liquidity, consisting of $1.2 billion of unrestricted homebuilding cash and $2 billion of available capacity on our homebuilding revolving credit facility. Our homebuilding leverage was 16.4% at the end of March, and homebuilding leverage net of cash was 11.2%. Our consolidated leverage at March 31st was 24.9% and consolidated leverage net of cash was 18.9%. At March 31st, our stockholders' equity was $16.8 billion, and book value per share was $47.66, up 33% from a year ago. For the trailing 12 months ended March, our return on equity was 34%, compared to 27.1% a year ago. During the first six months of the year, our cash used in homebuilding operations was $416 million, which reflects our increased homes and inventory to meet demand and the impact of extended construction cycle times. During the quarter, we paid cash dividends of $79.1 million, and our board has declared a quarterly dividend at the same level as last quarter to be paid in May. We repurchased 3.1 million shares of common stock for $266 million during the quarter for a total of 5.8 million shares repurchased fiscal year to date for $544.2 million, an increase of 30% compared to the same period a year ago. Subsequent to quarter end, our board authorized the repurchase of up to $1 billion of our common stock, replacing our prior authorization. The new authorization has no expiration date. We now expect to reduce our outstanding share count by 3% during fiscal 2022. We remain committed to returning capital to our shareholders through both dividends and share repurchases on a consistent basis and to reducing our outstanding share count each fiscal year. Jessica?Jessica Hansen -- Vice President, Investor Relations As we look forward to the third quarter of fiscal 2022, we expect market conditions to continue to reflect strong demand from homebuyers with continuing supply chain challenges. We expect to generate consolidated revenues in our June quarter of $8.6 billion to $9 billion and homes closed by our homebuilding operations to be in a range between 21,500 and 22,500 homes. We expect our home sales gross margin in the third quarter to be in the range of 29% to 29.5% and homebuilding SG&A as a percentage of revenues in the third quarter to be around 6.6%. We anticipate a financial services pre-tax profit margin of approximately 40%, and we expect our income tax rate to be roughly 24% in the third quarter. For the full fiscal year, we expect to generate consolidated revenues of $35.3 billion to $36.1 billion and homes closed by our homebuilding operations to be in a range of 88,000 to 90,000 homes. We forecast an income tax rate for fiscal 2022 of roughly 24%, and we now expect that our share repurchases will reduce our outstanding share count by approximately 3% at the end of fiscal 2022 compared to the end of fiscal 2021. We still expect to generate positive cash flow from our homebuilding operations this year, and we will continue to balance our cash flow utilization priorities among our core homebuilding operations, increasing our rental inventories, maintaining conservative homebuilding leverage, and strong liquidity, paying an increased dividend, and consistently repurchasing shares. David?David Auld -- President and Chief Executive Officer In closing, our results and positions reflect our experienced teams and production capabilities, industry-leading market share, broad geographic footprint, and diverse product offerings across our multiple brands. Our strong balance sheet, liquidity, and low leverage provide us with significant financial flexibility to continue aggregating market share and effectively operating in changing economic conditions. We plan to maintain our disciplined approach to investing capital to enhance the long-term value of the company, which includes returning capital to our shareholders through both dividends and share repurchases on a consistent basis. Thank you to the entire D.R. Horton team for your focus and hard work. We are incredibly well-positioned to continue growing and improving our operations during the remainder of 2022 and in future years. This concludes our prepared remarks. We will now host questions. 