
OperatorGood morning, and welcome to the Camden Property Trust First Quarter 2021 Earnings. [Operator Instructions] Please note, this event is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to Kim Callahan, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Kimberly A. Callahan -- Senior Vice President of Investor RelationsGood morning, and thank you for joining Camden's First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. We hope you will enjoy our new more interactive call format today, which includes a brief video presentation as well as slides, detailing some of the remarks from our executive team. Today's webcast will be available for replay this afternoon, and we are happy to share copies of our slides upon request. If you haven't logged in yet, you can do so now through the Investors section of our website at camdenliving.com.

 



Before we begin our prepared remarks, I would like to advise everyone that we will be making forward-looking statements based on our current expectations and beliefs. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. Further information about these risks can be found in our filings with the SEC, and we encourage you to review them. Any forward-looking statements made on today's call represent management's current opinions, and the company assumes no obligation to update or supplement these statements because of subsequent events. As a reminder, Camden's complete first quarter 2021 earnings release is available in the Investors section of our website at camdenliving.com. And it includes reconciliations to non-GAAP financial measures, which will be discussed on this call.Joining me today are Ric Campo, Camden's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Keith Oden, Executive Vice Chairman and Alex Jessett, Chief Financial Officer. We will attempt to complete our call within one hour as we know that another multifamily company is holding their call right after us. [Operator Instructions] If we are unable to speak with everyone in the queue today, we'd be happy to respond to additional questions by phone or email after the call concludes. At this time, I'll turn the call over to Ric Campo.Richard J. Campo -- Chairman of the Board of Trust Managers and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Kim. The theme for our earnings call music was half fun. We've always believed that our Camden teammates do their best work when they're having fun. That's why 25 years ago, we chose have fun as one of our nine core values. Having fun is an intentional ingredient of maintaining a great workplace. And your team is having fun, they have smiles on their faces, which puts smiles on a residence faces, which ultimately makes our shareholders smile. It's a formula that has allowed us to earn a place on Fortune Magazine's 100 Best places to work list for 14 consecutive years, with seven top 10 finishes.

 



Just recently, we're pleased to announce that Camden is placed #8 on this year's list. Creating a culture that encourages folks to have fun, requires consistent, intentional focus, especially during the pandemic. Over the years, we have created traditions that support having fun. Skids and lip sync contest to fund videos that deliver important messages to our teams. The pandemic allowed us to come up with new ways to maintain our culture in the new work environment. Camden's culture is our Superpower that allows us to consistently perform at the highest level. And as [Peter Drucker] famously said, culture each strategy for breakfast. Our earnings call platform allows us to share videos and enhance our messaging. Here's an inside view of one of the many cultural messages that we shared with all of our Camden teammates this year and now with you. Culture is really key to Camden. Culture is who we are. Culture is about how we treat each other, how we feel about each other. And without the culture, we would not have been able to do the great things we did in 2020 during the pandemic. And hopefully, that culture will take us forward through 2021 when we get past the pandemic and then throughout the next few years once we're done with the pandemic. So there was one last culture video that's called past the culture, and I get called by Keith and he goes, you know. What we need to do is we need to make a big ending. And I happen to be in like Taho. It was 45 degrees out. And he said, the big deal is at the end of the video, you got to jump in the leg and spike football. That's like. What are you kidding me? Why do I always have to like jump in the lake or do something like that. And so I did it because it's all about culture, it's all about having fun, and it's all about taking care of each other, providing peak experiences, making sure that we know that it's not just a job. We're taking care of each other, our customers every single day. So here's the past the culture video, and it was 45 degrees in the water is very cold.[Presentation]Well, wasn't that interesting video and nice bike ride, into the cold water. But it's all about culture. It's all about making were having fun at the same time as we're doing what we need to do every single day, taking care of each other first, taking care of our customers and ultimately having fun why we do it. During the first quarter, we saw operating strength building in most of our markets. Clearly, the opening of the economy driven by the speed at which the COVID-19 vaccinations have been distributed has improved our results for the first quarter and our outlook for the rest of the year. This has led us to increase our net operating income and our FFO guidance. As tough and strange as pandemic made last year when use of time to advance many initiatives that will drive revenues, lower expenses and improved performance in key areas.To list a few, our investments in chirp, funnel and other AI opportunities will accelerate self guided tours, virtual leasing and apartment package deliveries and key list communities. All driving better customer experiences while increasing revenues and lowering expenses. Our investments in our cloud-based ERP systems have made remote working seamless. It streamlines data mining, moving us closer to the Internet of Things. It creates for a more robust ESG analysis and reporting on our ultimate carbon footprint reductions that we'll publish later in the year. We would be publishing a more expanded ESG report in the fall. I began the call with a discussion and a video on culture. We continue to do the right thing at Camden, moving forward on a journey to a more diverse, equitable and inclusive workplace.

 



Last summer, when there was great uncertainty, we advised our teams to focus on things they could control, getting the best health of their lives, embrace their friends and family as true partners with masks, proper social distancing and vaccinations, of course. We also ask our team members to take care of our residents and each other and not to listen to the noise around them. We told them that the pandemic would pass and the years after would be great for our teams, their families and our business. We see the light head, and it's not a training. I want to thank our team Camden, your families for helping us get from there to hear. Thank you, and I'll turn the call over to Keith.D. Keith Oden -- Executive Vice Chairman of the BoardSo we're really very proud of the fact that Camden, that we have been included on Fortune Magazine's list of 100 best companies to work for for 14 years. It's an incredible accomplishment that reflects the fact that each of you takes pride in the workplace and continues to work hard to make Camden a great place to work. So a lot of people think about the Fortune list and the Camden's culture and all the things that we do to support a great -- being a great workplace. And a lot of people look at that and they say, what they see is expense, in cost. And what we see is investment. We're investing in our brand. We're investing in our people. We're investing in our culture. And ultimately, we think those things are more -- far more important than the small amount of impact that the expenses that we have around maintaining Camden as a great workplace actually matter.And one of the ways to look at that is, is that we track our Camden's 20-year investment return against the S&P 500. And it's proof positive that creating a great workplace also creates great results for your shareholders. Over the last 20 years, Camden Property Trust has produced an annual return for our shareholders of over 11%, and the S&P 500 was about 7.5%. So almost 4% per year better than the S&P for a 20-year period. That's pretty incredible. And we think it's directly attributable to the investment that we make in our culture, in our people and making Camden a great place to work. So thank you for all you do, and thank you for being a part of this great company for all this period of time.Richard J. Campo -- Chairman of the Board of Trust Managers and Chief Executive OfficerNow a few details on our first quarter 2021 operating results. Same-property revenue growth was down [0.4%] for the quarter. And as expected, our top performers were located in our Sunbelt markets. With Phoenix at 5.8%, Tampa up 4%, Atlanta 2.2%, Raleigh 1.9%, and Denver, rounding out the top five list at 1.3% up. Rental rate trends for the first quarter were slightly ahead of plan, with signed leases down [0.8%], renewals up 3.4% for a blended rate of 1.2%. For effective leases, which were generally signed in the fourth quarter or early in the first quarter, the blended rate was 100 basis points lower at 0.2%. Our preliminary April results indicate improvements across the board for sign new leases, renewals and blended growth, averaging 4.5%, 4.7% and 4.6%, respectively. Future renewal offers are being sent out on average at over 5%. So our blended rental rates moved up from 1.2% in the first quarter to 4.6% in the month of April.This 340 basis point improvement exceeded our budget and was the primary reason for raising our full year guidance on revenue guidance. It's worth noting that Houston showed the fifth best improvement in revenue forecast among all of Camden's markets, and we now expect Houston revenues to be only about 0.5% down from last year. Occupancy averaged 96% during the first quarter of 2021, which matched our performance in the [first] quarter of '20 and was the highest quarterly level achieved since the pandemic began. April 2021 occupancy has accelerated to 96.6%, exceeding our original budget and expectation and setting us up well for our peak leasing season, which has begun and generally runs through early September. Net turnover for the first quarter of 2021 was 200 basis points lower than 2020 at 35% versus 37% last year, marking yet another quarter of high resident retention and fewer residents choosing to move. Move-outs to purchased homes dropped to 16.9% for the quarter versus 19% last quarter, which is in line with our seasonal patterns we usually see from the fourth quarter to the first quarter of each year. Next up is Alex Jessett, Camden's Chief Financial Officer.Alexander J. K. Jessett -- Executive Vice President of Finance, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant SecretaryThanks, Keith. Before I move on to our financial results and guidance, a brief update on our recent real estate activities. During the first quarter of '21, we commenced construction on Camden Durham, a 354 unit, $120 million new development in Durham, North Carolina, and we began leasing at both Camden Lake Iola, a 360 unit $125 million new development in Orlando in Camden's bucket, a 366 unit, $160 million new development in Atlanta. Subsequent to quarter end, we began leasing at Camden Hillcrest, a 132 unit, $95 million new development in San Diego. In the quarter, we collected 98.4% of our scheduled rents with only 1.6% delinquent. This compares favorably to the first quarter of 2020 when we collected 97.9% of our scheduled rents with a higher 2.1% delinquency. Turning to bad debt. In accordance with GAAP, certain uncollected revenue is recognized by us as income in the current month. We then evaluate this unflexible revenue and establish what we believe to be an appropriate reserve.This reserve serves as a corresponding offset to property revenues in the same period. When a resident moves out own us money, we typically have previously reserved all past due amounts, and there will be no future impact to the income statement. We reevaluate our reserves monthly for collectibility. For multifamily residents, we have currently reserved $9.2 million in uncollectible revenue against the receivable of $10.2 million. For retail, we are fully reserved against our $2.3 million receivable. In mid-February, Texas experienced a significant winter storm, resulting in widespread power outages, which led to, among other issues, corresponding water damage from broken water pipes. Less than 5% of our Texas units experienced any type of damage, with only a quarter [quarter of 1%] requiring the resident to temporarily vacate their home.Today, the vast majority of the damage has been fully repaired, and operations have returned to normal. We are extremely proud of the efforts of team Camden in responding to this unprecedented event. Last night, we reported funds from operations for the first quarter of 2021 of $125.8 million or $1.24 per share, $0.01 above the midpoint of our prior guidance range of $1.20 to $1.26. The $0.01 per share variance from the midpoint of our prior quarterly FFO guidance resulted primarily from both higher occupancy and higher rental rates at our same-store and non same-store portfolio, partially offset by the timing of certain property tax refunds in Washington, D.C. and Los Angeles, which we expected in the first quarter and will now likely not receive until the second half of the year. Compared within our first quarter results is approximately $900,000 of expenses directly associated with the Texas winter form. 2/3 of this amount is property level insurance, over time and repair and maintenance expense. The remainder is corporate level and tied to relief efforts, including meals provided to our residents. The additional property level expenses were entirely offset by greater-than-anticipated amounts of unrelated insurance subrogation proceeds. Last night, based upon our year-to-date operating performance, our April 2021 new lease and renewal rates and our expectations for the remainder of the year, we have increased the midpoint of our full year revenue growth from 0.75% to 1.6%. Additionally, we have increased the midpoint of our same-store expense growth from 3.5% to 3.9%. This increase is entirely to account for additional property level salary expenses now anticipated to result from our reforecasted full year revenue outperformance.As a result, we have increased the midpoint of our 2021 same-store NOI guidance from negative 0.85% to positive 0.25%. Our 3.9% revised expense growth at the midpoint assumes insurance expense will increase by approximately 22% due to the continued unfavorable insurance market. Property insurance comprises approximately 4% of our total operating expenses. Additionally, our revised expense growth assumes that salaries and benefits will increase by 3.5%, as a result of additional compensation tied directly to the now reforecasted revenue outperformance. The remainder of our property level expense categories are anticipated to grow at approximately 3% in the aggregate. Last night, we also increased midpoint of our full year 2021 FFO guidance by $0.09 per share, $0.07 of this increase results from our revised same-store NOI guidance, with the remaining $0.02 per share increase expected to be generated by our non same-store portfolio. Our new 2021 FFO guidance is $4.94 to $5.24 with a midpoint of $5.09 per share. We also provided earnings guidance for the second quarter of 2021. We expect FFO per share for the second quarter to be within the range of $1.22 to $1.28. The midpoint of $1.25 represents a $0.01 per share increase from our $1.24 in the first quarter of 2021.This increase is primarily the result of an approximate $0.01 per share expected sequential increase in same-store NOI, resulting from higher expected revenues during our peak leasing period, partially offset by related compensation expenses, the seasonality of certain repair and maintenance expenses and increases from our may insurance renewal. As of today, we have just over $1.1 billion of liquidity, comprised of approximately $260 million in cash and cash equivalents and no amounts outstanding under our $900 million unsecured credit facility. At quarter end, we had $358 million left to spend over the next three years under our existing development pipeline, and we have no scheduled debt maturities until 2022. Our current excess cash is invested with various banks, earning approximately 25 basis points. And finally, as I have discussed on prior calls, in 2019 and 2020, we set in play important technological advancements. 2021 will be the transition year that will lead to realized efficiencies, 2022, 2023 and beyond. From cloud-based financial systems to virtual leasing to mobile access to AI technologies that allow us to meet residents on their schedule, we are poised very well for the future. At this time, we will open the call up to questions.