  OperatorWelcome to the fourth quarter 2021 Arista Networks financial results earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded and will be available for replay from the Investor Relations section of the Arista website following this call. Mr. Venk Nathamuni, Arista's head of corporate and finance and investor relations, you may begin.Venk Nathamuni -- Head of Corporate and Finance and Investor Relations Thank you, operator. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us. With me on today's call are Jayshree Ullal, Arista Networks' president and chief executive officer; and Ita Brennan, Arista's chief financial officer. This afternoon, Arista Networks issued a press release announcing the results of its fiscal fourth quarter ending December 30, 2021.

 



 If you would like a copy of the press release, you can access it online at our website. During the course of this conference call, Arista Networks' management will make forward-looking statements, including those relating to our financial outlook for the first quarter of fiscal year 2022; the longer-term financial outlook for 2022 and beyond; our total addressable market and strategy for addressing these market opportunities; the potential impact of COVID-19, supply chain constraints, manufacturing capacity and inventory purchases on our business; product innovation; and finally, the benefits of acquisitions. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that we discuss in detail in our SEC filings, specifically in our most recent Form 10-Q and Form 10-K, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these statements. These forward-looking statements apply as of today and should not be relied on as representing our views in the future.And we undertake no obligation to update these statements after this call. Also, please note that certain financial measures we use on this call are expressed on a non-GAAP basis and have been adjusted to exclude certain charges. We have provided reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures in our earnings press release. With that, let me now turn the call over to Jayshree. Jayshree Ullal -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Venk, and welcome to your first earnings call at Arista. We're excited to have you onboard as our executive head of corporate development, IR and finance. Thank you, everyone, for joining us this afternoon for our fourth quarter 2021 earnings call. If there's one thing the pandemic has taught us, it is that it comes with variant surprises.

 



 With vaccines and booster choices, we simply hope that all of you and your families are safe during the latest spread of the Omicron variant. I am proud of our employees for adapting and thank our partners and customers for placing their trust in us during these ever-changing times. Back to Q4 2021. We delivered revenues of $824.5 million for the quarter, with the non-GAAP earnings per share of $0.82. Services and software support renewals contributed approximately 21% of the revenue. Our non-GAAP gross margins of 64.3% was influenced by increasing supply chain costs. We've registered a record number of million-dollar customers as a direct result of our momentum in the enterprise and campus traction that we have experienced throughout the year. We have now surpassed in excess of 8,000 cumulative customers. In terms of Q4 2021 verticals, cloud titans was our largest vertical, followed by the enterprise, followed by the specialty cloud providers at third place, financials at fourth place and service providers at fifth place. All the verticals grew well at double-digit percentages in 2021. In terms of Q4 geographical mix, international contributions were strong at 29%, with the Americas at 71% for the quarter. Shifting to annual sector revenue for the year in 2021, cloud titans registered approximately 30% of the revenue, enterprise and financials came in at approximately 40% and the providers at approximately 30%. Microsoft was the only greater-than-10% customer at a 15% contribution. We do expect Meta, formerly Facebook, to become our second 10% revenue customer in 2022 as we improve lead times. I would now like to invite Anshul Sadana, our chief operating officer, to shed more light on our cloud titan execution.

 



Anshul Sadana -- Chief Operating Officer Thank you, Jayshree. Our cloud business continues to be strong. In 2021, we successfully transitioned from prototype to trials, to production on our latest products for 100, 200 and 400 gig. The Arista 7800 is now deployed at scale for data center spine, PCI and regional spines and AI spine clusters. The Arista 7388, which we co-developed with Meta and announced at OCP November last year, is also now running successfully in production data centers. We not only continue to do well in existing use cases, but are also winning in new areas like WAN and cloud edge. Feedback from our largest customers is consistent. Arista products are easier to work with and have far fewer issues than competition. While there is often speculation about share shifts in some of our use cases, demand for our products from these cloud titans remains healthy. To quote one of our largest customers directly, Arista continues to maintain and even grow its leadership position in these high-volume leaf/spine deployments. Back to you, Jayshree.Jayshree Ullal -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Anshul. We look forward to our continued partnership with the cloud titans, something you and the entire engineering team has been nurturing for over a decade. In terms of annual 2021 product lines, our core cloud and data center products, built upon our highly differentiated Arista EOS stack, is successfully deployed across 10, 25, 40, 100, 200 and 400-gig speeds. This drove approximately 64% of our revenue with strong cloud and enterprise spending cycles. We believe we will continue to be the No. 1 in market share for both 100-gig and 400-gig ports according to industry analysts. Our second market is network adjacencies, comprised of routing replacing routers and the cognitive campus workspaces. We doubled our campus revenue at approximately $200 million in 2021 and aiming to double again to $400 million in 2022. Our investments in the cognitive campus switching spines and wireless generated significant customer wins versus incumbents. We successfully deployed in many routing edge and peering use cases, winning Tier 1 and Tier 2, Tier 3 service provider projects for routing. Our investments in the simplification of the routing stack and the edge is yielding traction. Just in 2021 alone, we introduced six EOS software releases across 37 platforms. We delivered over 1,500 features in routing over the past two years. The total campus and routing adjacencies together contribute approximately 14% of revenue as a compelling alternative to legacy networks. Our third category is network software and services based on subscription models such as Arista A-Care, CloudVision; DANZ Monitoring Fabric, or DMS, observability; and the advanced network detection and response, NDR, with AVA sensors for security. Arista's subscription-based network services and software contributed approximately 22% of total product revenue. We are proud that CloudVision has now exceeded over 1,300 cumulative customers as a highly differentiated integral element for our customers' network agility and operations. To recap our discussion at November 2021 Analyst Day, the networking industry is right for this digital transformation to data-driven networking. Arista is well-positioned as a leader in this client to cloud networking. A key part of the strategy is to bring these cloud-first principles to every aspect of the data network. Software functions such as routing, security and observability are inherently embedded into the Arista EOS. Our EOS has evolved to a third-generation software stack with both state and store-driven NetDL functions. NetDL, our Network Data Lake architecture that we launched in November 2021, is resonating well with customers. We are building upon our cloud network heritage to bring proactive platforms, predictive operations and a prescriptive experience to unify data sets from multiple sources. We are consistently harnessing the powerful combination of NetDL and AVA, our Autonomous Virtual Assist, to gather, store and process multiple modalities of network-generated data and network-related data. AVA uses a supervised AI/ML algorithm and natural language processing to help network operators with root cause analysis and threat hunting. Looking ahead into 2022. As I engage with worldwide customers, I'm observing fatigue and frustration with our peers' discontinuity in products and low support and quality. In contrast, Arista's pursuit of world-class data-driven networking is unwavering. It cannot be achieved by us alone. We're joining forces with industry leaders to collaborate with Microsoft, VMware, Red Hat, Equinix, Palo Alto Networks, ServiceNow, Slack, Splunk, Zscaler and Zoom to name a few, that together build our collaborative ecosystem. In summary, I'm so proud of our team's execution across multiple dimensions in 2021. With a record-setting year at $2.94 billion, 27% annual growth and a cash flow for the first time exceeding $1 billion, this was indeed an exciting and memorable year for Arista. It marked the return of the cloud titans growth, coupled with diversified momentum across our product lines and customer sectors. Arista's profile and affinity with customers has heightened to earn a strategic seat at that table. And so despite the supply chain obstacles that we now expect to continue into 2023, we have emerged stronger. We reiterate our 30% annual growth outlook mentioned at November's Analyst Day as we now aim for $3.85 billion in 2022 and multiple years of growth ahead. Now I'll turn it over to Ita, our CFO, for financial specifics.Ita Brennan -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Jayshree, and good afternoon. This analysis of our Q2 and full year 2021 results and our guidance for Q1 2022 is based on non-GAAP and excludes all noncash stock-based compensation impacts, certain acquisition-related charges and other nonrecurring items. In addition, all share-related numbers are provided on a post-split basis to reflect the four-for-one stock split completed in November 2021. A full reconciliation of our selected GAAP to non-GAAP results is provided in our earnings release. Total revenues in Q4 were $824.5 million, up 27.1% year over year and well above the upper end of our guidance of $775 million to $795 million. We continue to see strong demand across all our market sectors, with particular strength from our cloud titan customers as we ramp our new products. Shipments remained constrained in the quarter as we continued to carefully navigate industrywide supply shortages and COVID-related disruptions. Services and subscription software contributed approximately 21.2% of revenue in the fourth quarter, roughly in line with Q3. International revenues for the quarter came in at $242.1 million or 29% of total revenue, up from 25% in the third quarter. This completes a year of strong international performance, with international revenues for the year growing 46% on a year-over-year basis. This reflects healthy performance with our in-region customers, combined with solid contributions from our larger cloud titan customers. Overall gross margin in Q4 was 64.3%, just above the midpoint of our guidance range of approximately 63% to 65%. We continued to recognize incremental supply chain costs in the period and began to see an increase in cloud titan revenue mix in the quarter. Operating expenses for the quarter were $206.2 million or 25% of revenue, up from last quarter at $192.4 million. R&D spending came in at $130.3 million or 15.8% of revenue, up from last quarter at $125 million. This primarily reflected increased headcount and employee-related costs in the period. Sales and marketing expense was $61.2 million or 7.4% of revenue, compared to $55.8 million last quarter, with increased headcount and higher variable compensation expenses. As a reminder, we continue to benefit from lower COVID-related travel and marketing expenses. Our G&A costs came in at $14.7 million or 1.8% of revenue. Our operating income for the quarter was $324.2 million or 39.3% of revenue. Other income and expense for the quarter was a favorable $1.5 million, and our effective tax rate was approximately 19.4%. This resulted in net income for the quarter of $262.4 million or 31.8% of revenue. Our diluted share number was 319.75 million shares, resulting in a diluted earnings per share number for the quarter of $0.82, up approximately 32.3% from the prior year. Now turning to the balance sheet. Cash, cash equivalents and investments ended the quarter at approximately $3.4 billion. We repurchased $176 million of our common stock during the fourth quarter at an average price of $113 per share. As a recap, this completes the April 2019 $1 billion repurchase authorization, having repurchased a total of 16.7 million shares at approximately $60 per share. In addition, we initiated repurchases against the October 2021 $1 billion board authorization, purchasing $72.9 million or 590,000 shares in the quarter at an average price of $124 per share. The actual timing and amount of future repurchases will be dependent on market and business conditions, business requirements, stock price, acquisition opportunities and other factors. Now turning to operating cash performance for the fourth quarter. We generated $225 million of cash from operations in the period, completing our first year with cash generation in excess of $1 billion. This reflects the strong earnings and cash flow potential of our business model even in a period of increasing investments in inventory and supply chain. DSOs came in at 58 days, up from 49 days in Q3, reflecting the linearity of billings and deferred revenue growth in the period. Inventory turns were consistent with last quarter at 1.7 times. Inventory increased to $650.1 million in the quarter, up from $575.7 million in the prior period, reflecting increased component buffers and some added inventory costs. Our purchase commitments for the quarter were $2.8 billion, up from $2.1 billion in Q3. This is in response to increased lead times now extending into 2023 and continued strength in demand. As a reminder, we continue to prioritize newer, early life cycle products were included in these strategies in order to help mitigate the risk of excess or obsolescence. Our total deferred revenue balance was $929 million, up from $800 million in Q3. The majority of the deferred revenue balance is services related and directly linked to the timing and term of service contracts, which can vary on a quarter-by-quarter basis. Approximately $160 million of the balance, up from $113 million last quarter, represents product deferred revenue, largely related to acceptance clauses for new products, most recently with our larger cloud titan customers. As a reminder, we remain in a period of significant new product introductions, combined with healthy new customer acquisition rate and expanded use cases with existing customers. These trends, in conjunction with reduced levels of upfront in-person testing, have resulted in increased customer-specific acceptance clauses and higher product deferred revenue amounts. Accounts payable days were 63 days, up from 47 days in Q3, reflecting the timing of inventory receipts and payments. Capital expenditures for the quarter were $8.5 million. Now turning to our outlook for the first quarter and beyond. As outlined at our Analyst Day, we expect to achieve year-over-year revenue growth for 2022 of approximately 30%. This reflects continued healthy demand across all our market sectors, tempered by the impact of a difficult supply environment. On the gross margin front, we see continued industrywide supply constraints and elevated logistics costs, with some offset from customer price increases. While we expect gross margins for the first quarter to be in the range of 63% to 64%, we would highlight the potential negative impact of customer mix in future quarters. If we are successful in improving supply, enabling our cloud titan contribution to accelerate, it would likely result in gross margins below the typical guidance range. Now turning to spending and investments. We remain committed to growing our investments in R&D to support innovation across the business and sales and marketing to support our go-to-market expansion. With all of this as a backdrop, our guidance for the first quarter, which is based on non-GAAP results and excludes any noncash stock-based compensation impacts and other nonrecurring items, is as follows: revenues of approximately $840 million to $860 million, gross margin of 63% to 64% and operating margin at approximately 38%. Our effective tax rate is expected to be 21%, with diluted shares on a post-split basis of approximately 320 million shares. I will now turn the call back to Venk. Venk?Venk Nathamuni -- Head of Corporate and Finance and Investor Relations Thank you, Ita. We're now going to move to the Q&A portion of the Arista earnings call. [Operator instructions] Operator, please take it away. 