  OperatorGood afternoon. My name is Mel, and I will be your conference operator for today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to PayPal Holdings earnings conference call for the third quarter 2021. [Operator instructions]. I would now like to introduce your host for today's call, Ms. Gabrielle Rabinovitch, senior vice president, corporate finance, and investor relations. Please go ahead.Gabrielle Rabinovitch -- Senior Vice President, Corporate Finance, and Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Mel. Good afternoon, and thank you for joining us. Welcome to PayPal's earnings conference call for the third quarter of 2021. Joining me today on the call are Dan Schulman, our president and CEO; and John Rainey, our chief financial officer and EVP, global customer operations. We're providing a slide presentation to accompany our commentary. This conference call is also being webcast, and both the presentation and call are available on our investor relations website. In discussing our company's performance, we will refer to some non-GAAP measures. You can find the reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in the presentation accompanying this conference call.Management will make forward-looking statements that are based on our current expectations forecasts and assumptions and involve risks and uncertainties. These statements include our guidance for the fourth quarter and full year 2021 and our outlook for 2022. Our actual results may differ materially from these statements. You can find more information about risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could affect our results in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC and available on our investor relations website. You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. All information in this presentation is as of today's date, November 8, 2021. We expressly disclaim any obligation to update this information. With that, let me turn the call over to Dan. 

 



Dan Schulman -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Gabrielle, and thanks, everyone, for joining us. Well, the big news today is that for the first time, we are teaming up with Amazon to enable customers in the U.S. to pay with Venmo at checkout. Starting next year, customers will be able to make purchases on amazon.com and the Amazon Mobile Shopping app using their Venmo accounts. This is obviously a very significant moment in our Venmo monetization efforts and marks the beginning of an exciting journey with Amazon. Now that we are no longer constrained by the contractual obligations of the eBay operating agreement. The increasing scale and brand trust associated with our two-sided platform continues to set us apart from the rest of the market and enables us to expand our footprint with existing merchants and attract new partners. And now to our results. Our overall Q3 results were generally in line with our expectations. Our total payment volume grew 26% on a spot basis to $310 billion. This comes even as eBay's TPV declined by 45% in the quarter and is now approximately 3% of our overall TPV. Excluding eBay, our volumes grew by 31% on a spot basis with an annualized run rate of $1.2 trillion.

 



 Our active accounts were up 15% year over year, reaching 416 million. We added 13.3 million net new active accounts in the quarter including another 1.2 million merchant accounts, bringing our total merchant count to 33 million, and we remain on track to deliver more than 52 million NNAs for the year. Importantly, our diverse suite of products and services drove double-digit growth in our transactions per active account, up 10% to 44.2 times. Revenues in the quarter grew to $6.182 billion, growing 13% on a spot basis. This was slightly below our expectations as back-to-school sales and travel were weaker than we expected. But even so, excluding eBay, our revenues grew by 25% in Q3. eBay now represents less than 4% of our total revenues. And we delivered non-GAAP EPS of $1.11 even as we continue to invest heavily in our growth initiatives. Our platform continues to drive substantial value for our merchants. PayPal is the most accepted digital wallet with more than 75% of the top 1,500 largest global merchants utilizing PayPal at checkout. And on average, our PayPal checkout conversion is 34% higher than other checkout options. In addition to our Amazon news, we are very pleased to say that Walmart now presents PayPal as a checkout option for both their grocery and marketplace business, and GoFundMe me added PayPal to their checkout flow with Venmo to follow in the coming months. Valero and Phillips 66 are adding our QR codes to their thousands of gas stations across the U.S. and United Airlines recently launched PayPal QR payments in-flight. As Checkout evolves from pay now to pay on your own terms, we've seen rapid adoption of our buy now, pay later capabilities in the U.S., Germany, France, U.K., and Australia. In Q4, we will expand Buy Now, Pay Later to Italy and Spain. Also in this quarter, we eliminated consumer late fees to ensure we deliver the very best value proposition to our consumers while delivering on our mission to build an inclusive digital economy. Since our buy now, pay later launch, we have processed approximately $5.4 billion in TPV with more than $2 billion of that TPV in Q3 alone. Approximately 950,000 merchants have customers who use our buy now, pay later capabilities and more than 65,000 have positioned, buy now, pay later upstream on their product pages. And over 9.5 million consumers have transacted more than 33 million times with our buy now, pay later products. We will expand our global pay later portfolio in the first half of 2022 to include longer-term installment plans, allowing consumers to spread higher price purchases over longer periods of time. This is already available in Germany, where we are seeing great initial success. We completed our acquisition of Paidy, a fast-growing two-sided payments platform and provider of buy now, pay later solutions in Japan. This will accelerate our momentum in Japan, a strategically important market and one of the largest e-commerce markets in the world. We are seeing very positive trends on our new PayPal app, which has now ramped to 100% globally. Consumers are engaging with the app and discovering the breadth of our new value proposition. Although it's still early, initial results show that the new app has driven a 25 times lift in consumers exploring our deals and offer staff, a 15% increase in first-time users transacting with crypto, and it has also driven a 35% lift in our cash card enrollments. And the average revenue per account from digital wallet users is twice that of checkout-only users. We expect to launch more features next year, including equity investing capabilities. It's quite exciting to see the initial positive reaction to our app, and we will continue to refine and expand its functionality to help consumers navigate an increasingly digital and connected lifestyle. Venmo continues to achieve milestones and break records and is on track to deliver $900 million in revenue this year, with more than 80 million customers and $240 billion in run rate TPV, Venmo's scale is on par with PayPal's entire U.S. franchise in 2016. Then most customers are adopting more and more products, and we are seeing accelerating momentum with our new product introductions. Even with all these growth and these impressive accomplishments, we are just at the start of Venmo's commerce journey, and we could not be more pleased about joining forces with Amazon. We expect Venmo to be transaction margin positive this year, while still growing its P2P business at very healthy rates. The back half of 2021 was always going to be the low point of our revenue growth this year, and we are appropriately cautious as we enter Q4 and as we think about 2022. We are seeing the impact of global supply chain shortages in our merchant base. Consumer confidence has weakened with the absence of stimulus payments. And with the economy reopening, more people may be likely to do their holiday shopping in-store as confidence in delivery logistics is depressed from last year. And of course, we still feel the impacts of eBay's managed payments migration over the next few quarters, although at a lessening rate. Almost all of these issues are temporal. And consequently, we expect our revenues will accelerate throughout next year, and we remain confident in our medium-term guidance. I'd like to spend a few moments on the recent rumors that made their way through the news. We participate in a rapidly moving industry. It's quite clear that consumers and merchants prefer a more connected digital lifestyle that encompasses financial services, shopping, payments, and commerce. Our market research and that of others strongly supports the vision of a more connected economy. And PayPal clearly has the brand trust, regulatory relationships, and scale to be a meaningful leader in the digital economy. Exploring all potential opportunities to enhance shareholder value is our responsibility. But obviously, only a select few deals will meet our very strict financial, strategic, and capital allocation criteria. We are fortunate to be a market leader in an environment with so many potential opportunities and operate in an industry with a number of favorable tailwinds. We will continue to execute against our game plan and responsibly explore the options in our rapidly evolving ecosystem, so that we remain the leader we are today in tomorrow's world. And with that, I'll turn the call over to John.John Rainey -- Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, Global Customer Operations Thanks, Dan. I'd like to start by thanking our customers, partners, and employees for helping us deliver a solid quarter. We're now reporting our results for the seventh quarter since the pandemic began, and it's remarkable to take a step back and reflect on everything that we've accomplished during this dynamic and unprecedented time. There's been a profound and enduring shift in global commerce and consumer behavior, which has significantly expanded our addressable opportunity. The powerful and accelerating secular tailwinds of increasing e-commerce penetration and cash displacement have helped to advance our leadership position in payments. To give you a better sense of the scale of growth we've experienced, it took 20 years for PayPal to reach $600 billion in annual payment volume, which occurred in 2019. Only two years later, we crossed $1.2 trillion. Relative to 2019, we've seen significant growth across our key performance indicators, including active accounts, engagement, TPV, revenue, EPS and free cash flow. At the same time, we're operating in a complex environment. The macroeconomic landscape is currently characterized by varying rates of reopening activity globally and influenced by short-term supply chain challenges, inflationary pressures, and concerns related to consumer sentiment. These factors contribute to a backdrop that continues to make forecasting more challenging. Our third quarter performance demonstrates the strength of our diversified platform, our global reach and the scalability of our business. Notably, we delivered these results against tough year-over-year comparisons. And in the quarter, where we face the most acute pressure from eBay's payments transition. For the quarter, we're reporting revenue of $6.2 billion, representing growth of 13% on both a spot and currency-neutral basis. eBay Marketplaces revenue declined 67% to $235 million and contributed less than 4% of total revenue versus approximately 13% last year. Excluding eBay, revenue grew 25% year over year and 26% on average for the last two years. This two-year compound annual growth rate is particularly notable. Throughout 2021, this growth rate has been consistently strong at 25% and 26% in the first and second quarters, respectively. I would also like to provide some context for our performance relative to our expectations when we provided third quarter guidance in late July. First, travel volumes strengthened in June and July. This trend then reversed in August and September due to concerns related to the delta variant. Second, back-to-school spending was somewhat softer than we had expected. While our overall performance was well within our guidance, we saw moderation toward the tail end of the quarter and exited at a lower growth rate than we had predicted. In third quarter, transaction revenue grew 10% to $5.6 billion. This growth rate reflects the steep decline in eBay revenue in the quarter. Excluding eBay, transaction revenue grew 23%. Other value-added services revenue grew 50% to $575 million. This performance was driven by increased revenue from Synchrony and accelerated recognition of loan servicing fees from the PPP program. In the third quarter, total take rate was 1.99%, consistent with the second quarter and a decline of 22 basis points from last year. The mix effect of eBay contributed to approximately 55% of this decline. The blended take rate on eBay volumes this quarter was 2.43%, compared to 4% in Q3 last year. The remainder of the decline was primarily driven by reduced currency volatility in the quarter, which resulted in a lower growth rate in foreign exchange fees as well as merchant mix and growth in bill payment volumes. The 25-basis-point decline in transaction take rate was driven by these same factors. The third quarter was another strong quarter for volume-based expense performance. Transaction expense as a rate of TPV was 83 basis points, an increase of one basis point versus last year. Transaction losses improved four basis points and represented nine basis points as a rate of TPV. This level of loss performance is consistent with last quarter, matching the lowest transaction loss rate in our history. In the quarter, loan origination activity increased and we ended Q3 with $3.7 billion in net receivables, representing sequential growth of 13% and 43% growth relative to last year. Growth in our short-term installment pay portfolio was the primary driver of this increase. Strong performance of our loan portfolio, more stability in macroeconomic trends and the mix of shorter duration originations from our installment pay products resulted in our reserve coverage ratio declining to 11.6% from 14.9% at the end of the second quarter. The net effect of credit provisioning on credit losses in the quarter, inclusive of originations and reserve releases resulted in a benefit of $25 million. And year to date, we released $300 million in reserves. Overall, volume-based expenses grew 20% and represented 46% of revenue, resulting in a transaction margin of 54.2%. I'd now like to cover our non-transaction-related operating expenses. These expenses increased 17%, representing 30% of revenue. In the third quarter, our rapid pace of innovation continued. We had an exciting cadence of product introductions, including our new digital wallet apps for both PayPal and Venmo, the launch of crypto by wholesale in the U.K., our goods, and services P2P experience in Venmo and cash back to crypto with the Venmo credit card. To support and advance our key initiatives we continue to invest aggressively in technology and development and sales and marketing, including increased spending on customer acquisition and engagement strategies. These expense buckets drove 70% of the increase in non-transaction-related operating expenses. On a non-GAAP basis, operating income was essentially flat to last year and our operating margin was 23.8%. And on a two-year basis, the compound annual growth rate for operating income was 20%. For the quarter, non-GAAP EPS grew 4% to $1.11. This includes an approximate $0.29 per share headwind from the decline in eBay Marketplaces' transaction margin dollars. We ended the quarter with cash, cash equivalents and investments of $20 billion. In addition, free cash flow grew 20% to $1.3 billion, representing 21% of revenue. I'd now like to discuss our outlook for the remainder of 2021, as well as our preliminary thoughts for 2022. For 2021, we now expect revenue to be in the range of 25.3 to $25.4 billion, an increase of approximately 18% from last year. This represents a two-year compound annual growth rate of 19%. And excluding eBay, we now expect 2021 revenue to grow 28%. We expect our operating margin to be in line to last year, which was the highest in our history. This performance reflects our strategic investment spend throughout the year, as well as the negative transaction margin dynamics resulting from eBay, offset by the benefit from the release of reserves. We now expect non-GAAP EPS for the year to be approximately $4.60, a 19% increase on top of the 31% growth last year. And on a two-year basis, this is 25% growth. In addition, we expect to generate approximately $5.2 billion in free cash flow, representing $0.21 of free cash flow for every $1 of revenue we earn. As a result of this update to our full year guidance, we expect fourth quarter revenue to be in the range of 6.85 to $6.95 billion. This represents approximately 13% growth at the midpoint. We also expect $1.12 in non-GAAP EPS, representing 4% growth. While the impact from eBay's payments migration came in consistent with our expectations for the quarter, Relative to the beginning of the year, the headwind increased significantly. Until recently, we believe we could absorb this additional pressure and still deliver on our prior guidance. And while we came within our revenue expectations for the third quarter, the contributors to our revenue growth were somewhat different than what we had expected going into the quarter. Toward the end of the quarter, we also began to see growth rates come in a little lower than planned. We're off to a solid start in the fourth quarter, but growth rates still remain slightly below our prior expectations. In addition, retail supply chain and labor market concerns, which may impact the important holiday season, have led us to adopt a more cautious stance for the fourth quarter. That said, in recent days, we've seen improvement. At this point in time, it's difficult to say definitively whether these stronger turns will persist throughout the quarter or if this improvement is a pull forward of consumer holiday activity. Relative to the guidance provided at the start of 2021, we now expect revenue to be about 0.5% lower for the year, despite much more pressure from eBay than we had initially expected. Adjusting for the additional pressure to revenue growth from eBay, our revised 2021 guidance is actually ahead of the outlook we provided at the start of the year. In providing quarterly and annual guidance since July of last year, our goal has been to responsibly balance transparency with reliability and certainty. At the same time, we've also tried to emphasize the complexity of forecasting in this environment. We are taking what we view to be a prudent step in adjusting our outlook. But let me be very clear. Our key strategic initiatives are on track and performing very well. The initial response to our new digital wallet experiences has been very strong, and the implementation of our new headline pricing in the U.S. has been successful with no discernible impact to merchant activity. The underlying strength, diversification and resilience of our business on an absolute level and relative to pre-pandemic are unassailable and position us to remain on offense regardless of short-term headwinds. Our ability to sustainably deliver strong growth at our scale is indicative of the network effects of our business and our competitive positioning as a global leader in digital payments at the intersection of the powerful secular tailwinds of e-commerce penetration and cash displacement has never been stronger. As it relates to our expectations for 2022, we'd like to share some of our initial thoughts and the assumptions we're making for internal planning purposes. We are currently in the midst of our budget resource and investment planning process for next year. In addition, how we exit the year, as well as the status of some of the exogenous factors that Dan and I have already discussed, are also important inputs for the year ahead. On a preliminary basis, for 2022, we expect revenue growth in the high teens. If we had to put a point on it today, we'd likely anchor it at about 18%. It's also important to appreciate our expected trajectory of revenue growth. Due to the cadence of eBay's payments migration, as well as the stimulus measures earlier this year, we expect the first quarter next year to have more difficult comps and be our lowest growth quarter. Our plans are for revenue growth to then accelerate through the year, and to exit 2022 at a revenue growth rate in line with or ahead of our medium-term guidance. Similar to 2021, we expect that our growth rates will exceed industry growth rates by a healthy margin. Given the ongoing planning that we're still doing, we will guide EPS growth when we report Q4 results early next year. That said, I'd like to provide some color on how we're thinking about it. We see significant investment opportunities across our key priorities. In the past two years, we've accelerated our pace of product innovation to better serve our growing network of more than 400 million consumer and merchant accounts. We are investing to advance our product road map, increase our relevance for customers, and drive daily engagement. And to support these initiatives, we expect our non-transaction-related expenses to grow in the high single digits in 2022 on a base that will grow 20% this year. It's also important to note two factors that will have an impact on our EPS growth next year. First, we will lap the benefit we realized from the release of the credit reserve this year. And second, we expect our effective tax rate to increase from the lapping of onetime favorable tax adjustments. We expect these two items to result in an approximate 10-point headwind to non-GAAP earnings growth in 2022. That said, we remain very confident in the medium-term guidance we provided at our Investor Day earlier this year. We're witnessing the pull forward of e-commerce and displacement of cash continuing at an undiminished pace even as reopening the curves. It's also true that the most difficult year in the transition away from eBay will be largely behind us as we move into 2022, and we expect our revenue and TPV growth rates to accelerate. We believe that investing in our business is more important than ever before given the opportunities we see in front of us. And while we certainly expect our margins to increase over the long term, we don't want to be so overly focused on that from one quarter or one year to the next, then we don't invest appropriately. We are playing in this space to win. We are well positioned to capture the immense opportunity ahead and see a clear path to achieving our financial and strategic objectives. Our powerful two-sided platform focused on execution and mission-driven culture backed by the tailwinds of digital commerce set us up for success now and in the years to come. Before I turn it back over to the operator for Q&A, I would like to spend a moment discussing our approach to capital allocation. Our business is characterized by its very powerful cash flow generation. Since separation, we generated approximately $22 billion in free cash flow. We've returned nearly 10.5 billion in cash to shareholders in the form of share repurchases and allocated approximately $13 billion in cash to acquisitions and investments. We remain committed to both disciplined capital allocation and to balancing organic and inorganic growth investing to drive shareholder value creation. Inorganic opportunities are accelerating through our growth plans and to achieving our long-term aspirations. It's important to note that our medium-term outlook does not rely on acquisitions. At the same time, we will continue to be opportunistic in executing our strategic priorities, shaping the future of payments, and advancing our leadership position. With that, I will turn it back to the operator. Operator, please go ahead. 