
OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to Duke Realty Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Ron Hubbard. Please go ahead.Ronald M. Hubbard -- Vice President and Investor RelationsThank you, Amy. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to our second quarter earnings call. Joining me today are Jim Connor, Chairman and CEO; and Mark Denien, Chief Financial Officer; Steve Schnur, Chief Operating Officer; and Nick Anthony, Chief Investment Officer. Before we make our prepared remarks, let me remind you that certain statements made during this conference call may be forward-looking statements subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. These risks and other factors could adversely affect our business and future results.

 



For more information about those risk factors, we would refer you to our 10-K or 10-Q that we have on file with the SEC and the company's other SEC filings. All forward-looking statements speak only as of today, July 29, 2021, and we assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. A reconciliation to GAAP of the non-GAAP financial measures that we'll provide in this call is included in our earnings release. Our earnings release and supplemental package were distributed last night after the market closed. If you did not receive a copy, these documents are available in the Investor Relations section of our website at dukerealty.com. You can also find our earnings release, supplemental package, SEC reports and an audio webcast of this call in the Investor Relations section of our website. Now for our prepared statement, I'll turn it over to Jim Connor.James Connor -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerWell, thanks, Ron, and hello, everybody. The fundamentals of our business continue to be the best we've ever seen. We've now had three successive quarters of demand at or near all-time records, and projected market level rent growth has risen from the 6% to 7% range to the 10% range nationally with some submarkets as high as 25%. During the quarter, we began just under $200 million of new developments with strong value creation, raised our full year guidance starts once again. Continued cap rate compression and rent growth have well outpaced material cost increases that allowed us to drive improved margins.Our core portfolio achieved record rent growth on second-generation leasing, and our total in-service portfolio was an all-time high at 97.9% leased. We sold four assets in non-Tier one markets during the quarter were over $180 million. When coupled with the recently announced joint venture and the St. Louis market disposition, we've raised over $600 million of capital from portfolio management activities that also improved our Tier one geographic exposure. These quarterly results and our improved outlook for the balance of the year resulted in our raising key components of our 2021 guidance, including year-over-year core FFO growth now expected to be at 12.5% and growth in AFFO per share of 11.6%. Mark will provide you more details and color in his prepared remarks. With that, I will turn it over to Steve to cover operations update and outlook.

 



Steve Schnur -- Executive Vice President and Chief Operating OfficerThanks, Jim. I'll first cover market fundamentals and review our operational results. Industrial net absorption registered an impressive 85 million square feet, which is the third highest quarter on record. This was more than enough to offset new supply as completions dipped to 52 million square feet. This positive absorption over deliveries for the quarter reduced vacancy down to 4%. The strong fundamentals increased asking rents during the second quarter by 9.8% compared to the previous year. CBRE now projects demand for the full year to surpass 350 million square feet and break the all-time 2016 record of 327 million square feet. Completions are projected to be around 300 million square feet for the year. With this setup, we expect national asking rents to grow over 10% on average in 2021 with a range of mid-single digits to the mid-20s in the best submarkets.This is consistent with what we're seeing on the ground in our own markets. Growth in retail sales and e-commerce sales across the two month May and June period, were up 20% and 9% year-over-year. And perhaps more notably, when measured against the 2019 pre-pandemic time frame, the recent May and June figures were up 19% and 37%. Continued strains in the supply chain caused the retail inventory to sales ratio to remain at a record low 1.1 level times. Demand by occupier type remains broad-based and very active with 3PLs leading the way. 3PL activity nearly doubled the square feet absorbed year-to-date compared to a year ago. The general retailer and wholesaler categories were also up over 85% from a year ago. Of course, e-commerce is still exceptionally strong.And even with Amazon leasing 33 million square feet, which is down some from a year ago, these data points are a very good indicator that demand is broadening out past pure e-commerce players. Turning to our own portfolio. We executed a very solid quarter by signing 7.6 million square feet of leases. The strong lease activity for the quarter resulted in continued growth in rents in our portfolio as we reported 19% cash and 36% on a GAAP basis, both of which were all-time records for our portfolio. About 35% of these deals were in coastal markets, which is higher than our historical run rate, but still lower than our current portfolio exposure to these markets of about 40%. As we've been saying, our lower rollover in these coastal markets compared to our portfolio exposure results in outsized future opportunities for rent growth and this quarter certainly demonstrates this concept.

 



We expect rollover in coastal markets for the remainder of the year to moderate to recent historical levels, but we still expect strong overall growth in rents to continue. We started $197 million of new development this quarter that consisted of five speculative projects. As we alluded to last quarter, given the strength across our submarkets and strategically located land, we believe these projects offer a great risk-adjusted return for us. In fact, within two months after starting construction, we've already signed a lease for 100% of the space at the Columbus project totaling 582,000 square feet with an A-rated global 3PL customer at a rent well above our underwritten levels. Our development pipeline at quarter end is $1.4 billion, with 84% allocated to Tier one markets and expected value creation of almost 50%.This pipeline was 49% pre-leased as of June 30. This 49% moves up to 54% when you include the recently completed lease in Columbus I just mentioned. I'd also add that we have a land bank to continue to support these levels of new development going forward. Our teams have also taken critical steps to mitigate schedule risk related to materials. We believe we're well positioned to continue to lead our sector and grow through new development. Looking forward, our outlook for new development is as strong as it's ever been and is reflected by our revised guidance of $150 million from the midpoint. I'll now turn it over to Nick Anthony to cover the acquisitions and dispositions.Nick Anthony -- Executive Vice President and Chief Investment OfficerThanks, Steve. For the quarter, we sold $183 million of assets comprised of two facilities in Raleigh, one in St. Louis and one in Columbus. The pricing in aggregate was at an in-place cap rate of 4.2%, partly from very strong credit and asset quality, but also from exceptionally strong fundamentals and investor demand even in these non-Tier -- Tier one markets. [Indecipherable] stores container in the New York submarket of New Jersey. We expect to stabilize yield across both projects is 4.4% with IRRs expected in the mid-6% range. The 766,000 square foot facility acquired is a unique big box asset in IE West and has extra trailer parking and in a market with only 1% vacancy.The lease expires in approximately two years with current rents about 75% below market. The container of our facility is an irreplaceable location near the Port of New York, the Newark Airport and the New Jersey Turnpike and leased for 12 years to a local investor and logistics firm. There is also a long-term redevelopment possibility on this site. Yet in the interim, the investment will generate an excellent return as an income-producing logistics asset. I'll now share an update on two other large portfolio management transactions we've been talking about over the last few quarters. First, most of you saw the press release on Tuesday announcing that we formed a joint venture with CBRE Global Investors as part of our previously stated strategy to manage our exposure to Amazon.The initial tranche encompasses two facilities totaling 1.3 million square feet and a 17-acre trailer lot, which in aggregate, reduces exposure to Amazon from 8% to about 7.3%. It also generates approximately $141 million in capital, including new debt financing placed on the pool of assets. The second tranche consists of two facilities and one trailer lot in Baltimore, expect to close later in the third quarter. The third tranche consists of three facilities located in Pennsylvania, Seattle, and South Florida, which are expected to close in early 2022. The JV is expected to employ modest leverage in the 50% to 60% range. Secondly, last quarter, we announced our plan to exit the St. Louis market this year, and we closed on sales during the second quarter and early in the third quarter with a blended cap rate in the mid-5% range. If you include the St. Louis transaction and tranche one and two of the JV contributions, the NOI from our development pipeline, our Tier one market NOI exposure is 67% and our coastal Tier one market exposure is 40%.I'll now turn it over to Mark to discuss our financial results and guidance update.Mark Denien -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Nick. Good afternoon, everyone. Core FFO for the quarter was $0.44 per share, which represents nearly 16% growth over the $0.38 per share from the second quarter of last year. AFFO totaled $150 million for the quarter compared to $135 million in the second quarter of 2020. We expect this level of high performance to continue through the remainder of 2021 as reflected in our revised guidance. Same-property NOI growth on a cash basis for the three and six months ended 2021 compared to the same periods of 2020 was 5.5% and 6.2%, respectively. The growth in same-property NOI for the second quarter of '21 compared to the second quarter of '20 was mainly due to rent growth and some free rent burn-off, partially offset by a slight decrease in occupancy in our same-property portfolio compared to the previous year.During the quarter, we generated $156 million of proceeds from the sale of 3.4 million shares under our ATM program. We also redeemed the remaining $84 million of our 3.9% unsecured notes that were set to mature in October of next year. We finished the quarter with $265 million of outstanding borrowings on our line. Early in July, we also called for the reduction of $250 million of unsecured notes, which have a scheduled maturity in April of 2023 and bear interest at an effective rate of 3.7%. After this redemption, we do not have any significant debt maturities until late 2024. We'll use the proceeds from the July dispositions, Nick just mentioned, to repay our line of credit and fund this reduction, leaving us plenty of dry powder to fund our growing development pipeline.As a result of our operational execution through the first half of 2021, we announced revised core FFO guidance for 2021 in a range of $1.69 to $1.73 per share compared to the previous range of $1.65 to $1.71 per share. The $1.71 midpoint of our revised core FFO guidance represents a 12.5% increase over 2020 results. We also announced revised guidance for growth in AFFO on a share adjusted basis to range between 10.1% and 13% with a midpoint of 11.6% compared to our previous range of 8% to 12.3%. For same-property NOI on a cash basis, we've increased our guidance to the range of 4.75% to 5.25%. We continue to outperform underwriting assumptions for speculative developments, both in the timing of lease-up and in the rental rates we're achieving, while we have maintained a solid list of build-to-suits prospects as well as land sites in various stages of due diligence and entitlements.Based on these prospects, our revised guidance for development starts is between $1.1 billion and $1.3 billion compared to the previous range of between $950 million and $1.15 billion. Our guidance for dispositions of properties has been revised to between $1.0 billion and $1.2 billion compared to the previous range of $900 million to $1.1 billion. This increase in disposition guidance is primarily attributable to favorable pricing rather than additional asset sales. We've updated a few other components of our guidance based on our more optimistic outlook as detailed in our range of estimates exhibit included in our supplemental on our website. I'll now turn it back to Jim for a few closing remarks.James Connor -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Mark. In closing, I'm really proud of our team's execution through midyear. Market fundamentals are exceptionally strong, and we're driving significant growth in rental rates as well as capturing new development opportunities with new and existing customers. The year-to-date results and our outlook for the year have clearly exceeded our expectations from the beginning of the year.I'd also like to take this opportunity to point out our recently published annual Corporate Responsibility Report, which most of you should have received. If not, I would encourage everyone to review it on our website. It's an important element of our culture and strategy. We believe our ESG characteristics and initiatives are unique and a positive differentiator for Duke Realty investment proposition. Thank you for your interest and your support, and we'll now open up the lines for questions. [Operator Instructions] With that, operator, we'll open it up and take questions.