  OperatorGood afternoon. My name is France, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Meta first-quarter earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] The call will also be recorded. Thank you very much. Ms. Deborah Crawford, Meta's vice president of investor relations, you may begin.Deborah Crawford -- Vice President of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you. Good afternoon, and welcome to Meta Platform's first quarter 2022 earnings conference call. Joining me today to discuss our results are Mark Zuckerberg, CEO; Sheryl Sandberg, COO; and Dave Wehner, CFO. Before we get started, I would like to take this opportunity to remind you that our remarks today will include forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause these results to differ materially are set forth in today's press release and in our annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC. Any forward-looking statements that we make on this call are based on assumptions as of today, and we undertake no obligation to update these statements as a result of new information or future events. During this call, we may present both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures.A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP measures is included in today's earnings press release. The press release and an accompanying investor presentation are available on our website at investor.fb.com. And now I'd like to turn the call over to Mark. Mark Zuckerberg -- Chief Executive Officer

 



 All right. Hey, everyone, and thanks for joining us today. We made progress this quarter across a number of our priorities and our community continues to grow. More people use our services today than ever before, and I am proud of how our products are serving people across the world during what has been a difficult period for a lot of people. I talked last quarter about some of the near-term challenges facing our business. Some are specific to Meta, like our transition to short-form video, which doesn't monetize as well for now but which we're quite optimistic about over the long term. Some are specific to our industry, like signal loss resulting from Apple's iOS changes, which is a meaningful headwind, but we also expect that with the right technology, investments will navigate OK over time. Other challenges are broader macro trends, like the softness in e-commerce after the acceleration we saw during the pandemic. The war on Ukraine, which is a real tragedy on a humanitarian level, has also had an impact on our business. We've been blocked in Russia and we decided to stop accepting ads from Russian advertisers globally. And we've also seen effects on business globally following the start of the war. Taking a step back, I want to share some thoughts on our business trajectory and operating philosophy. First, I think it's useful to level set on our business trajectory over the last few years. After the start of COVID, the acceleration of e-commerce led to outsized revenue growth, but we're now seeing that trend back off. However, based on the strong revenue growth that we saw in 2021, we kicked off a number of multiyear projects to accelerate some of our longer-term investments, especially in our AI infrastructure, business platform, and Reality Labs. These investments are going to be important for our success and growth over time, so I continue to believe that we should see them through.

 



 But with our current business growth levels, we are now planning to slow the pace of some of our investments. Dave will give more detail in his commentary. I also want to share how I'm thinking about investments and margins. Last year, we began looking at our business as two segments: family of apps and Reality Labs. On the family of apps side, I am confident that we can return to better revenue growth rates over time and sustain high operating margins. In Reality Labs, we are making large investments to deliver the next platform that I believe will be incredibly important, both for our mission and business comparable and value to the leading mobile platforms today. Now I recognize that it's expensive to build this. It's something that's never been built before. And it's a new paradigm for computing and social connection. So over the next several years, our goal from a financial perspective is to generate sufficient operating income growth from family of apps to fund the growth of investment in Reality Labs, while still growing our overall profitability. Now unfortunately, that's not going to happen in 2022, given the revenue headwinds. But longer term, that is our goal and our expectation. Of course, our priority remains building for the long term. So while we're currently building our plans to achieve this, it is possible that prolonged macroeconomic or business uncertainty could force us to trade off against shorter-term financial goals. But we remain confident in our long-term opportunities and growth. Now with that, I want to dive deeper on what we're seeing in three of our main investment priorities that I expect to drive this growth: Reels, ads, and the Metaverse. So let's start with Reels. There are two key trends that we're seeing here. First, the increasing popularity of short-form video; and second, the advancement of AI recommendations driving more of our feeds rather than just social content. On the first point, since I started Facebook 18 years ago, we've seen multiple shifts in the media types that people use. And we started as a website primarily with text, then people got phones with cameras and the main format became images on mobile apps. In the last several years, mobile networks have gotten faster and now video is the main way that people experience content online. Short-form video is the latest iteration of this, and it's growing very quickly. Reels already makes up more than 20% of the time that people spend on Instagram. Video overall makes up 50% of the time that people spend on Facebook and Reels has grown quickly there as well. The second point is that while we're experiencing an increase in short-form video, we're also seeing a major shift in Feeds from being almost exclusively curated by your social graph or follow graph to now having more of your feed recommended by AI, even if the content wasn't posted by a friend or someone you follow. Social content from friends and people and businesses you follow will continue being a lot of the most valuable, engaging, and differentiated content for our services, but now also being able to accurately recommend content from the whole universe that you don't follow directly, unlocks a large amount of interesting and useful videos and posts that you might have otherwise missed. Overall, I think about the AI that we're building not just as a recommendation system for short-form video, but as a discovery engine that can show you all of the most interesting content that people have shared across our systems. In Facebook, that includes not just video, but also text posts, links, group posts, reshares, and more, on Instagram that includes photos as well as video. In the future, I think that people will increasingly turn to AI-based discovery engines to entertain them, teach them things and connect them with people who share their interests. And I believe that our investments in AI, all the different types of content we support, and our work to build the best platform for creators to make a living will increasingly set our services apart from the rest of the industry and drive our success. And we're also finding that having an ambitious vision around building the world's discovery engine is attracting a lot of the most talented AI folks to work on this program. Next, let's talk about Ads. Sheryl will discuss this in more detail, but I want to highlight that this is also a large AI investment for us. There are three main trends to highlight in our Ads business right now. First, we're managing headwinds from the shift to short-form video that I just mentioned. In the near term, this is a drag on revenue because real monetization is less than theater stories. But I expect that that will improve over time. We've seen this type of media format transition multiple times before. Back in 2012, when we transition from desktop feed to mobile feed, we saw mobile feed growing massively, but not monetizing well yet, and we leaned into it, went through some tough quarters, and then it became the foundation of our business today. Similarly, in 2018, when people started using Stories more instead of Feed, but Stories didn't monetize as well as Feed yet, we still doubled down on Stories, had another tough period but came out stronger than ever. So we've run this play before, and we're running it again now. We're focused on growing Reels as a major part of the discovery engine vision and we expect that this expansion and engagement to shift from a short-term headwind to a tailwind at some point. Now while this is playing out, we're also managing the headwinds from signal loss that we've discussed a lot recently. This means growing first-party understanding of what people are interested in by making it easier for people to engage with businesses and our apps, whether that's completing purchases on Facebook or Instagram or messaging businesses on WhatsApp or Messenger. It also means making sure that we build the best privacy-enhancing technologies to provide accurate targeting and measurement to advertisers, even when purchases aren't happening within our apps. We're making major AI investments to build the most advanced models and infrastructure in the industry. Over the next year or two, we hope that this drives better recommendations for people, higher returns for advertisers, and increases our revenue growth, even in the face of signal loss. Over the longer term, I think that these large technology investments can provide a sustainable competitive advantage over others in the industry. The last priority that I want to discuss today is the Metaverse. Because while we're focusing on the biggest opportunities and challenges of today, I think it's important to build the foundation for the next era of social technology as well. The centerpiece of our strategy is the social platform that we're starting to build with Horizon. It's still early, but as we build out the experience, the next focus will be on growing the community. We plan to launch a web version of Horizon later this year that will make it easy for people to step into the Metaverse experiences from a lot more platforms, even without needing a headset. I think the best experience will be on virtual and eventually, augmented reality platforms, and especially on our platform like Quest, where, in an upcoming release, from the moment you put on your headset, you're going to be embodied with your Meta avatar and ready to interact in a horizon with your friends right from your Quest home. But making this available everywhere will mean that you can interact with anyone on whatever devices or platform that they want to use. Our other focus for Horizon is building out the Metaverse economy and helping creators make a living, working in the Metaverse. We expect to be meaningfully better at monetization than others in the space and we think that that should become a sustainable advantage for our platforms as they develop. On the hardware side, Meta Quest 2 continues to be the leading virtual reality headset. Later this year, we'll release a higher-end headset code-named Project Cambria, which will be more focused on work use cases and eventually replacing your laptop or work setup. This premium device will have improved ergonomics and full color pass-through mixed reality to seamlessly blend virtual reality with the physical world. We're also building in eye tracking and face tracking, so that your avatar can make eye contact and facial expressions, which dramatically improves your sense of presence. It's also a good example of why we're developing hardware in addition to the social platforms. We're bringing Horizon to more platforms, but if you want to be able to make eye contact or have your physical facial expressions just automatically get translated to avatar in real time, then our hardware will provide the best Metaverse experience, whether you're playing a game or meeting with coworkers in Horizon workrooms. We'll share more details about Project Cambria in the months ahead as we get ready to launch it. I believe the areas that we've discussed today are the right places for us to be doubling down on our work. The questions we face are not going to be resolved overnight. But we've also faced a number of these challenges before, so I'm confident that we can navigate this period while continuing to invest in our future. I'm grateful for everyone on our team who is executing on this important work for our partners and for our investors who believe in us and the future that we're building together. And now, here is Sheryl.Sheryl Sandberg -- Chief Operating Officer Thanks, Mark, and hi, everyone. Our total ad revenue in Q1 was $27 billion, which is up 6% year over year. We saw solid growth in APAC and Rest of World, but a more challenging environment in North America and Europe. Despite the headwinds Mark described a moment ago, we saw meaningful growth in areas like video ads and click-to-messaging ads. The changes to the ads landscape over the last year have caused significant disruptions to the way many businesses advertise online. Our teams are working closely with our partners to help them navigate this new environment so they can continue to get great return on investment. And we're focused on building products and tools that grow their businesses and ours over the long term. I want to pick up on what Mark said about our ad strategy. As he described, it's focused on three main areas: one, growing video monetization, especially short-form video like Reels; two, evolving our ad systems to do more with less data; and three, investing in AI and machine learning to support our ads infrastructure. First, video. Half of the time spent on Facebook is video and video services on Facebook were a significant source of revenue growth in the first quarter. People already watch a lot of longer-form video content that's eligible for industry ads, which we monetize well. Stories monetization continues to grow across Facebook and Instagram. And with Reels growing quickly, there's also a big opportunity as we get better at monetizing short-form video over time. We've accelerated our efforts to improve the Reels ad format. Our experience monetizing Stories is directly applicable here. We're leveraging what we learned with Stories ads to create ads for Reels that have a native format, perform well and are easy for advertisers to create. We're working closely with our partners to help them make the most of the opportunity with video, like experimenting with new formats and with campaigns that utilize multiple types of video ads. A great example is the U.S. restaurant chain Wendy's. They used a range of video formats across Feeds, Stories, Reels, and in-stream to promote their March Madness campaign, driving consumers to the first virtual Wendy's restaurant in Horizon Worlds. We also worked with them to promote the campaign in Horizon World itself, with a virtual welcome screen directing people to what they called the Wendyverse. The campaign was a big success, reaching 52 million people and improving Wendy's brand and message awareness across a number of metrics. Second, evolving our ad system. Our focus is on paving the way for the next era of personalized advertising, and there's work we're doing over the near, medium, and long term. In the near term, we're working closely with advertisers to help them navigate the new landscape, while we evolve and improve our ad solutions. For example, we're encouraging partners to integrate with our conversions API to create a direct, reliable, and privacy safe connection between their marketing data and Meta. And we've recently introduced a faster and easier way for SMBs to integrate with it called the Conversions API Gateway. One way we're helping advertisers get better insights with less data is with conversion modeling. This can help them understand measurement and campaign performance, even when we're not able to see or aggregate certain conversions. We're also helping businesses connect directly with customers and grow more on-site data conversions through products like click-to-message ads. This is where you click on an ad on your Facebook or Instagram feed and it opens a chat with the business in Messenger, Instagram Direct, or WhatsApp. It's already a multibillion-dollar business with healthy double-digit year-over-year growth in Q1. A great example is Deichmann, Europe's largest footwear retailer. They've built a fully automated virtual shoe assistant to give customers personalized footwear recommendations and promoted it through Click-to-Messenger ads on Facebook. They had an 85% click-through rate and saw 30% more incremental purchases than with their usual link ads. In the medium term, we see an opportunity to grow other on-site conversion products like lead ads, which make it easier for businesses to generate leads and shop ads, which direct you to a brand's digital storefront on Facebook or Instagram. It's still very early for shop ads, but we think driving people to shops can be a compelling objective for commerce advertisers as we continue to improve our on-site commerce tools. Over the longer run, we're also developing privacy-enhancing technologies, which will help us minimize the amount of personal information we process, while still allowing us to show people relevant ads and measure performance for advertisers. And we're collaborating across our industry on these and other standards that will support this next era of personalized advertising. Third, AI and machine learning, which are crucial components of these privacy-enhancing technologies and will drive improvements over time to our ads ranking and measurement capabilities. We're significantly increasing our investment in AI and machine learning across the company this year, and a large portion of this is going toward ads. We continue to innovate in order to deliver better-performing ads in general, and these investments will help us do that while processing less individual-level data. We also have a range of automated tools to make it easier for advertisers to create, manage and improve the performance of their ad campaigns. We're constantly working to improve these tools and make them simpler for advertisers to use. Taken together, we think our range of solutions can help advertisers get better results now and over the longer term. We're confident our apps will continue to be the best places for advertisers to reach people where they get measurable outcomes long into the future. As ever, I want to say thank you to our partners, large and small, and to our teams, who are working so hard to deliver great results for businesses everywhere. Now here's Dave.Dave Wehner -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Sheryl, and good afternoon, everyone. Let's begin with our consolidated results. All comparisons are on a year-over-year basis, unless otherwise noted. Q1 total revenue was $27.9 billion, up 7% or 10% on a constant currency basis. Had foreign exchange rates remained constant with Q1 of last year, total revenue would have been about $893 million higher. Q1 total expenses were $19.4 billion, up 31% compared to last year. In terms of specific line items, cost of revenue increased 17%, driven primarily by core infrastructure investments, payments to partners, and content-related costs. R&D increased 48%, mainly driven by hiring to support family of apps and Reality Labs. Marketing and sales increased 16%, mainly driven by hiring and marketing spend. And lastly, G&A increased 45%, driven mainly by legal-related costs and employee-related costs. We added over 5,800 net new hires in Q1, the majority in technical functions. We ended the quarter with over 77,800 full-time employees, up 28% compared to last year. The first-quarter operating income was $8.5 billion, representing a 31% operating margin. Our tax rate was 16%, net income was $7.5 billion or $2.72 per share. Capital expenditures, including payments -- principal payments on finance leases were $5.5 billion, driven by investments in data centers, servers, network infrastructure, and office facilities. Free cash flow was $8.5 billion, we repurchased $9.4 billion of our Class A common stock in the first quarter, and we ended the quarter with $43.9 billion in cash and marketable securities. Now moving to our segment results. I'll begin with the family of apps segment. Q1 total family of apps revenue was $27.2 billion, up 6%. Q1 family of apps ad revenue was $27 billion, up 6% or 10% on a constant currency basis. Growth decelerated from the fourth quarter due to a variety of factors. Prior to the war in Ukraine, we faced expected headwinds related to the continued slowdown in our online e-commerce vertical, which had grown quickly during the COVID-19 pandemic as well as ongoing targeting and measurement challenges impacting advertising spend. We experienced a further deceleration in growth following the start of the Ukraine war due to the loss of revenue in Russia as well as a reduction in advertising demand, both within Europe and outside the region. We believe that war introduced further volatility into an already uncertain macroeconomic landscape for advertisers. Foreign exchange rates were also a headwind to growth in the quarter. On a user geography basis, year-over-year ad revenue growth was strongest in Rest of World and Asia Pacific at 21% and 20%, respectively; North America grew 1%; and Europe was flat year over year. Europe advertising revenue was disproportionately challenged by the factors related to the war in Ukraine. In Q1, the total number of ad impressions served across our services increased 15% and the average price per ad decreased 8%. Impression growth was driven primarily by Asia Pacific and Rest of World. The year-over-year decline in pricing was driven primarily by the ongoing mix shift in ad impressions toward regions and services that monetize at lower rates. Family of apps other revenue was $215 million, up 9% as revenue growth from the WhatsApp business API offset a decline in payments-related revenue earned from Games. family of apps expenses were $15.7 billion, up 27%, driven mainly by employee-related expenses, infrastructure costs and legal costs. family of apps operating income was $11.5 billion, representing a 42% operating margin. we estimate that approximately 2.9 billion people use at least one of our family of apps on a daily basis in March and that approximately 3.6 billion people use at least one on a monthly basis. Facebook daily active users were 1.96 billion, up 4% or 82 million compared to last year. DAUs represented approximately 67% of the 2.94 billion monthly active users in March. MAUs grew by 83 million or 3% compared to last year. Europe DAUs and MAUs declined sequentially and were negatively impacted by the loss of users in Russia following the government's block of Facebook in the country. We expect this trend to continue in the second quarter and this will likely cause global MAU to be flat to down sequentially. Within our Reality Labs segment, Q1 revenue was $695 million, up 30%, driven by Quest 2 sales. Reality Labs expenses were $3.7 billion, up 55% driven by employee-related costs, R&D operating expenses, and cost of goods sold. Reality Labs operating loss was $3 billion in the first quarter. Turning now to the outlook. We expect second quarter 2022 total revenue to be in the range of $28 billion to $30 billion. This outlook reflects a continuation of the trends impacting revenue growth in the first quarter, including softness in the back half of the first quarter that coincided with the war in Ukraine. Our guidance assumes foreign currency will be approximately a 3% headwind to year-over-year growth in the second quarter based on current exchange rates. In addition, as noted on previous calls, we continue to monitor developments regarding the viability of transatlantic data transfer and their potential impact on our European operations, and we are pleased with the progress on a political agreement. Turning now to the expense outlook. We expect 2022 total expenses to be in the range of $87 billion to $92 billion, lowered from our prior outlook of $90 billion to $95 billion. We expect 2022 expense growth to be driven primarily by the family of apps segment followed by Reality Labs. We expect 2022 capital expenditures, including principal payments on finance leases to be in the range of $29 billion to $34 billion, unchanged from our prior estimate. Absent any changes to U.S. tax law, we expect our full year 2022 tax rate to be above the Q1 rate and in the high teens. In closing, our advertisers are adjusting to a new digital advertising landscape brought about by recent mobile platform changes, while navigating a complex set of macroeconomic challenges. Given the resulting revenue headwinds, we have adjusted our plans for hiring and expense growth this year. We continue to see a lot of opportunity across our investment priorities and remain committed to dedicating additional talent and capital toward these areas while ensuring our investment plans are appropriately calibrated to the operating environment. With that, France, let's open up the call for questions. 