  OperatorGood morning. My name is Katie, and I will be your conference facilitator today. Welcome to Chevron's second-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded. I will now turn the conference over to the general manager of investor relations of Chevron Corporation, Mr. Roderick Green. Please go ahead.Roderick Green -- General Manager of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Katie. Welcome to Chevron's second-quarter earnings conference call. I'm Roderick Green, GM of investor relations; and on the call with me today are Jay Johnson, EVP of upstream; and Pierre Breber, CFO. We will refer to the slides of prepared remarks that are available on Chevron's website. Before we get started, please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates, projections and other forward-looking statements. Please review the cautionary statement on slide two. Now, I will turn it over to Pierre.Pierre Breber -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Roderick. We delivered strong financial results in the second quarter with the highest reported earnings in over a year. Adjusted earnings were $3.3 billion or $1.71 per share. The quarter's results included special items totaling $235 million, including a remediation charge in the Gulf of Mexico and pension settlement costs.

 



 A reconciliation of non-GAAP measures can be found in the appendix of this presentation. Adjusted return on capital was near 8%, and we lowered our net debt ratio to 21%. Strong operating cash flow enabled us to meet Chevron's top financial priorities. Our dividend was up 4%. We continue to execute our efficient capital program, and we paid down $2.5 billion of debt. Despite lower year-to-date prices and margins, first half 2021 quarterly average free cash flow is near 2018 levels, primarily due to lower capital and operating costs and contributions from legacy Noble assets. We're maintaining strong capital and cost discipline. C&E is down 32% from a year ago, and we're lowering our full-year organic C&E guidance to around $13 billion primarily due to lower spending at TCO and greater capital efficiency across the portfolio. Operating costs are on track with our March 2021 investor day guidance of a 10% reduction from 2019. Adjusted second-quarter earnings were up $6.2 billion versus the same quarter last year. Adjusted upstream earnings increased primarily on higher prices and liftings. Adjusted downstream earnings increased on higher chemicals results, as well as higher refining margins and volumes. All other was roughly unchanged between periods. Compared with last quarter, adjusted second-quarter earnings were up about $1.5 billion. Adjusted upstream earnings increased primarily on higher commodity prices and higher production in the U.S. Adjusted downstream earnings increased primarily from strong chemicals results, as well as increased refining margins and volumes.

 



 All other charges were roughly flat between quarters and are running ahead of ratable guidance, primarily due to tax charges and valuation of stock-based compensation. The all other segment results can vary between quarters and our full-year guidance is unchanged. I'll now pass it over to Jay.Jay Johnson -- Executive Vice President, Upstream Thanks, Pierre. Second-quarter oil equivalent production increased 5% compared to a year ago. The increase in production was driven by Noble acquisition and lower curtailments, partially offset by normal field declines, price-related entitlement effects and asset sales. Turning to the Permian. We continue to incorporate greater efficiency into our activities. Even with our reduced activity levels, production is expected to be comparable to last year. Consistent with the guidance we shared in March, we're adding rigs and completion crews in the second half of this year, delivering an expected production rate of over 600,000 barrels a day by year-end. For 2021, we expect free cash flow, excluding working capital, to exceed $3 billion, assuming an average Brent price of $65 a barrel. We're committed to lowering the carbon intensity of our Permian operations. One recent example is our shift from diesel fuel to electricity and natural gas to power drilling rigs and completion spreads. This reduces emissions, reduces well costs and takes trucks off the roads, which results in higher returns and lower carbon. At FGP-WPMP, overall progress is at 84%, with field construction 69% complete. We've recently reviewed our cost and schedule targets. At this point, the net schedule extension from the pandemic is expected to be roughly a quarter for WPMP and two quarters for FGP. Our cost target remains $45.2 billion, as cost reduction efforts and favorable exchange rates offset an estimated $1.9 billion of incremental cost associated with COVID. The COVID costs include mitigation efforts, demob and remobilization costs, as well as the expected schedule extension I just mentioned. Although the total project cost target is unchanged, we have increased the project contingency to $1.9 billion to recognize the schedule uncertainty associated with the virus and its variance. The project is currently at peak workforce, and our primary focus is to mitigate the impact of the virus with vaccinations, testing and isolation protocols to enable our workforce to achieve its productivity. In the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico, the Ballymore project is being developed as a subsea tieback to our existing line face facility. The project facility entered front-end engineering and design and remains on track for a final investment decision next year. Earlier this month, we sanctioned the Whale project, which has the potential for future expansion. Fabrication of the Anchor project remains on track, with assembly of the production facility hall underway. In Australia, we've sanctioned the Jansz-Io compression project, which will support the flow of natural gas to Barrow Island. Repairs to the Gorgon propane heat exchangers are complete, and we now have all five operated LNG trains online in Australia. In Colorado, our newest generation of production facilities have eliminated the tanks and flare system to deliver a carbon intensity of only six kilograms of CO2 per BOE. The new facilities also have a 60% smaller footprint, higher reliability, and 15% to 20% lower life cycle cost than a traditional facility design, another great example of higher returns and lower carbon. Back to you, Pierre. Thanks, Jay. In May, we closed the acquisition of Noble Midstream. With this transaction complete, we have fully integrated Noble and have achieved greater than $600 million in synergies three months earlier than previously guided. We also started up a mixed feed cracker at GS Caltex and plan to be at 100% of design capacity in the third quarter. The project was completed under budget and five months ahead of schedule. In the third quarter, we're resuming our share repurchase program at a targeted annual rate of $2 billion to $3 billion. This is a rate that we believe is sustainable through the cycle while continuing to pay down debt. The restart of our program is consistent with our financial priorities and builds on our track record. We have a history of buying back shares consistently in meaningful quantities and at a price close to the daily ratable average over the entire 17-year period. We're continuing to grow lower carbon businesses. This quarter, we started coprocessing bio feedstock at our El Segundo refinery, growing renewable diesel production in a capital-efficient manner by leveraging existing infrastructure. We recently announced an MOU with Cummins to develop commercially viable businesses in hydrogen. Also, we've completed front-end engineering on a carbon capture project for emissions from the gas turbines in one of our California cogeneration facilities. This project leverages two innovative technologies, CO2 concentration and carbon capture, and has the potential to scale across our full fleet of turbines. Finally, yesterday, we announced the creation of Chevron New Energies,  a new organization reporting directly to the CEO. This is an important step to build fast-growing, profitable new energy businesses to further advance a lower carbon future. Now, looking ahead, in the third quarter, we expect major turnarounds to reduce upstream production by 150,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day, primarily at TCO, which also reduces our expected curtailments to about 5,000 barrels per day. We expect to make an incremental pension contribution in the third quarter of $500 million. This is a onetime payment in addition to our regular quarterly contributions. With higher operating cash flows, TCO expects to pay back part of its loans this year versus our prior guidance of increasing its debt. There's no change in TCO's expected dividend this year. We've adjusted the guidance on the affiliate income line to reflect higher expected TCO earnings. Also, we expect higher dividends from CPChem, in line with our share of higher earnings. On September 14, we'll be hosting our energy transition spotlight to provide more details on how we plan to lower carbon intensity in our operations and grow lower carbon businesses. We invite you all to join us for this video webcast. Our objective is unchanged-- higher returns, lower carbon. During this quarter, we continue to make progress toward this goal, delivering stronger financial results and achieving important lower carbon milestones. And with oil prices well above our dividend breakeven and an industry-leading balance sheet, we will resume share buybacks, sharing part of the cash upside with our investors. With that, I'll turn it back to Roderick.Roderick Green -- General Manager of Investor Relations Thanks, Pierre. This concludes our prepared remarks. We're now ready to take your questions.  [Operator instructions] Please try to limit yourself to one question and one follow up. We will do our best to get all your questions answered.  Katie, please open up the lines. 