  OperatorWelcome to the Vornado Realty Trust earnings and webcast for first quarter of 2022. My name is Vanessa, and I will be your operator for today's call. [Operator instructions] I will turn the call over to Mr. Steven Borenstein, senior vice president and corporate counsel. Steven, you may begin.Steven Borenstein -- Vice President, Corporate Counsel

 



 Welcome to Vornado Realty Trust first-quarter earnings call. Yesterday afternoon, we issued our first-quarter earnings release and filed our quarterly report on Form 10-Q with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These documents as well as our supplemental financial information package are available on our website, www.vno.com, under the Investor Relations section. In these documents and during today's call, we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included in our earnings release, Form 10-Q, and financial supplements. Please be aware that statements made during this call may be deemed forward-looking statements, and actual results may differ materially from these statements due to a variety of risks, uncertainties, and other factors. Please refer to our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021, for more information regarding these risks and uncertainties. This call may include time-sensitive information that may be accurate only as of today's date.The company does not undertake a duty to update any forward-looking statements. On the call today from management for our opening comments are Steven Roth, chairman and chief executive officer; and Michael Franco, president and chief financial officer. Our senior team is also present and available for questions. I will now turn the call over to Steven Roth. Steven Roth -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thank you, Steve, and good morning, everyone. Let me begin by saying I thought we had a very good quarter with FFO up 22% from last year, reflecting the continued recovery in our business, and we continued to see many positive trends across the business. To my eye, the streets of New York are back to pre COVID in terms of pedestrian count and our beloved traffic congestion. Borders are full and by full, I mean, literally full with long waiting lists, restaurants are booming and office utilization is climbing. We are now over 46% utilization as we speak. There are a couple of things I'd like to highlight. First, we have more floating rate debt than most, and that strategy is correct 9 out of every 10 years, but this is the 1oth year. The economy is now in the hands of the Federal Reserve in their role as inflation fighter and appropriately so. If past is prologue, we expect rates to climb quickly up a mountain, slow the economy and inflation, and then quickly fall down the other side. Second, for the first time this quarter, our GAAP financial statements reflect the balance sheet and income statement effect of the pending June 2023 PENN1 ground lease renewal. We have estimated $26 million as the new ground rent pending the actual arbitration proceeded. While these two numbers are substantial and will slow our growth short term, we believe that as Farley, PENN1, and PENN2 come online growth will be very, very substantial. Now over to Michael.

 



Michael Franco -- President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Steve, and good morning, everyone. As Steve mentioned, we had another strong quarter. First-quarter comparable FFO as adjusted was $0.79 per share, compared to $0.65 for last year's first quarter, an increase of $0.14 or 22%. This increase was primarily from rent commencement on new office and retail leases and the continued recovery of our variable businesses. We have provided a quarter-over-quarter bridge in our earnings release on Page 2 and in our financial supplement on Page 5. As Steve mentioned, this quarter for the first time, we are recognizing in our financials the impact of the pending PENN1 ran lease renewal. Under GAAP, we are required to record the present value of the estimated additional lease liability on our balance sheet and start recognizing the straight-line impact in our earnings. This reduced our earnings this quarter by approximately $4 million and we'll reduce it by $21 million overall in 2022 and $23 million on a full-year basis. The reduction in earnings will not impact cash FFO, however, until we actually start paying and increase rent in June of 2023. Looking ahead, we had initially expected to deliver double-digit percentage FFO per share growth in 2022, driven primarily by previously signed leases in both office and retail, particularly metal platforms at Farley, and the continued recovery of our variable businesses. But we now expect the impact of projected interest rate hikes by the Fed and our variable rate debt to be a greater headwind to this year's growth than we originally anticipated. We had assumed the LIBOR would move up this year when we gave a preview of 2022 last quarter, but it now looks like it will move up more than we expected this year. Keep in mind, we're also earning more on our cash balances as rates increase. We now expect our FFO per share growth for the year to be in the mid- to high single digits. With respect to our variable businesses, we continued to see a strong recovery in the first quarter. Our signage business, led by our dominant signs in Times Square and the Penn District, had its strongest first quarter ever and forward bookings continue to look healthy. Our trade show business at theMART is continuing to rebound as we hosted four successful trade shows during the quarter, whereas there were none during last year's first quarter due to the pandemic. Our garages, which we expect to be fully back this year continued to recover. And finally, our BMS business continues to perform near pre-pandemic levels. We expect to recover most of the income from our variable businesses this year with a full return in 2023. Companywide, same-store cash NOI for the first quarter increased by 5.8% over the prior year's first quarter. Our overall office business was up 2.2% compared to the prior year's first quarter while our core New York office business was up 0.5%. Our retail same-store cash NOI was up a very strong 32% primarily due to the rent commencement on new leases at 595 Madison Avenue, 4 Union Square, 770 Broadway and 689 Fifth Avenue. Our New York office occupancy ended the quarter at 92.1%, which is consistent with the fourth quarter of 2021 and up from the trough in the second quarter of 2021 by 100 basis points. Our New York retail occupancy ended the quarter flat versus year-end at 80.4% after adjusting for asset sales this quarter and up 380 basis points since bottoming in the first quarter of 2021. We expect both occupancies to continue to improve by the end of this year based on our deal pipeline and modest remaining 2022 office expiration schedule. Now turning to leasing markets. During the first quarter of 2022, leasing conditions across Manhattan continued to remain strong. Deal activity is robust while asking rents, the overall availability rate and tenant concessions have all stabilized. The combination of office-using job growth, higher space utilization and continued expansion by tech, financial and media companies has resulted in market resiliency. Leasing activity is currently indicating a continued trend toward recovery out of the pandemic with several large leases in the pipeline across all submarkets. CEOs are placing a high value on securing the long-term workplaces in order to foster teamwork collaboration morale amid fierce competition for talent in an ever-tightening labor market. As such, flight to quality remains the dominant theme in the leasing market. This is evidenced by 40% of the signed leases in the first quarter, consisting of relocations to new or redeveloped assets. Accordingly, rents have increased in new construction or best-in-class redeveloped assets. which provide amenity-rich offerings at transit-centric locations. Our best-in-class New York office portfolio is well-positioned to thrive in this environment. Focusing now on our portfolio. During the first quarter, we completed 30 leases totaling 271,000 square feet with healthy key metrics, including starting rents at $81 per square foot and a positive mark to market of 7.2% cash and 6.5% GAAP. Leasing highlights during the quarter included a 53,000-square-foot expansion with NYU at One Park Avenue, bringing their total footprint in the building to 685,000 square feet. We also completed eight transactions at PENN1 totaling 68,000 square feet with average starting rent in the 90s per square foot. These early leases validate our plan to take rent at PENN1 from the 60s per square foot to the 90s and we are now starting to push rents in this building into the triple digits as tenants love this totally new court space. A transformation of PENN1 has redefined work for all of our Penn District tenants. The unrivaled work/life campus ecosystem located on the building's first three floors is running on all cylinders, including our food and beverage operation, along with 140,000-square-foot amenity offering of health and fitness facilities, conference center, and trophy flex space operation. While the first quarter leasing volume was lower than recent quarters, we anticipate a very strong boost in leasing activity during the forthcoming quarters with several large pending transactions in our pipeline. We currently have 1.2 million square feet in lease negotiation driven by tenant expansions with an additional 500,000 square feet in earlier stages of negotiation across our portfolio. Retail leasing activity in the first quarter consists of six leases totaling 20,000 square feet with average starting rents of $172 per square foot, all of which were new leases. We have an active pipeline and strong interest in the Penn District in particular with the recent commencement of leasing in the Long Island railroad concourse. Now turning to Chicago. The office market continues to be challenged with direct vacancy at 19% and tenant concessions at historically high levels. However, as we said last quarter, tenant demand continues to strengthen throughout the city as indicated by this quarter's positive net absorption. At theMART, we signed 149,000 square feet of new leases during the quarter, including a new 81,000 square foot headquarters leased with Avant, a fintech lending company, as well as a 34,000 square foot renewal of steel cases showroom, which is an anchor tenant for our contract furniture business. Recent tour activity has been strong and is reflected in our growing tenant pipeline. We have 70,000 square feet of leases in negotiation and our trading proposal is another 250,000 feet of prospects. We look forward to commencing construction of our MART 2.0 building capital program in July where we will bring our new or work/life campus ecosystem to Chicago, which will further differentiate theMART as a unique workplace. In San Francisco, leasing activity started slowly at the beginning of 2022 as companies monitored the Omicron variant, but activity picked up toward the end of the quarter and has continued as companies initiated their return-to-work plans, led by a coordinated effort by the mayor and many large San Francisco employers. While the city's overall vacancy rate is elevated at 15%, the seven-building trophy set, of which 555 California is certainly one is at 3% and experiencing strong tenant demand and rental rates. As such, our market-leading 555 California complex is effectively fully leased with the exception of a 78,000-square foot 345 Montgomery building. During the quarter, we completed an important 49,000 square foot renewal with Microsoft in the base of 555, resulting in a significant 19.8% cash mark to market as well as the new triple-digit rent lease with a global private equity firm in the 7,000-square foot suite in the building's tower. Finally, turning to the capital markets. With the current market volatility and a move up in interest rates, the financing markets have become choppier with the typical increased focus from lenders on quality, sponsorship, and lease time. Our portfolio is well-positioned in this regard, and fortunately, we have only modest debt maturities in 2022 and no material maturities in 2023 after capitalizing on the robust markets last year. We are in the process of refinancing 770 Broadway now on significant maturity in 2022 and expect to complete it later this quarter. We also went under contract last week to sell our Long Island City office building for $173 million. After purchasing the asset in 2015, we extended the major leases over the past few years to create value and so our job here was done. This sale, together with the 5 small retail assets we recently sold, continues our efforts to monetize our noncore assets and we have another $750 million planned in the near future. Finally, our current liquidity is a strong $3.962 billion, including $1.787 billion of cash, restricted cash and investments in U.S. treasury bills, and $2.175 billion undrawn under our $2.75 billion revolving credit facilities. With that, I'll turn it over to the operator for Q&A. 