  OperatorGood day, everyone, and welcome to the Expedia Group Q3 2021 financial result teleconference. My name is Johnny, and I'll be the operator for today's call. [Operator instructions] For opening remarks, I will turn the call over to SVP and CFO, retail, Patrick Thompson. Please go ahead.Patrick Thompson -- Senior Vice President, Corporate Finance Good afternoon, and welcome to Expedia Group's financial results conference call for the third quarter ended September 30, 2021. I'm pleased to be joined on the call today by our CEO, Peter Kern; and our CFO, Eric Hart. The following discussions, including responses to your questions, reflect management's views as of today, November 4, 2021, only. We do not undertake any obligation to update or revise this information. As always, some of the statements made on today's call are forward-looking, typically preceded by words such as we plan, we expect, we believe, we anticipate, we are optimistic, we're confident that, or similar statements. Please refer to today's earnings release and the company's filings with the SEC for information about factors which could cause our actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements. You will find reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures discussed today in our earnings release, which is posted on the company's investor relations website at ir.expediagroup.com. And I encourage you to periodically visit our IR website for other important content.Unless otherwise stated, all references to cost of revenue, selling and marketing expense, general and administrative expense, and technology and content expense exclude stock-based compensation. And all comparisons on this call will be against our results for the comparable period of 2019. And with that, let me turn the call over to Peter. Peter Kern -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Pat. Thank you all for joining us today. Eric and I will make some brief comments and then, of course, take questions. Let me begin by saying we're very pleased with the quarter we had in Q3, nearly matching our adjusted net income and EBITDA from 2019. But I would add that, but for delta, this would have been our most profitable quarter ever, and I think it's a tremendous milestone for the company to be here while we are still in the throes of COVID and still coming out. And a testament, really, to the work we've done to simplify the company, to focus on technology, and to run the business more efficiently. And with that performance and what we're seeing in the market, we have the confidence to further pay down our preferred stock, which we did a few weeks ago as you would have noted and which, of course, is not a big milestone for us in putting COVID behind us. As far as the trends for the quarter go, I'll do high level and Eric will give a little more detail. But we went into the quarter following a strong Q2 and good momentum. But as we remarked last quarter, delta had begun to have impact. We saw it impact cancellations, we saw it impact booking trends. And -- but as we got through August and into September, the delta fears, particularly in the U.S., began to wane, and we ended stronger in the back half of September. And that has continued through into the fourth quarter with even greater strength. We've seen improvement across all segments, really. Well, leisure and domestic have led even though segments which have been harder hit by corporate and international travel have been coming back. Cities have been returning as well. And so all in all, it's been a broad-based recovery, but it has been led obviously still by leisure and domestic travel. And for us, Vrbo has been a particular highlight and beneficiary of that. Few highlights on Vrbo, since you've always asked. We've seen a strong share growth in our focus markets and in particular in the U.S. About half of our customers so far in 2021, more than half have been new customers. We expect to book in excess of $2 billion of earnings for new Vrbo hosts who came on the platform this year. And looking ahead, we are already seeing better bookings for next summer than we saw this time last year. So the trends continue to be quite strong there. And while the story will continue to be impacted greatly by mix effect, which I've talked about before, we are feeling more and more confident. And as international vectors open up, which you've no doubt all read about, this is a particular strength of ours historically. And we think, again, this is a mix effect which will generally benefit us. And COVID recovery, of course, remains somewhat bumpy and is unpredictable, to say the least. But we are feeling good. And at every turn, we are seeing demonstrated that when people can travel, they will travel for business, for pleasure, and everything in between. And, you know, we are looking forward to seeing the rest of our business return. In terms of some of the details in the business, on the marketing and brand side, our focus continues to be on bringing customers efficiently back to the platform, and retaining those customers for the long term, and building those long-term direct relationships. Obviously, the better our product is, the better our customer experience is and the proposition. All of those things add to that direct relationship, and we are feeling confident about the work we are doing on all fronts. But marketing, of course, is the tip of the sphere. And with our new focus on being a family of brands, we have launched -- announced that we will be launching one loyalty program which will actually cross all our brands and all our products. We think it will be the most powerful loyalty program in the industry. And we are really excited about bringing that extra usability and added value to our customers through that loyalty plan. Because when we get to a place where people can use it across all brands, across all products, we think that just adds tremendous value to the customer. And you should expect to see us do more of that. We will be looking for more ways to unify our brands in a united front of, you know, bringing value to the customer in every way we can. We spent the better part of the last six quarters building out the organization, and in particular, in the last few months, building our creative organization. We have improved, as I've talked about before, all our performance marketing tools and technology. And we're very excited about our position right now. But, you know, we went into the third quarter and specific with a much more aggressive posture. Delta hit, we have -- we pulled back somewhat. And now again that we are seeing things growing and the recovery building again, we are winning back in. We intend to go on the offense with all the new tools we have in our arsenal and our marketing group. And we expect to go on offense and expand share across the world. On the B2B front, which we haven't talked about a lot in the past quarters, I just want to highlight a few things here. We brought our groups together as I remarked. Last quarter, our supply team and our business suite called Expedia Partner Solutions, which is a business we have used to power other partners in the travel industry, we brought those together officially on the last few months. And we're seeing lots and lots of opportunity for those businesses to build on the relationships we have with our supply partners, with our B2B partners, and find increasing ways to drive their business and drive their success on our platform. But in particular, EPS itself has done well even during COVID. We've won wallet share with our partners. We've had many new signings. And for the first time in late October, we actually booked more business than we did in 2019 in that business and that has continued into November. So great signs there. And then finally, on the Egencia front, you've all seen earlier this week, we announced the conclusion of our transaction with Amex GBT. We have merged Egencia and the Amex GBT. We will retain a significant equity interest. We feel really good about that corporate -- you know, we believe this will be coming roaring back. And Egencia, even during this time of transition, had its highest signings this year than it's ever signed in terms of new clients in the first half. So lots of good signs there. But I think that deal is also emblematic, as I've said before, of our desire to power more of the industry. We want to power Amex GBT with our Expedia Partner Solutions business, with our technology, with our supply, and that is something we will continue to build on as the months and years unfold. So very exciting. And I just want to thank the Egencia team who did a tremendous job building that business, getting it to a place where we could find such a great transaction to put it together with someone else and in working through the time we had during the transaction and doing just a terrific job. So, I thank them and our Expedia team to help close that transaction. And then finally, while I've talked a lot about technology in the past, and I will keep this brief, I am as excited as I've ever been since I started about a few months ago about where we are in terms of our technology evolution. We certainly have a lot of work left to do, but it can't be understated the importance of finally being aligned on our technology, on our roadmap, on our architecture. We have one plan, and everybody is rowing together, and our velocity is increasing. And I think delivery, most importantly, to the customer will increase along with it. But just for clarity, on the front end, you know, we're focused on being at first, data and design-driven and focused really on personalization, and using all the data and machine learning. And the opportunity is great. Better and better experience for the customer and for our suppliers. And on the back end, we're really rearchitecting everything, as I've talked about, with moving from this many technical stacks to one stack on one pool of data that serves all the outcomes, all our partners, all our customers. And it's really getting exciting. And finally, I just want to say, you know, this moment for us is really important as we move into 2022. Getting all of this aligned, getting the work streamlined, getting everybody on the same roadmap is a really powerful opportunity. And it reminds us that we're finally getting to what we wanted to be getting to, which is delivering new value to the customer. We've been internally focused for a lot of COVID. COVID was a tough thing to get through. But we are now in a position where the entire company is aligned. We can see the light at the end of the tunnel in terms of COVID. And the opportunity to innovate for the customer and bring great new products and value are really exciting to us, and we're looking forward to doing that. And with that, I will pass it over to Eric.Eric Hart -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Peter. I'm also pleased, as Peter mentioned, with the overall recovery of our business. As you will see, it includes two quarters in a row of positive-adjusted EBITDA. And in the -- in Q3, excluding Egencia, was roughly on par with the third quarter of 2019. And with that, I wanted to start by providing an update on the booking trends that we're -- we have seen and we are seeing. Following a pullback we witnessed for much of the third quarter and into the first part of September due to the delta variant, we saw a notable broad-based improvement across geos and product lines. Overall, total bookings for all products, net of cancels, were down 30% versus third quarter of 2019, which was slightly worse than the 26% decline we saw last quarter. Given the continued volatility to recovery, we also are going to provide additional monthly detail on our total lodging bookings, net of cancels. That, of course, includes both hotel and Vrbo. And those were down approximately 17% in July, approximately 25% in August, 19% in September, and further improved to now negative 2% in October. And again, that's -- September was also down, of course. The trends in October that we saw, again that was negative 2%, they did improve throughout that month. So we exited at a much-improved rate relative to the start of that month. Moving to the P&L, starting with revenue, it was down approximately 17% versus third quarter of 2019, which was a meaningful improvement from last quarter with revenue down approximately 33%. We saw a significant improvement in both Vrbo and hotel revenue, which benefited from seasonally strong summer travel. Revenue margin for the third quarter was approximately 15%, up from approximately 10% last quarter. This was primarily due to typical third quarter seasonality in the business and product mix weighted toward lodging. On sales and marketing, direct spend in Q3 was approximately 1.1 billion, which is down approximately 19% versus third quarter of 2019 levels. And as Peter mentioned, we've reduced spending, given a reversal in trends we witnessed in the third quarter. However, going forward, given the more positive recent trends that we've discussed, we are again leading into marketing expense in Q4. Moving on to overhead costs, they totaled approximately $530 million, a slight decrease versus last quarter and below our expectations. We saw lower-than-anticipated discretionary spend, which was down roughly 90% versus the third quarter of 2019, as employees continue to largely work from home in the quarter. I would also call out slower-than-anticipated hiring as there continues to be a high degree of competition for talent, especially for technology roles. Looking ahead, we expect overheads increased by approximately $40 million sequentially in the fourth quarter, primarily due to lower capitalized labor due to the holidays, as well as higher-than-anticipated headcount and people costs. In total, adjusted EBITDA was approximately $855 million, which is approximately $650 million improvement over the last quarter, driven primarily by typical seasonality. Moving on, free cash flow totaled negative $1.4 billion in Q3 on a reported basis. If we exclude the change in restricted cash, which was primarily driven by the change in Vrbo's deferred merchant bookings, free cash flow was negative for approximately $450 million. As a reminder, the third quarter is traditionally a low quarter for free cash flow due to seasonality. In terms of the balance sheet, we continue to be investment-grade rated today and remain committed to deleveraging back to more historical levels, as well as further reducing our cost of capital. As you may recall, we refinanced some debt earlier this year which yielded $80 million in annual interest rate savings. And last month, as Peter mentioned, given the improving trends and continued confidence in our liquidity position, we paid off the remainder of the preferred stock. In total, paying off all the preferred stock this year, it will save us approximately $150 million in annual dividend payment -- payouts on board. Finally, on the Egencia, I want to echo Peter's comments and thank the Egencia team, as well as all of those Expedia employees who were involved with Egencia for their dedication and hard work. I would also like to point out Page 17 of the earnings press release which provides details on Egencia financials. For the third quarter, Egencia generated $55 million in revenue and negative 18 million in adjusted EBITDA for, again, the third quarter. As it relates to Egencia costs in third quarter 2021, rough numbers, approximately $35 million was recorded in cost of sales, $20 million in sales and marketing, and the remaining roughly $20 million was spread across tech and content, and G&A. Going forward, we will report our minority stake in the combined company within the other net line or income statement. And in terms of the 10-year lodging supply agreement with our Expedia Partner Services business entered with the combined company, we will account for it like any other standard EPS deal. As a reminder, at 2019 volumes, we expect this deal, the EPS deal, to be worth an excess of $50 million on an annualized basis for EBITDA. In closing, as Peter and I both mentioned, we're quite encouraged by recent trends. And the pace for recovery is clearly improving. Things are getting better. And I remain truly and very optimistic about the future of travel and our company. And so, with that, Charlie, we are ready for our first question. 