
OperatorGood afternoon ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the C.H. Robinson Third Quarter 2021 Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to turn this conference over to Chuck Ives, Director of Investor Relations.Chuck Ives -- Director of Investor Relations

 



Thank you Laura, and good afternoon everyone. On the call with me today is Bob Biesterfeld, our President and Chief Executive Officer and Mike Zechmeister, our Chief Financial Officer, Bob and Mike will provide a summary of our 2021 third quarter results and then we will open up the call for live questions. Our earnings presentation slides are supplemental to our earnings release and can be found in the Investors' section of our website at investor.chrobinson.com.Our prepared comments are not intended to follow the slides. If we do refer to specific information on any of the slides we will first let you know which slide we're referencing. I'd also like to remind you that our remarks today may contain forward-looking statements. Slide 2 in today's presentation, lists factors that could cause our actual results to differ from management's expectations.And with that, I'll turn the call over to Bob.Robert Biesterfeld -- Chief Executive Officer

 



Thank you Chuck, and good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us today. The third quarter was another quarter of progress and strong execution resulting in record quarterly financial results. The trajectory of our business is heading in the right direction as we continue to leverage our tech-plus strategy to help customers navigate through an extremely challenging and capacity constrained environment, which we expect to continue.Demand for our global suite of services and for the benefit of our powerful technology platform continues to be strong and the digitization efforts continue to take hold and be ingrained in an increasing percentage of our business. In our North American truck load business, we made steady progress in a sustained tight capacity environment. Through the continued repricing of our contractual portfolio and higher volumes of spot business, our adjusted gross profit or AGP per truckload returned to our 5-year average, and our AGP per mile in Q3 exceeded both our 5-year and 10-year averages. We accomplished this while growing our truckload volume 4.5% year-over-year and 3.5% on a sequential basis.Within the quarter, we saw an acceleration of truckload volume per business day in each month of the quarter with 7% year-over-year growth in September, and that growth trend has continued into October. For the quarter, NAST truckload grew AGP by $83 million or 36% year-over-year through a 4.5% increase in volume and a 30% increase in AGP per load. This included a 14% increase in spot market volume year-over-year, due in part through an 85% increase in volume that was driven through our proprietary dynamic pricing engine, which is now on pace to generate $1 billion in spot truckload freight for the year. Nearly half of our spot or transactional business was priced via integration with our dynamic pricing engine in the third quarter, delivering real-time pricing with capacity assurance from the largest network of truckload capacity in North America.We closed the quarter with an approximate mix of 60% contractual volume and 40% transactional volume, which is consistent with our mix in the year ago period. Our average truckload linehaul cost per mile paid to our carriers, excluding fuel surcharges increased 26% compared to the third quarter of last year. Our average linehaul rate billed to our customers, again excluding fuel surcharges, increased 27% year-over-year. This resulted in the highest cost and price per mile on record and a 33% year-over-year increase in our NAST truckload adjusted gross profit per mile. This, combined with a 2% decrease in the average length of haul resulted in the 30% increase in AGP per truckload.

 



During the quarter, we saw a routing guide depth of tender in our Managed Services business increase slightly from 1.6 in June to 1.7 in September, indicating slight deterioration of shipper routing guide performance during the quarter. Given the current structural constraints around expansion of truckload supply coupled with the continued strong demand as we head into the holiday season, we expect capacity to remain tight and we expect to perform well in that environment, with over half of our contractual truckload business stated to reprice in the fourth quarter of this year and the first quarter of next.During the third quarter, we continued our effort to expand our carrier network, and we launched an effort to recognize truck drivers for their extraordinary efforts and we had incredible engagement. This led to a new record of 9,500 new carrier sign-ups and increased utilization of our carrier technology and apps. Our NAST LTL business grew adjusted gross profits by $14 million or 12% year-over-year. This was delivered through a 1% increase in volume and a 10.5% increase in adjusted gross profit per order. This increase in volume was on top of a 13.5% volume growth in the comparable quarter last year. Overall demand in the LTL market remained strong, driven by growth in e-commerce, resulting in capacity remaining at a premium. Our value proposition in LTL continues to resonate with shippers of all sizes across multiple industry verticals.Turning now to our Global Forwarding business. The third quarter was our sixth consecutive quarter of strong year-over-year growth in total revenues, AGP, and operating income. Based on low inventory to sales ratios and the robust pipeline of business from new and existing customers, we believe the strength in this business will continue into 2022. In our ocean forwarding business, we grew our adjusted gross profit by $126 million or 142% year-over-year. This came through a 12% increase in shipments and a 116% increase in adjusted gross profit per shipment. Demand continues to be stronger than what the overall industry can meet, with limited vessel and container capacity. And although some ports are working to implement expanded operating hours, other market constraints, such as the shortage of truck drivers, freights capacity and inland warehouse space, continue to be bottlenecks and port congestion is likely to continue into 2022. Our forwarding team has done a great job of strengthening our carrier relationships and procuring incremental capacity to best serve our customers, as well as working with shippers to better plan their shipping needs and to consider ultimate modes or ports.Finally, our international air freight business delivered adjusted gross profit growth of $26 million or 76% year-over-year. This was driven by a 51% increase in metric tons shipped and a 17% increase in adjusted gross profit per metric ton. Demand for air freight remains incredibly strong, partially driven by continued conversions of some ocean freight to air. Air freight capacity is continue to be strained and we continue to position charter flight capacity to support demand from both new and existing customers.The forwarding team is continuing to add new commercial relationships with strategic multinational customers that are leading to increased award sizes, while also ensuring that our existing customers have access to the capacity that they need to meet their needs. Our customers and our results are benefiting from the investments that we've made in digitization, data and analytics, as well as our global network that's supporting our expanded geographical and vertical presence. We believe that these strategies and competitive advantages of C.H. Robinson will enable us to create more value for customers and in turn win more business, sustain the market share gains that we've achieved and deliver solid returns for our shareholders.Our digital investments continue to deliver customer value and unlock growth in new and exciting ways. The latest example of this is our introduction of Market Rate IQ during the quarter. This brings pricing transparency to shippers by allowing them to compare their rates to the market averages and then using the information advantage of C.H. Robinson break down their rates to see potential savings opportunities. When we bring these Robinson Labs Innovations to the market, we see increased engagement with our customers, higher win rates with those customers that are truly realizing the value from these new products.As I mentioned earlier, the amount of volume that's being delivered through our real-time dynamic pricing tools has grown significantly, enabling these digital connections improve efficiencies for our customers, improves our response time per quote requests and improves our win rates. We also continue to add digital connections with our customers at an accelerated pace with 100 new customers connected via TMS and ERP connections in the third quarter of 2021. The number of daily and monthly average users across our customer and carrier facing platforms also continues to grow with 24% year-over-year growth in daily average users of our carrier platforms as we continue to deliver new capabilities and benefits to our carriers through both the web and mobile versions of Navisphere Carrier and Driver. During the quarter, we had over 340,000 fully automated bookings in our NAST truckload business, which was an increase of nearly 80% year-over-year.And finally, as it relates to productivity, we've again highlighted a couple of key metrics for NAST in our earnings presentation. During the third quarter, we invested in hiring and building our bench to support growth. On a year-to-date basis, we continue to show year-over-year improvement in productivity as indicated by 880-point favorable spread in our NAST productivity index, which represents the difference between the year-over-year change in NAST volume and the change in NAST headcount.Shipments per person per day is another metric that clearly shows the relationship between the timing of our increased digital investments and the impact on NAST productivity, with an over 25% increase in productivity since the beginning of the increased investment period. We are encouraged with the progress that we're making in our digital investments and the impacts of these investments are delivering to our customers through our carriers and the impact to our overall results. Across our global suite of services, we believe that our tech-plus strategy that combines our tailored market-leading technology solutions with our global network of logistics experts and an information advantage created from our scale and our data is the right strategy and one that is aligned to the needs of our shippers and partners as we help them to navigate these highly disrupted markets and deliver for their customers.I'll now turn the call to Mike to review the specifics of our third quarter financial performance.Mike Zechmeister -- Chief Financial OfficerThanks Bob, and good afternoon everyone. As Bob mentioned, we delivered another quarter of record financial results in Q3 driven by strong performance in a favorable market as we continue to execute on our tech-plus strategy. Our total company revenue increased 48% over Q3 last year, and our adjusted gross profit or AGP was up 43%. Increased AGP was driven by both volume and AGP per shipment across ocean, air, truckload and LTL. Total company AGP also improved by 13% sequentially and 33% over the pre-pandemic quarter of Q3 2019.On a monthly basis compared to 2020, our total company AGP per business day improved in each sequential month of the quarter and was up 51% in July, up 39% in August and up 40% in September. For the fifth consecutive quarter prices and costs rose across our North American truckload business with cost per mile and price per mile each reaching new highs in each month of Q3 due to the persisting supply demand imbalance. Our NAST team navigated through this environment by continuing to grow spot volume which was up approximately 14% year-over-year in Q3, marking the fifth quarter of double-digit spot market volume growth. Within our contractual freight business, where Q3 volume was flat, we continue to selectively reprice the portfolio to reflect the ever-increasing cost of purchase transportation in this market.As Bob mentioned, our Q3 truckload AGP per mile is now above both our 5-year and 10-year averages. AGP per mile and AGP per load are key metrics in our truckload business rather than an AGP margin percentage, which naturally rises or falls with the changing market cycle pricing. For those following AGP margin percentage if or when the market loosens within the current cycle with the greater than two-thirds of our truckload volume on 12-month contracts, we would expect to see AGP margin percent expansion as we typically have in the past. We continue to focus on overall AGP dollar growth by optimizing volume and AGP per shipment across our service offerings. With enhanced customer focus and digital investments, we expect to drive long-term growth and efficiency into our model.Now turning to expenses. Q3 personnel expenses were $399.9 million, up 32% compared to Q3 of last year, primarily due to higher incentive compensation costs and the impact of short-term pandemic-related cost reductions in Q3 of last year. Our Q3 average headcount increased 7.1% compared to Q3 last year. Despite the tight labor market, we successfully hired the talent we need to support our growth expectations, particularly in Global Forwarding and NAST. Given the increase in incentive compensation resulting from our profit expectations for 2021 and the additional headcount, we now expect 2021 personnel expenses to be in the $1.5 billion to $1.55 billion range, which is up from our prior expectations of $1.42 billion to $1.48 billion.Q3 SG&A expenses of $133.5 million were up 13% compared to Q3 of 2020 primarily due to the impact of short-term pandemic-related cost reductions in Q3 of last year. We continue to expect 2021 total SG&A expenses to be approximately $0.5 billion, including approximately $90 million to $95 million of depreciation and amortization. Our Q3 income from operations was a quarterly record at $310.8 million, up 85% versus Q3 last year, and our adjusted operating margin of 36.8% was up 820 basis points compared to last year and up 510 basis points from the pre-pandemic quarter of 2019. Third quarter interest and other expense totaled $16.7 million, up approximately $9.2 million versus Q3 last year due primarily to the impact of currency revaluation. Q3 results included a $3.8 million loss on currency revaluation compared to a $3.3 million gain in Q3 last year. Interest expense was also up $1.2 million due to the higher average debt balance.Our Q3 tax rate came in at 16%, our second lowest tax rate on record, which was only eclipsed by the 15.1% rate from Q3 last year. This year's Q3 rate was lower than our expectations, primarily due to the favorable mix of foreign earnings and U.S. tax incentives. We are now expecting our 2021 full year effective tax rate to be 18% to 19% compared to our prior estimate of 20% to 22%. Q3 net income was $247.1 million, up 81% compared to Q3 last year and diluted earnings per share was a quarterly record at $1.85, up 85% versus Q3 last year.Turning to cash flow. Q3 cash flow used by operations was approximately $74 million compared to $169 million used in Q3 last year. Sequentially, cash flow from operations declined by $223 million, driven primarily by a $679 million sequential increase in accounts receivable and contract assets and partially offset by a $267 million increase in total accounts payable and the $247 million in net income. In Q3, accounts receivable and contract assets were up 19.6% sequentially, while total revenue was up 13.2%. The resulting 3.9 day increase in days sales outstanding or DSO was driven primarily by the mix shift associated with higher revenue growth in Global Forwarding where our DSO runs approximately double that of our NAST business. While our accounts receivable balance has grown, we are not seeing quality issues as our percentage past due and credit losses have both improved compared to our 3-year averages. Over the long-term, we expect AGP growth to outpace working capital growth.Capital expenditures were $22.7 million in Q3, up from $15.2 million in Q3 last year. We now expect our technology-driven 2021 capital expenditures to be $70 million to $80 million, up from our previous expectation of $55 million to $65 million. We returned approximately $237 million of cash to shareholders in Q3 through a combination of $168 million of share repurchases and $69 million of dividends. That level of cash returned to shareholders represents a 230% increase versus Q3 last year when we were not repurchasing shares out of an abundance of caution due to the pandemic. During Q3 this year, we repurchased approximately 1.9 million shares at an average price of $90.58. At the end of Q3, we had approximately 3.2 million shares of capacity remaining on our 15 million share repurchase authorization from May of 2018.Our cash balance at the end of Q3 was $203 million, down $41 million compared to Q3 of 2020 and we continue to work down our cash balance through efficient repatriation of excess cash from foreign entities with the end goal of carrying only the cash we need to fund operations. We ended Q3 with $571 million of liquidity comprised of $368 million of committed funding under our credit facility, which matures in October of '23 and our Q3 cash balance. Our debt balance at quarter end was $1.73 billion, up $633 million versus Q3 last year, driven primarily by increased working capital and share repurchases. Our net debt to EBITDA leverage at the end of Q3 was 1.39 times up sequentially from 1.25 times at the end of Q2. From a capital allocation standpoint, we continue to be committed to disciplined capital stewardship, maintaining an investment-grade credit rating, and generating sustainable long-term growth in our total shareholder returns.Overall, our NAST team made progress toward our truckload volume growth expectations. As you saw in Q3, the percentage increase in price per mile was higher than the percent increase in cost per mile for the first time in 9 quarters. While there is no telling where the market is headed, inflections like we saw in Q3 had historically led to periods with our highest AGP margins. The Global Forwarding team continue to generate significant earnings while building on a solid foundation for future growth. The expanded global team with upgraded tech and more uniform operations across the globe is now onboarding its strongest pipeline of new customers.Thank you for listening this afternoon. And I'll turn the call back over to Bob now for his final comments.Robert Biesterfeld -- Chief Executive OfficerThanks Mike. I'll take a couple of minutes here and wrap up our prepared comments before we turn it back to the operator for our live Q&A. I believe that our results, once again this quarter, continue to demonstrate that our model is working and that our strategy is sound. There is no question that we're in a time of unprecedented supply chain disruption across the globe that reaches virtually every mode of transportation, and I believe that Robinson continues to be uniquely positioned to help customers not only navigate this environment, but to succeed in this environment. None of us know exactly when the cycle is going to begin to turn or how long it will last, but with everything that we see today, we believe this cycle will in fact extend due to the global constraints around adding capacity in labor while demand remains strong. I certainly don't believe that having 70 ships anchored in Los Angeles is by any stretch the new normal, but I also don't see us reverting to a market resembling 2019 anytime soon.As reference on Slide 3 of our earnings deck, one of the pillars of our tech-plus strategy is our people. Our customers continue to tell us that our team around the globe are the people that they rely on. As I've said before, I believe that the people at Robinson is the most capable team of supply chain experts in the world and I'm incredibly proud of how this team has continued to help thousands of customers navigate this environment, while also delivering record financial results for our shareholders.These past couple of years have been stressful times to work in the supply chain. In many parts of the world, we continue to work in a primarily remote environment, we're certainly hopeful to start getting more people back in the office into a hybrid model as soon as we begin to see the Delta variant begin to fade. Solving for the complexities of today's supply chain issues is not a 9:00 to 5:00 job. It's 24x7x365, and I want to again recognize and thank our people for the great work that they're doing. In a time where labor participation rates are low and companies across the globe are challenged to add team members, we were able to grow the size of our team to support our customers and to fuel our future growth. People are choosing to join Robinson today because of the strength of our global brand and the opportunities that we offer for both personal and professional growth.As I close out my prepared remarks, I'd like to reference Slide 6 in our earnings deck. For those of you who have been following us for a while, you know that a decade ago or so, we were primarily known as a North American truckload brokerage company. In 2012, we had a belief that strategically it would be important for our future to have a more balanced portfolio of services, We believe that time of supply chains will continue to become more global and that if we had a strong Global Forwarding business to complement our industry-leading North American Surface Transportation business, we can really hold a unique position in the marketplace and bring a more comprehensive solution to life for our customers, which would in turn drive growth, by connecting supply chains across the globe. We also believe that if we execute that effectively we can create a business with operating margins in line with other industry-leading forwarders that could help us to offset some of the cyclicality in our core truckload brokerage business and we can deliver more consistent results to our shareholders.At that time, prior to the acquisition of Phoenix International, forwarding represented around $150 million of adjusted gross profit, I guess, at the time we called it net revenue, and that was less than 10% of our enterprise net revenue and contributed very little to operating income. Since that time we've made a string of strategic acquisitions in the forwarding space and delivered strong organic growth and execution while creating a single global operating model supported by our Navisphere technology platform. Today, we're the number one NVOCC in the Transpacific Eastbound trade line and a top five NVOCC in the entire global ocean freight industry, while we've also driven strong growth in both air and customs.Our successful execution of this strategy along with favorable tailwinds in the marketplace has allowed us to deliver on a trailing 12-month basis over $944 million in Global Forwarding AGP and $422 million in operating income. Global Forwarding now represents 37% of our total company AGP for the past quarter, while we delivered 97% growth in AGP and an operating margin of over 53%. And looking at the left side of that slide, we can zero in on NAST a little bit. We stated that we'll continue to pursue profitable market share growth within this business, which we achieved again this quarter. Volumes increased both year-over-year and sequentially. Within NAST, we've spoken extensively about our investments in technology as we transition to more of a digitally led company and you can see there's multiple proof-points to our advances in technology and the evolution of our business process are driving successful outcomes.Our NAST business is healthy today and the pace of evolution to our business model continues to accelerate. In today's environment of global supply chain disruption, customers are looking for solutions that span the globe and across all modes and ocean freight solution alone doesn't solve for the problem that customers are facing, neither does the stand-alone truckload or an LTL solution, and we continue to be uniquely positioned to serve customers during this time of disruption and beyond to orchestrate end-to-end supply chain success for these customers.So just as we believed in 2012, we continue to believe today, our ability to deliver a global suite of services fueled by great people, supported by industry-leading technology and an information advantage that's unmatched due to the scale and the $26 billion in freight under management that we have matters, and I'm confident that it's going to continue to drive our growth in the future.Going forward, we're going to continue to leverage the strength of this diversified non-asset-based business model that delivers strong returns on invested capital. We'll stay the course with our strategy of pursuing market share gains that align with our profitability expectations and we'll continue to invest back into the business to drive innovation, improve service to our customers and carriers and to drive growth across all of our global suite of modes and services.So this concludes our prepared comments, and with that I'll turn it back to Laura for the live Q&A portion of the call.