
OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the eBay First Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] After the speakers' presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded.[Operator Instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Joe Billante, VP of Investor Relations and Communications. Please go ahead.Joe Billante -- Vice President of Communications and Investor Relations

 



Good afternoon. Thank you for joining us, and welcome to eBay's earnings release conference call for the first quarter of 2021. Joining me today on the call are Jamie Iannone, our Chief Executive Officer; and Andy Cring, our Interim Chief Financial Officer. We're providing a slide presentation to accompany Andy's commentary during the call, which is available through the Investor Relations section of the eBay website at investors.ebayinc.com.Before we begin, I'd like to remind you that during the course of this conference call, we will discuss some non-GAAP measures related to our performance. You can find a reconciliation of these measures to the nearest comparable GAAP measures in the slide presentation accompanying this conference call. Additionally, all revenue and GMV growth rates mentioned in Jamie's and Andy's remarks represent FX-neutral year-over-year comparisons, unless they indicate otherwise.In this conference call, management will make forward-looking statements, including without limitation, statements regarding our future performance and expected financial results. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties, and our actual results may differ materially from our forecast for a variety of reasons. You can find more information about risks, uncertainties and other factors that could affect our operating results in our most recent periodic reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q and our earnings release from earlier today. You should not rely on any forward-looking statements. All information in this presentation is as of April 28, 2021, and we do not intend and undertake no duty to update this information.With that, let me turn it over to Jamie.

 



Jamie Iannone -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Joe, and good afternoon everyone, and thank you for joining us.Today, we'll begin the call with key highlights from the first quarter. Then I will share some reflections from my first 12 months as CEO, and provide an update on the status of our tech led reimagination. At the end of my remarks, I will turn the call over to Andy who will discuss our financial performance and outlook in greater detail.The first quarter of 2021 was an excellent start to the year for sellers and buyers on eBay. Gross merchandise volume grew 24% ahead of expectations. Revenue grew 38%, outpacing volume primarily due to payments and advertising. This is the fastest our revenues have grown, since 2005, and moving further into technology and vertical marketing investments, but still delivered $1.09 in non-GAAP earnings per share, above our expectations.

 



Importantly, our customer metrics grew on both sides of our marketplace. Active sellers grew 8% to 20 million globally, more small businesses are joining the platform and more consumers are engaging and selling. C2C GMV growth outpaced B2C for the fourth quarter in a row. This is positive for the long term as consumer sellers bringing unique inventory at compelling prices and spend more than twice as much as buyers who don't sell. Active buyers grew 7% to 187 million globally. We are retaining buyers acquired over the last year at similar rates as pre-pandemic level and we're seeing higher customer satisfaction in several categories as well as increased spend per buyer.We have continued to make progress on our multiyear initiatives, payments and advertising, which contribute to a seamless customer experience, increase our platform monetization and deliver compelling financial results. Managed payments ended Q1 with over 4 million sellers migrated. This includes millions of consumer sellers and hundreds of thousands of businesses globally.During the quarter, eBay managed payments representing over 52% of on-platform volume, up from 38% last quarter. In the US, we exited the quarter over 80% complete. By applying what we learned in previous markets, rollouts in France, Italy and Spain progressed at an even faster pace and we're on track to launch Greater China this quarter and all remaining markets by the middle of the year. We continue to see higher seller satisfaction due to simpler end-to-end experience that reduces cost and complexity. For many years before managed payments, sellers had to managed delays between purchase and payment across two platforms that tied up their inventory. As sellers migrate to managed payments, that pain point is resolved saving time and money and in Q1, we reduced unpaid items by approximately 80% on fixed price transactions.We remain on track to complete the vast majority of the payments transition by the end of this year, which will deliver our stated financial goals at the least an incremental $2 billion in revenue and $500 million in annualized operating income in 2022. In Q1, advertising growth outpaced volume driven by promoted listings, which delivered close to $224 million of revenue, up 58%. More than 1.3 million sellers promoted close to 400 million listings during the quarter. Growth was driven by increased seller adoption and AI improvements that increased conversion.Inspired by the success of Promoted Listings over the past few years, we are investing aggressively in innovation. We reached $1 billion of advertising revenue in 2020 primarily through Promoted Listings, which leverages a risk free CPA model for fixed price inventory. To capture our next billion, we are running multiple experiments, including an ad product for auctions and cost per click capabilities. We are also exploring a new capability that expand seller exposure by increasing off eBay traffic to Promoted Listings.Q1 clearly demonstrates that the ongoing execution of our long-term vision is driving better results. Small business and consumer sellers are thriving and buyers are finding unique items at great prices. We have seen strong growth in volume, revenue and earnings over the past year due to a combination of mobility driven tailwinds and the execution of our multi-year monetization initiatives. And we are driving value through portfolio optimization and returning capital to shareholders. Despite these notable achievements, there is still a tremendous amount of potential to be realized.Now I'd like to take a step back to a year ago when I rejoined this remarkable company as CEO. I knew eBay as a pioneer in e-commerce with a globally recognized brand, robust organic traffic, and long-standing customer relationships. And I've always been inspired by the purpose and special culture, it creates. Last July, we set out a vision for a tech-led reimagination of eBay. First, we believe that we can drive growth in our core by significantly increasing customer satisfaction. Second, we saw the need to better serve our small businesses and consumer sellers to become their platform of choice. And third, we identified the opportunity to evolve our relationship with buyers to drive better long-term retention. I am confident we can deliver on these three pillars, position us to more effectively compete and win in a huge and growing addressable market.Our results to-date are very encouraging. Our underlying growth is accelerating, sellers and buyers are growing, and we are making progress in our pursuit to be the best global marketplace to buy and sell. Simply put, our strategy is working. Let me share some examples with you.In the US, we are growing our core. In Q1, sneakers valued above $100, grew at a triple-digit rate once again. Since launching authentication, we verified hundreds of thousands of sneakers and we're seeing buyer satisfaction above 80 as a result. In addition, we are expanding our engagement with Gen Z and Millennials through a wide range of social channels. Based on the tremendous success we've seen in the US, we are rapidly expanding identical capabilities to other major markets. We have set up local authentication centers and are launching in the UK, Australia and Canada this quarter. These centers will also unlock cross border trade opportunities in sneakers and in other categories.In luxury watches, we saw growth accelerate from 16% in Q4 to 38% in Q1 in the US. For authenticated items, we are seeing customer satisfaction levels close to 90% and it is changing customer behavior. Sellers are listing more items and seeing a higher price realization. Buyers are visiting eBay more often and spending more. One of the key advantages of our platform is cross category shopping. Our luxury watch buyers like our sneakers enthusiasts spend thousands of dollars on other categories across the platform. In addition, based on the value we are delivering in luxury watches, we recently raised fees in this category to create more investment capacity.For our certified refurbished experience, eBay sellers continue to see strong velocity and we've expanded in the US to over 150 brands. We have also rolled certified refurbish out of the UK, Canada, and Germany with more than 100 top brands signed up already. Buyers love the low prices unlike new products as well as free shipping, extended warranties and extended returns.Now I want to highlight the next core category where we see significant potential, Trading Cards, a key part of our collectibles business. eBay is a market leader in this category with the widest selection across all price levels. We've seen explosive growth to start the year. In the US, GMV was over $1 billion in Q1, which represents more than half of 2020's record setting volume. Active buyers of Trading Cards doubled and existing buyers purchased more items at higher prices than last year. To dramatically simplify selling, we recently launched image-based scanning for our top selling trading cards. In addition, we introduced a new low cost track shipping service and aggressively marketed to buyers on social and enthusiast forums. We plan to launch more innovation for Trading Cards throughout this year.Another area of focus for us is customization. Beginning next month in the UK and Germany, we will offer a new capability to all sellers to offer personalized goods in categories such as home, fashion and jewelry. This will allow buyers to find and enter specific customization request to the seller, in the past, this process was manual, which limited GMV. But we believe this new experience can significantly improve customer satisfaction, bring more supply on to the platform and capture more growth. We plan to expand this capability to all major markets in the coming months.As I mentioned upfront, our playbook to grow the core is working. We have a series of innovations rolling out to more markets throughout the year. While we've only touched a small percentage of global volume so far, all of our largest eBay categories: collectibles, home and garden, fashion, electronics and parts and accessories have addressable opportunities that can benefit from this playbook. In addition, the category specific changes we are rolling out statewide improvements for all sellers. For consumer sellers in small businesses, we are focused on significantly reducing complexity, helping maximize value and driving sustainable growth.We believe these changes will increase seller satisfaction and grow the number of active sellers on the platform. Here are some examples of what we are doing. Image-based listening can remove up to 75% of the time it takes to list an item. We have activated this feature in Trading Cards and we plan to expand multiple categories and geographies throughout the year. Last quarter, we talked about how we have migrated almost all of our store subscribers to our new platform that increases traffic to their items by approximately 20%. This quarter, we empowered sellers with new CRM features, allowing them to directly issued coupons to acquire buyers.In addition, they can set coupon budgets, include QR codes on-packing slips and drive repeat business to their eBay stores. Recently, we opened up Terapeak product research free for all seller hub users in several markets, including price insights and listing quality reports. In addition, we launched Sourcing Insights that help sellers trending categories, top products and signals what inventory is most likely to sell. To acquire more buyers, we are also adding new ad formats to our display and social marketing, including video and we improved the inventory feeds to power them. Once we acquire these buyers, we are making changes to increase engagement and trust in their first 90 days and beyond. As an example, we are leveraging a mobile-first approach and revamping key communications buyers we have seized.We are seeing increased engagement from Gen Z and millennial customers through social shopping such as eBay Sneaker Showdown. For our experienced buyers, we continue to optimize the end-to-end shopping experience. In Q1, we increased conversion by improving our search engines understanding of longer complex queries and we added functionality be help buyers identify free local pickup items in their community. We are excited that all three of our strategic pillars are producing volume, seller and buyer growth, but we have a long runway ahead of us. We will continue to drive our investment decisions both organic and inorganic in pursuit of achieving this vision.While I'm pleased with our business results, I'm more proud of the way our employees and our platform are fulfilling our purpose of providing economic opportunity for all. As part of our commitment to empowering small businesses everywhere, we announced an investment of $25 million into the Clear Vision Impact Fund to help support small and medium sized minority-owned businesses that support historically underserved communities. We continue to support the UK's National Health Care Service efforts and I'm happy to report that we're now up to 2 billion PPE items distributed utilizing eBay's technology.Additionally, we remain active influencer during Q1. We raised over $35 million through eBay for charity. The company also contributed to Asian Americans Advanced Justice and supported employee giving during Black History Month and the Lunar New Year, and we quadrupled employee matching gifts limits through the eBay Foundation.Finally, another area that inspires me is eBay's impact on the planet. Many companies make admirable investments into adjacent programs but at eBay, sustainability is the core of our business. Since eBay was founded over 25 years ago, re-commerce or the resale of pre-owned goods has been an integral part of our platform and purpose. Our community connects and trades pre-owned items that hold meaning and usefulness and keep these items out of landfills. A recent survey confirm that re-commerce resonates with our customers. In the US, 87% of respondents say they have sold pre-owned goods in the last 12 months. And they aren't just selling, 81% of Gen Z customer surveys said that buying pre-owned items has become more common in the last year.In summary, we are making great progress on the tech led reimagination of eBay. We delivered historically strong Q1 results, putting us in a stronger position today than we thought we'd be coming into the year. Looking forward, we are excited because our long-term strategy is working. By increasing customer satisfaction, we are accelerating our core business while attracting and retaining sellers and buyers. There is more work to do, but I couldn't be prouder of the eBay team. They are focused and driven and they work hard every day to innovate, keeping our customers at the forefront.With that, I'll turn the call over to Andy to provide more details on our financial performance. Andy?Andy Cring -- Interim Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Jamie. I will begin my prepared remarks with our first quarter financial highlights starting on Slide 4 of the earnings presentation.The first quarter was another great quarter for eBay. We generated over $27 billion of GMV, our highest GMV quarter ever. We delivered $3 billion of revenue, $1.09 of non-GAAP EPS, and $855 million of free cash flow, while returning $414 million to shareholders through share repurchases and cash dividends.Moving to active buyers on Slide 5, we exited the quarter with 187 million buyers representing 7% year-on-year growth, consistent with the fourth quarter. We've added 13 million buyers to the ecosystem since the beginning of 2020 and are experiencing retention rates that remain in line with historical trends. And as we said throughout 2020, we continue to see growth in GMV per active buyer across all cohorts.Moving to Slide 6. In Q1, we enabled $27.5 billion of marketplace GMV, up 24%, accelerating 6 points versus the fourth quarter. On a spot basis, this represents growth of 29%, an acceleration of 8 points versus the fourth quarter. As over 60% of our GMV is generated outside of the US, we saw a 5 point translation benefit due to the weaker dollar. On-platform volume, which represents nearly 85% of total GMV grew at 28%, a 7 point acceleration versus Q4, driven by site wide product experience improvements, progress we're making in key categories, increased mobility restrictions and additional stimulus in the US.Our on-platform business in Korea was relatively stable versus the fourth quarter at 4% year-on-year growth. In the US, we generated $10.4 billion of GMV in Q1, up 36% year-on-year, accelerating 11 points from the fourth quarter, driven by mobility dynamics, stimulus payments and strengthen our core categories including collectibles. International GMV was up 17% year-on-year, a 2 point acceleration versus the fourth quarter driven by strength in our core categories and mobility dynamics.Turning to revenue on Slide 7. Our Q1 net revenue was $3 billion, up 38% and accelerating 10 points on an FX-neutral basis. As Jamie said, this was our strongest quarter since 2005. On a spot basis, this represents growth of 42%. We delivered $2.7 billion of transaction revenue, up 40%, accelerating 9 points from the fourth quarter, mostly driven by our payments migration and volume strength. In managed payments, we continue to execute and have made great progress on seller migration to the new payments platform. As Jamie mentioned, we processed over half of our global on-platform volume in the quarter, which contributed approximately 15 points of incremental revenue growth versus 2020.Transaction take rate was 10% for the quarter, accelerating 20 basis points, driven by managed payments, partially offset by category and seller mix, in addition to currency hedging impacts. When we started the managed payments journey, we expected to progressively increase monetization of our site while delivering better seller economics, an improved experience for both buyers and sellers, and overall revenue growth for the business. We continue to deliver across all of these dimensions. We delivered $291 million of marketing services and other revenue, up 22%, accelerating 19 points from the fourth quarter, driven by first party growth in Korea, which grew approximately 120%, in addition to strength in advertising and shipping.Turning to Slide 8 and major cost drivers. In Q1, we delivered non-GAAP operating margin of 33%. This is up approximately 140 basis points year-on-year, driven by volume and advertising, partially offset by product and marketing reinvestments, the impact of managed payments growth and FX. For each of the non-GAAP expense buckets, volume and a higher take rate provided leverage as a percent of revenue. I will provide additional context for other significant drivers.Cost of revenue was up nearly 4 points year-over-year as leverage was more than offset by scaling managed payments and our first-party inventory program in Korea. As a reminder, the managed payments cost structure includes payment processing costs that scale in line with payments revenue. This dynamic has been fully contemplated in our 2022 margin targets.Sales and marketing expense was down nearly 2 points versus the prior year, as leverage was partially offset by investments in our vertical strategy, strategic reinvestments in online marketing and FX. Product development costs were down 10 basis points as leverage was mostly offset by investments in end-to-end product experience in addition to managed payments and advertising. G&A was down nearly 2 points, primarily from leverage and a disciplined cost control. Transaction losses were down approximately 1.5 points from the benefit of fee netting in our managed payments initiative and lapping COVID driven deferred fees and seller protection increases.Turning to EPS on Slide 9. In Q1, we delivered $1.09 of non-GAAP EPS, up 59% versus the prior year. Non-GAAP EPS growth was driven primarily by higher volume, growth in payments and advertising and the reduction in share count, driven by our repurchases, partially offset by investments in product and marketing. GAAP EPS for the quarter was $0.82, up 44% versus last year. The increase in GAAP EPS is mostly driven by the same factors as non-GAAP performance, partially offset by the fair value of the Adyen warrant.Moving to Slide 10. In Q1, we had a very strong quarter of cash generation, finishing Q1 with $855 million of free cash flow, a 65% increase year-on-year driven by topline growth, increased working capital and lower capital expenditures. Turning to Slide 11. For the quarter, we ended with cash and investments of $3.9 billion and debt of $7 billion. In Q1, we repurchased approximately 5.2 million shares at an average price of $55.70 per share, amounting to $292 million. We exit the quarter with $5.7 billion of share repurchase authorization remaining.Moving to slide 12 and investments. When we announced the Classifieds transaction with Adevinta on July 20 of last year, the valuation was $9.2 billion based on a mix of cash and the value of Adevinta shares at that time. As of April 27, the Adevinta share price had appreciated by nearly 37%, which increased the value of the deal to over $12.7 billion. We continue to expect the deal to close in the second quarter with the cash portion of the transaction providing approximately $2 billion net of tax.Turning to Adyen. The warrants we acquired in the second quarter of 2018 are valued at $1 billion at the end of the first quarter, an increase of over $700 million year-on-year. You can find more information on the Adyen warrant in our 10-Q. We remain excited about both of these investments, the optionality they provide, and the significant value each can generate for our shareholders.Turning to guidance on slide 13. For Q2, we are projecting revenue between $2.98 billion and $3.03 billion, growing between 8% to 10% on an organic FX-neutral basis, representing 12% to 14% growth on a spot basis. This assumes marketplace volume declines high single to low-double digits on an FX-neutral basis, representing a decline of mid to high single-digits on a spot basis. This volume guidance is driven by three main components. First, the negative impact from lapping our second largest quarter ever, which was fueled by the first wave of mobility restrictions, stimulus payments and supply chain disruptions.Second, the ongoing benefit from macro factors, including mobility and stimulus payments across our own platform businesses, which we estimate are contributing high single-digit growth this quarter. Third and most importantly, continued delivery on initiatives driving us toward our vision, many of which Jamie highlighted earlier. On a year over two-year basis, this guidance represents growth in the high teens on a spot basis, which is more than $4 billion of incremental GMV versus the same quarter in 2019, as our sellers and buyers have discovered or rediscovered the power and reach of our global platform.We expect non-GAAP EPS of $0.91 to $0.96 per share, representing a 6% to 11% decrease, primarily driven by volume deleverage and continued investments in product and marketing in support of our strategy, partially offset by managed payments and a lower share count. We expect non-GAAP effective tax rate of 16% to 18%, we are expecting GAAP EPS from continuing operations in the range of $0.67 to $0.72 per share in Q2.Finally on Q2, our EPS guidance assumes approximately $400 million of share buyback. While we are providing guidance for the full year, we do want to provide some additional context on our path forward. On volume, our conviction in the vision is increasing and we are confident these efforts will continue to drive additional growth as we scale. While difficult to forecast, mobility will likely continue to improve throughout the second half pressuring growth, and when combined with easier lapping that could result in second half FX-neutral volume growth rates similar to those of our second quarter guidance.For buyers, similar to GMV, we expect growth will be pressured as we lap periods of high buyer acquisition. We expect revenue growth will continue to materially outpace GMV growth as our monetization initiatives drive a higher effective take rate. Specifically in payments, we're more than halfway done with the migration of on-platform GMV and expect to deliver at least $1.7 billion of revenue in 2021, well on our way to realizing at least $2 billion of revenue in 2022.On margin, we are on target and remain committed to delivering 2 points of margin expansion versus 2019, achieving at least 30% by 2022. We said along the way that margin accretion won't be linear and in 2021, we expect margin will be approximately 29% for the full year. With regards to cash and capital allocation, we will continue to deliver strong free cash flow. We remain committed to our targets and tenants and we will continue to optimize our capital structure within them. Specifically on buybacks, for the full year, we anticipate repurchasing approximately $2 billion of stock, excluding deal proceeds. We will update plans for use of proceeds from the Classifieds transaction at the time of closure.For our Korea business, we have a strategic review process under way, which includes the possibility of a sale, with interest from multiple parties. We are exploring that interest and we'll provide an update when we have material information to share. And finally on FX, at current rates, we expect the benefit of currency to be smaller in the second half as we lap a relatively weaker US dollar.In conclusion, Q1 was a record quarter for eBay, and we enter Q2 excited about the path forward to deliver on all aspects of our long-term plan. We will continue to execute on our multi-year modernization initiatives, which are driving material benefits to our customers and shareholders as we move toward at least $2 billion of revenue and $0.5 billion of operating income in managed payments and the next $1 billion of advertising revenue. We are delivering on our core strategy, increasing customer satisfaction and attracting and retaining customers as we capitalize on the $0.5 trillion addressable market that is growing double-digits.We're delivering consistent strong free cash flow and continue to deploy that cash in a disciplined manner by investing in our platform for the long term and returning capital to shareholders. On margins, we remain on target for at least 2 points of improvement in 2022 compared to 2019, while we continue to drive efficiencies and strategically reinvest to accelerate growth. And finally, we're executing on our portfolio reviews and we'll deploy capital in a disciplined manner balancing reinvestment in the core, capacity for mergers and acquisitions, paying a dividend and buying back our undervalued stock.And now we'd be happy to answer your questions. Operator?