  OperatorGood morning, and welcome to the ADM first quarter 2022 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded. I would now like to introduce your host for today's call, Michael Cross, director of investor relations. You may begin.Michael Cross -- Director of Investor Relations Thank you, Emily. Good morning, and welcome to ADM's first quarter earnings webcast. Starting tomorrow, a replay of today's webcast will be available at adm.com. Please turn to Slide 2, the company's safe harbor statement, which says that some of our comments and materials constitute forward-looking statements that reflect management's current views and estimates of future economic circumstances, industry conditions, company performance, and financial results.

 



 These statements and materials are based on many assumptions and factors that are subject to risk and uncertainty. ADM has provided additional information in its reports on file with the SEC concerning assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in this presentation. To the extent permitted under applicable law, ADM assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events. On today's webcast, our chairman and chief executive officer, Juan Luciano, will provide an overview of the quarter and highlight some of our accomplishments.Our chief financial officer, Vikram Luthar, will review the drivers of our performance, as well as corporate results and financial highlights. Then Juan will make some final comments, and our vice chairman, Ray Young, will join us for questions. Please turn to Slide 3. I will now turn the call over to Juan. Juan Luciano -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Michael. This morning, we reported first quarter adjusted earnings per share of $1.90. Adjusted segment operating profit was $1.6 billion. Our trailing fourth quarter adjusted EBITDA was about $5.3 billion, and our trailing fourth quarter average adjusted ROIC was 10.6%.

 



 What we saw in the first quarter was an extension and amplification of the factors that supported our growth in 2021. First was our team's great execution. Exceptional growth in Nutrition and effective risk management exemplified how we continued to serve our customers and provide nutrition around the globe amid volatile market conditions and an inflationary environment. Second was an environment of tight supply and demand. We operated in the first quarter in a constrained supply environment for crops, mostly driven by the smaller South American crop, and for other products driven by some continued supply chain and labor availability issues. And we continued to see solid global demand across most of our products and in most regions. While the pandemic is not over, and we're particularly monitoring the impact of rising cases and lockdowns in China. Much of the world continued to emerge. Pent-up demand remained solid, even in the face of higher prices. The great work our team did was in service to our customers, our company, and our purpose. Our company has come together once again in the wake of the unprovoked and unjustified invasion of Ukraine. ADM has about 650 colleagues in Ukraine, and of course, our highest priority continues to be supporting and protecting them and their families, as well as helping Ukrainian farmers to get as much of their crop production as possible into world markets. Our thoughts and prayers remain with the people of Ukraine. Slide 4, please. Food security is foundational to ADM's purpose and beliefs, and recent events have only magnified its importance. From a global pandemic to the short crop in South America to the conflict in Ukraine, it has become clear that we cannot take an abundant and efficient supply of food for granted.

 



 Even beyond the current dislocations, this issue will remain one of critical importance over the next many years. As the global population grows, the need for Nutrition will continue to grow with it. At our global investor day last December, we talked about how we expect demand to push global trade flows of corn, wheat, soybeans, and soybean meal up 21% or 130 million tons in the next 10 years. Meeting that demand will not happen automatically. It will take dedication, expertise, and agility, as well as global scale and capabilities. An example of that is ADM's destination marketing network, which gives us a presence in more regions where demand is strong and growing, as well as more direct connections to customers and the ability to offer the full end-to-end capabilities of our integrated value chain. We are seeing how important that is today as customers are coming to us knowing that they can rely on ADM to meet their specific needs in a supply constrained environment. We are not immune to the impacts of global disruptions, including those in the Black Sea region, but our broad portfolio of nutrition products and our ability to efficiently move them around the world will allow us to manage through these dynamic market conditions and continue to help support the food needs of billions of people. Please turn to Slide 5. Sustainability is another one of the global trends so important to our company's and our planet's future. We remain focused on our strategy, which is aligned with fast-growing demand for an array of products that are environmentally friendly, including alternative projects. That industry continues to show impressive growth. Global sales for alternative meats and dairy products are expected to increase 14% annually, reaching a targeting $125 billion by 2030. When you look at the full range of products that alternative proteins could go into, from meat alternatives and meat extensions to emerging categories like ready meals and specialized nutrition, the opportunities are even greater. Our own growth in this area is faster than the industry's. The quality of our product, our integrated end-to-end value chain, our innovative product development, and application capabilities and our global scale make us the partner of choice for our customers. In fact, we never had a stronger demand for our alternative protein products that we are seeing now, and we are confident in continued growth. That is why earlier this month, we announced a significant investment to nearly double extrusion capacity at our Decatur, Illinois specialty protein complex. We also announced the industry's first end-to-end alternative protein innovation center. This, of course, follows up our last year's addition of leading European alternative protein provider, soy protein. Alternative proteins are just one of the many areas in which we are expanding our capabilities to meet growing customer demand for more environmentally responsible products. Our biosolutions team, for example, continued to expand its pipeline and advance the evolution of our carbohydrate solutions business with an impressive $55 million in revenue growth in the quarter. Please turn to Slide 6. We are advancing sustainability commitments in other parts of our business as well. Last year, we unveiled new goals to reduce Scope 3 emissions and eliminate deforestation from our supply chain. This is critical work. We do not make these kinds of commitments without an achievable plan to meet them, and once we move forward, we constantly challenge ourselves to do it faster. That is why last week, we announced that we've accelerated our deadline for a completely deforestation-free supply chain by five years from 2030 to 2025. We also recently committed to work with the science-based targets initiative, with the goal of obtaining their approval of ADM's climate target and our alignment with ambitious global goals to limit rising temperatures to 1.5 degrees Celsius. Across ADM, we are continuing to align our portfolio with the world's growing needs and with our own purpose, positioning us to serve our customers, our communities, and our planet and power in our future. I'll discuss our business outlook at the end of our call. But in the meantime, I'd like to turn to Vikram to talk about our business. Vikram? Vikram Luthar -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Juan. Slide 7, please. The ag services and oilseeds team effectively managed risk and executed exceptionally well in a dynamic environment of robust global demand and tight supply, driven primarily by the short South American crop. Ag services results were significantly higher versus the first quarter of 2021. Global trade results were higher, driven by strong performances in destination marketing and global ocean freight. North American origination margins and volumes were lower year over year, including approximately $75 million in negative timing effects, which will reverse in the coming quarters. Crushing was higher year over year in a strong global margin environment driven by robust protein and vegetable oil demand. Improving margins in the quarter resulted in approximately $60 million in negative timing effects, which will reverse in the coming quarters, versus approximately $50 million in positive timing in the prior-year quarter. Refined products and other results were much higher than the prior-year period, driven by healthy refining premiums and good refined oil demand in North America, as well as strong biodiesel margins in EMEA. Equity earnings from Wilmar was significantly higher versus the first quarter of 2021. Looking ahead, we expect substantially higher Q2 AS&O results than the second quarter of 2021. Slide 8, please. Carbohydrate solutions delivered substantially higher year-over-year results. The starches and sweeteners subsegment, including ethanol production from our wet mills, delivered much higher results versus the prior-year quarter, driven by higher corn core product revenues, improved citric acid profits, and excellent risk management in North America, higher volumes and margins in EMEA and higher volumes and margins in wheat milling. Sales volumes for starches and sweeteners continued their recovery toward pre-pandemic levels. And as Juan mentioned, our biosolutions platform continued to deliver impressive growth, with $55 million in new sales as demand for plant-based products expands into more diverse applications. Vantage corn processors delivered solid execution margins, but position losses on ethanol inventory, as prices fell early in the quarter, drove lower results versus the prior year. The prior-year quarter's results also benefited from demand for USP-grade industrial alcohol from the Peoria facility, which was divested in Q4 2021. Looking ahead to the second quarter, we expect the current market dynamics to continue, delivering carbohydrate solutions results similar to the very strong second quarter of 2021. On Slide 9, the nutrition business delivered continued strong profit growth. Revenues increased by a very impressive 23%. Even when adjusting for currency effects and removing the impacts of recent acquisitions, revenue was up by 17%. And while margins have softened somewhat, they remain healthy. Human nutrition delivered higher year-over-year results. Flavors continued to deliver solid revenue growth, offset by some higher costs. Strong sales growth in alternative proteins, including contributions from our soy protein acquisition and positive currency timing effects in South America, offset some higher operating costs to help deliver better year-over-year results in specialty ingredients. Health and wellness results were also higher year over year, powered by continued growth in probiotics, including our late 2021 Deerland probiotics acquisition and robust demand for fiber. Animal nutrition profits were nearly double the year-ago period due primarily to strength in amino acids driven by a combination of product mix changes, improved North American demand, and global supply chain disruptions. Looking ahead, we expect nutrition to deliver a second quarter significantly higher than the prior-year period. And with our recent acquisitions delivering ahead of our expectations, we are raising our profit growth outlook for the full year from 15-plus to 20%. Slide 10, please. Let me finish up with a few observations from the other segment, as well as some of the corporate line items. Other business results were substantially higher, driven primarily by better performance in captive insurance, including reduced claims settlements versus the prior year. Some of the claims settlements that we expected to negatively impact Q1 results are now expected in the second quarter. Net interest expense for the quarter was higher year over year on higher expense for long-term debt, higher short-term borrowings to support working capital needs, and interest related to a tax item. In the corporate lines, unallocated corporate costs of $209 million were due primarily to higher IT operating and project-related costs and higher costs in the company's centers of excellence, partially offset by incentive compensation accrual adjustments. The effective tax rate for the first quarter of 2022 was approximately 16%. For the full year, we are now anticipating an effective tax rate at the higher end of our previously guided range of 16% to 19%. Cash flow generation remains strong, $1.6 billion before working capital changes versus $1.2 billion in the prior-year period. Our balance sheet remains solid with a net debt to total capital ratio of about 34%, and available liquidity of about $9.3 billion, even with almost $3 billion in higher working capital needs since December. With that, I'll turn it back to Juan. Juan Luciano -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Vikram. Slide 11, please. As the strong start of the year, we are looking ahead. In the near-term future, we expect lower crop supplies caused by the weak Canadian canola crop, the short South American crops, and now the Black Sea disruptions, to drive continued tightness in global grain markets through 2022, well into 2023, and perhaps beyond. As we look further ahead, markets will continue to reflect the importance of the enduring global trends that are fueling performance across our portfolio including a growing global population, driving expansion in demand for full and healthy nutrition. That is why the work we've done to build a better ADM is so important. We have the global integrated network, risk management capabilities, and diverse product portfolio to help us navigate through tight market conditions and meet global nutritional needs. This is the challenge we expanded, improved, and repositioned our business to meet, and we'll continue to advance our strategy and grow our capabilities through our productivity and innovation initiatives in order to drive performance under our control and deliver on the evolving needs of our customers. But it doesn't stop with ADM. Our working with other participants across the food and agriculture value chain, from farmers who continue to do more every year to sustainably increase production to technology providers who offer new ways to make more with less, to governments who, in a tight supply and demand environment, should resist the impulse to impose export restrictions. So looking at the balance of the year, when we combine the strategic work we have done to align our portfolio with fundamental global trends with our strong execution and the expectation of a continued tight supply demand environment, we expect 2022 results to substantially exceed 2021's. And as we look further ahead to a future of increasing needs for more and better foods, we will continue to work to add new adjacent products to address the world's toughest challenges and unlock the power of nature to enrich the quality of life. Once again, I'd like to thank our colleagues around the globe for their commitment and hard work to serve vital global needs in a challenging and dynamic environment. With that, Emily, please open the line for questions. 