
OperatorThis is Erica, and I will be your conference facilitator today for Amgen's Second Quarter 2021 Financial Results Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to introduce Arvind Sood, Vice President of Investor Relations. Mr. Sood, you may now begin.Arvind Sood -- Vice President of Investor RelationsErica, thank you. Good afternoon, everybody. Welcome to our Q2 call. I think the three key themes for this quarter are great execution in a challenging environment, pipeline advancement and smart and strategic business development. Lots to cover, so let's jump right in. slides are up. Quick reminder that we'll use non-GAAP financial measures in our presentation, and some of the statements will be forward-looking statements. Our SEC filings identify factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially. So with that, I would like to turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO, Bob Bradway. Bob?

 



Robert A. Bradway -- Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and PresidentOkay. Thank you, Arvind, and hello, everyone, and thank you for joining our call. Through the first six months of the year, Amgen has continued to execute well, driving demand for our current products globally while also paving the way for growth from future products. Total revenues in the second quarter increased 5% over the prior year and 11% over the prior quarter. We achieved this growth despite the lingering effects of COVID-19 and increased competition in many of our therapeutic categories. We continue to see strong volume-driven growth from Repatha, Otezla, Prolia and EVENITY and a number of our oncology biosimilar -- or excuse me, oncology medicines as well, all of which address significant health challenges. We also saw strong growth in the quarter from our biosimilars, supporting our commitment to deliver value to healthcare systems around the world.We generated volume growth of 22% outside the United States, and we're particularly encouraged by our progress in the Asia Pacific region where two notable approvals in the second quarter should provide additional growth moving forward. In China, our partner, BeiGene, secured approval for KYPROLIS, which joins BLINCYTO and XGEVA in our oncology collaboration there. And in Japan, the approval of Aimovig for migraine marks another important milestone for us in that market. In the U.S., we're excited by the strong launch of LUMAKRAS, which is providing hope to lung cancer patients in need of new treatment options. We're very pleased with the enthusiasm LUMAKRAS has generated in the oncology community.We're also excited that the FDA granted priority review to tezepelumab, further confirming our belief that it offers significant advantages over currently available treatment alternatives for people with severe asthma, a debilitating disease that affects millions worldwide. We've long sought to complement our internal innovation efforts with the best available external innovation. And in the first half of this year, we've executed on several compelling business development transactions, which fits squarely in our stated areas of interest. The acquisition of Five Prime Therapeutics and our partnership with Kyowa Kirin, for example, have added two potential first-in-class Phase III-ready assets in cancer and inflammation, two therapeutic categories where there remains high unmet need.

 



The acquisition of Teneobio, which Dave will address in a moment, will significantly strengthen our protein engineering capabilities across therapeutic areas. Our strong balance sheet and cash flows will enable us to take advantage of additional business development opportunities like these as they arise. All the work we do is focused on advancing our mission to serve patients and to do so in a way that helps to address the many challenges facing society.You may have seen our recently announced plans to invest approximately $1 billion to build two new manufacturing facilities, one in North Carolina and the other in Ohio, to meet the demand for our medicines. Both facilities will utilize cutting-edge technologies to be much more efficient and environmentally friendly than traditional plants, supporting our goal of achieving carbon neutrality by 2027. Both plants will also draw from very diverse talent pools as we, along with a number of other large companies that are part of the OneTen Coalition, look to collectively hire one million black Americans into well-paying jobs over the next 10 years.You can learn more about our commitment to good corporate citizenship by reading our ESG report, which can be found in the responsibility section of amgen.com. Finally, before I turn things over to Murdo, let me thank my Amgen colleagues for their continued commitment to serving patients around the world and delivering strong performance across all aspects of our business. Murdo, over to you.Murdo Gordon -- Executive Vice President of Global Commercial Operations

 



Thank you, Bob. Second quarter product sales increased 3% year-over-year. Volumes increased 8% driven by double-digit growth across a number of our products, including Prolia, Repatha and our biosimilar products MVASI and KANJINTI. Our ex-U.S. business grew 18%, with volume growth of 22% year-over-year. We continue to see gradual recovery from the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic in Q2 when compared to Q1 2021. Patient visits and lab test procedure trends continue to improve but remain below pre-COVID-19 levels. We remain focused on customer execution.Overall, U.S. field activity improved quarter-over-quarter, reaching 80% of pre-COVID levels. Face-to-face customer interactions are increasing and accounted for 60% of activity during the second quarter. Over the course of the pandemic, the cumulative decline in diagnoses has suppressed the volume of new patients starting treatment, which we expect will continue to impact our business during the second half of the year. Now let me review some product details, beginning with our innovative portfolio. In bone health, Prolia increased 24% year-over-year, driven primarily by volume growth. In the second quarter, osteoporosis diagnosis rates remained at approximately 90% of prepandemic levels. We remain focused on driving patient growth and are optimistic about Prolia's strength in the second half of the year. EVENITY sales increased 30% year-over-year driven by 32% volume growth.In the U.S., sales nearly doubled year-over-year as we saw an acceleration in demand trends driven by new and continuing patients. We believe EVENITY's unique bone-building attributes will continue to drive revenue growth. Moving to Repatha, which has reached more than one million patients since launch. Repatha sales increased 43% year-over-year driven by 49% volume growth, and we maintained U.S. and global share leadership in the PCSK9 class.In the U.S., total volumes grew 37% year-over-year. And outside the U.S., volumes grew 66% year-over-year. The volume growth in the quarter was partially offset by lower net selling price resulting from an increase in Medicare Part D patients receiving Repatha and entering the coverage gap. Looking forward, we expect some ongoing reduction in global net selling price on a sequential basis.Overall, we're confident in our ability to grow Repatha to help more patients at risk of developing a heart attack or stroke. Now on to Aimovig, which grew 24% quarter-over-quarter. On a year-over-year basis, net sales declined 16%. Volumes grew 11% but were more than offset by lower net selling price and unfavorable changes to estimated sales deductions. In the U.S., Aimovig TRx volume grew 7% year-on-year, and the brand maintained total prescription share leadership among subcutaneous CGRPs. Looking ahead, we see continued rebate pressure as oral CGRPs compete for share in the market. To date, more than 0.5 million patients worldwide have been prescribed Aimovig, and we believe Aimovig has significant potential to help many more patients suffering from chronic migraine given the clinical data that will be published soon showing Aimovig superiority versus topiramate.Moving to our inflammation portfolio. Otezla sales were $534 million in the quarter, with 5% volume growth, more than offset by unfavorable changes to estimated sales deductions and lower net selling price. In the U.S., Otezla maintained first-line share leadership in psoriasis. New-to-brand prescription volumes grew 10% year-over-year even as patient visits to dermatologists remained 15% below prepandemic levels. The number of new patients who started treatment with Otezla in Q2 was near prepandemic levels, but those gains were largely offset by a lower percentage of 90-day prescription fills and lower prescription refill rates for Otezla.We expect that pandemic recovery in the dermatology segment will progress over the coming quarters. Looking forward, we're preparing for the anticipated approval of the mild-to-moderate psoriasis indication in the U.S. later this year and for the launch of Otezla in China. Enbrel sales decreased 8% year-over-year, primarily driven by lower net selling prices and unfavorable changes to estimated sales deductions. On a year-over-year basis, volumes declined 1%, supported by Enbrel's long track record of efficacy and safety.Turning to biosimilars. Q2 sales were $567 million driven by strong volume growth, which was partially offset by declines in net selling price. We continue to hold leading biosimilar shares in Europe for AMGEVITA and in the U.S. for MVASI and KANJINTI. For the remainder of the year, we expect worldwide biosimilar volume growth to be offset by declines in net selling price due to increased competition. Longer term, growth for biosimilars will come from expansion of existing products in new markets and launches of additional biosimilar molecules, such as AMGEVITA in the U.S. and biosimilars for SOLIRIS, STELARA and EYLEA.In oncology, Neulasta Onpro remains the preferred long-acting G-CSF, with 52% volume share in the quarter. Sales declined 18% year-over-year driven by lower net selling price and lower volume. This was partially offset by a $75 million year-over-year benefit from favorable changes in reimbursement mix. Neulasta's U.S. average selling price declined 35% year-over-year and 12% quarter-over-quarter. We expect this trend will continue throughout 2021 driven by intensifying competition. KYPROLIS sales increased 11% year-over-year, primarily driven by volume growth and net selling price. Moving forward, we expect growth from KYPROLIS use in combination with CD38 antibodies, including DARZALEX and SARCLISA. I'd like to take this opportunity to comment on our recent launch of LUMAKRAS, which is off to a strong start with unaided brand awareness increasing 20 points since launch.KRAS testing in patients with metastatic non-small cell lung cancer now stands at 70%, and 46 of the top 50 testing labs now identify KRAS G12C as actionable in their laboratories. We're very pleased with the positive reaction from the oncology community, and we'll be working closely with them to ensure access for patients who can benefit from this breakthrough medicine. Overall, I'm pleased with our Q2 execution given the sustained impact of COVID-19 on our business. We closely monitor the course of the pandemic and its impact on patients and physician behavior during the second half of the year. We'll maintain our focus on execution to ensure our medicines continue to reach the patients they can benefit. And with that, I will turn it over to Dave.David M. Reese -- Executive Vice President of Research and DevelopmentThanks, Murdo, and good afternoon, everyone. We made several important advances in R&D last quarter, and I will begin with our acquisition of Teneobio, which will strengthen Amgen's leadership in developing engineered protein-based medicines to treat patients with serious illnesses. There are three important components to the acquisition. First, Teneobio's core antibody technology will enable the development of multispecific biologics directed against targets and a wide range of diseases across our key therapeutic areas. Teneobio's antibody platform offers capabilities complementary to our XenoMouse.It is genetically modified to express human IgG molecules comprising only a heavy chain. A small single chain antigen binding VH domains from these molecules are soluble and stable and can be easily strung together like beads on a string to generate multispecific molecules. In addition, Teneobio also brings a novel lower affinity CD3 engaging technology that complements our BiTE platform. The availability of a second CD3 engager will allow us to broaden our bispecifics capabilities and enable customization of the T-cell engaging domain, depending on the disease and target. Finally, we are acquiring clinical and preclinical oncology programs directed against high-value targets of interest, which we specifically selected based on our own discovery efforts and target validation.These include a Phase I bispecific antibody for prostate cancer that complements acapatamab, AMG 160, also targeting PSMA, and AMG 509 targeting STEAP1, which was recently granted fast-track designation by the FDA. Turning to oncology. We continue to advance LUMAKRAS registration around the globe, with regulatory reviews and progress in multiple jurisdictions, including Europe and Japan. Feedback from the medical community on the LUMAKRAS launch in the U.S. has been overwhelmingly positive, and I've heard personally from oncologists who are excited to have LUMAKRAS available and are heavily screening their patients for KRAS G12C mutations.I'm pleased to report that more than 2,000 patients have received LUMAKRAS across more than 1,000 sites and 900 investigators or treating physicians, including to our global early access programs. In the LUMAKRAS development program, we continue to advance our broad-based combination efforts. Initial data from our Vectibix combination in colorectal cancer have been accepted for presentation at ESMO in September and the MEK and oral EGFR combination abstracts will be submitted to a medical meeting in the fourth quarter.To expand our LUMAKRAS experience with SHIP2 inhibition, along with our ongoing collaboration with Revolution Medicines, we have also entered into a collaboration with Novartis for a SHIP2 combination trial. Updates from our monotherapy non-small cell lung cancer study, including additional biomarker analyses as well as data in patients with stable brain metastases, have been accepted for presentation at the World Congress on Lung Cancer (sic) [World Conference on Lung Cancer]. Recall that we are also investigating LUMAKRAS in patients with active brain metastases. We also plan on initiating a Phase II first-line non-small cell lung cancer study in patients with PD-L1 negative and/or STK 11 mutant tumors in the third quarter.In the bemarituzumab program, we are having good discussions with regulators on the Phase III gastric cancer development path and plan to initiate a registrational program by year-end. This will include two Phase III trials: one investigating utility of bemarituzumab in combination with chemotherapy; and the other evaluating the addition of bemarituzumab to chemotherapy and a checkpoint inhibitor. We are also planning a potentially pivotal Phase II study with Tarlatamab, AMG 757, our half-life extended BiTE molecule targeting DLL3 for small cell lung cancer, and we look forward to discussing next steps with regulators in the coming weeks. I'm also pleased to report that we have completed enrollment in the castrate-resistant prostate cancer expansion cohort for acapatamab or AMG 160.In inflammation, continuing our leadership in dermatology, we are working closely with Kyowa Kirin to advance AMG 451, also known as KHK4083, a first-in-class OX-40 antibody into Phase III for atopic dermatitis. We look forward to the presentation of the Phase II atopic dermatitis data at the annual meeting of the European Academy of Dermatology and Venereology at the end of September as well as initiating discussions with regulators on our Phase III development plans in the coming months. In addition, the FDA accepted the Otezla supplemental filing for mild-to-moderate psoriasis. Finally, we and our partners, AstraZeneca, were very pleased that the FDA granted tezepelumab priority review for the treatment of asthma, reflecting significant unmet medical need.In closing, I would like to thank the entire organization for continuing to advance important medicines for our patients. Peter?Peter H. Griffith -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Dave, and good day, everyone. I will briefly walk through our second quarter financial results before discussing 2021 guidance. The second quarter marked another period of solid performance as we grew volumes 8%, increased investment in both internal and external innovation and delivered 4% year-over-year non-GAAP EPS growth. As stated earlier, Q2 revenues at $6.5 billion increased 5% year-over-year. Other revenues at $412 million increased 38% year-over-year, primarily driven by shipments of the COVID-19 antibody therapy to Lilly.We continue to expect full year 2021 other revenues to be in the range of $1.4 billion to $1.5 billion. Second quarter total non-GAAP operating expenses increased 15% year-over-year as we continue to make investments to drive growth and maximize shareholder value. We expect full year operating expenses, including approximately $200 million of operating expenses related to the Rodeo, Five Prime and Teneobio acquisitions, and also to the Kyowa Kirin collaboration on an absolute basis to increase about 6% to 7% over last year, while delivering a full year operating margin of roughly 50%. On a non-GAAP basis, cost of sales as a percent of product sales increased 4.1 percentage points on a year-over-year basis to 16.9% driven primarily by product mix, including COVID-19 antibody shipments to Lilly as well as profit share and royalties.For the full year, we continue to expect cost of sales as a percent of product sales to be 16% to 17%. Our cost of sales has increased as products with royalties and product share -- profit share payments have increased. As a reminder, a few of our products subject to royalties, our Aimovig and biosimilars, such as MVASI and KANJINTI. Those subject to profit sharing arrangements are EVENITY and tezepelumab upon approval and launch. Non-GAAP R&D spend increased 11% year-over-year due to investments in bema, acquired in Q2 as part of the Five Prime acquisition, and increased investments in discovery research. For the full year, we continue to expect non-GAAP R&D spend will increase as we progress our innovative early and late-stage pipeline programs.For the full year, we expect non-GAAP SG&A spend to decline. Non-GAAP other income and expenses were favorable by $146 million on a year-over-year basis due primarily to our portion of BeiGene's results, which we record one quarter in arrears. Q1 BeiGene results reflect the upfront payment BeiGene received in connection with the collaboration agreement. We expect our Q3 and Q4 non-GAAP other income and expense to be more in range with our Q1 and expect full year net expense in the range of $1.3 billion to $1.5 billion. Now turning to the outlook for the business for 2021. We are excited by our pipeline. This innovation is augmented and balanced by the business development that we have announced this year.Based on underlying market dynamics and our investment plans, we are reaffirming our 2020 revenue guidance range of $25.8 billion to $26.6 billion and our non-GAAP EPS guidance range of $16 to $17, notwithstanding absorbing the roughly $200 million of operating expenses mentioned above related to business development activities, including Five Prime, Rodeo, Teneobio and the Kyowa Kirin collaboration. These ranges reflect uncertainty continuing in the second half of the year related to emerging variants.Patient visits and lab test procedure trends in the United States continue to improve but still remain below pre-COVID-19 levels. Our non-GAAP tax rate guidance remains unchanged at 13.5% to 14.5%. Our capital expenditure guidance remains unchanged at $900 million, and our capital expenditures continue to reflect our investments in our manufacturing and related facilities, including improving their environmental footprints, investments in digital technologies throughout our business and increasing ESG investments.We expect share repurchases for 2021 to be in the upper range of $3 billion to $5 billion. This concludes the financial update. I'll turn it over to Bob for Q&A.Robert A. Bradway -- Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and PresidentOkay. Erica, let's open the lines for questions. Maybe you could remind our callers the procedure and our desire for them to ask one question so that we have the opportunity to get to everybody who has a desire to ask a question of us. And I feel sure our callers would like to know that it's Arvind's birthday today. So bear that in mind when you ask questions of us here this afternoon. Okay, Erica, open them up.