  OperatorGood afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for standing by, and welcome to the PTC's 2022 first quarter conference call. During today's presentation, all parties will be in a listen-only mode. Following the presentation, the conference will be open for questions. I'd now like to turn the call over to Matt Shimao, PTC's head of investor relations. Please go ahead.Matthew Shimao -- Head of Investor Relations Hello. Thank you, Julian, and welcome to PTC's results call for Q1 of fiscal '22. On the call today are Jim Heppelmann, chief executive officer; and Kristian Talvitie, chief financial officer. During this call, PTC will make forward-looking statements, including guidance on future operating results. Because such statements deal with future events, actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements can be found in PTC's most recent annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as in today's press release. The forward-looking statements, including guidance provided during today's call are valid only as of today's date, January 26, 2022, and PTC assumes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements.During the call, PTC will also discuss non-GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures can be found in today's press release made available on our website. With that, I'd like to turn the call over to PTC's chief executive officer, Jim Heppelmann.  Jim Heppelmann -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Matt. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us. Turning to Slide 3, I'm pleased to share that PTC delivered another strong financial performance in fiscal Q1. We executed very well, building on the momentum we saw in Q4. To simplify things, please note that throughout my prepared commentary, I will only discuss growth rates in constant currency. ARR came in at $1.507 billion, which was better than the $1.5 billion we had guided to at the recent Investor Day. That represents 16% growth, 11% of which was organic. Adjusted free cash flow was also strong at $145 million, which was up 20% year over year and better than the $140 million expectation we said at the Investor Day. We're off to a very strong start in fiscal 2022. Turning to Slide 4. Of particular note was our bookings strength. Bookings were up double digits organically and high teens overall against the very strong COVID bounce back quarter we saw in Q1 of fiscal '21 when bookings grew more than 30% over the prior year. To put it in perspective, given the tough comparison against Q1 of last year, we had planned bookings to actually be down slightly, inclusive of Arena. So this performance was more than 20% above plan. I know that some analysts and investors had voice concerned that the restructuring work we did in late Q4 and throughout Q1 would distract us, but obviously, we didn't see that. The strength was broad-based across direct sales and resellers and was achieved with no megadeals. Rockwell came in ahead of their part of our plan, too, which was great to see and suggest my concerns of them being distracted and may prove overstated. Arena contributed the inorganic element of bookings growth, with another strong bookings quarter, coming in above plan as well. With the Arena acquisition getting round tripped here in Q2, Arena becomes part of the organic results going forward and their low 20s growth rate will then add another tailwind to the organic results. Arena has been a great acquisition. Bookings growth was particularly strong in PLM, and in both Europe and Americas. From a macro perspective, global PMIs remain an expansion territory, while digital transformation and SaaS continue to grow in importance as secular drivers. The interest in digital transformation in SaaS has been driving strong bookings for what is very sticky software, which when layered into a recurring revenue model that is atypical of industry peers, has allowed PTC to deliver performance in excess of market growth rates. This happened right through the pandemic, especially in the large core business that represents about 70% of our ARR, and we fully expect it to continue going forward. These factors gave us confidence to raise the lower end of our ARR guidance range, which at the new midpoint basically means we've rolled our Q1 beat forward. Now let's take a look at the ARR performance by geography on Slide 5 before turning to business units. In Q1, we saw a strong ARR performance across all geographies. Our ARR growth in the Americas was 19%. All product segments grew with key growth drivers being the acquired Arena contribution and the velocity business unit overall, layered on top of another strong quarter in the core CAD and PLM business. In Europe, our ARR growth was 13%. We saw strong results across the board in Europe, with the strongest drivers of the growth being our digital thread growth and core businesses. Europe has the largest mix of channel versus direct and the resellers continue to perform well. Our ARR growth in APAC was 14%, with growth primarily driven by our digital thread core business. Next, let's take a look at the ARR performance of our various business units, starting with the digital thread group on Slide 6. In our largest product segment, digital thread core, we delivered yet another double-digit performance in Q1 with 11% growth. Within this, CAD and PLM, both grew double digits, with strong growth across all three geographies. This is the 17th consecutive quarter of double-digit ARR growth in the core business. And as we roll out our more aggressive SaaS strategy, I expect we'll see many more. In the digital thread growth, which is IoT and AR, we saw ARR growth of about 14%, consistent across both elements. This was in line with our plan and the mid-teens near-term growth expectation we set at the recent Investor Day. While this level of growth remains accretive to company growth, we continue to expect an acceleration of growth into the 20s as we get into the back half of the year. The biggest driver of growth in Q1 was from expansions, especially in Europe and APAC. We believe market conditions in IoT are improving, and we like the way the pipeline for our new DPM offering is developing through both PTC and Rockwell channels. For AR, we continue to see a tremendous level of interest, but the market remains nascent. Perhaps most importantly, the formation of the digital thread business unit at the start of FY '22 has driven important initiatives to increase our focus on cross-selling of IoT and AR into the core CAD and PLM customer base. FSG had a great Q1 with 6% ARR growth. The expansion deal we recently announced with the U.S. Air Force, both increases and extends this key relationship for up to five more years. Contracts like this demonstrate the value that our customers are realizing from Servigistics and other FSG products such as retail PLM and ALM. You may remember, I noted at our Investor Day that having FSG grow in the mid-single digits rather than flat would be a helpful upside growth driver. So I'm pleased to see FSG post another strong quarter. Let me run through a couple of quick customer anecdotes to give you a sense for our digital thread customers and how they rely on us. On Slide 7, MAN Energy Solutions is the world's top provider of large-bore engines in turbomachinery for the maritime and energy industries. The company manufactures complex parts in nearly every engine they make must meet unique customer requirements. Before implementing Creo, they relied on manual outdated processes that slowed design and production. With Creo, they've been able to transition from 2D to a full 3D model-based approach. Creo's broad range of tool path automation capabilities enable them to save time in the programming of the tool pass used to machine the large complex engine parts, greatly increasing efficiency in transitioning from design to production. Turning to Slide 8. You may have noticed we announced a deal with -- we announced that the German company, Scheffler, has expanded its relationship with PTC, and I'd like to share a bit of the back story. Scheffler has been a longtime Creo customer and has successfully deployed Windchill within engineering. But back in 2017, one of our PLM competitors announced a large PLM deal with Scheffler that appeared to cap PTC's expansion opportunity. But that system didn't ultimately stick as Scheffler has now decided to consolidate on PTC systems with Windchill being the backbone and is broadly deploying our solutions in their standard out-of-the-box fashion so that Scheffler can participate in the full power of our digital thread portfolio. I'm very excited about this collaboration and the further expansion that Scheffler is exploring with our IoT and AR offerings. On Slide 9, you'll see how IMA Group, our global business that delivers packaging machines, services, and solutions to a wide variety of industries, was looking for a way to expand their control room offering to help their customers improve overall equipment effectiveness and reduce downtime. As longtime users of PTC's Creo and Windchill, IMA decided that ThingWorx was the ideal IoT solution for their initiative and that Kepware could provide connectivity not only to their machines, but to the other vendors' machines deployed alongside them. IMA has successfully launched new revenue streams by enabling 24/7 monitoring of customer production lines and improved OEE by up to 16%. The Vuforia integrated with ThingWorx is the platform of choice for the U.S. Air Force training initiatives. Slide 10 highlights the work that PTC partner, Vectrona has done with the U.S. Air Force. With finite training resources and limited capacity, the U.S. Air Force set out to incorporate augmented reality into their maintenance and munitions training. Vectrona using Vuforia Studio worked with the U.S. Air Force to create immersive 3D AR experiences for phones, tablets, and the HoloLens 2 that are designed to accelerate learning, improve work performance and facilitate remote training. The improved training shows better engagement and information retention with continuous and repeatable task training available regardless of the system or aircraft type. Turning to Slide 11, the velocity business ARR growth in Q1 was more than 650% due to the inclusion of Arena and 53% organically, which would be Onshape. If you were to add Arena's pre-acquisition results into the prior year to get a better pro forma comparison, then you'd have the velocity business unit growing at 28% in Q1. That 28% is a mix of Onshape growing at 53% and the larger Arena business growing in the low 20s. Growth of both Onshape and Arena is multiple times higher than market rates, clearly demonstrating that industrial companies see the benefits of SaaS. We continue to ramp investments to expand technology leadership and to broaden the geographic presence of our velocity businesses. On Slide 12, Beta Technologies, a leading developer of next-generation electric aircraft for the cargo and logistics market, sought a cloud-native product development platform where everyone would be working with one single source of truth without the workflow restrictions of traditional file-based design systems. Beta turned to Onshape because of how it enables real-time collaboration, allowing the engineering team to work from any location while streamlining their communications during the design process. To profile Arena customer, Potrero Medical, on Slide 13, is a predictive health company developing the next generation of medical devices, leveraging smart sensors and artificial intelligence. Potrero needed a scalable quality management system to support its growing product development and compliance needs, including satisfying FDA audit requirements. Arena was the right solution, offering a cloud-native QMS with a quick implementation, leading to ECO cycle time reduction of 30% and nonconformance improvement of 20%. As a final topic, I'd like to give you a quick update on our SaaS acceleration initiative on Slide 14. We've made tremendous progress in the past 90 days since we announced the more aggressive strategy. We've launched our SaaS program management office, which was modeled after the very successful approach we used to drive our subscription transition several years back. Our field organizations transition to the new two-in-a-box customer success organization model without missing a beat. We converged our cloud and tech support organizations with product development to deploy the DevOps type of approach you see in virtually all SaaS companies. We've made good progress advancing our offerings, especially the Windchill multi-tenant version, which will go into production shortly this quarter, and we made good progress preparing the SaaS conversion offerings that will power the hundreds of lifts and shifts that will happen in the coming quarters and years. We have more work to do, but we're certainly up and running. The time for SaaS has arrived in our industry and PTC is very well positioned. We're already the SaaS leader in our space with continued strong SaaS growth in Windchill and FSG and high levels of growth in our cloud-native velocity business unit. Sharing the Atlas SaaS platform, we have a dual strategy to win with Onshape and Arena powering a new agile product development approach, while we transition our digital thread portfolio and existing customer base to SaaS to elevate the platform strategies that so many larger companies have. To wrap up on Slide 15, I'm pleased with PTC's position and the opportunity that lies ahead. Q1 gave us a strong start to what we expect to be our fifth consecutive year of double-digit ARR growth. Our portfolio of products is unique and compelling and obviously aligns well to customer demand. Our results have been consistently strong for many quarters, but we're poised to accelerate growth as the SaaS tailwind blows harder in coming quarters and as we gain more momentum with our IoT and AR initiatives in the back half of the year. We're poised to drive higher levels of profitability, too, following the organizational changes we've already implemented and as our start-up businesses continue to mature up their J curves. The company has never been in a better position to create shareholder value. With that, I'll turn it over to Kristian for more details on the financial results. Kristian Talvitie -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Jim, and good afternoon, everyone. Before I review our results, I'd like to note that I'll be discussing non-GAAP results and guidance, and growth rate references will be in both constant currency and as-reported rates. So turning to Slide 17, we delivered constant currency ARR of $1.507 billion, which is 16% growth year over year and slightly exceeded our Q1 guidance of $1.5 billion. On an organic constant currency basis, this is 11% growth. FX was an approximate $11 million headwind in Q1, so our as reported ARR was $1.496 billion. Our SaaS products in both the digital thread and velocity business units saw a continued strong growth in Q1, with growth rates similar to what we discussed at our recent Investor Day. This is in combination with continued strong growth of our software-only sales. As of Q1, our SaaS portfolio is now 15% of our total ARR on a constant currency basis. Q1 free cash flow of $134 million grew 21% year over year and includes $11 million in restructuring and other related payments. Adjusted free cash flow was $145 million and was slightly ahead of the $140 million we discussed at our Investor Day. Q1 revenue of $458 million increased 7% year over year. As we've discussed previously, revenue is impacted by ASC 606, so we do not believe that revenue growth rates are indicative of our underlying business performance but would rather guide you to ARR as the best metric to understand our top-line performance and cash collection. FX only impacted revenue by about $1 million in Q1. So our revenue on a constant currency basis was $459 million. Q1 non-GAAP operating margin of 35%, compared to 36% in Q1 of 2021. While this is a strong result, it's still worth pointing out that because revenue was impacted by ASC 606, other derivative metrics such as gross margin, operating margin, and EPS are all also impacted. Suffice it to say that our COGS and opex came in in line with our expectations in Q1, and we continue to maintain good discipline on our operating expense structure. I would like to point out that our GAAP results reflect a gain of $9.8 million related to our investment in Matterport. And we're also slightly reducing the range for expected P&L charges from approximately $45 million to $50 million, down to $40 million to $45 million for the full year. And coincidentally, we're also reducing the range of expected cash payments for the restructuring and other from what was previously $50 million to $55 million, down to $45 million to $50 million for the full year. For guidance purposes, we will continue to show $50 million as the cash payments and the adjusted free cash flow reconciliation. But as payments come in lower, then we would just expect actual free cash flow to come in higher. There's no change to the $450 million adjusted free cash flow target. Moving to Slide 18, I'll begin with our balance sheet. We ended Q1 with cash and cash equivalents of $296 million. In addition, at the end of Q1, we had medium-term investments of $87 million, primarily related to our investment in Matterport. Our gross debt was $1.45 billion with an aggregate interest rate of about 3.2%. In Q1, we used $120 million of cash to repurchase shares. We also had an additional $5 million of repurchases, which settled early in Q2. For the remainder of fiscal '22, we will focus on delevering and looking forward to FY '23 in an ongoing go-forward basis, assuming our debt-to-EBITDA ratio is below three times, we will continue to target to return approximately 50% of our free cash flow to shareholders via share repurchases. Turning to Slide 19. We post a data table to our IR website that has our financial statements, as well as ARR detail by segment. In that file, we share both constant currency and as-reported ARR. As a reminder, when we calculate constant currency, we use our current year plan FX rates and restate history to the same rates. So here, for example, on this slide, you can see our Q1 constant currency ARR of $1.507 billion and the actual as reported ARR of $1.496 billion. This is important to remember in the context of our guidance because we provide guidance at the planned rate. We believe this is the best way to evaluate the top-line performance of our business because it removes FX fluctuations from the analysis, positive or negative. With that, I'll move on to guidance on Slide 20. As Jim mentioned, we're raising the low end of our full year constant currency ARR guidance by $10 million. The new range is now $1.625 billion to $1.660 billion. This essentially reflects rolling our Q1 overperformance through the remainder of the year. We're now expecting constant currency ARR growth of 11% to 13% in fiscal '22. It's worth pointing out that based on FX rates at the end of Q1, we would expect a $13 million headwind against that full year ARR guidance. For Q2, we're setting constant currency ARR guidance of $1.540 billion to $1.550 billion. This is 12% organic constant currency growth at the midpoint. On an as-reported basis, the FX impact we're calculating based on the FX rates at the end of Q1 is a $12 million headwind in Q2 compared to the constant currency guidance. Moving to free cash flow. We're maintaining our full year free cash flow target of $400 million. This includes approximately $50 million of restructuring and acquisition-related payments. The majority of these payments are related to the reorganization we announced in Q1 with some residual payments primarily related to our Seaport move for which we took the accounting charge in prior periods. So our adjusted free cash flow target for fiscal '22 remains $450 million. Fiscal Q2 adjusted free cash flow is expected to be approximately $155 million. We expect to make approximately $20 million in restructuring and other related payments in Q2, bringing our free cash flow to approximately $135 million. Moving to revenue. We're also taking the low end of the full year revenue guidance up by $20 million. This reflects both the strength in software and strength in the professional services business that we saw in Q1 and the related forecasts for the full year. So for fiscal '22, our net revenue guidance range is $1.870 billion to $1.975 billion. The year-over-year growth rate range is now 3% to 9%. Our ASC 606 makes revenue very difficult to predict for on-premise subscription companies, hence the wide range. Note that revenue variability has -- this is from 606, has no impact on ARR or its related cash generation as we continue to primarily bill customers annually upfront regardless of term length. We continue to expect more than 60% of our annual free cash flow generation to occur in the first half of the year. Collections are stronger in the first half, and we expect expenses to increase as we ramp hiring in our SaaS investments throughout the year. We're wrapping up on Slide 21 with the free cash flow model that we use and went into some depth on at our recent Investor Day that you can see here. I know many of you use model free cash flow using the indirect method. However, given the complexities related to revenue recognition due to 606, this is difficult to do. The model we show here has proven quite effective. The table shows fiscal '21 actuals compared to the model we shared at Investor Day compared to our current guidance. Let me take you through the model focusing on the non-GAAP column on the right and starting at the top. First, we're showing the midpoint of our as reported ARR guidance of $1.630 billion, which is different from the constant currency guidance that we gave due to the $13 million FX headwind and is also $5 million lower than what we showed at the Investor Day. We use it as reported here because it's a better reflection of the cash we expect to generate. You can also see that we have increased the perpetual license revenue forecast slightly and also the professional services revenue increase that we mentioned earlier. COGS is slightly higher, reflecting the increased costs to deliver the incremental professional services revenue and the rest of the assumptions remain the same, and we still end up with our target adjusted free cash flow of $450 million. Obviously, this is a model based on assumptions such as the midpoint of the ARR range, the impact of FX, the pace of hiring, etc. So if some of those variables change, which they invariably will, the model will have to be adjusted accordingly. And as I mentioned earlier, if cash payments related to the restructuring coming at the low end of the range, we would see a flip from the restructuring line to the free cash flow line, but the adjusted free cash flow target would remain unchanged. But as we sit here today, we think this is a reasonable view of how we expect the year to shape up. So with that, I'll turn the call over to the operator, and we can begin Q&A.  