
OperatorGood morning, my name is Chris and I'll be your conference operator today. At this time, I'd like to welcome everyone to the Nordson Corporation Fourth Quarter Fiscal Year 2021 Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]Thank you. Lara Mahoney you may begin.Lara Mahoney -- Vice President, Corporate Communications and Investor RelationsThank you. Good morning. This is Lara Mahoney, Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications. I'm here with Sundaram Nagarajan, our President and CEO; and Joseph Kelly, Executive Vice President and CFO.We welcome you to our conference call today, Thursday, December 16th, 2021 to report Nordson's fiscal year 2021 fourth quarter and full-year results. You can find both our press release, as well as our webcast slide presentation that we will refer to during today's call on our website at www.nordson.com/investors. This conference call is being broadcast live on our Investor website and will be available there for 14-days. There will be a telephone replay of the conference call available until December 30th 2021.During this conference call, references to non-GAAP financial metrics will be made. A complete reconciliation of these metrics to the most comparable GAAP metric has been provided in the press release issued yesterday.Before we begin, please refer to Slide two of our presentation where we note that certain statements regarding our future performance that are made during this call may be forward-looking based upon Nordson's current expectations. These statements may involve a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors, as discussed in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, that could cause actual results to differ.Moving to today's agenda on Slide three. Naga will discuss fourth quarter and full-year highlights. He will then turn the call over to Joe to review sales and earnings performance for the total company and the two business segments. Joe also will talk about the year-end balance sheet and cash flow. Naga will conclude with high level commentary about our enterprise performance, including an update on the Ascend strategy, as well as our fiscal 2022 first quarter and full-year guidance. We will then be happy to take your questions.With that, I'll turn to Slide four and hand the call over to Naga.Sundaram Nagarajan -- President and Chief Executive OfficerGood morning, everyone. Thank you for joining Nordson's fiscal 2021 fourth quarter and full-year conference call. And the heels of 2020, a year marked by the COVID pandemic, I don't think anyone knew what to expect coming into 2021. We were well positioned having both remained invested in our customer centric businesses and started deployment of NBS Next growth framework. Our focus remained sharply on protecting the health and safety of our employees, while also meeting the needs of our customers.The successful deployment of NBS Next ensured, we were able to fully participate in the accelerated economic recovery experienced in 2021. Our division leaders use strategic discipline to identify and then focus on the best opportunities for profitable growth in their respective businesses. As a result we surpassed our prior record annual performance in sales by $108 million and an operating profit by $111 million. This new record was achieved through broad-based growth across most end markets and geographies.Fourth quarter was a solid finish to this record year. Sales were in line with our expectations, particularly in light of the timing of the approximate $25 million customer order that had been pulled forward into fiscal third quarter. Looking at the back half of fiscal 2021, we delivered 15% organic sales growth and 36% adjusted profit growth, compared to the prior year second half. I'll speak more about the businesses in few moments.But first I'll turn the call over to Joe to provide more detailed perspective on our financial results for the quarter.Joseph P. Kelley -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Naga, and good morning to everyone. On Slide number five, you will see fourth quarter 2021 sales were $599 million, an increase of 7%, compared to the prior year fourth quarter sales of $559 million. The increase was primarily related to 10% organic volume growth and favorable currency offset by headwinds from the screws and barrels product line divestiture.When excluding the divested product line in the prior year for comparability purposes sales growth would have been a 11% in the current year fourth quarter. This double-digit organic sales increase was driven by solid growth in all product lines with particularly strong demand in electronics, industrial and medical end markets. Test and inspection and consumer non-durable product lines delivered single-digit growth in the quarter, highlighting the continued stable demand in these markets. Geographically, all regions except Japan grew steadily.Gross profit totaled $331 million or 55% of sales in the quarter, compared to $297 million or 53% of sales in the prior year fourth quarter. This 200 basis point increase in gross margin was driven by improved sales mix from the divested screws and barrels product line, sales volume leverage and process enhancements from our NBS Next growth framework.On a sequential basis, we experienced some pressure on gross margin from the third quarter to the fourth quarter, primarily due to elevated freight costs stemming from the dynamic macro-economic demand environment. Additionally, we incurred approximately $2 million in non-recurring cost as we aligned our medical fluid components business with its best growth opportunities.We believe these negative impact on gross margins are largely temporary in nature and we are taking appropriate pricing actions in fiscal 2022 to offset inflationary pressures. Our differentiated product offering and market positions, organizational agility and disciplined approach to cost control combined with consistent deployment of the Ascend strategy is allowing us to successfully navigate these challenges and continue to deliver profitable growth.Operating profit was a $151 million in the quarter or 25% of sales, a 16% increase from the prior year. Double-digit organic growth, favorable sales mix and continued benefits from structural cost reduction actions taken in fiscal 2020 all contributed to incremental operating profit margins of 52% in the quarter. EBITDA for the fourth quarter was $177 million or 30% of sales.Looking at non-operating expenses, net interest expense decreased $2 million or 31% from the prior year, driven by reduced debt levels. Other net expenses increased $2 million, primarily driven by currency translation losses. Tax expense in the quarter was $30 million for an effective tax rate of 21% in the quarter, in line with the full-year and forecasted rates.Net income in the quarter totaled $110 million or a $1.88 per share, representing a 19% increase from the prior year adjusted earnings. This improvement is reflective of the 7% year-over-year increase in sales, and more importantly consistent application of the NBS Next growth framework, which leads to steady, profitable growth with attractive incremental margins.Turning to Slide number six, I'll now share a few comments on our full-year results. Sales for the fiscal year 2021 were a record $2.4 billion, an increase of a 11%, compared to the prior year. This change in sales included an increase in organic volume of a 11%, and favorable currency impact of 3%, offset by the net unfavorable acquisition and divestiture impact of 3%. Also company records operating profit was $615 million and diluted earnings per share were $7.74, a 36% and 41% increase respectively from the prior year. EBITDA for the full-year increased 27% to $719 million or 30% of sales.Now let's turn to Slide seven and eight, to review the fourth quarter 2021 segment performance. Industrial Precision Solutions sales of $314 million increased 2%, compared to the prior year fourth quarter. Organic volume growth in the quarter was 8% offset by an unfavorable divestiture impact of 7% and favorable currency of 1%. Robust demand for industrial coating product plus steady growth in the consumer non-durable end markets for hot melt adhesive dispensing products drove this quarter's results.From a regional perspective growth was strongest in the US, The Americas and Europe. Operating profit for the quarter was $103 million or 33% of sales, which is an increase of 12%, compared to the prior year adjusted operating profit of $92 million. This growth was driven by favorable sales mix and manufacturing efficiency gained in part from the divestiture of the screws and barrels product line.I also want to remind investors then it was this segment IPS that had strong third quarter organic growth of 22%, which included approximately $25 million of sales that were pulled forward from fourth quarter into third quarter per the customer's request. Therefore, this segment's second half 2021 organic sales growth of 15% and adjusted operating profit growth of 34% are more reflective of what this business is delivering.Advanced Technology Solutions sales of $285 million increased 14%, compared to the prior year's fourth quarter. This change included an increase in organic sales volume of 13% and a 1% increase related to favorable currency impact. Growth was particularly strong in product lines serving electronics and medical end market. Fluid dispense product lines serving industrial and automotive end markets also generated double-digit growth in the quarter. All geographies contributed to this quarter's growth with particular strength in the international regions.Fourth quarter operating profit was $67 million or 24% of sales. The 29% year-over-year increase was driven by sales volume leverage and realization of benefits from cost control measures taken in fiscal 2020. Deployment of our NBS Next growth framework continues to be a key element in the success of this segment delivering profitable growth.Finally, turning to the balance sheet and cash flow on Page nine. Through our disciplined approach to capital deployment we ended the quarter with a strong balance sheet and abundant borrowing capacity. Cash totaled $300 million, partially an anticipation of the $180 million NDC Technology acquisition, which we completed on November 1st.Net debt was $516 million, resulting in a 0.7 times leverage ratio based on the trailing 12-months EBITDA. Free cash flow in the quarter was $160 million, which brings the full-year 2021 free cash flow total to $508 million or a conversion rate, a net income of 112%. As a reminder, the 2021 full-year free cash flow is inclusive of a net pension contribution totaling greater than $90 million.For modeling purposes in fiscal 2022, assume an effective tax rate of 21%, capital expenditures of approximately $40 million and pension contributions of approximately $10 million well below the fiscal 2021 levels.In summary our focus on disproportionally investing in the most profitable growth opportunities has led to another year of solid execution and record performance. While we continue to navigate the near-term challenges presented by this dynamic macro-economic environment, we remain diligent in implementing the NBS Next growth framework and broader Ascend strategy. We are pleased with our focus and progress on these strategic initiatives and remain committed to delivering top tier revenue growth with leading margins and returns.I will now turn the call back to Naga.Sundaram Nagarajan -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Joe. Let's turn to Slide 10. Again I want to thank our team for managing safely through another year of COVID-19, as well as managing issues related to supply chain, labor and other macro concerns. With their dedication, passion and focus on making Nordson stronger, not only did we achieve record results for the full-year, we also made great progress on our Ascend strategy.We first introduced Ascend at our Investor Day in March 2021, designed to deliver top tier revenue growth with leading margins and returns the Ascend strategy encompasses three interconnected pillars: NBS Next, Nordson's growth framework; Owner Mindset, our entrepreneurial division led organization, which empowers our divisions to make decisions as close to the customer as possible; and Winning Teams, Nordson's talent strategy. All three pillars are built on the foundation of what makes Nordson special, our culture and values.As we shared at our Investor Day, the successful execution of the Ascend strategy will deliver our financial targets of $3 billion in sales, and 30% EBITDA by 2025. Through this cycle we expect to achieve sales growth of 7%-plus through an equal mix of organic and acquisitive growth.2021 was a record year with double-digit organic growth and EBITDA margins ahead of our targets. We're just beginning to make progress on our acquisitive growth targets. On November 1st, we completed the acquisition of NDC Technologies, this test and measurement business as a differentiated product portfolio that is leveraged through a customer-centric business model. It is a great fit with our strategic and financial criteria for M&A.The integration is off to a solid start. In November, the NDC leadership team received their initial training on NBS Next. They are leaning in and asking good questions about how to incorporate our growth framework into their business. It is proving to be a good cultural fit and I'm very pleased with the level of engagement, I'm seeing at all levels of the NDC organization.M&A is a very important part of our growth strategy. We are looking forward to executing upon our pipeline as the right opportunities present themselves. We have a strong balance sheet and are well positioned to do so. Over the past year investors have asked, if we will adjust our long-term financial targets following the strength of this year. We strongly believe that these continue to be the right targets and we are pleased to have executed a very strong first year against that. Our divisions are focus every day on delivering profitable growth and these long-term targets will not govern our potential to act on the best market opportunities.Before I address fiscal 2022 outlook, I would like to take this opportunity to highlight our new ESG report. As discussed in more detail in the report our Ascend strategy and ESG priorities are closely integrated and depend on each other to refine and improve our overall performance. The underlying elements of ESG have been central to Nordson's culture and success throughout its 60-plus year history. Nordson is a light assembly manufacturer, and we are committed to identifying ways to minimize our own environmental footprint, while helping our customers do the same.Throughout our long history of designing and developing precision dispensing technology we have sought to reduce our customers' material cost and consumption by increasing yields and reducing scrap during their manufacturing processes. This has been a vital part of our success. We're also bringing solutions to the market that address environmentally conscious market opportunities such as advanced battery manufacturing to support renewable energy and manufacturing processes that utilize plant-based manufacturing materials.This report is a new foundation for our ESG strategy, influenced by leading ESG frameworks. It details our efforts to better understand our environmental footprint, while also highlighting our progress in social and governance initiatives. We look forward to building upon this foundation in future reports.Now for the outlook on Slide 11. As we look to the full-year, we are conscious of the dynamic environment with strong levels of demand creating labor, material, logistic availability, challenges similar to what many of our peers are experiencing. Our entrepreneurial division led organization structure has enabled us to address these ever changing dynamics head on. Our teams are agile in identifying solutions around labor, material availability and transportation challenges to meet our customers expectation.The strategic discipline is an element of the NBS Next growth framework is undoubtedly helping the teams prioritize and deliver on the best growth opportunities within each division.We expect 2022 to be another record-breaking year with sales growth in the range of 6% to 10% and adjusted earnings growth in the range of 8% to 18%, both as compared to fiscal 2021. We feel very confident going into the fiscal first quarter. As we first mentioned in the fiscal third quarter we are still seeing extended shipment request dates in conjunction with large orders from our customers. This increase backlog approximately 90%, compared to the same period a year ago and the trailing 12-week order entry was 25% above prior year levels.As a result of these evolving order patterns, traditional seasonality where the first quarter is much softer than the prior year fourth quarter is not applicable. First quarter 2022 should be comparable to the financial performance in the fourth quarter of 2021 and the year-over-year growth rate comparable to the second half 2021 growth rates. Based of anticipated sales timing, we expect the first quarter of 2022 sales growth to be approximately 14% to 16%, as compared to the fiscal 2021 first quarter with adjusted earnings per diluted share in the range of $1.80 to $1.95. As always I want to thanks our customers, employees and shareholders for your continued support.With that we will pause and take your questions.