
OperatorGreetings. Welcome to Walmart's Fiscal 2022 First Quarter Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Dan Binder, with Investor Relations.Dan Binder -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



Thank you, Rob.Good morning and welcome to Walmart's first quarter fiscal 2022 earnings call. I'm joined by a few members of our executive team, including Doug McMillon, Walmart's President and CEO; Brett Biggs, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and John Furner, President and CEO of Walmart US. In a few moments, Doug and Brett will provide you with an update on the business and discuss first quarter results that will be followed by our question-and-answer session.Before I turn the call over to Doug, let me remind you that today's call is being recorded and will include forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from these statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the factors identified in our filings with the SEC. Please review our press release and accompanying slide presentation for a cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements as well as our entire safe harbor statement and non-GAAP reconciliations on our website at stock.walmart.com.It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Doug McMillon.

 



Doug McMillon -- President and Chief Executive OfficerGood morning and thanks for joining today's call.Our results for the first quarter were strong. We're pleased with our sales momentum and adjusted EPS growth of 43% versus last year. We had strong performance in all three segments. As the pandemic continues, it's impacting the countries where we operate in different ways. So our teams are adapting to overcome the challenges and deliver the strong results we're sharing today. We continue to be grateful to all of our associates for their dedication to serving others.2021 brings its own unique challenges and uncertainty, but overall my optimism is higher than it was at the beginning of the year for several reasons. In the US, economic stimulus is clearly having an impact, but we also see encouraging signs that our customers want to get out and shop. Our execution is improving despite the hurdles presented by the pandemic. The second half will likely have more uncertainty than a normal year, but we like our position. Our stores are getting stronger and our e-commerce capabilities are expanding as we continue to grow. Customers will decide how and when they want to shop and they'll find us ready whether they want to shop in store, pick up an order or have it delivered.

 



Key elements of our strategy are coming together nicely. We saw an acceleration of traffic in our stores, gained market share in grocery, improved in-stock levels and grew e-commerce sales globally by 43% in constant currency, excluding recent divestitures. Global e-commerce penetration now represents over 12% of total Company sales, an increase of 340 basis points over last year.Looking ahead, we'll navigate the supply chain challenges and inflationary pressures, whether that's in cost of goods or wages. We'll monitor our price gaps and adjust as appropriate with both customers and shareholders in mind. As it relates to COVID-19, the past several weeks have been more challenging in some countries. India, Canada, Chile and South Africa are priorities at the moment. Supporting our associates is our primary focus, but we're also investing our resources to support the countries as we find opportunities to do so.In India, we're donating oxygen concentrators, PPE and financial support. When it comes to helping people get vaccinated, we're engaged in multiple countries. In the US, we've administered millions of doses. We're taking steps to encourage our associates and everyone to become vaccinated. Given CDC guidance, our US associates that have been vaccinated can now work without a mask if they choose to, and we've added a cash incentive as one more step to encourage vaccinations. All of our Walmart and Sam's Club pharmacies in the US are administering vaccines, and we can provide them without an appointment. We've also collaborated with national and local organizations to support more than 200 community events across the country so far. In India, we're facilitating vaccinations for our associates and their households and our Flipkart and PhonePe contractors, more 200,000 people. Across the countries where we operate, we'll keep looking for more places to make a difference. This pandemic won't be over until it's over for everyone.In addition to combating the pandemic, we also announced a new commitment to US manufacturing during the quarter. Over the next 10 years, we've set a goal to purchase an additional $350 billion on items made grown or assembled in the US. We estimate this commitment will create more than 750,000 new American jobs and avoid 100 million metric tons of CO2 emissions. We also want to make it easier for manufacturing in the US to flourish. That's why we're launching an initiative called American Light Houses. We'll bring together partners from the supplier community, academia and government, among other groups, to identify and overcome top-down barriers to US production.We also have other exciting news to share as we continue to invest in the technologies of tomorrow. In collaboration with NGE North America, a power generator and services company, we're adding more than 500 MW to the US renewable grid through three separate wind projects. Together, these projects are expected to supply renewable energy to hundreds of stores, clubs and distribution facilities annually. That's enough renewable energy to power over 240,000 average American homes for a year. That's on top of the 4 gigawatts of renewable energy currently supplied by our projects globally. This is one more example of the important work we're doing to become a regenerative company.Now let's talk more about our results for the quarter. Walmart US had another strong quarter. The team delivered for our customers as they shopped in our stores and online and additional government stimulus payments created a tailwind. Our comp sales of 6%, including 37% growth in e-commerce, were strong. Strength was broad based across categories, including apparel, home, hardlines and seasonal. I recently visited stores, clubs and supply chain facilities in New Jersey, Delaware, DC, Ohio, New Mexico, Texas, Illinois, California and Florida. I continue to be grateful for the job our associates are doing, and I'm impressed by their spirit. They're operating safely in a pandemic, improving our in-stock and standards, working hard to fulfill pickup and delivery orders and vaccinating millions. Doing all those things at once isn't easy, and we've had our challenges, but our associates continue to step up and they're strengthening our position as they do it.In the US, our first-party retail business is strong, but we're also making good progress in other important parts of our business. Marketplace GMV, fulfillment services and advertising income with Walmart Connect are all strong. The flywheel we showed you in February is being built. Each component is positioning us to serve the customer better while diversifying the model. As we previously shared, the top of the flywheel starts with being the best first place people shop. Store remodels, investments in pickup and delivery capacity and sales of Walmart+ fall into this category of activities. We need more capacity to get ahead of demand, and we remain convinced these investments are smart ones. This is one of the keys to selling more Walmart+ memberships, which is an important piece of our strategy over time.In addition to work at the top of the flywheel, we'll continuously add brands, assortment and capabilities to our e-commerce general merchandise business with first-party inventory and marketplace expansion. We'll invest in our general merchandise business and grow in higher-margin categories. The announced acquisition of Zeekit is a great example. This start-up combines fashion and technology through a dynamic virtual fitting room and underscores the desire to grow our apparel business aggressively. We continue our work to build a larger health and wellness business and help customers and associates have a better experience when it comes to their healthcare. Our acquisition of MeMD is a big step in that direction. Adding a telehealth capability was important.Just as we're doing with core retail, we're building an omnichannel health and wellness business. At Sam's Club, the momentum continues. Our items are improving, membership and sales comps are strong and the team keeps adding and scaling capabilities like curbside. We're seeing strength in categories associated with social gatherings as well as an increase in business member activity. Categories like restaurant supplies are coming back. We saw a tremendous growth in membership income for the quarter, and overall, membership counts are at an all-time high. Like our source business, government stimulus helped our results, but I'm confident the underlying business is strong and moving in the right direction for our members.Our international team has been busy transitioning the portfolio to higher growth markets, and it's working. As you'll recall, we recently divested our businesses in the UK, Japan and Argentina. And as a result, net sales for the quarter declined about 11% year-on-year. On a like-for-like basis, when we remove the recently divested markets, net sales increased 5.1%. These are good results and demonstrate the segment's ability to deliver growth for the enterprise.In India, for the first quarter, Flipkart and PhonePe continued to experience strong growth as annualized total payment value run rate at PhonePe grew by more than 150% versus last year. At Flipkart, monthly active customers and users are key metrics, and we're performing well. Our recent announcement of our intent to acquire Cleartrip, a leading online travel company, underscores our commitment to transform the customer experience through digital commerce. A growing base of customers means we need to continue to add new capabilities, including areas such as logistics and data storage. The recently announced partnership with Adani Group will help us do just that.WALMEX continues to be strong and the flywheel is coming to life. Our assets in this market uniquely position us to serve customers in new ways, and they're responding. In Mexico, sales and e-commerce increased 166%, and our same-day delivery service is now available from 680 locations. Similar to the US, we're expanding our business to include more than just traditional retail. A few areas of note include the advertising business, which saw an increase of more than 100% in new advertisers, and our new mobile phone services network that provides voice, data and home broadband, bringing access and value to our customers. We doubled the number of users of these services during the quarter as customers enjoy the convenience of adding data to their plan right at the checkout.In China, our e-commerce business in Sam's Club continue to resonate with customers and members. Helped by a strong Chinese New Year, the Club business delivered strong sales across all categories, leading to double-digit comp sales growth. We grew overall e-commerce sales 60% on top of the impressive growth last year. Results from our business in Canada were good even as lockdown measures intensified as the quarter progressed. We started with strong sales in stores and e-commerce, but COVID-19 related restrictions on sales of certain merchandise categories toward the end of the quarter pressured our performance. The underlying business is strong, and we're confident in our omnichannel model for this market.I'll close today by thanking everyone for a strong quarter. It all starts with our associates and their focus on serving our customers and members. We're being aggressive and dialing up innovation and speed. We're moving fast to learn new skills and to sharpen our edge on existing ones. And we'll move even faster as we invest in key areas to accelerate growth into the future. Thank you for your interest in our Company.Now, I'll turn it over to Brett.Brett Biggs -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Doug.We're pleased with strong first quarter results and the continued momentum in the business, with both strong sales and profit growth. While stimulus spending benefited results, it's exciting to see the continued progress in our underlying business as we execute on the fundamentals and progress with our omni strategy. Newer businesses within our ecosystem like advertising and fulfillment services are growing rapidly, helping margins and allowing us to continue to invest in other strategic priorities. Our unique assets, value proposition and financial strength put us in a great competitive position to win, keeping the customer at the center of all we do. As we expected, we're growing grocery market share again in the US compared to last year, according to Nielsen. Value and assortment will continue to resonate with customers as does the convenience we provide with our omni shopping options.Now let's discuss Q1 results. As we've mentioned previously, the divestitures in the UK, Japan and Argentina significantly affect year-over-year comparisons. We outlined the anticipated effect of divestitures on key financial metrics when we provided guidance in February. So my comments today will focus on the underlying business, excluding the effect of divestitures.Total constant currency revenue growth was strong, up 5.8% to more than $132 billion, with underlying business trends continuing to improve while stimulus spending benefited US sales even versus last year's consumer stock-up phase and initial stimulus. Walmart US comp sales were stronger than expected, up 6% in the quarter and up 16% on a two year stack. Sam's Club grew comp sales nearly 11%, excluding fuel and tobacco, and international sales growth was strong, increasing more than 5% in constant currency, with strength in India, Canada and China. Globally, e-commerce sales growth remains robust at more than 40%.Gross profit margin increased 96 basis points, led by Walmart US, reflecting mix shifts due in part to stimulus spending, lower markdowns and lapping last year's COVID related stock-up, which was more focused on food and consumables. As expected, SG&A expenses were pressured by increased wage and technology investments in the US, partially offset by lower COVID-related costs, resulting in 21 basis points of deleverage. Overall, though, I feel good about expense focus across the Company.Operating income on a constant currency basis was up over 28%, and adjusted EPS of $1.69 was 43% higher than last year's Q1 adjusted EPS. The divested businesses contributed $0.07 of EPS due to partial period ownership in the quarter. GAAP EPS was $0.97, which includes net losses on our equity investments as well as the incremental loss in international divestitures. Operating cash flow declined about $4 billion due primarily to inventory increases versus last year when in-stock levels were much lower due to stock-up shopping. We stepped up buybacks during the quarter with $2.8 billion of share repurchase. We continue to feel great about the value of the Company.Now let's discuss the quarterly results for each segment.Walmart US had another strong quarter, aided by stimulus spending and underlying improvements in the grocery business as well as strength in reopening categories such as travel, celebration and personal care. We're particularly encouraged by the improving trends in store transactions which turned solidly positive in April for the first time in a year. We also saw strong market share gains in grocery, according to Nielsen, and continued strength in e-commerce. Comp sales, excluding fuel, increased 6%, resulting in a strong two-year stack comp of 16%. Sales strength was broad based across channels, with e-commerce sales growth of 37%.The omni strategy continues to resonate as customers utilize all the shopping options we offer and we continue to expand pickup and delivery capacity from stores. Customer trip consolidation led to nearly 10% increase in average basket size, with 3% fewer transactions. Strong sales trends were led by apparel, home and lawn and garden. Grocery sales declined against uniquely tough comparison, but comps were up low-double digits on a two-year stack basis, including mid-teens growth in food categories, helped by strong price positioning, improving in-stocks and expanded store hours relative to last year. We're pleased with the progress of strategic growth initiatives such as Walmart Connect advertising, e-commerce marketplace and Walmart fulfillment services. Advertising revenue was robust with triple-digit growth for the quarter.Gross profit rate was strong at more than 140 basis points, reflecting favorable mix shift to higher margin general merchandise categories and lower markdowns. Margins were also helped by lapping last year's COVID related closures of vision centers and auto care centers. SG&A expenses deleveraged 49 basis points as increased associate wage investments and increased technology spend were partially offset by an approximate $400 million reduction in COVID related costs versus last year. Operating income was very strong, up nearly 27%.Inventory increased 16%, reflecting strong sales growth and lapping last year's COVID-related effects on inventory. We continue to monitor industry challenges related to transit and port delays, and our merchants have taken steps to mitigate the challenges, including adding extra lead time to orders. The fundamentals of the US business continue to improve, and we're confident we have the strategy, structure and people in place to serve customers and reach our goals this year and beyond.International delivered strong Q1 results with net sales growth of 5.1% in constant currency, including strength in India, Canada and China, despite many markets being negatively affected toward the end of the quarter by a resurgence of COVID. The benefit of strategic portfolio realignment to focus on higher growth markets is becoming more evident in top line growth. E-commerce sales increased approximately 64% and penetration grew more than 570 basis points to about 16% of sales. Currency benefited sales by approximately $0.7 billion.Comp sales in Mexico declined slightly against a tough comparison but were up low-double digits on a two-year stack basis as the omnichannel strategy continues to accelerate. The Mexico business has made good progress expanding alternative revenue and profit streams within the ecosystem, including doubling the number of digital advertisers and continue to see strong growth in mobile services. Canada comps increased 3.4%, with more than 115% growth in e-commerce sales despite headwinds later in the quarter from COVID-related government restrictions on the sales of non-essential categories like apparel and general merchandise. China comps increased 1.3% and were up 13% on a two year stack. Strong Chinese New Year sales, continued strength of Sam's Clubs and e-commerce growth of 60%, all contributed to the result. Flipkart continues to perform well, driving strong and sustainable e-commerce GMV growth and strong trends in monthly active customers and users even as the teams deal with the challenges of resurging COVID cases in India.International operating income was strong, up more than 21% as better sales mix and fewer markdowns in certain markets benefited margins in addition to continued focus on expenses.The momentum at Sam's Club continued in the first quarter, with comp sales growth of 10.6%, excluding fuel and tobacco, due in part to stimulus spending. On a two-year stack basis, comps were up nearly 27%. Comps benefited from both increased ticket and transactions. Strength was broad based across categories, with home and apparel leading the way. E-commerce sales were strong, increasing 47%, led by strength in curbside pickup at the Club. We are pleased with the continued strong membership trends as membership income grew about 13%. We achieved a new high for overall membership counts during the quarter and saw higher renewal rates, including strong first-year renewals and rising + penetration. Operating income increased more than 16% in Q1, but including the negative impact of fuel, profit increased 33%.Now let's turn to guidance.Our typical practice is to not update guidance until the second quarter release. But we're in an unusual period where Q1 stimulus led to meaningful sales and profit tailwinds that weren't contemplated when we provided guidance in February. The guidance discussed here assumes that COVID conditions continue to improve and there won't be significant additional government stimulus packages for the remainder of the year. We now anticipate higher full year enterprise sales growth than originally projected, primarily due to the strong Q1 performance and our initial forecast for Q2. Excluding the impact of divestitures, consolidated net sales growth is now expected to be up low to mid-single digits versus our original guidance of low single-digit increase. We're also raising full year guidance for operating income and EPS to reflect the strong performance in Q1 and our expectation for a potentially better second quarter than previously expected.On a constant currency basis and excluding the impact of divestitures, we now expect full year consolidated operating income to increase by high-single digits for the year and EPS to increase by low-double digits, which is an increase from our prior guidance of both being flat to up slightly. Walmart US operating income is now expected to increase high single digits versus our original guidance of a slight increase. The second quarter has started off a bit better than originally anticipated as stimulus spending continues to benefit certain general merchandise categories, and we expect grocery market share gains to continue. We now anticipate Q2 EPS, excluding divestitures, will be up low-single digits and assumes a low single digit Walmart US comp sales increase, excluding fuel.The COVID pandemic continues to create both tailwinds and headwinds for our business. While Q1 was aided by stimulus spending primarily in the US, certain international markets continue to be negatively affected by the resurgence in COVID cases and related government restrictions on operations, particularly in India and Canada. Given continued uncertainty, we're maintaining our original guidance for the back half of the year, and we'll update you as we gain clarity on key external variables related to the health crisis and their potential impact on our business and the global economy.Again, I'm very pleased with the first quarter results and feel good about the underlying strength of the business.Thank you for your time and interest this morning. And we'd be happy to take your questions.