
OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. [Operator Instructions] Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded on October 20, 2021.I would now like to turn the call over to David Cresci, Investor Relations Manager at MarketAxess. Please go ahead, sir.David Cresci -- Investor Relations Manager

 



Good morning, and welcome to the MarketAxess third quarter 2021 conference call. For the call, Rick McVey, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, will review the highlights for the quarter and international growth. Chris Concannon, President and COO, will discuss product expansion and automation. And then, Chris Gerosa, Chief Financial Officer, will review the financial results.Before I turn the call over to Rick, let me remind you that today's call may include forward-looking statements. These statements represent the Company's beliefs regarding future events that by their nature are uncertain. The Company's actual results and financial condition may differ materially from what is indicated in those forward-looking statements. For a discussion of some of the risks and factors that could affect the Company's future results, please see the description of risk factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020. I would also direct you to read the forward-looking statement disclaimer in our quarterly earnings release, which was issued earlier this morning and is now available on our website.Now let me turn the call over to Rick.Richard M. McVey -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

 



Good morning, and thank you for joining us to review our third quarter 2021 results. Q3 total revenue was $162 million, down 1% year-over-year. Operating income was $74 million and operating margin was 46%. EPS of $1.52 was down 15% reflecting our ongoing investments in new data, trading and post-trade solutions. Credit market trading faces headwinds currently with the combination of historically low credit spreads and credit spread volatility. These conditions have persisted over the last three quarters and history suggests they will revert to the mean over time.Our international business is showing strong growth through volume and market share gains in Eurobonds and emerging markets, post-trade services and product expansion. We are pleased to add Chinese government bonds to our offering through China Bond Connect and CIBM Direct. Slide 3 provides an update on market conditions. Market volumes have been negatively impacted by the current low levels of bond yields, credit spreads and volatility. During these periods, price dispersion of bids and offers shrinks temporarily. Our liquidity and pricing advantage comes through most clearly at times of normal to high spreads and volatility and we believe that there are many factors that could positively impact bond volatility in the periods ahead.As yields have started to increase from historically low levels, average years to maturity traded on our system has come down about 6%. Average years to maturity is one of the factors that causes fluctuations in our high-grade fee capture. We are watching the emerging news on inflation, supply chain disruptions, labor shortages and the China real estate market closely. We believe that it is likely that we will see tapering of Central Bank bond buying in the periods ahead, which is likely to lead to more normalized yield levels and volatility in bond markets around the world.Slide 4 highlights our growth in international markets. In spite of the low levels of yields around the world, we are showing strong growth in our emerging market and Eurobond product areas. Eurobond volumes were up 22% year-over-year against a backdrop of lower market volumes. Our estimated market share reached new highs in Eurobonds during the quarter. Emerging market volumes were up 19%, with estimated market volumes up 1% reflecting share gains in global EM debt trading. We are seeing strong growth rates in both hard currency EM bonds denominated in dollars, euros and yen, as well as local market trading.

 



The addition of China increases our local market coverage to 28 local markets across Latin America, SEMEA and APAC regions. This quarter we set new records in global active trading clients and international client firms. This expands our broad client network and creates additional cross-selling opportunities. We are underway with client on boarding for China Bond Connect and expect an active quarter ahead. As the second largest government bond market in the world, China provides a meaningful increase in our total market opportunity.Now let me turn the call over to Chris to provide an update on product expansion and automation.Chris Concannon -- President and Chief Operating OfficerThanks, Rick.Slide 5 provides an update on Open Trading and product expansion. Open Trading continues to support credit market liquidity by offering all participants the chance to engage with the market. In the third quarter, over 25,000 orders and $13 billion in notional value was available daily through our Open Trading marketplace.Dealers have also realized the benefits of Open Trading and are increasingly seeking anonymous all-to-all liquidity. Dealer RFQ volume grew 20% year-over-year to $59 billion during the quarter. The increased diversity of participation continues to drive cost saving opportunities. Despite compressed credit market spreads, clients saved an estimated $121 million in track transaction cost during the quarter due to price improvements delivered by Open Trading. The acquisitions of LiquidityEdge and MuniBrokers highlight our investment in new markets and the growing application of Open Trading across the fixed income landscape. $910 billion of US Treasury trading volume was executed on MarketAxess in the quarter, up 22% from the prior year.We have made several enhancements to our rates trading offering in recent months, including our launch of all-to-all click-to-trade functionality and extending RFQ trading capabilities for client to dealer orders. The expansion of Open Trading for US Treasuries is a critical priority for us and aligns with recent G30 recommendations for an all-to-all marketplace in treasuries. Municipal bond trading on MarketAxess grew 92% to $5.4 billion in the quarter, an additional $17.4 billion in volume was conducted through MuniBrokers, our inter-dealer electronic platform, which we currently do not include in our muni bond volume totals.Integration efforts of the MuniBrokers platform are well underway and we are targeting the fourth quarter for the initial phase of our integration of the platform into our Open Trading network. We believe these investments in government bond and municipal bond trading solutions will add approximately 25% to our long-term addressable market opportunity.Slide 6 highlights the growing momentum of automation in credit trading. Automated trading on MarketAxess reached new records in the quarter, growing to $42 billion in volume and over 224,000 trades. 115 firms leveraged our automated trading protocols in the quarter, up from 86 last year. Today, Auto-X represents 19% of total trade count and 7% of our total volume. The use of dealer algorithms is continuing to grow on the platform with approximately 4.4 million algo responses in the third quarter, up 17% from the same period last year.The growth of dealer algorithms and our automated trading tools are driving a steady increase in the average number of responses on MarketAxess. In the third quarter, we saw an average of 7 responses per inquiry versus 5.8 in the third quarter of 2020. This demonstrates enhancements in our liquidity as a result of the increased engagement from our diverse investor and dealer community.Slide 7 demonstrates the growth from diversifying our business initiatives. The acquisition of Regulatory Reporting Hub helped drive total post-trade services revenue to $9.4 million in the quarter, up 101% year-over-year. The addition of Continental European clients to our suite of Regulatory Reporting services through this acquisition has further bolstered our unique data solutions. Through these types of post-trade data sources, we have seen sizable benefits to our data solutions like Axess All and Composite+. Both Axess All and Composite+ helped drive our information services revenue to $9.6 million in the quarter, which is up 13% year-over-year. Combined information services and post-trade revenue now account for 12% of total revenues, up from 8% in the third quarter of 2020.Following enhancements to our portfolio trading solution in May, we have seen significant traction with our new functionality. 54 unique investor firms and 13 dealers were active since May and drove record volume of $8.9 billion in the quarter. We believe our active client group is the same group of participants active in the market wide portfolio trading today. Activity in our session based protocol Mid-X reached record volumes in the quarter of $3.4 billion. We plan on expanding Mid-X beyond Eurobonds to US credit later this year.Now let me turn the call over to Chris to provide an update on our financials.Christopher N. Gerosa -- Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Chris.Slide 8 provides a summary of our quarterly earnings performance. Third quarter revenue was $162 million, down 1% from the prior year. The 5% decline in commissions was offset by the 100% uplift in post-trade revenue. The increase in post-trade revenue includes $3.4 million of trade reporting revenue generated from new clients added to the Regulatory Reporting Hub acquisition. Information service revenue was up 13% year-over-year due to new data sales and the positive impact of foreign exchange, due to the weaker US dollar. The annual contract value for new recurring data contract sales for the first nine months of 2021 has exceeded all of 2020.The sequential pickup in other income was due to foreign currency transaction gains excluding a write activity such as foreign exchange gains and losses, we anticipate the quarterly run rate for the other income expense line to be about $1 million of expense. The effective tax rate was 22.2% for the quarter and 21.6% year-to-date.Slide 9 provides an overview of commission revenue, trading volume and fees per million. The 9% decline in variable transaction fees was attributable to lower US credit trading volume and lower overall fee capture. The 17% decline in US high-grade fees per million was mainly due to shorter duration, driven by the increase in bond yields and a decrease in the average years to maturity of bonds traded on the platform. We also experienced some dealer movement to fixed fee plan from an all variable fee plan and this explains the increase in US high-grade distribution fees as fixed fee plans provide for higher fixed distribution fees, but lower transaction fees. Other credit fees per million was lower year-over-year due to a higher mix of emerging market and Eurobond volume that command lower fees. The third quarter 2021 other credit distribution fees includes $1.2 million of MuniBrokers subscription and license fees.Slide 10 provides expense detail. Third quarter expenses were up 16% year-over-year and include $5.5 million of operating expenses, amortization of acquired intangibles and non-recurring integration costs associated with the Regulatory Reporting Hub and MuniBrokers acquisitions. If we exclude these acquisition costs, expenses were up 8.4%. The increase in compensation and benefits reflects higher salary and benefit expense as we continue to add employees to support our product and geographical expansion. The $4.9 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense includes $2.5 million of acquired intangible amortization expense from acquisitions and higher software development costs, as we continue to invest in trading system enhancements.M&A integration costs and higher recruiting fees contributed to the increase in professional and consulting fees year-over-year. The 32% decline in clearing costs reflect transaction cost savings from our strategic decision to convert to a self-clearing model back in August 2020. We are updating our full-year 2021 expense guidance range to $360 million to $365 million, down from a range of $370 million to $386 million. The updated expense guidance reflects among other items, lower incentive compensation and variable clearing costs.Slide 11 provides an update on cash flow and capital management. As of September 30, our cash and investments were $458 million and our trailing 12-month free cash flow was $320 million. During the quarter, we paid the $25 million quarterly dividend to our shareholders and repurchased approximately 9,000 shares. During the third quarter, we did not have any borrowings on a one-year $500 million revolving credit facility or the $200 million secured facility. And on October 15, we replaced the one-year revolving credit facility with a new three year facility. Based on our third quarter results, our Board of Directors approved the $0.66 regular quarterly dividend.Now let me turn the call back to Rick.Richard M. McVey -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Chris. While we are experiencing slower than average growth rates in the short term, we are pleased with the expansion of our business strategy evident in new products, new protocols and new clients. We are confident market conditions in credit will improve, once again highlighting the benefits of our unique open trading liquidity pool. New opportunities in China, US Treasuries, Munis, post-trade and data show promise to add valuable revenue growth and diversification in the periods ahead.Now, I would be happy to open the line for your questions.