
OperatorLadies and gentlemen, good morning, and a warm welcome to the Q1 2021 Nielsen Holdings plc Earnings Conference Call. My name is Lisa, and I'll be operating this call. [Operator Instructions]I will now hand over to one of your hosts, Sara Gubins, Senior Vice President, Head of Investor Relations, Treasury at Nielsen. Sara, you may begin.Sara Gubins -- Senior Vice President, Investor Relations and Treasury

 



Good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us to discuss Nielsen's first quarter 2021 financial performance. I'm joined by our CEO, David Kenny; and our CFO, Linda Zukauckas. Our COO, Karthik Rao, will also be on for the Q&A portion of the call. A slide presentation that we'll use on this call is available under the Events section of our Investor Relations website. Before we begin, I'd like to remind all of you that our remarks and responses to your questions today may contain forward-looking statements, including those relating to our business plans and 2021 guidance and the impact of COVID-19. Forward-looking statements inherently involve risks and uncertainties and only reflect our view as of today, May 6, and we are under no obligation to update.Our actual results in future periods may differ materially from those currently expected because of a number of risks and uncertainties, including those identified in our disclosure filings and materials, such as our 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K reports and in subsequent reports filed with the SEC, which are available on our website. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, except as required by law. On today's call, we will also refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are available in the earnings press release, which is available at the Investor Relations section of our website at nielsen.com. [Operator Instructions]And now to start the call, I'd like to turn it over to our CEO, David Kenny.David Kenny -- Chief Executive Officer

 



Good morning. Thank you for joining our first quarter earnings call today. We delivered a solid first quarter, building off the strong momentum and execution you saw from us in 2020. We have the right leadership team in place, a deep bench and we are building a track record of success. In March, we closed on the sale of Global Connect, and we've now officially embarked on the next new chapter as a New Nielsen. We are uniquely positioned as the essential data, measurement and analytics provider for the entire media ecosystem, with a strong foundation for the future. We are focused on driving new growth from new solutions across all of our end markets, and we are doing this globally. We are undergoing a cultural shift with a growth-driven mindset, and we have a compelling financial model with an improving financial profile. I am really excited about our clarity, focus and alignment as we move forward with executing on our growth strategy. Linda will review the financials in detail, and I'll provide a high-level look before I review the business highlights. We are very pleased with our first quarter performance. Revenue grew 1.3% year-over-year on a constant currency basis or 2.3% organic. Our adjusted EBITDA margins expanded over 600 basis points, our adjusted EPS of $0.47 increased from $0.36 in the prior year and free cash flow was $115 million, up from the first quarter of 2020. Our teams are executing well.Across the organization, our employees have rallied. It is so rewarding to see all of our hard work and perseverance over the last couple of years begin to pay off. From a macro perspective, we are starting to see some economies and spending gradually open up as pandemic restrictions ease, although this varies greatly by market and the pandemic is still prevalent. Our colleagues in hard-hit areas, such as India and Brazil, are top of mind right now. We continue to prioritize the safety and wellness of both colleagues, as we do with all of our colleagues. I want to once again thank our employees for the resilience and dedication they've shown since the start of the global pandemic. This is the team I'm proud to lead and proud to be a part of. Looking ahead, we remain confident in our ability to deliver on our 2021 growth plan, and we are raising key elements of our 2021 guidance. Now let me walk you through the progress we are making in driving growth across our three essential solutions: Audience Measurement, Audience Outcomes and Gracenote Content Services. Across the board, our product-led strategy has been an important driver of our growth. We are adding new clients and markets while also bringing more services and value to existing clients. Starting with Audience Measurement. Nielsen ONE is at the forefront of our strategic priorities.We are committed to providing a single cross-media currency to the media industry in the United States and our markets around the world. Since our launch announcement in December 2020, we've made good progress on the product, our client commitments and with industry engagement. We have great engagement with advertisers, agencies, platforms and networks in the Nielsen ONE committees around both technical implementation and business and currency changes. The currency evolution is important to both media buyers and sellers. We're working with advertising associations, such as the ANA or Association of National Advertisers and WFA, the World Federation of Advertisers, on their long-term cross-media initiatives. We are also working across the ecosystem with broadcasters and leading digital players to meet advertiser requirements and we're focused on ensuring that clients see the value of our innovative solutions, both today and in the future. Let me now share some specific Audience Measurement milestones hit during Q1, starting with client renewals. We are encouraged by renewals in Q1 across both broadcast and digital pure plays, with multiyear commitments and price escalators. Our commitment to full coverage, resilient and comparable cross-media measurement will serve the industry well as it evolves. We launched our identity resolution system in January.As we announced in March, our strategic alliance with Roku substantially expands our footprint of smart TVs and other devices, now nearing 100 million in total. As part of the alliance, our ad and content measurement products will also be integrated into the Roku platform. Last month, we announced the launch of Nielsen Streaming Video Ratings, which provides unique visibility into total viewership and advanced audience demographic insights at the platform level alongside linear TV ratings. Demand has been strong, with seven out of our top ten clients already signed up. Combined with Nielsen SVOD Content Ratings, which provide ratings at the program level, we now deliver comprehensive streaming performance metrics across program, platform and streaming category. We are working across our clients to embed Nielsen more easily into their buying and selling workflows. A big first step was relaunching NPOWER, our measurement portal, as an easier-to-use cloud-based interface. We've also made good progress with always-on digital measurement, which is a significant step toward true comparable cross-media measurement across digital, linear and addressable TV. Our recent alliance with Roku will include always-on measurement. There has been some recent press about how the COVID pandemic impacted viewing habits and the resulting ratings. Let me help frame this for you.

 



Without a doubt, the pandemic affected audience behavior. New content production slowed, sports were sidelined for a while and then had abbreviated and overlapping schedules, streaming platforms accelerated massively beyond the pre-COVID trends. We were able to perform most of our field work remotely throughout the pandemic, but CDC and state guidelines prevented us from entering panelist homes, either to sign up new panelists or maintain existing homes. As with any change or disruptive event, such as extreme weather in the past, we recorded our changes with the Media Rating Council, or MRC, and committed to assessing the full impact of the changes as soon as possible. However, the pandemic has lasted longer than anyone anticipated. We only were able to recently restore full in-home maintenance for the vast majority of communities in recent weeks. We have continued to work with the MRC to make sure we had validated data to fully assess any impact. Our panel remains robust and representative, and the integrity of our ratings estimates remains high. I also want to be clear that our panels are foundational to audience measurement. Panels, combined with big data, enable us to provide the media industry with a comprehensive and representative view of consumer media behavior at the person's level, with panels as the key truth set.As a part of our broader Nielsen ONE strategy, we're continuing to invest in and grow our panel and continue to incorporate big data to make our measurement deeper and richer. Let me turn to Audience Outcomes, where we serve as one of the largest outcomes measurement providers in the media ecosystem globally. We have a broad array of solutions within outcomes and continue to make progress on integrating our portfolio. This simplification will help to improve our go-to-market approach to clients across publishers, platform, advertisers and agencies. We continue to grow our business with advertisers across new verticals in the U.S. and globally. Recent wins include Dell, WWE, J&J, Florida Blue and Hasbro. In April, we launched Nielsen Market Lift, a campaign outcomes measurement tool built on scalable cloud-native platform. The global launch covers 37 markets, enabling clients around the globe to quickly evaluate the effectiveness and efficiency of marketing campaigns and we're growing with leading digital players, including Spotify, as we mentioned last quarter. In April, we expanded our relationship with Twitter, a long-standing audience measurement client to help their video advertisers do more robust pre- and post-campaign planning, maximize ad effectiveness and deliver campaign results with increased speed and agility. Finally, Gracenote Content Services.Gracenote is the global leader in entertainment metadata and we are making good progress on our strategy, as publishers and MVPDs around the world recognize the increased value of our content solutions. We are developing new solutions to address market needs on a global basis, particularly as content instrument platforms continue to grow, creating more competition for audiences. For example, we recently launched a new service, Personalized Imagery, which allows linear and streaming TV providers to dynamically display program images that resonate with individual viewers based on their preferences and previous consumption. It's a valuable tool that drives engagement and enables clients to maximize viewership on their platforms. I look forward to sharing additional new Gracenote products later this year. Before I sum up, I want to note that in March, we appointed Sandra Sims-Williams as Chief Diversity Officer.You may recall that this is a role I previously held as we work to make the New Nielsen a truly diverse business. Diversity, equity and inclusion are crucial to the success of our business, and it remains a top personal priority for me, for the leadership team and for the Nielsen Board. Sandra has been a great partner since joining Nielsen in January 2020, and I am confident that her leadership, wisdom and experience will only accelerate our progress. To close, with the Connect sale behind us, this marks our first quarter as the New Nielsen, singularly focused on the media ecosystem. We have made significant progress modernizing our technology and data science, which drives scale and efficiency throughout the organization. We are driving growth from new solutions across all of our end markets, and we are benefiting from the cultural transformation driven by a growth mindset. We have a compelling financial model and are focused on driving improvement across key metrics. Our solid first quarter reflects the strong execution by our teams globally, and we are excited about the opportunities ahead. We have confidence in our ability to deliver on our 2021 plan and our medium-term targets.I'll now turn the call over to Linda to review the financials.Linda Zukauckas -- Chief Financial OfficerThank you, David, and good morning, everyone. Before I discuss our Q1 results, I want to spend a moment on the Connect sale and resulting debt paydown. We closed on the sale of Connect on March 5. We used $2.3 billion of the $2.4 billion of net sales proceeds to pay off our 2021 and 2022 bonds as well as $1.3 billion of term loan debt due in 2023 and 2025. The transaction also strengthened our balance sheet by lowering pension and other liability by approximately $200 million. Although these liabilities, the sale proceeds and the related gain on sale are preliminary and subject to change as we finalize the transaction accounting later in the year. As a result of the sale, effective this quarter, Connect is reported as a discontinued operation for all periods presented. My remarks today will focus on the New Nielsen, which represents our results pro forma for the Connect sale and as if the $2.3 billion debt paydown took place at the beginning of 2020. This approach helps with prior year comparisons and it's consistent with how we handle Investor Day in December and our 2021 guidance.Turning to the first quarter. As David highlighted, we are pleased with our Q1 results, which reflects solid performance and a nice start to the year. I'll start with Slide seven, which summarizes our first quarter revenue performance. Revenue for Q1 was $863 million, up 1.3% year-over-year on a constant currency basis or up 2.3% organic, which adjusts for exits related to the 2020 optimization plan. On a reported basis, revenue grew 2.5%, which includes an FX benefit of 120 basis points. We saw strength in both the U.S. and international markets. We were pleased to see quarterly growth trends continue to improve following the COVID dislocation. The effects of COVID continue to lessen though we did still see some ongoing impact in the first quarter. Audience Measurement revenue grew 1.9% constant currency and 2.3% on an organic basis. Growth was solid across the board and especially strong in digital measurement. We're also pleased to see pressures in local subsiding. Outcomes and Content revenue declined 0.4% constant currency, with organic revenue up 2.2%. The uneven return of live sports due to COVID continued to play out in Q1, but we did see some improving trends in short-cycle revenue as well as solid growth in Content. The right side of the page shows revenue for the past five quarters as well as constant currency and organic revenue growth rate. As you can see, the growth trend improved nicely in Q1 following the impact of COVID over the last few quarters. Turning now to Slide eight. Adjusted EBITDA was $388 million, up 19% year-over-year on a reported basis or up 18.3% on a constant currency basis.Revenue was up $21 million compared to the first quarter of 2020 and costs were down $41 million year-over-year, resulting in margin expansion of 646 basis points on a constant currency basis and adjusted EBITDA margins of 45%. On the right side of the page, we show adjusted EBITDA and margins over the last five quarters on a New Nielsen basis. As a reminder, we took swift actions in late Q1 last year and cut temporary costs by approximately $100 million. These temporary costs return more meaningfully in the second quarter and will continue to ramp as this year progresses. We also began to implement a restructuring or optimization plan in the third quarter last year, so the incremental year-over-year benefit is more pronounced in the first half of this year versus the second half. Adjusted EPS was $0.47 as compared to $0.36 in Q1 '20. This was driven by higher EBITDA and slightly lower depreciation and amortization, offset in part by higher taxes. Our effective tax rate was 35.5% in the first quarter, which included a $16 million discrete item, as we revalued our net deferred tax liability to reflect the New Nielsen tax profile in the absence of Connect. This discrete item is added back to adjusted net income, resulting in a normalized first quarter tax rate of approximately 26%.We continue to expect an estimated tax rate of 26% to 28% for the full year, excluding discrete items. Free cash flow was $115 million, which compares to $22 million in Q1 2020. Key drivers of the year-over-year improvement include higher EBITDA, onetime costs in the prior year and lower capex, which was largely timing driven. We continue to expect capex to be relatively flat for the year and now I'll discuss our updated 2021 guidance on Slide 10. With Connect discontinued operations treatment finalized, we have rounded out the pro forma amount here on Slide ten to include 2020 adjusted EPS and updated free cash flow and in the appendix on Slide 20, we recast our 2020 P&L by quarter on a continuing operations basis so you can see the impacts of Connect as a discontinued operation. and then on Slide 21, we are providing quarterly New Nielsen adjusted EPS for 2020. Today, we are raising elements of our 2021 guidance following the strong first quarter results. We are increasing our adjusted EBITDA guidance range by $10 million, which results in a range of $1.470 billion to $1.490 billion, with margins in the 42.25% to 42.5% range, which compares to 2020 pro forma stand-alone margins of 42%. As we discussed last quarter, our 2021 EBITDA forecast reflects the approximately $60 million benefit of the optimization plan this year and the underlying efficiency of the business, partially offset by the return this year of approximately $100 million of COVID temporary cost cuts made last year as well as incremental growth investment.Adjusted EPS is now expected to be in the range of $1.47 to $1.58, up $0.04 from our prior guidance range. This compares to $1.45 in 2020, pro forma for the New Nielsen. This higher adjusted EPS range is driven by the adjusted EBITDA guidance range of $10 million, plus another $10 million of lower debt costs, mostly due to the higher debt paydown than initially contemplated. We are raising our free cash flow guidance by $15 million to a range of $595 million to $645 million. As a reminder, adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EPS and free cash flow guidance ranges do not include the impact of onetime separation-related costs, which Nielsen bears under the Connect sale agreement. These cash costs are forecast to be $220 million to $240 million this year, with approximately $134 million incurred in Q1. The vast majority of these costs are included in discontinued operations. This is the last year of any meaningful separation-related cash costs. For revenue, we continue to forecast 3.5% to 4.5% organic growth, with significant improvements in both Audience Measurement and Outcomes and Content. And we forecast constant currency growth of 2% to 3%. Organic revenue growth adjusts for the impact of business and market exits. And now I'll provide some commentary on how we see the balance of the year playing out. We continue to expect revenue growth to be faster in the second half of the year than in the first half. Recall that we began to see more significant impacts of COVID beginning in the second quarter of 2020.In addition, we expect the benefit of our growth initiatives to ramp as the year progresses. We continue to expect year-over-year margin expansion in the first half of the year, driven by the strong margin expansion in Q1. As I noted earlier, temporary costs are returning this year, which impacts margins beginning in the second quarter and we began to implement the optimization plan in the third quarter of last year. As a result, the second half faces a more challenging comparison, and we continue to expect year-over-year margin contraction in the second half of the year. Beyond these results and our outlook, we were pleased that following the Connect sale, Moody's revised its outlook on Nielsen from negative to positive and S&P took us off CreditWatch negative. We ended Q1 with 3.77 times net debt leverage on a New Nielsen basis. This is the first time our net debt leverage has been below 4 times since 2017 and we're progressing well to hit our three times to 3.5 times net debt leverage target. To wrap up, we are pleased with our first quarter results and remain confident in our ability to execute on the New Nielsen growth story and deliver results in line with the full year guidance we updated today.And now I'll turn it back to Sara for the Q&A session.Sara Gubins -- Senior Vice President, Investor Relations and TreasuryThanks, Linda. With that, let's turn to Q&A. Operator, can you open up the line, please?