
OperatorGood morning, and welcome to the Kellogg Company's Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions]At this time, I will turn the call over to John Renwick, Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Planning for Kellogg Company. Mr. Renwick, you may begin your conference call.John P. Renwick -- Investor Relations

 



Good morning, and thank you for joining us today for a review of our third quarter 2021 results as well as an update regarding our outlook for the full year 2021. I'm joined this morning by Steve Cahillane, our Chairman and CEO; and Amit Banati, our Chief Financial Officer. Slide number three shows our forward-looking statements disclaimer. As you are aware, certain statements made today, such as projections for Kellogg Company's future performance are forward-looking statements. Actual results could be materially different from those projected. For further information concerning factors that could cause these results to differ, please refer to the third slide of this presentation as well as to our public SEC filings.This is a particular note during the current COVID-19 pandemic and supply and labor disruptions when the length and severity of these issues and resultant economic and business impacts are so difficult to predict. A recording of today's webcast and supporting documents will be archived for at least 90 days on the Investor page of kelloggcompany.com. As always, when referring to our results and outlook, unless otherwise noted, we will be referring to them on an organic basis for net sales and on a currency neutral adjusted basis for operating profit and earnings per share.And now I'll turn it over to Steve.Steven Cahillane -- Chairman Of The Board And Chief Executive Officer

 



Thanks, John, and good morning, everyone. I hope you and your families are doing well. After all, we are still managing through a pandemic and still nowhere close to what any of us would call life as normal. This is certainly true from a business perspective as well. Therefore, we remain focused on keeping our employees safe and aiding our communities is more important than ever. We also continue to supply the world with food, but as we and all companies have discussed previously, this has gotten extremely challenging. Importantly, we remain on our strategy, Deploy for Balanced Growth, which is depicted on Slide number six. This strategy continues to keep us on our path for steady, balanced financial returns for shareowners. We also continue to make progress on Better Days, our ESG-oriented program. A few Better Days highlights from quarter three are shared on Slide number seven.This remains a critical element of our strategy, a clear focus of management and a part of the DNA of Kellogg Company, and we have not lost sight of this during the current pandemic and business environment. And there is no question that today's business environment is as challenging as we've ever seen it. Our organization has risen to all of these challenges using creativity, skills and work ethic to manage through them. Slide number eight attempts to categorize these challenges into three basic buckets. First, we're all familiar with the surges in market prices for commodities, packaging and freight, all the result of supply demand imbalances that may take some time to work out. We're working hard to mitigate the margin impacts of these high costs, from our active hedging program, which has given us strong visibility into our commodity costs, to mitigating cost pressures with productivity initiatives and revenue growth management actions.Second, by now, we're also all aware of the economywide bottlenecks and shortages that are not only pushing costs higher, but are also making it very difficult to supply the market. Here's where our supply chain's control tower approach has provided us agility in addressing shortages and gaps in materials, equipment and land and ocean freight. We've also taken actions to reduce complexity in our portfolio and operations. And third, we are seeing acute shortages in labor across all spectrums of the economy. This is resulting in absenteeism, high turnover, difficulty maintaining temporary labor and, for some of us, even labor strikes. To address this, we've had to recruit continuously, and we've executed contingency plans to sustain as much supply as possible in the face of open positions and work stoppages. Simply put, we are taking important actions to manage through today's unprecedented environment. And through it all, we're executing well in market and delivering balanced financial growth, which continued in quarter three and is discussed on Slide number nine. Consumption growth remains elevated, as measured on a two-year compound annual growth basis even if it continues to decelerate as expected.We're seeing particularly strong consumption growth and share performance in many of our biggest, world-class brands. And we continue to sustain strong momentum in our emerging markets. This momentum has been evident for the past few years and reflects our improved geographic footprint, the strength of our portfolio, our efforts to broaden our offerings into affordable price points and our local route to market and supply chains. From a financial standpoint, these factors led to continued balanced growth, strong organic net sales growth, strong operating profit growth, strong earnings-per-share growth and cash flow that remains well above pre-COVID 2019 levels. So in spite of all the operating challenges, we continue to deliver. And today, we are even raising our full year guidance for net sales to reflect momentum in the business. At the same time, we are also reaffirming our guidance for operating profit, earnings per share and cash flow despite a worsened cost and labor and supply environment. I'm sure you can appreciate that even holding guidance amid these kinds of challenges speaks to the kind of dependability we strive for, regardless of business conditions.

 



Let me now turn it over to Amit, so he can take you through our financial results and outlook in more detail.Amit Banati -- Senior Vice President, Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Steve, and good morning, everyone. Our financial results for the third quarter are summarized on Slide number 11. As you can see, we delivered strong organic basis net sales growth of five percent in quarter three on top of similar growth in the year earlier period. This came in better than anticipated due to exceptional growth in Europe and AMEA. Currency-neutral adjusted basis operating profit increased by 11% year-on-year. This was driven by the strong top line growth as well as lapping a year-ago quarter in which incremental brand-building investment had been shifted from earlier quarters. Currency-neutral adjusted basis earnings per share increased by 18% as strong operating profit growth was augmented by a decrease in average shares outstanding. And cash flow, while still below last year's unusual pandemic-related surge, remained well above the pre-pandemic 2019 level.In total, a very strong financial performance. Let's examine these results in a little more detail. We'll start with net sales on Slide number 12. As you can see, the net sales growth in quarter three was driven by both volume and price/mix. The one percent plus organic volume growth was driven by our international regions, most notably Europe and AMEA, where our Nigeria business had an exceptional quarter. And this volume growth comes despite supply pressures and lapping good year-ago growth. Our four percent organic basis price mix remained solidly positive in all four regions, the result of revenue growth management actions that we have been implementing since the second half of last year when input cost inflation began to accelerate. Finally, foreign currency translation was modestly favorable to net sales in quarter three, decelerating from the first half as expected.So through the first nine months, you can see that on an organic basis, our net sales were up three percent, despite lapping the pandemic-related surge, and they are up five percent on a two-year compound annual growth basis. Looking to the fourth quarter, we expect sustained price/mix growth based on the revenue growth management actions we've taken, though we are a bit more cautious on volume, given the current labor negotiations and a prudent view toward decelerating at-home demand and emerging markets' growth. Moving down the income statement, slide number 13 shows our gross profit performance. As we had anticipated, both our gross profit and gross profit margin declined year-on-year in quarter three as we lapped last year's strong operating leverage and as we face this year's unusually high cost pressures.While our productivity and revenue growth management actions continue to cover market-driven cost inflation, there was significant incremental cost and disruption stemming from the current operating environment that came on top of that. Our gross profit margin was further weighed down by disruption and costs related to fire at one of our plants and a more pronounced than usual mix shift toward emerging markets, most notably our distributor business in Nigeria. Importantly, though, while our gross profit percent margin decreased to below the level of pre-pandemic quarter three 2019, our gross profit dollars remained higher than that period. And if you look at the right-hand side of the slide, you can see that our gross profit dollars are up through the first nine months of this year, both on a year-on-year and on a two-year basis. In this high cost environment, we have to focus on both margins and dollar growth.On Slide number 14, we see a driver of year-on-year profit change that is really more of a phasing dynamic. SG&A expense is comprised of advertising and promotion, R&D and overheads. Last year's quarter three was unusual in that it included incremental A&P investment delayed from the first half because of the pandemic. It also included a sizable increase in incentive compensation accruals. But comparing SG&A to the third quarter of 2019, we see it was lower, both on a percentage margin and dollar basis. This two-year decrease is related to both the work we did to remove stranded costs after our divestiture but also to our decision this year to pull back on investment behind specific supply constrained brands. You can also see that through the first nine months, our SG&A dollars are roughly flat with the same period of 2019, and that's probably how we'll finish this year.If we look at operating profit in the same way on Slide number 15, we find that in dollars, our operating profit in this year's quarter three was not only higher than it was in last year's quarter three, but also higher than what it was in quarter three 2019. Again, this focus on dollar profit is important as we manage through this challenging environment. Now we do think that quarter four will be a little different. Contrary to our prior assumptions, we are seeing no moderation of the economywide bottlenecks and shortages here in the fourth quarter. In fact, we are now experiencing incremental disruption and costs, further compounded by a labor strike. So for quarter four, we are forecasting gross profit dollars and operating profit dollars to be below quarter four of 2019, even if both metrics finish the full year above 2019 levels.Moving down the P&L, let's turn to Slide number 16. While operating profit drove most of our growth in earnings per share in quarter three, we also benefited from modest net favorability in below-the-line items. In quarter three, interest expense decreased on lower debt, which will continue to be a year-on-year driver in quarter four, with quarter four comparison also lapping the $20 million debt redemption cost we recorded last year. This decrease in interest expense was more than offset by a decline in other income, which compared against an unusually high level last year. We expect quarter four other income to be similar to that of quarter three. Our effective tax rate in quarter three came in lower than last year. We believe quarter four rate will come in higher than the 22% rate we are now forecasting for the full year.JV earnings and minority interest together were favorable to last year, though this mostly reflects the consolidation of a couple of our smaller investment phase joint ventures in West Africa into operating profit. And average shares outstanding decreased year-on-year, reflecting the impact of quarter one buybacks. We still expect full year average shares outstanding to be around 0.5% lower than 2020. Outside of the currency-neutral EPS that we manage and guide to, we did experience continued year-on-year favorability, though modest from foreign currency translation. Based on where exchange rates are today and what we are lapping, there would be little to no benefit from foreign currency translation in quarter four. Let's now discuss our cash flow and balance sheet shown on Slide number 17.Year-to-date, our cash flow remains below last year's unusually high level as expected, mostly as we lap last year's timing-related increases in various accruals during the height of the pandemic. The more relevant comparisons, therefore, are the year-to-date periods of 2019 and 2018. As you can see from the slide, this year's cash flow continues to track well above those pre-COVID time periods. This is driven by higher operating profit as well as reduced restructuring outlays and continued effective management of core working capital. Meanwhile, our balance sheet remains solid. Net debt remains roughly even with last year, and lower than each of the prior two years, even despite this year's increase in cash returned to shareowners in the form of resumed share buybacks and increased dividends. So our financial condition remains quite strong.Slide number 18 shows where our results stand after the first nine months of 2021. Obviously, we've had a good year so far producing strong and balanced financial results on a two-year basis and staying ahead of our own internal focus. This year-to-date performance is all the more impressive when you consider just how challenging the business environment has been. Let's now turn to our updated guidance for the full year 2021, as shown on Slide number 19. Given the better-than-expected momentum we are seeing in our international regions, we are raising our guidance for organic net sales growth to a rate of two percent to three percent. This is a solid performance, particularly given the comparisons against last year's pandemic-related surge. At the same time, we are reaffirming our guidance for currency-neutral adjusted basis, operating profit and earnings per share as well as for cash flow.While net sales are coming in higher than previously expected, we are incorporating costs and disruptions related to the current supply and labor conditions. In fact, given this current environment, we will likely land toward the lower end of the guidance ranges for these metrics. Our guidance assumes a reasonable conclusion to the current labor stoppage at our U.S. cereal plant. However, as you can appreciate, there is always uncertainty regarding labor negotiations. In the meantime, we will continue to execute our contingency plans to mitigate disruption. Overall, despite an incredibly challenging operating environment, we remain in strong financial condition and our full year results are expected to sustain balanced financial delivery on a two-year basis.And with that, let me turn it back to Steve for a review of our major businesses.Steven Cahillane -- Chairman Of The Board And Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Amit. I'll start by emphasizing the broad-based nature of our sales growth. Slide number 21 shows the two-year compound annual growth rates in net sales across our four regions. It's in North America, where we've had the most supply disruption and most significantly in cereal. This has restrained our overall growth in quarter two and quarter three this year. But as we'll see in a minute, our snacks continue to grow nicely year-on-year, and frozen breakfast and plant-based foods have continued to post good growth on a two-year CAGR basis. Europe sustained impressive growth in quarter three. Pringles has driven exceptional growth for us in snacks, and cereal sales have remained strong there as well.In our Latin America and AMEA regions, we are clearly demonstrating exceptional momentum, collectively sustaining double-digit growth on a two-year and one-year basis in the third quarter. In fact, if you turn to Slide number 22, you can see that this emerging markets growth is anything but new. Collectively, our emerging markets had already been growing consistently at or above our long-term target of mid-single-digit growth for these businesses. This year, we've seen double-digit growth. Elasticities to our cost-related price increases have run lower than historical levels. We have continued to expand Pringles across these markets, with especially strong growth in Russia and Brazil. We have also continued to grow cereal across our emerging markets with particular strength this year in Asia. And our growth in Africa this year has been nothing short of spectacular, driven by noodles, cereal and snacks.Equally important to our long-term prospects is the health of our big world-class brands. And in quarter three, their momentum was sustained as much in developed markets as in emerging markets. Slide number 23 shows the two-year CAGRs for consumption growth for Pringles in the U.S. This brand continued to gain share in the third quarter, propelled by incremental innovation, effective brand-building campaigns and strength in multipacks. And Slide number 24 shows that Pringles momentum is truly global. Similar to the U.S., the brand's strong growth and share performance is being driven by incremental innovation like the Sizzl'n platform in Europe or local flavors like seaweed in Asia and by very effective brand building, particularly its 360-degree campaigns around soccer and electronic gaming. On top of that, it continues to gain distribution, particularly in emerging markets.So this $2 billion global retail sales brand continues to perform well. Let's check in on another world-class brand, Cheez-It, shown on Slide number 25. In the U.S., this brand continued to grow consumption and gained share in the third quarter, sparked by strong brand-building activity and growth in multipacks. Meantime, it continues to gain distribution and share in its newly launched markets, Canada and Brazil. This is a $1 billion plus brand that continues its long track record of consistent growth. Pop-Tarts is another world-class brand that is performing well. Its two-year growth has well outpaced the portable wholesome snacks category, as shown on Slide number 26. Another big brand with over $750 million sales at retail in the U.S. alone, it's showing good momentum. To give you an idea of how relevant this brand is, our latest ad has generated nearly 40 million views on YouTube.Our What Would Pop-Tarts Do hashtag has shown up 5.7 billion times in TikTok and the brand has enjoyed more than two billion earned impressions this year. And big growth has continued for us on Rice Krispies Treats, shown on Slide number 27. This brand even accelerated its consumption growth and share gains during the third quarter, aided by effective brand building and the success of innovation like Homestyle treats. This brand generates close to $350 million in retail sales in the U.S., and it continues to grow. In cereal, the performance of key brands in the U.S. has been impacted by supply complications in North America, but internationally, we're seeing good growth. On Slide number 28, our two world-class brands in Europe are worth highlighting.Tresor, also known as Krave in some markets is a taste segment brand that has become the number one cereal brand in Europe and has dramatically outpaced the category this year in key markets like France and Germany. Extra, meanwhile, is geared more toward adults and it, too, has strongly outpaced the category this year in markets like Italy and Spain. Over in the frozen aisle, Eggo is clearly a world-class brand and it is performing well. Slide number 29 shows that it is sustaining solid mid-single-digit consumption growth in spite of capacity constraints. Yet another big brand with close to $900 million in retail sales in the U.S., continuing to grow. Morningstar Farms, our leading plant-based proteins brand, is shown on Slide number 30. This is another world-class brand that is sustaining strong consumption growth even as the category decelerates as expected and even as we run up against capacity limits in some of our product segments.This is a $400 million retail sales brand with momentum and strong prospects. In fact, as you've seen, the fundamentals, momentum and growth prospects for many of our biggest world-class brands remain solid. Now let's review each of our regions, starting with North America in Slide number 31. Net sales were flat year-on-year in the third quarter, with underlying consumption growth well exceeding our shipments due to supply constraints. Many of these constraints were economywide, including shortages of materials, labor and freight. But we had some internal challenges as well. As you know, we entered this year tight on capacity for growing food formats in cereal, frozen from the griddle and plant-based protein as well as certain pack formats and snacks. Add to that, the fire that interrupted production at one of our cereal plants and you can appreciate just how constrained we have been.The good news is that we remain in growth on a two-year CAGR basis and that our revenue growth management actions are resulting in good price/mix growth. This price realization, along with good execution of productivity programs is crucial for mitigating the margin pressures of high cost inflation and incremental costs and inefficiencies related to the broader bottlenecks and shortages in the economy. Slide number 32 breaks our North America net sales growth into category groups. You can see the good momentum we've seen in snacks and frozen despite these supply constraints and the fact that away-from-home sales remain lower on a two-year basis. Cereal net sales have been flattish on a two-year CAGR basis in the first half, roughly in line with the U.S. category's performance.In quarter three, however, it faced the worst of its supply challenges and is now down about one percent year-to-date on a two-year CAGR basis. Importantly, our underlying consumption trends remain solid across most of the portfolio, as shown on Slide number 33. In all three of our snacks categories, we saw an acceleration in two-year CAGRs in quarter three, continuing to well outpace their individual categories. In the frozen-from-the-griddle category, we also saw accelerated two-year growth during the third quarter. And in frozen veg vegan, even as the category decelerates as expected, our growth remains strong. Even in cereal, which is a category that has been flat on a two-year basis this year, we are holding consumption relatively flat despite all the supply challenges we've been facing.And before we move on from our discussion of North America, we should touch on our U.S. away-from-home business in Slide number 34. The slide shows rolling two-year average growth rates in our net sales over the past few quarters in these channels. As restrictions eased and consumer mobility increased, we saw year-on-year growth starting in quarter two and continuing in quarter three. Our sales remained below 2019 levels but you can see that a gradual recovery continues. The recovery has been a little quicker in channels like convenience stores and schools, and much slower in channels like vending and in travel and lodging. There is no question that our North America region is facing the toughest of the global supply challenges, and the team has risen to the occasion. We are presently working to restore full production at our fire-damaged cereal plant, while negotiating with the union regarding its strike against all of our U.S. cereal plants.Indeed, North America faces an even tougher quarter in the quarter four. Nonetheless, we're executing well in market, and our brands are in great shape. Now let's turn to our international regions in Slide number 35. You can see that in each of these three regions, we are sustaining strong momentum, both in the form of year-on-year growth and on a two-year CAGR basis, which eliminates the impact of comparing against last year's surge, especially in Latin America. Let's look at each of these regions a little more closely. Slide number 36 shows the results of Kellogg Europe. Europe's streak of quarterly organic net sales growth continued in impressive fashion in the third quarter. Driven by both volume and price mix, this growth was led by Russia and the U.K. but broad-based across the region.Double-digit growth in snacks was driven not only by Pringles sustaining its momentum, but also by a rebound in portable wholesome snacks. Cereal sales grew on top of last year's growth, and we are particularly pleased with the magnitude of our share gains in the U.K. As we look to the fourth quarter, we lap a particularly strong organic net sales growth performance. And on operating profit, we are managing through high costs and supply challenges as well as lapping a 53rd week. Nevertheless, we expect to sustain our in-market momentum in cereal and snacks, and Europe is on track for another strong year. Now let's talk about Latin America in Slide number 37. The year ago quarter included outsized gains in sales and profit, so comparisons are masking a solid performance for us in the third quarter.Organic net sales continued to grow year-on-year despite the comparisons, with notable strength on a two-year CAGR basis. The growth was broad-based and supported by strong in-market performance in cereal led by Mexico, as well as by Pringles across key markets. We saw particular strength in Brazil, where Pringles is showing outstanding momentum. Despite decelerating at-home demand trends and extremely high cost inflation, we expect Latin America to continue to grow in quarter four, completing what has been a very strong year. And we'll finish our business review with AMEA and Slide number 38. Once again, we saw exceptional growth in this region. We generated organic net sales growth in Australia, led by cereal, and in Asia, driven by both cereal and snacks, despite COVID-related production restrictions on Pringles for much of the quarter.The biggest start in the quarter was Africa, where we are generating double-digit growth in both volume and in price/mix. The top line growth was strong enough to overcome double-digit cost inflation, delivering operating profit growth. As we look to the fourth quarter, we expect to see continued top line momentum and bottom line growth in AMEA despite cost inflation and supply challenges. Allow me to wrap up with a brief summary on Slide number 40. Our portfolio is in good shape. Our world-class brands have great momentum and our emerging markets businesses continue to exceed even our expectations. The result is strong top line momentum. We're taking action to mitigate the profit impact of what is the highest cost inflation we've seen in a decade or more. To do that, we are executing productivity initiatives.We are being disciplined on overhead and selective on brand investment, and we are carefully executing all levers of revenue growth management. Bottlenecks and shortages are ramping across the economy right now, and we are experiencing our own particular labor and supply disruptions. However, we are managing well through these difficult supply conditions. Our people are demonstrating why they are a competitive advantage, going the extra mile to supply the market when everything, procurement, manufacturing, shipping is more challenging now than ever. And in the end, we expect to remain on our path of balanced financial growth. We've delivered on it so far this year, and we are reaffirming our full year guidance today even in spite of the current operating environment. I want to commend and thank our entire organization for their dedication and grit, and for finding a way to deliver on our commitments in what is obviously an unusual environment.And with that, we'd be happy to take any questions you might have.