
OperatorGood morning, and welcome to Carrier's Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. This call is being carried live on the Internet, and there is a presentation available to download from Carrier's website at ir.carrier.com. I would like to introduce your host for today's conference, Sam Pearlstein, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.Samuel Pearlstein -- Vice President of Investor RelationsThank you, and good morning, and welcome to Carrier's Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. We appreciate your flexibility in accommodating the earlier start time for the call.

 



Since we plan to discuss the Chubb transaction as well as the second quarter earnings, we have more flexibility if the call runs a little longer. With me here today are David Gitlin, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Patrick Goris, Chief Financial Officer. Except as otherwise noted, the company will be speaking to results from operations, excluding restructuring costs and other significant items of a nonrecurring and/or nonoperational nature, often referred to by management as other significant items. The company reminds listeners that the sales, earnings and cash flow expectations and any other forward-looking statements provided during the call are subject to risks and uncertainties.Carrier's SEC filings, including Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, provide details on important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements. This morning, we'll review our financial results for the second quarter, discuss the full year 2021 outlook and the agreement we announced Tuesday to sell our Chubb business. We will leave time for questions at the end.With that, I'd like to turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO, Dave Gitlin.David Gitlin -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

 



Thank you, Sam, and good morning, everyone. It is great to be hosting this call from the Carrier-cooled New York Stock Exchange, and we appreciate the support that we've received from the team here. Please turn to slide two.Before we discuss the second quarter results, let me address the press release that we issued Tuesday announcing that we signed an agreement to sell our Chubb business to APi Group for an enterprise value of $3.1 billion. To be clear, Carrier's Global Fire & Security products business is not part of this transaction and remains an integral part of Carrier's portfolio and our healthy, safe, sustainable and intelligent building strategy.We committed at our Investor Day last year to objectively assess our portfolio and do so through a rigorous application of our strategic and financial priorities. Within our Fire & Security portfolio, our products business is differentiated with leading market positions and attractive margins. Chubb is an industry leader with 13,000 employees that do a great job with installation and maintenance supporting our customers but it is an agnostic business that does not pull through our products and yields lower margins.We concluded that Chubb is more strategic to APi Group than it is to us. Divesting Chubb will significantly simplify our business. Chubb represents over 20% of our employees or less than 10% of our adjusted operating earnings. Selling Chubb will increase our focus on our core businesses and enable us to reinvest the proceeds consistent with our capital allocation priorities to create long-term shareholder value. Patrick will discuss in more detail, but our capital allocation priorities have remained consistent: funding organic and inorganic growth, dividends and share buyback within a solid investment-grade credit rating.

 



Our intention is to use the cash proceeds and excess cash on the balance sheet for acquisitions, buybacks and debt pay down over 12 to 18 months to help position the company for strategic growth and to generate attractive shareholder returns. The net result will be a new, more focused Carrier with more product differentiation, faster revenue growth, higher margins and higher returns on invested capital. This was an important deal for Carrier, and I want to thank our team and advisors for their tremendous work. Now turning to our Q2 results on slide three.Q2 was another strong quarter for us. Our growth continues to be fueled by broad economic momentum, our position at the epicenter of important secular trends and the benefit of our strategic investments. Managing the surge in growth has strained our extended supply chain, but our teams are navigating those challenges well to support our customers.You see our progress reflected in our 2Q results. Organic sales were up over 30%. Particularly encouraging was that the growth was strong across our portfolio and that we even grew 7% versus 2Q of 2019. Orders were up about 35% organically compared to last year, driving our backlog up 8% sequentially and up over 20% year-over-year, positioning us well for 3Q and the second half of the year.We produced $821 million of adjusted operating profit up over 70% year-over-year. And consistent with what we said during the April earnings call, Q2 incremental margins improved sequentially from Q1. Free cash flow continues to be strong with first half free cash flow up more than 30% over the first half of last year. Given our first half performance, strong backlog and expectations around the balance of the year, we are again raising our full year guidance for sales, earnings and cash.We now expect organic sales to grow 10% to 12%, adjusted EPS to increase by about 30% compared to last year, and we are increasing our projected free cash flow by $200 million to about $1.9 billion. Now turning to slide four. We remain confident in sustained growth in our end markets and that our new operating system, culture and team performance position us well to lead within our space.Key secular trends are likely to propel sustained growth for our industry. With people spending 90% of their time indoors and increasingly returning to their offices and recreational activities, we see more spend being allocated to the health, safety, comfort and intelligence of indoor environments of all types, from homes to schools to hospitals to commercial office buildings.Likewise, the need for safe cold chain solutions has been intensified by the focus on vaccine distribution and the increasing global middle classes demand for more fresh produce and other refrigerated products. And of course, the need for sustainable solutions. Given that the building sector contributes about 40% of carbon emissions and food waste contributes another 10% to 15%, we are confident that spend on sustainability will continue to drive demand for our green solutions.We, therefore, remain laser focused on healthy, safe, sustainable and intelligent building and cold chain solutions, and we are leaning into those trends by executing on our three pronged growth strategy: Growing our core, expanding product extensions and increasing recurring revenues through digitally enabled aftermarket offerings and we are seeing strong progress, as you can see on slide five.We have booked $250 million in healthy building orders year-to-date, and our active pipeline sits at $500 million. We are confident that spend on healthy buildings is not only sticky but that it will accelerate as building owners will play both defense and offense on behalf of their occupants. Defensive spend is largely focused on defending against the spread of airborne illnesses. For example, 40% of classrooms in the United States have insufficient ventilation and studies show that better ventilation and filtration materially reduced the spread of microscopic particulates like COVID and other illnesses like the flu and common colds. Building owners are also starting to invest in better ventilation to play offense.Recent studies have shown that people performed twice as well when the indoor environment is optimized. High CO2 levels, which can occur in crowded classrooms and offices with poor ventilation have been proven to impact brain-based skills while better ventilation and filtration significantly improved cognitive function. Because of the many benefits of healthy indoor air environments, our goal is to make indoor air visible. So good air quality becomes as important and expected as safe drinking water. Abound is a key enabler to make that happen.We received favorable feedback from our key launch customers, which include a commercial office building and an elementary school, and we have deployed it in our company headquarters where we have been demonstrating its power to customers. We are now leveraging our global sales force to deploy Abound and have had significant interest from marquee customers.In addition to Abound, we recently launched a WiFi-enabled Carrier home air purifier with a HEPA-level filter as one of our latest healthy home offerings. We have now sold over 38,000 OptiClean units. On K-12, we have a dedicated team offering catered solutions to our customers, resulting in sales to about 15% to 20% more school districts so far this year compared to last year as part of what we expect to be a significant opportunity over the next few years.Similarly, our connected cold chain offerings are gaining traction. Our cloud-based digital Lynx offering that we are building in partnership with AWS was recognized by Fast Company as one of 2021's world-changing ideas. In the container space, we are adding connectivity for thousands of units each month and now can support mixed fleets Carrier and Non-Carrier, thereby increasing our recurring revenues and reducing our customer maintenance and logistic costs.We had significant Lynx wins this quarter with truck/trailer, including 1,700 more trailer refrigeration units for Prime and a three year supply agreement with U.K. grocer Sainsbury's for all of its truck and trailer transport refrigeration equipment. CORTIX is Carrier's AI and IoT platform that offers predictive insights, recommendations and autonomous actions to optimize equipment performance and building operations while minimizing our customers' energy consumption. Currently, over 220,000 pieces of equipment are connected to CORTIX. Digital solutions are helping to drive increased aftermarket and recurring revenues.Aftermarket sales for Carrier were up about 20% in Q2 over last year, all helped by our differentiated BlueEdge tiered offerings. Our attachment rate in commercial HVAC was more than 35% in Q2, and we are on track to add another 10,000 chillers to long-term contracts this year from about 50,000 to 60,000. Likewise, in our Refrigeration business, our Europe truck trailer business sold nearly 6,000 BlueEdge service agreements in the first half of the year.In addition, our Fire & Security segment continues to expand our key digital offerings. Earlier this year, LenelS2 was featured in the Apple Worldwide Developers Conference, and we're excited to work with Apple on providing BlueDiamond mobile credentials in Apple Wallet, on iPhone and Apple Watch. As employees come back to office buildings, this work can increase the profile of access control solutions that help reduce touch points, enhance occupant experience and increased confidence in indoor environments. So very significant progress on healthy, safe and intelligent offerings and recurring revenues and on slide six, you see similar progress on our focus on sustainability. In short, we are committed to providing environmentally sustainable solutions and our performance over the past year reflects just that.We are on track to meet our commitment of reducing our customers' carbon emissions by more than one gigaton and ensuring our operations are carbon neutral by 2030. Electrification and energy efficiency are major focus areas for us. Commercial heat pumps in Europe and residential heat pumps in North America were both up 20% to 30% in the quarter. Electrification is equally critical to our Refrigeration business. Interest in our Vector eCool unit in Europe remains high and our backlog continues to grow. This is the only 100% electric trailer reefer unit in the market today.Our efforts in helping customers reduce emissions and creating more energy-efficient solutions are starting to be reflected in some of our external ratings, including improvements in both our MSCI and Sustainalytics scores in the past year.As you can see on the slide, we are now considered a leader in the industry. So great progress on ESG, which is a fundamental aspect of who we are. So before I turn it over to Patrick, a word on a leadership change that we recently announced. In a couple of weeks, Tim White will join us as President of our Refrigeration segment.Tim has been running GE's multibillion-dollar onshore wind business for the Americas region, and he ran key P&Ls within Collins Aerospace that included electric systems, environmental control systems and engine control systems. He is the perfect leader to take this well-positioned business to the next level as we focus on electrification, digitalization and sustainable solutions.I also want to thank David Appel for his tremendous leadership of the segment. We are fortunate to have David moving to Paris where our commercial refrigeration business is headquartered to provide the focus that, that business needs to improve operational, strategic and financial performance. We appreciate David taking on this critical assignment. So with that, let me turn it over to Patrick.Patrick Goris -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Dave, and good morning, everyone. I'll start with comments about the quarter and the outlook and then provide additional color on the Chubb transaction. Please turn to slide seven. As Dave mentioned, Q2 was a good quarter with sales, operating earnings, adjusted EPS and free cash flow all exceeding our expectations.Sales of $5.4 billion were up 37% compared to last year. Currency was a five point tailwind for sales in the quarter or about $200 million and acquisitions, that's mainly Chigo, added another point of growth. Given the impact from COVID last year, this quarter obviously had an easy comparison. Nonetheless, organic sales growth of 31% was significantly better than we expected across all our businesses.Adjusted operating margin expanded over 300 basis points to 15.1%. Strong sales growth and benefits from Carrier 700 were partially offset by investments and higher input costs. As we expected, price/cost was negative in the quarter given the timing of price and cost increases, Much stronger-than-expected demand, combined with supply chain challenges negatively impacted factory efficiency. It also meant material purchases went beyond block positions. And as a result, we bought some materials and components at spot prices and utilized expedited freight. I'll address our outlook for the balance of the year with respect to price and cost in a few slides, but I'll share that we already announced additional pricing actions to offset rising inflationary pressures throughout our supply chain.Reported earnings conversion of about 24% improved sequentially, and excluding currency and acquisitions, conversion was in the high 20s. Free cash flow of $482 million in the quarter reflected better-than-expected net income and was similar to last year's second quarter despite $180 million of higher interest and tax payments. Finally, we repurchased about two million shares at an average price of $44.33 during the quarter, bringing our year-to-date repurchases to about three million shares.Let's now look at how the segments performed, starting on slide eight. HVAC organic sales were up 32% in the quarter with nearly 35% residential HVAC growth. As we previously said, we expect that residential field inventory levels to finish approximately 10% to 15% higher than the end of Q2 2019. Strong distributor movement of over 20% compared to last year led to field inventories ending the quarter only 7% higher than at the end of Q2 of 2019, a much more balanced inventory level. North American light commercial business saw a significant rebound with sales up over 60% in the quarter. Light commercial field inventory levels are now down just 3% year-over-year.Overall, commercial HVAC sales were up about 20% organically. HVAC team expanded margins by 300 basis points year-over-year, driven by strong growth across all businesses in this segment, including services. The segment remains on track to generate about 60% adjusted operating margin this year.Moving to refrigeration on slide nine. Sales were up 38% organically as the cyclical recovery in transport that we see in orders continue to convert into sales. Transport refrigeration was up over 40% in the quarter with very strong growth in both global truck/trailer and container. Our Sensitech business continued to benefit from the vaccine rollout and was up about 20% in the quarter. Commercial refrigeration grew about 30% as reopenings in Europe drove strong growth.Margins for this segment were up 320 basis points in the quarter compared to last year, mainly as a result of the higher sales. We continue to meet customer demand but are incurring higher costs to do so, including air freight. We expect operating margins to improve in the second half as the higher-margin North America truck and trailer business recovery continues. Given the higher input costs, we now expect full year 2021 operating margin for this segment to be in the mid-13% range, a little lower than we previously expected.Moving on to slide 10. Organic sales at the Fire & Security segment grew 25%, and both the products and field businesses grew at similar rates. Within the Products business, which represents about 60% of the segment sales, residential and commercial fire continued to be solid. Given the easier comparisons, Access Solutions returned to double-digit growth our industrial businesses were up high single digits.In industrial fire, we saw the recovery for upgrades and retrofits begin in marine services and in the oil and gas markets. Higher sales and Carrier 700 performance helped drive a 140 basis point margin expansion in this segment. With the higher sales outlook and the timing of price and cost actions, we expect higher margins in the back of the year compared to the first half of the year and overall margins to be in the mid-13s for the year.Now let me review the order activity we saw in the second quarter on slide 11. As you can see, our residential and light commercial businesses continued to see strong demand. Backlog in residential is up sequentially and points to a better second half than we previously expected. Commercial HVAC orders were up over 30% compared to last year, and backlog increased almost 20% year-over-year and up mid- to high single digits sequentially from last quarter.For Refrigeration, order activity for the truck/trailer business continued to improve sequentially. Strong order intake and backlog exiting Q2 should position this segment to achieve the expected high teens organic sales growth for the full year. Order intake for our Fire & Security segment also continued to improve sequentially. The product orders were up a bit over 25% year-over-year, especially in residential and commercial fire. Field orders were up 25% to 30%, organic.I'll skip slide 12. So let's move to slide 13, our updated outlook. To be clear, we will include Chubb in the outlook until the transaction closes. Based on stronger-than-expected Q2 performance and higher backlogs, we are increasing our organic sales outlook from a range of 5% to 8% to a new range of 10% to 12%. A bit more than half a point of the incremental organic growth represents incremental pricing actions we already have or are taking to offset higher input costs versus our April guidance. Last quarter, we said material and component input costs were about $120 million or so higher than 2020. We now expect those input costs to be up an additional $125 million.We intend to offset this through additional pricing actions. We recently announced the third price increase in our residential HVAC business for September as well as a third price increase in transport refrigeration, and we are implementing similar actions in other areas of our portfolio.Our new outlook includes $125 million of additional pricing compared to our April guidance. For the full year, we expect price cost to be neutral though we expect it to be a modest headwind in Q3, offsetting higher input costs with incremental pricing on a dollar-for-dollar basis protects profitability, but of course, hurts reported margin and conversion.Despite these cost inefficiencies, we now expect to deliver an adjusted operating margin of over 13.5% for the year, better than our previous outlook. Another way to think about the outlook is that the revenues are now expected to be about $1 billion higher than the April guide. Of that, about $125 million is priced to offset increased input costs and about $200 million is acquisition-related sales with little profit contribution this year.The conversion on the remaining $650 million to $700 million of sales approaches the 30% we would normally expect. This all leads to an adjusted EPS outlook range of $2.10 to $2.20, a $0.15 improvement at the midpoint from our prior guidance. We also now expect free cash flow to be about $1.9 billion, up $200 million from our prior guidance.Slide 14 shows a bridge for the $0.15 improvement in our adjusted EPS outlook from the midpoint of our prior guide to the midpoint of our current guidance. The biggest driver is the operational conversion on additional sales. Moving over to slide 15. I'll provide more details regarding Chubb's transaction.You can see a brief profile of Chubb on the left side of the slide. We expect revenues for Chubb to be about $2.2 billion this year with high single-digit operating margins. Excluding Chubb, Carrier's operating margins would be about 50 to 100 basis points higher, free cash flow conversion about 100%, and we would also expect to have a higher growth and modestly higher return on invested capital profile. The remaining Fire & Security segment will include a portfolio of differentiated, high-margin businesses with leading positions in their respective markets. Sales would be about $3.5 billion and operating margin in the high teens.With respect to transaction details, the enterprise value is $3.1 billion, and net after-tax cash proceeds are expected to be about $2.6 billion. As part of the transaction, about 2/3 of Carrier's total pension and post retirement assets and liabilities will be transferred to APi. That is over $2 billion and significantly simplifies and derisks our balance sheet. Related to the pension, we expect most to all of our noncash, nonservice pension benefit on the income statement to go away. While this generates about $70 million in annual earnings, we do not believe it represents any economic value. As customary, the sale is subject to a consultation process and regulatory approvals. Expected close is late Q4 2021 or early Q1 2022.As to the use of proceeds, we intend to use the approximately $2.6 billion in net proceeds as well as available excess cash for a combination of acquisitions, share repurchases and debt repayment. We expect to delever by about $750 million post transaction to maintain our leverage profile commensurate with the EBITDA reduction. We have a growing pipeline of acquisitions that align with our strategic priorities, and our Board just approved an incremental $1.75 billion share repurchase authorization.We will be flexible between share repurchases and acquisitions, and now expect 2021 repurchases to exceed the five million shares we previously discussed. In closing, we had a good first half with strong double-digit organic growth. Congratulations to our team in supporting stronger-than-expected demand in a very challenging supply chain environment.With our performance so far, along with a solid order activity and backlog growth, we feel confident meaningfully raising our full year guidance. And the Chubb transaction simplifies our portfolio, enhances management focus, creates a more attractive company profile and generates cash to reinvest in higher share owner value-creating opportunities. With that, I'll turn it back to you, David.David Gitlin -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Patrick. We are very pleased with our performance as we are now halfway through 2021, and we remain confident in our team's ability to navigate supply chain challenges to support our customers and drive continued results in 2H and beyond. With that, we'll open this up for questions.