  OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Fifth Third Bancorp second-quarter 2021 conference call. [Operator instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Chris Doll, director of investor relations. Thank you. Please go ahead, sir.Chris Doll -- Director of Investor Relations Thank you, operator. Good morning, and thank you for joining us. Today, we'll be discussing our financial results for the second quarter of 2021. Please review the cautionary statements on our materials, which can be found on our earnings release and presentation. These materials contain reconciliations to non-GAAP measures, as well as information pertaining to the use of non-GAAP measures, as well as forward-looking statements about Fifth Third's performance. We undertake no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements after the date of this call. This morning, I'm joined by our CEO, Greg Carmichael; CFO Jamie Leonard; President Tim Spence; and Chief Credit Officer Richard Stein. Following prepared remarks by Greg and Jamie, we will open the call for questions.Let me turn the call over to Greg now for his comments. Greg Carmichael -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Chris, and thank all you for joining us this morning. Earlier today, we reported second-quarter net income of $709 million or $0.94 per share. On an adjusted basis, we earned $0.98 per share. Once again, our financial results were very strong, continuing the positive momentum from the past several quarters. During the quarter, we generated sequential PPNR growth of 15% on an adjusted basis and growth of 6% compared to the year-ago quarter. Commercial loan production increased 10% from last quarter, with strengthened middle market across our footprint, as well as in corporate banking. We generated strong consumer household growth of 4% compared to last year, and we also experienced historically low net charge-offs of 16 basis points, reflecting improvement in both our commercial and consumer portfolios. We generated an adjusted ROTCE of nearly 20% for the second consecutive quarter, reflecting strong business and credit results across our franchise. Our results were supported by our continued improvement in our diversified businesses. In fact, we achieved record results in several of our fee-based businesses, including commercial banking and wealth and asset management. Despite the pressure from low-interest rates, net-interest income increased 3% sequentially, and the underlying NIM increased two basis points. We believe that our disciplined approach to managing the balance sheet, including in our securities and hedge portfolios, will continue to generate differentiated performance relative to peers. We also continue to maintain our expense discipline, while still investing for long-term outperformance. As a result of our strong revenue growth, combined with our expense management, we generated positive-operating leverage on a year-over-year basis with an adjusted efficiency ratio of 58%. We are prioritizing investments that drive further operational efficiencies to improve our resiliency, generate household growth, and improve the customer experience. To that end, we recently announced an expanded partnership with FIS to modernize our core deposit and wealth systems to the cloud, which will enable us to further our digital transformation. This will significantly improve the flexibility and scalability of our technology infrastructure and accelerate our speed to market. Combining this agreement with the renegotiation of our existing payment processing relationship allows us to modernize our platform, while maintaining an efficient overall cost structure. From a commercial standpoint, loan production this quarter was the highest since before the pandemic, with significant sequential improvements in technology, renewable energy, and manufacturing. However, our strong production was once again offset by elevated paydowns and PPP forgiveness. While we continue to retain the customer in their core-banking relationship, loan growth remains muted due to the environment. Our commercial lending production trends, pipelines, and retention of the client relationship all continue to support the potential for improved loan growth once supply and labor constraints normalize. We currently expect our 31% commercial revolver utilization rate to increase 1% by year end. On the consumer side, as I mentioned, we once again generated robust household growth. This strong performance reflects our ability to acquire new customers, combined with low attrition, both of which were supported by our brands and digital investments. Our recent Southeast de novo branches have helped contribute to our household growth. On the digital side, we continue to leverage technology and data analytics to deliver solutions that improve the customer experience, increase revenue, and drive efficiencies. We recently launched Fifth Third momentum banking across our footprint, a banking value proposition unparalleled in our industry. Momentum combines the best of a traditional bank offering with several leading fintech capabilities, including Early Pay, which gives customers free access to their paycheck up to two days early, extra time, which allows customers to [Inaudible] until midnight the following business day without a fee, MyAdvance, which gives customers short-term on-demand liquidity advances, smart savings and other features all provided with no monthly fee. Our strategy to keep the customer at the center has significantly reduced our reliance on cumulative consumer deposit fees, including overdraft in ATM fees where Fifth Third had been among the lowest compared to peers for several years. Fifth Third momentum banking accelerates our efforts to help customers avoid unnecessary fees. As I mentioned, during the quarter, we recorded a net benefit to credit losses, reflecting historically low net charge-offs, combined with a stronger economic outlook. Our strong credit performance reflects disciplined client selection, conservative underwriting, and continue support from fiscal and monetary government stimulus programs. In addition to historical-low credit losses, our criticized assets and NPAs once again improved this quarter. Criticized assets declined another 16%, and our NPA ratio declined 11 basis points sequentially. Our balance sheet and earnings power remained very strong. Our CET1 ratio of 10.4% was relatively stable compared to last quarter, despite share repurchases of $347 million in the second quarter. As we have said before, we remain focused on deploying capital into organic-growth opportunities, evaluating strategic nonbank opportunities, dividend increases and share repurchases. Additionally, our capital position and earnings capacity supported an increase in our common dividend starting in the third quarter. We currently expect to request a $0.03 increase to our quarterly dividend in September, subject to board approval and economic conditions. We also expect to execute share repurchases totaling approximately $850 million in the second half of 2021 and continue to target a 9.5% CET1 by June 2022. We recently announced the strategic acquisition of Provide, a fintech healthcare practice finance firm, Provide focuses on the dental, veterinarian, and vision segments and delivers digital capabilities, which supported best-in-class experience and speed to close. Provide previously utilized and originate the cell. As a result, the closing of the acquisition will not include a transfer of loan balances. However, post close, Fifth Third will retain all loan originations. We currently hold around $400 million in loans generated by Provide and have noncredit relationships with over 70% of these borrowers through deposit and our treasury-management products. The acquisition is expected to close in early August and will utilize approximately 20 basis points of capital. In summary, we believe our balance sheet strength, diversified revenues, and continued focus on discipline throughout the company will serve us well this year and beyond. We remain committed to generating sustainable long-term value and consistently producing top-quartile results. I would once again like to thank our employees. I'm very proud of the way you have continually risen on occasion to support our customers. Our commitment to generate sustainable value for stakeholders is evident in our second-annual ESG report published in June. This expands on last year's report with increased transparency, including enhanced disclosures on priority topics, such as inclusion and diversity, our climate strategy, and our commitment to fair and responsible banking. We remain guided by our purpose, vision, and core values and expect to continue delivering strong results over the long term. With that, I'll turn it over to Jamie to discuss our second-quarter results and our current outlook.Jamie Leonard -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Greg, and thank all of you for joining us today. We are very pleased with the financial results this quarter reflecting focused execution to the bank. Our quarterly results included solid revenue growth and continued discipline on both expenses and credit. The reported results for the quarter included a $37 million reduction in fee income for the negative mark related to the Visa total return swap. Our improved business performance throughout the bank resulted in strong return metrics. We produced an adjusted ROA of 1.43% and an adjusted ROTCE excluding AOCI of 19.7%. Our adjusted earnings per share were a record for the bancorp. We generated healthy PPNR results, the strongest since before the pandemic, with net interest income growing 3% sequentially, continued success growing and diversifying noninterest income, and diligent expense management. Improvements in credit quality this quarter resulted in a $159 million release to our credit reserves, resulting in an ACL ratio of 206 basis points, compared to 219 basis points last quarter. With historically low charge-offs of just 16 basis points this quarter, and an improved economic outlook, we recorded a $115 million net benefit to the provision for credit losses. Moving to the income statement. Net interest income increased $32 million sequentially, reflecting our ability to effectively manage the balance sheet, despite the environmental headwinds from low interest rates and elevated paydowns given capital market conditions. Our NII growth was driven by average loan growth of 1% and $11 million of incremental prepayment penalty benefits from our bullet and locked-out cash flow strategy in our investment portfolio, which that position remains at 58% at quarter end. Our loan balances benefited from the additional $1 billion of Ginnie Mae forbearance loan buyout purchases in early April, bringing the total third-party purchases to $3.7 billion. The other NII benefits were from a higher day count and not replacing long-term debt maturities, partially offset by the impact of declining average commercial loan balances, and lower loan yields. PPP-related interest income was $53 million this quarter, unchanged relative to the prior quarter. On the liability side, we reduced our interest-bearing core deposit cost by another basis point this quarter to five basis points and also had maturities of approximately $2.3 billion of long-term debt. With most deposit products at or near their assumed floors, the remaining liability management benefits going forward will likely be limited to CD and reductions in long-term debt balances due to maturities. Reported NIM increased one basis point compared to the prior quarter as the aforementioned investment portfolio, long-term debt, and Ginnie Mae loan buyout impacts were partially offset by the decline in commercial loan balances and lower loan yields. Underlying NIM, excluding PPP and excess cash, increased two basis points to 312 basis points. With a highly asset-sensitive balance sheet and over $30 billion in excess liquidity, we continue to be well-positioned to benefit when interest rates rise, while also remaining well hedged if rates remain low given our securities portfolio and derivatives. Total reported noninterest income decreased just 1% sequentially. Adjusted noninterest income increased 1% driven by record commercial banking revenue, with strength in loan syndications and financial risk management products, solid card and processing revenue from higher credit and debit interchange revenue, reflecting the robust economic rebound, and an increase in both commercial and consumer deposit fees. These increases were partially offset by sequential declines in mortgage and lease syndications. Top-line mortgage banking revenue decreased $8 million sequentially, reflecting incremental margin pressure. Production was strong during the quarter in both the retail and correspondent channels, with second-quarter originations of $5 billion, up 7% sequentially. Compared to the year-ago quarter, adjusted noninterest income increased 15%, with strength in deposit service charges, commercial banking revenue, wealth and asset management, and card and processing revenue, reflecting both the underlying strength in our lines of business and the robust economic rebound over the past year. The performance and resilience of our fee income levels over the past several quarters highlight the benefit of the revenue diversification that we have achieved. Noninterest expense decreased 5% compared to the first quarter, reflecting declines in compensation and benefits expenses, lower card and processing expense due to contract renegotiations, and disciplined expense management throughout the bank. This was partially offset by expenses linked to strong business performance, as well as servicing expenses associated with loan purchases and a $12 million mark-to-market impact from our nonqualified deferred compensation plans, which had a corresponding offset in security gains. For the full year, we expect to incur around $50 million in third-party servicing expense for purchased loans. Our compensation-related expense growth this year continues to be proportionate to the success we are seeing in our fee-based businesses. On a year-over-year basis, total adjusted fees have increased 15%, compared to 4% expense growth. Additionally, compared to the pre-pandemic levels of the second quarter of 2019, total adjusted fees have increased 14% compared to expense growth of just 3%. Moving to the balance sheet. Total average loans and leases were up 1% sequentially as consumer loan growth was partially offset by a decline in commercial loans. Additionally, period-end loans were up 1%, excluding PPP. Average total consumer loans increased 4% as ongoing strength in the auto portfolio and the impact of Ginnie Mae loans purchased were partially offset by declines in home equity and credit card balances, reflecting the continued impacts of government stimulus. Average commercial loans declined 1% compared to the prior quarter, largely driven by PPP forgiveness and elevated payoffs, which were partially offset by strong production across most of our verticals and throughout our middle market footprint. Production was up 10% compared to the prior quarter and up over 20% compared to the pre-pandemic levels of the second quarter of 2019. Excluding the impact of PPP, our end-of-period C&I loans were up slightly sequentially, as client sentiment and business activities in several industries are showing signs of stabilization. Revolver utilization of 31% was flat compared to the prior quarter, reflecting the market liquidity and capital markets conditions. We are encouraged by the fact that we have successfully retained virtually all clients throughout the pandemic, which will enable us to further deepen and grow these relationships going forward. Average CRE loans were flat sequentially, with end-of-period balances declining 3%. Our securities portfolio increased 1% this quarter. We continue to reinvest portfolio cash flows, but we'll remain patient on deploying the excess cash. We will continue to be opportunistic as the economic environment evolves. Assuming no meaningful changes to our economic outlook, we would expect to increase our cash deployment when investment yields move north of the 200-basis-point level. We remain optimistic that strong economic growth in the second half of 2021 and an eventual Fed tapering of bond purchases will present more attractive risk return opportunities in the future. Average short-term investments, which includes interest-bearing cash, remain elevated due to continued strength in core deposit balances, which have grown 10% year over year. We have seen strength in both consumer and commercial deposits. Compared to the prior quarter, average core deposits increased 3%. About two-thirds of the balance growth on a sequential and year-over-year basis has come from consumer, reflecting continued fiscal and monetary stimulus and strong household growth. Moving to credit. Our strong credit performance once again this quarter reflects our disciplined client selection, conservative underwriting, and prudent balance sheet management, while also benefiting from continued fiscal and monetary stimulus and improvement in the broader economy. The second-quarter net charge-off ratio of 16 basis points was historically low and improved 11 basis points sequentially. Nonperforming assets declined 16% or $126 million. The NPA ratio declined 11 basis points sequentially to 61 basis points, which is comparable to the fourth quarter of 2019. Also our criticized assets declined 16%, with significant improvements in retail nonessential, leisure, and healthcare, as well as in our energy and leveraged loan portfolios. However, we continue to focus on non-owner-occupied commercial real estate, particularly central business district hotels. Moving to the ACL. Our base case macroeconomic scenario assumes the labor market continues to improve, and job growth continues to strengthen, with unemployment reaching 4% by the first quarter of 2022 and ending our three-year reasonable and supportable period at around 3.5%. We did not change our scenario weights of 60% to the base and 20% to the upside and downside scenarios, applying a 100% probability weighting to the base scenario would result in a $169 million reserve release. Conversely, applying 100% to the downside scenario would result in a $763 million bill. Inclusive of the impact of approximately $108 million in remaining discount associated with the MB loan portfolio, our ACL ratio was 2.15%. Additionally, excluding the $3.7 billion in PPP loans, with virtually no associated credit reserve, the ACL ratio would be approximately 2.22%. While the favorable economic backdrop and our base case expectations point to further improvement in the economy, there are several key risks factored into our downside scenario, which could play out given the uncertain environment. We continue to monitor the COVID situation, which could still impact many businesses, particularly those we have identified as being in highly impacted industries or reverse the rising consumer confidence trends. Our June 30th allowance incorporates our best estimate of the economic environment, with lower unemployment and continued improving credit quality. Moving to capital. Our capital levels remained strong in the second quarter. Our CET1 ratio ended the quarter at 10.4%, which is $1.3 billion above our stated target of 9.5%. Our tangible book value per share, excluding AOCI, increased 3% during the quarter. As a category four institution, Fifth Third was not subject to the latest Federal Reserve stress test, and we did not opt in. At the end of June, the Fed notified us that our SCB would be 2.5% effective July 1st, which is the floor under the regulatory capital rules. Without the floor, our buffer would have been approximately 2.1%. During the quarter, we completed $347 million in share repurchases, which reduced our share count by approximately nine million shares compared to the first quarter. As Greg mentioned, we expect to repurchase approximately $850 million of shares in the second half of 2021, while also increasing our common dividend in September. We also announced our acquisition of Provide this quarter. We will utilize approximately 20 basis points of CET1 upon closing. This financially compelling acquisition of an asset-generation engine dovetails perfectly with our existing strategic focus on digital enablement and generating profitable growth on our balance sheet. We believe in Provide's strong growth prospects. From an origination standpoint, they've produced $300 million in the first half of 2021, of which Fifth Third purchased approximately 80%. We expect second-half originations to be around $400 million, and given the expected early August closing, virtually all of that will go on our balance sheet. We expect over $1 billion in originations in 2022, and could grow to over $2 billion annually within a few years. Moving to our current outlook. For the full year, we expect average total loan balances to be stable compared to last year, reflecting continued pressure from PPP forgiveness and paydowns in commercial, combined with low double-digit growth in consumer. We continue to expect CRE balances to remain stable in this environment. We continue to expect our underlying NIM to be in the 305 basis point area for the full year. Combined with our loan outlook, we expect NII to be down 1% this year, assuming stable security balances and incorporating all PPP impacts. On a sequential basis, we expect NII to decline around 2% given the impact of the securities portfolio prepayment income we experienced in the second quarter that we do not assume will repeat in our outlook, as well as an assumed decline in PPP income. Within our NII guidance, we expect approximately $165 million in PPP-related interest income for 2021, of which 106 million was realized in the first half of the year, compared to 100 million in 2020 and approximately 50 million expected in 2022. For the third quarter of 2021, we expect approximately 40 million in PPP income. Therefore, excluding PPP impacts, we would expect third-quarter NII to decline around 1% compared to the second quarter or up over 2% from the third quarter of 2020. Given the continued strength throughout our businesses, we expect full-year fees to increase 7 to 8% compared to 2020 or 8 to 9% excluding the impact of the TRA. Our outlook assumes a continued healthy economy, as well as our ongoing success taking market share as a result of our investments in talent and capabilities, resulting in stronger processing revenue, capital markets fees, and wealth and asset management revenue, which will be partially offset by mortgage declines. Additionally, as we discussed in January, we expect to generate private equity gains from several of our direct investments in venture capital funds throughout 2021, potentially exceeding the 2020 level of $75 million. We have recognized around $30 million in gains through the first half of 2021, which we expect to double in the second half of 2021. We expect third-quarter total fees to be relatively stable from the second quarter and would be up mid-to-high single digits year over year. In the mortgage business, we expect revenue throughout the second half of the year to benefit from lower asset decay and higher servicing fees. The top-line revenue is expected to decline high single digits year over year due to continued headwinds from margin compression. Our fee outlook does not incorporate a pre-tax gain of approximately $60 million associated with the sale of our HSA business that is expected to close in the third quarter. We do plan to redeploy half of that gain in the third quarter, split evenly between a $15 million donation to the Fifth Third foundation that will complete our previously announced philanthropy commitment to accelerating racial equality and inclusion in our communities and a $15 million additional marketing program, supporting momentum given the upside potential we see in that product. We expect full-year expenses to be up 2 to 3% given our strong revenue outlook and the continued servicing costs from the loan portfolio purchases, as well as the incremental expenses associated with the Provide acquisition. On a sequential basis, we expect expenses to be down 1%, excluding the redeployment of half of the HSA gain. As we recently discussed, we expect to consolidate 42 branches, primarily in our legacy Midwest footprint, which we expect to complete in early 2022. Additionally, we've opened five branches so far this year and plan to add approximately 25 more Southeast in-market de novo branches in the second half of 2021. All run-rate branch impacts are included in our outlook. We generated year-over-year positive operating leverage this quarter, and we expect to continue to generate positive operating leverage for the second half of 2021, reflecting our expense actions, our continued success growing our fee-based businesses, and our proactive balance sheet management. We expect total net charge-offs in 2021 to be 20 to 25 basis points given the strong first-half performance and assuming our base case scenario continues to play out. Third-quarter losses are likely to be in the 15 to 20-basis-point range. In summary, our second-quarter results were strong and continue to demonstrate the progress we have made over the past few years toward achieving our goal of outperformance through the cycle. We will continue to rely on the same principles of disciplined client selection, conservative underwriting, and a focus on a long-term performance horizon, which has served us well during this environment. With that, let me turn it over to Chris to open the call up for Q&A.Chris Doll -- Director of Investor Relations Thanks, Jamie. Before we start Q&A, as a courtesy to others, we ask that you limit yourself to one question and a follow-up and then return to the queue if you have additional questions. We will do our best to answer as many questions as possible in the time we have this morning. Operator, please open the call up for questions. 