  OperatorGood day, and welcome to the Altria Group 2022 first quarter earnings conference call. Today's call is scheduled to last about an hour, including remarks by Altria's management and a question-and-answer session. Representatives of the investment community and media on the call will be able to ask questions following the conclusion of the prepared remarks. I would now like to turn the call over to Mac Livingston, vice president of investor relations for Altria client services. Please go ahead, sir.Mac Livingston -- Vice President of Investor Relations

 



 Thanks, Gretchen. Good morning and thank you for joining us. This morning, Billy Gifford, Altria's CEO; and Sal Mancuso, our CFO, will discuss Altria's first quarter business results. Earlier today, we issued a press release providing our results. The release, presentation, quarterly metrics and our latest corporate responsibility reports are all available at altria.com. During our call today, unless otherwise stated, we're comparing results to the same period in 2021. Our remarks contain forward-looking and cautionary statements and projections of future results. Please review the forward-looking and cautionary statements section at the end of today's earnings release for various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections.Future dividend payments and share repurchases remain subject to the discretion of Altria's board. Altria reports its financial results in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Today's call will contain various operating results on both a reported and adjusted basis. Adjusted results exclude special items that affect comparisons with reported results. Descriptions of the non-GAAP financial measures and reconciliations are included in today's earnings release and on our website at altria.com. Finally, all references in today's remarks to tobacco consumers or consumers within a specific tobacco category or segment refer to existing adult tobacco consumers 21 years of age or older. With that, I'll turn the call over to Billy. 

 



Billy Gifford -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Mac. Good morning and thank you for joining us. We're off to a strong start to the year and believe our businesses are on track to deliver against their full year plans. Our tobacco businesses performed well in a challenging macroeconomic environment, and we continue to make progress toward our vision to responsibly lead the transition of adult smokers to a smoke-free future. Let's start with a review of the macroeconomic backdrop and its impact on U.S. tobacco consumers. In January, the surge of Omicron cases disrupted consumers' routines and purchasing patterns, resulting in short-term decreases in retail trips and overall tobacco volumes. Increased inflation throughout the quarter pressured discretionary income levels as the Consumer Price Index reached a four-year high in March and higher gas prices were exacerbated by the Russian invasion of Ukraine. However, the rise in inflation was partially offset by improved employment metrics and increased wage growth for some consumers. The unemployment rate was 3.6% at the end of March, down from 6% in March of 2021. Total wages grew by nearly 5% in the first quarter compared to 8% average inflation. For some occupations, wage growth outpaced inflation, including occupations that over-indexed toward tobacco consumers.

 



 For example, wages grew 11% for production related jobs and nearly 10% for jobs pertaining to transportation and materials moving. Additionally, the pressures of inflation were also offset for some consumers by higher federal income tax refunds. In the first quarter, the average federal income tax refund payment issued by the IRS increased by approximately 12%. We do expect inflation to persist for the balance of the year, however, and we will continue to monitor its effect on tobacco consumers. Moving to our consolidated results. Altria delivered strong first quarter performance in this dynamic environment, growing adjusted diluted earnings per share by 4.7%. Adjusted EPS growth was primarily driven by higher operating companies' income and fewer shares outstanding, partially offset by lower adjusted earnings from our ABI investment. In the smokeable products segment, we continued to execute our strategy of maximizing profitability in combustibles while appropriately balancing investments in Marlboro with funding the growth of smoke-free products. First quarter smokeable segment adjusted OCI increased 5.7% and Marlboro retail share was stable sequentially. We believe Marlboro's share performance through this period reflects its continued strong brand equity among smokers. We believe the investments we have made behind data analytics and revenue growth management provide us with the right tools to support the smokeable strategies. These tools include PM USA's manufacturer-supported off-invoice program, which enables more efficient resource deployment for Marlboro, as well as retail trade programs with multiple options designed to provide retailers with store-level solutions for our brands. We believe these capabilities position our smokeable businesses to navigate the current environment and to continue to deliver strong profitability in support of our vision and shareholder returns. Turning to our smoke-free product portfolio. We're excited by the performance of on! and oral nicotine pouches. On! reported shipment volume nearly doubled to 18 million cans in the first quarter. At retail, on! share of all tobacco increased by 2.5 percentage points, reaching 4.1%. As we shared at CAGNY, on!'s share growth has been primarily driven by repeat purchases from existing on! consumers and increased tobacco consumer trial. We are encouraged that these dynamics continued into the first quarter. At the category level, oral nicotine pouches reached a total oral tobacco retail share of 19.3 percentage points in the first quarter. The category grew 6.1 share points year over year, with on! representing more than 40% of this growth. We believe the brand continues to be a highly competitive product in the space, and it continues to perform well in all regions of the U.S. As a reminder, our premarket tobacco applications for the entire oral portfolio remain pending with the FDA. And we believe the FDA should determine that the marketing of these products is appropriate for the protection of public health. We are also actively working on Modified-Risk Tobacco Product applications for on! We believe MRTP claims will provide impactful points of differentiation for the brand and important tools in educating and ultimately transitioning smokers to less harmful products. In e-vapor, we estimate that total category volume increased 10% versus the year-ago period and increased 4% sequentially as a result of increased volume in the vape store channel. Our minority investment in JUUL remains subject to challenge by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission. In February, an administrative law judge found in favor of Altria and JUUL and dismissed the entirety of the FTC's claims. The FTC is appealing that decision to the FTC. Any decision by the FTC is subject to appeal in federal appellate court. In heated tobacco, our teams are continuing to work with PMI on IQOS reentry plans, and we will keep you informed on developments as circumstances warrant. There is no change to our expectations regarding IQOS product availability. Moving to the regulatory environment. president Biden signed a bill last month to bring synthetic nicotine products under FDA regulation by updating the definition of a tobacco product within the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to include any product that contains nicotine, including synthetic nicotine products. The bill allows manufacturers of synthetic nicotine products currently on market to keep those products on the market for 120 days after the bill's enactment provided that they have submitted a PMTA for those products by May 14. Unless the FDA grants a PMTA within that time period, the products become unlawful and subject to the FDA's enforcement discretion. The bill creates a certain exception for this review period for those circumstances where the FDA issued a denial of a marketing order and the manufacturer thereafter marketed the product with synthetic nicotine. We believe this legislation is an important step toward the creation of a responsible, smoke-free marketplace consisting solely of FDA-authorized products. In combustibles, the FDA has indicated that it is on track to issue proposed. In combustibles, the FDA has indicated that it is on track to issue proposed product standards this month regarding menthol and cigarettes and characterizing flavors in cigars. As a reminder, the FDA rule making process has multiple steps and provides several opportunities for stakeholders to provide input. Underage smoking is at the lowest level in a generation, and efforts to prohibit the legal sale of products to adults, as we have seen with alcohol prohibition and cannabis criminalization, have consistently failed. Prohibition pushes products into illegal markets that lack regulatory oversight and lack underage prevention. We believe equitable harm reduction is a better public policy approach to reducing smoking and improving public health. This means manufacturers must develop and the FDA authorize an array of potentially reduced-harm alternatives that can appeal to and transition smokers across all backgrounds and demographic groups. We expect to be actively engaged in providing our perspective to the FDA throughout the process. We remain optimistic about the future of harm reduction in the U.S. We believe we have an unprecedented opportunity to lead the way in shifting millions of smokers away from cigarettes. We're encouraged that the FDA has started authorizing smoke-free products. But more needs to be done to build a marketplace of authorized reduced-harm products that smokers can consider as they move away from cigarettes. Our tobacco businesses delivered extraordinary results in a challenging and dynamic environment, and this cannot be done without the passion, resiliency and fierce determination of our employees. Their talent and dedication continue to give me confidence in our ability to move beyond smoking. I'll now turn it over to Sal to provide more detail on the business environment and our results.Sal Mancuso -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Billy. I'd like to begin with a discussion on the inflationary environment, which was exacerbated by the Russian invasion of Ukraine. We continue to monitor the potential impacts to our operations and supply chain, and we are actively working to mitigate risk. Thanks to the hard work of our teams, we have not experienced a material adverse impact from these events. While our company will continue to monitor the situation, our hearts go out to the suffering Ukrainian people and to all of those affected by the war. Moving to our businesses. The smokeable products segment delivered excellent financial performance once again. In the first quarter, the segment grew its adjusted OCI by 5.7% and expanded its adjusted OCI margins to 59.5%. The segment also reported strong net price realization of 9.2%. First quarter smokeable segment reported domestic cigarette volumes declined 6.3%. When adjusted for trade inventory movements and other factors, we estimate that segment domestic cigarette volumes for the first quarter declined by 8% and that industry volumes declined by 6.5% over the same period. We believe it's important to analyze cigarette volume trends over the longer term as decline rates in any one period can be influenced by various factors. In fact, the two-year average decline rates for first quarter adjusted smokeable segment and industry cigarette volume declines were 5.5% and 4.5%, respectively. In the marketplace, Marlboro demonstrated strength and resilience during a dynamic period for consumers. In the first quarter, Marlboro's retail share of the category was 42.6%, stable sequentially and down 0.4 versus the year ago period. Marlboro also maintained its leadership among premium brands, growing its share of the premium segment to 57.8%, up 0.2 sequentially and versus year ago. And in discount, total share of the cigarette category in the first quarter increased 0.3 sequentially to 26.4% driven primarily by deep discount products. We believe the share increases in discount were due to the previously mentioned macroeconomic factors that affected tobacco consumers in the first quarter. In cigars, Middleton continued to provide strong contributions to smokeable segment financial results, and we are encouraged by the continued strength of the iconic Black & Mild brand. Reported cigar shipment volume decreased 9.6% in the first quarter, primarily driven by trade inventory movements. To date, Middleton is successfully navigating the regulatory environment with the support of our regulatory affairs team, having received market orders or exemptions from the FDA covering over 99% of its volume. Of course, as Billy mentioned earlier, we will continue to monitor the FDA's proposed product standard on characterizing flavors in cigars and its potential impact to Middleton's portfolio. We expect to be actively engaged in providing our perspective throughout the rule making process. Moving to the oral tobacco products segment, adjusted OCI and adjusted OCI margins contracted in the first quarter primarily due to the increased investments behind on! Total segment reported shipment volume decreased 1.9%. When adjusted for trade inventory movements and calendar differences, we estimate that total oral tobacco segment volumes were unchanged. At the industry level, total oral tobacco volume growth moderated to 1.5% over the past six months. We continue to observe steady growth from the oral nicotine pouch category, but this has been offset by declining moist smokeless tobacco volumes as a result of difficult comparison periods and the macroeconomic challenges facing tobacco consumers. Retail share for the oral tobacco products segment declined 1.1 percentage points in the first quarter as declines in MST offset strong share gains for on!. We remain pleased with the overall performance of the segment as Copenhagen continues to generate significant income in the high-margin MST category, and we remain excited about the performance of on! Turning to our investment in ABI, we recorded $141 million of adjusted equity earnings in the first quarter, down 25.8% versus the prior year. As we have previously shared, we view our ABI stake as a financial investment, and our goal is to maximize the long-term value of the investment for our shareholders. Moving to capital allocation and our financial outlook. We remain committed to creating long-term shareholder value through the pursuit of our vision and our significant capital returns. In the first quarter, we paid approximately $1.6 billion in dividends and repurchased approximately 11.3 million shares totaling $576 million. We have approximately $1.2 billion remaining under the currently authorized $3.5 billion share repurchase program, which we expect to complete by year-end. We reaffirm our guidance to deliver 2022 full year adjusted diluted EPS in a range of $4.79 to $4.93. This range represents an adjusted diluted EPS growth rate of 4% to 7% from a $4.61 base in 2021. We continue to expect that 2022 adjusted diluted EPS growth will be weighted toward the second half of the year. Before opening it up to Q&A, I'd like to comment on our recent ESG progress. Whilst harm reduction and underage use remain the most important social issues for our company to address, we have committed to make advancements in other ESG areas. At Altria, we are committed to reducing our environmental impact and recently announced our first virtual power purchase agreement for energy produced by a new wind farm project in Texas. This agreement marks significant progress toward two of our science-based environmental targets. Achieving 100% renewable electricity and reducing operational greenhouse gas emissions 55% by 2030. When the project is operational, we expect we will hit both those targets ahead of schedule. We're proud to support a project that will bring additional renewable energy to the electricity grid, contributing to positive climate action. With that, we'll wrap up, and Billy and I will be happy to take your questions. While the calls are being compiled, I'll remind you that today's earnings release and our non-GAAP reconciliations are available on altria.com. We've also posted our usual quarterly metrics, which include pricing, inventory and other items. Let's open the question-and-answer period. Operator, do we have any questions? 