
OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Third Quarter Results for SBA. [Operator Instructions]I'd now like to turn the conference over to Vice President of Finance, Mark DeRussy. Please go ahead.Mark DeRussy -- Vice President, Finance

 



Good evening, and thank you for joining us for SBA's third quarter 2021 earnings conference call. Here with me today are Jeff Stoops, our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Brendan Cavanagh, our Chief Financial Officer.Some of the information we will discuss on this call is forward-looking, including, but not limited to, any guidance for 2021 and beyond. In today's press release and in our SEC filings, we detail material risks that may cause our future results to differ from our expectations. Our statements are as of today, November 1, and we have no obligation to update any forward-looking statements we may make. In addition, our comments will include non-GAAP financial measures and other key operating metrics. The reconciliation of and other information regarding these items can be found in our supplemental financial data package, which is located on the landing page of our Investor Relations website.With that, I will now turn the call over to Brendan to discuss our third quarter results.Brendan T. Cavanagh -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

 



Thank you, Mark. Good evening. SBA had another great quarter with financial and operating results ahead of our expectations and continued strong momentum into the end of the year. Total GAAP site leasing revenues for the third quarter were $535.5 million and cash site leasing revenues were $525.1 million. Foreign exchange rates were generally in line with our previously forecasted FX rate estimates for the quarter. They were a tailwind though on comparisons to the third quarter of 2020, positively impacting revenues by $3.2 million on a year-over-year basis.Same tower recurring cash leasing revenue growth for the third quarter, which is calculated on a constant currency basis, was 3.6% over the third quarter of 2020, including the impact of 2.5% of churn. On a gross basis, same tower growth was 6.1%. Domestic same tower recurring cash leasing revenue growth over the third quarter of last year was 5.7% on a gross basis and 3.3% on a net basis, including 2.4% of churn.Domestic operational leasing activity or bookings, representing new revenue placed under contract during the third quarter, was at a similar level to the second quarter, which had represented the highest quarterly level since 2014. Even with this high level of execution, our domestic new lease and new amendment application backlog continue to grow during the quarter and finished the quarter higher and at a new multi-year high.These backlogs support our expectations for continued strong domestic operational leasing activity throughout the balance of this year and into 2022. During the third quarter, amendment activity represented 45% of our domestic bookings with 55% coming from new leases. The Big 4 carriers of AT&T, T-Mobile, Verizon and DISH represented 96% of total incremental domestic leasing revenue signed up during the quarter.

 



Internationally, on a constant currency basis, same tower cash leasing revenue growth was 5.2% net, including 2.7% of churn or 7.9% on a gross basis. International leasing activity increased again quarter-over-quarter and was the highest in over a year. Churn grew some in the quarter as well and is anticipated to increase further as we experienced the impact of carrier consolidations and other network and contract modifications in Central America.In Brazil, our largest international market, we had another quarter of increased leasing activity. Gross same tower organic growth in Brazil was 9.5% on a constant currency basis. During the third quarter, 84.5% of consolidated cash site leasing revenue was denominated in U.S. dollars. The majority of non-U.S. denominated revenue was from Brazil, with Brazil representing 11.7% of consolidated cash site leasing revenues during the quarter and 8.4% of cash site leasing revenue, excluding revenues from pass through expenses.Tower cash flow for the third quarter was $428.1 million. Our tower cash flow margins remained very strong with the third quarter domestic tower cash flow margin of 84.6% and an international tower cash flow margin of 69.9% or 90.8% excluding the impact of pass through reimbursable expenses. Adjusted EBITDA in the third quarter was $407 million. The adjusted EBITDA margin was 70.3% in the quarter. Excluding the impact of revenues from pass through expenses, adjusted EBITDA margin was 74.7%. Approximately 97% of our total adjusted EBITDA was attributable to our tower leasing business in the third quarter.During the third quarter, our services business produced record results for the second quarter in a row with $53.8 million in revenue and $12.5 million of segment operating profit. Activity levels remained very high in the quarter and backlogs also continue to grow, finishing the quarter at another all-time high level in our company's history. Based on our strong third quarter and the growing backlog, we have increased our full year 2021 outlook for site development revenue for the third quarter in a row. Now expecting $200 million of site development revenue at the midpoint of outlook range.AFFO in the third quarter was $302.5 million. AFFO per share was $2.71, an increase of 13.9% over the third quarter of 2020. During the third quarter, we continued to expand our portfolio, acquiring 144 communication sites for total cash consideration of $57.1 million. We also built 87 new sites in the quarter. Subsequent to quarter end, we have purchased or are under agreement to purchase approximately 1,700 additional sites in our existing markets for an aggregate price of $231 million, including approximately 1,400 sites and approximately $175 million related to the previously announced deal to acquire towers from Airtel Tanzania.We anticipate closing on these sites under contract by the end of the second quarter of next year. And we anticipate the Airtel Tanzania transaction to close in stages starting in the fourth quarter of this year. Consistent with our prior outlook, our updated 2021 outlook assumes that the Airtel acquisition closes at the end of the year. And thus, we have included the entire purchase price in our outlook for discretionary capital expenditures, but we have included no revenue or tower cash flow associated with these assets.In addition to new tower assets, we also continue to invest in the land under our sites. During the quarter, we spent an aggregate $11.6 million to buy land and easements and to extend ground lease terms. At the end of the quarter, we owned or controlled for more than 20 years the land underneath approximately 72% of our towers. And the average remaining life under our ground leases, including renewal options under our control is approximately 37 years.In this afternoon's earnings press release, we included our updated outlook for full year 2021. Notwithstanding our assumption of weaker fourth quarter foreign exchange rates, our updated outlook includes increased expectations for site leasing revenue, site development revenue, tower cash flow, adjusted EBITDA, AFFO and AFFO per share. These increases result from high services activity levels with our carrier customers, anticipated timing shifts in domestic consolidation churn, reduced cash interest expense as a result of recent refinancings and the impact of recent share repurchases. We anticipate that our strong domestic leasing bookings during the second and third quarters will be supportive of improved incremental organic domestic leasing revenue in 2022, which we will share on our fourth quarter earnings call.With that, I will now turn things over to Mark, who will provide an update on our liquidity position and balance sheet.Mark DeRussy -- Vice President, FinanceThanks, Brendan. We ended the quarter with $11.9 billion of total debt and $11.7 billion of net debt. Our net debt to annualized adjusted EBITDA leverage ratio was 7.2 times. Our third quarter net cash interest coverage ratio of adjusted EBITDA, the net cash interest expense, was 4.6 times the highest in the company's history. On July 7, the company amended its revolving credit facility.Among other things, the amendment increased the total commitment under the facility from $1.25 billion to $1.5 billion, extended the maturity date of the facility through July 7, 2026, lowered the applicable interest rate margins and commitment fees under the facility and incorporated sustainability linked targets into the facility allowing for interest rate and commitment fee adjusted -- adjustments based on how we perform against those targets. As of today, we have no amounts outstanding under our revolver.On October 14, the company repaid at par the entire aggregate principal amount of the 2013-2C Tower Securities, which had an anticipated repayment date of April 11, 2023. On October 27, the company through an existing trust issued $895 million of 1.84% Secured Tower Revenue Securities Series 2021-2C, which have an anticipated repayment date of April 9, 2027 and a final maturity date of October 10, 2051 and $895 million of 2.593% Secured Tower Revenue Securities Series 2021-3C, which have an anticipated repayment date of October 9, 2031 and a final maturity date of October 10, 2056. The aggregate, $1.79 billion of these Tower Securities have a blended interest rate of 2.217% and a weighted average life through the anticipated repayment date of 7.8 years.Net proceeds from this offering will be used to repay amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility and remaining proceeds will be used to redeem the entire aggregate $1.1 billion principal amount of the 2016 4.875% senior notes and to pay all premiums and costs associated with such redemption. Pro forma for these financing activities, the weighted average interest rate of our outstanding debt drops to 2.6% with a weighted average maturity of approximately five years and the interest rate on 97% of our outstanding debt is fixed.During the third quarter, we repurchased approximately 440,000 shares of our common stock for $150 million at an average price per share of $340.70. Subsequent to September 13, we repurchased an additional 601,000 shares for $200 million at an average price per share of $332.72. Combined, the average purchase price for the $350 million of repurchases was $336.09 per share. All the shares repurchased were retired. After these repurchases, we had $125 million of repurchased authorization remaining under our subsequently replaced $1 billion stock repurchase plan.On October 28, the company's Board of Directors authorized a new $1 billion stock repurchase plan replacing the prior plan. The new plan has no time deadline and will continue until otherwise modified or terminated by the company's Board of Directors at any time in its sole discretion. As of today, the company has the full $1 billion of authorization remaining under the new plan.The company's shares outstanding at September 30, 2021 were 109.5 million compared to 111.4 million at September 30, 2020, a reduction of 1.8%. In addition, during the quarter, we declared and paid a cash dividend of $63.6 million or $0.58 per share. And today, we announced that our board of directors declared a fourth quarter dividend of $0.58 per share, payable on December 16, 2021 to shareholder of record as of the close of business on November 18, 2021. Today's dividend announcement represents a payout ratio of 21% of third quarter AFFO per share, which leaves us ample room for material future dividend growth.With that, I'll now turn the call over to Jeff.Jeffrey A. Stoops -- Director, President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Mark, and good evening, everyone. We had another very good quarter in the third quarter exceeding our own expectations. As you've heard, we continue to see very high levels of carrier activity in our U.S. business. Each of our major customers was busy in the quarter. Verizon beginning their C-Band deployments, T-Mobile continuing their ubiquitous deployment of their 600 megahertz and 2.5 gigahertz spectrum, DISH continuing their torrid pace from the second quarter, signing up new agreements to facilitate the build out of their brand new nationwide 5G network and AT&T remaining steady.Notwithstanding the high levels of new leasing revenue that we signed up during the third quarter, we still finished the quarter at a new multi-year high backlog of pending leases and amendment applications. Based on this backlog and conversations with our customers, we expect to continue seeing elevated domestic leasing activities through the balance of this year and well into 2022.In addition to high domestic leasing activity levels, we produced record services revenue in the third quarter, surpassing our second quarter record. Our customers are all focused on building out their 5G networks, particularly targeting upgrades to their macro networks. Similar to our domestic leasing backlogs, our services backlog continued to grow during the quarter and reached a new all-time high for the company at quarter end. The strong third quarter performance and growing backlogs have allowed us to increase our full year outlook for all revenue-related line items.Internationally, we began to see our markets starting to return to pre-pandemic levels of activity. We again produced quarter-over-quarter sequential increases in new lease and amendment executions and ended up with solid leasing results in the third quarter that were ahead of plan. During the quarter, we signed up 55% of new international revenue through new leases and 45% through amendments so existing leases. Our largest contributors to our leasing results came from Brazil and South Africa, our two largest international markets.As our international markets continue to recover from the pandemic and upcoming spectrum auctions across a number of our markets are planned, including Brazil, which will put more spectrum into the hands of our customers, we expect to continue to see growth in the level of network investment made by our carrier customers over the next several years. We executed very well for our customers in the quarter, and we are committed to continue to do so during these future expected periods of increased demand.In addition to our strong third quarter operating results, we continue to improve our positioning with regard to our balance sheet and returning capital to our shareholders. During the third quarter, we increased the size of all our revolving credit facility, extended the term and improved the pricing. Subsequent to quarter end, we completed a new $1.79 billion securitization financing, refinancing some existing securitization debt and using the remaining proceeds to shortly repay our $1.1 billion of 4.875% 2024 unsecured notes.The weighted average interest rate of these new securities is 2.2% and the weighted average term is 7.8 years. The net result of these financing activities will be annual cash interest savings of approximately $35 million. This financing was a particularly positive outcome for SBA as we also achieved the highest debt capacity in our long history of ABS financing.As Mark mentioned earlier, our pro forma weighted average interest rate across all of our debt dropped to 2.6%, our lowest ever. And we ended the quarter at 7.2 times net debt to annualized adjusted EBITDA, well in the middle of our target range of 7 to 7.5 turns. Our ability to continue to drive our liquidity position higher, lower our cost of debt and extend out our maturity dates gives us great flexibility in operating the business and allocating capital into additional investments for the benefit of our shareholders. The combination of low cost debt and our expectations around future AFFO per share growth should make stock repurchases at the levels we have been buying very accretive to future AFFO per share.During the quarter, we continued to add to our portfolio through both building and acquiring new sites. We also signed up agreements to purchase additional sites and anticipate closing on the majority of our Tanzania transaction by year end. In addition to portfolio growth, we continue to opportunistically buyback stock, repurchasing over 1 million shares since our last earnings call. And our announced fourth quarter dividend represents an increase of 25% over the dividend paid in the fourth quarter of last year. We feel very good about our current capital structure and ability to allocate capital to generate incremental value for our shareholders.We're in a very good time for the industry and for SBA specifically. Our customers are very busy. Our financial position is very strong. And the future continues to hold many opportunities for us. We're excited about pursuing those opportunities, and I want to thank our team members and our customers for their commitment and their contributions to our success. I look forward to sharing our year end results with you next quarter.And with that, Ryan, we are now ready for questions.