  OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Textron second-quarter earnings call 2021. [Operator instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to our host, Mr. Eric Salander, vice president of investor relations. Please go ahead, sir.Eric Salander -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thanks, Tony, and good morning, everyone. Before we begin, I'd like to mention we will be discussing future estimates and expectations during our call today. These forward-looking statements are subject to various risk factors, which are detailed in our SEC filings and also in today's press release. On the call today, we have Scott Donnelly, Textron's chairman and CEO; and Frank Connor, our chief financial officer. Our earnings call presentation can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website. Revenues in the quarter were $3.2 billion, up from $2.5 billion in last year's second quarter. During this year's second quarter, we reported net income of $0.81 per share. Adjusted net income, a non-GAAP measure, was also $0.81 per share for the second quarter of 2021, compared to $0.13 per share in the second quarter of 2020.Segment profit in the quarter was $289 million, up from $82 million in the second quarter of 2020. Manufacturing cash flow before pension contributions totaled $509 million, up $294 million from last year's second quarter. With that, I'll turn the call over to Scott. Scott Donnelly -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Eric, and good morning, everyone. We had a strong second quarter with higher revenues across all of our manufacturing segments, operating margins of 9.1%, and strong cash generation. The Bell revenues were up in the quarter on higher commercial revenues, partially offset by lower military revenues. On the commercial side of Bell, we delivered 47 helicopters, up from 27 in last year's second quarter. We continue to see strong commercial demand and solid order activity in the quarter across all our commercial models, both domestically and internationally and across multiple end markets, including corporate, private, utility and EMS. Moving to future vertical lift in June following 214 flight hours over three years, Bell retired the V-280 Valor demonstrator aircraft. Over this three-year period, the Valor successfully demonstrated all key performance parameters from the FA program, including low-speed agility, long-range crews, 305-knot high-speed flights, autonomous flight, and rapid Mission Systems integration. On July 6, the Army issued the FARA RFP. The program remains on track to the Army schedule with bids due in September, followed by down-selected award in the second quarter of 2022. On FARA, Bell is about 45% of the way through its build of a 36V prototype. And lastly, Bell announced plans for new systems integration lab in Arlington to provide integration, verification, and validation in on aircraft emission systems needed to meet the requirements for both FPL programs. Moving to Textron Systems. We saw another strong quarter execution with operating margins of 14.4%, up 310 basis points from last quarter. We saw a strong performance at ATAC driven by increased flight activity, led by our F1 fleet on the U.S. Air Force cash program, where we have made significant investments over the last few years. In June, C Systems delivered the third ship to shore Connector, Cat12 to the U.S. Navy. As development contract portion of this program continues to wind down through the remainder of 2021, we expect to see revenue growth and margin expansion on the program as we increase our activity on the production contract. Also in the quarter, Land Systems delivered the fourth and final Rip Solium 5 vehicle to the U.S. Army for RCV medium program. The customer will be an integration and testing the preparation for the 2022 soldier operational experiment. Land Systems also unveiled the Cottonmouth, vehicle purpose built for the U.S. Marine Corps advanced connaissance vehicle program selected for further prototype development under an anticipated OTA contract award. Offsetting higher revenues in most of its operating units in the quarter, we did experience some top-line pressure at Air Systems largely related to the reduction in hours of our fee-for-service activities due to the U.S. Army's Afghanistan withdrawal and impact of the sale of the True Simulation business earlier this year. At aviation, revenues were up in the quarter on higher volumes for Citation jets and commercial turboprops as well as in our aftermarket business. We delivered 44 jets, up from 23 last year and 33 commercial turboprops, up from 15 in last year's second quarter. We continue to see strong commercial demand and order activity for our aircraft, which resulted in backlog growth of $689 million to $2.7 billion at quarter end. Through the first half of the year, we recorded over $1.1 billion of backlog growth in aviation. Both the Citation Longitude and Citation CJ4 Gen 2 received the ASO-type certification in the quarter. These certifications are expected to generate additional demand opportunities for each of these models. On the new product front, SeaSkyCar aircraft certification program has now accumulated over 1,200 flight hours and continues to progress well as we work toward entering the service targeted for later this year. Moving to industrial. Revenues and margins were up at both Caltex and specialized vehicles from last year's second quarter, primarily due to higher volume and mix at each of the businesses. At Caltex, despite the higher revenues, we've experienced order disruptions related to the global auto OEM supply chain shortages, which have directly impacted our production scheduling, resulting in intermittent line shutdowns and manufacturing efficiencies. At specialized vehicles, we saw higher revenues and improved operating performance from a strong retail pricing environment driven by continued high customer demand in our end markets. While we've experienced continued strong retail demand for our products, we have been impacted by our supply chain's ability to fully meet this demand, and we continue to work through these production challenges. In summary, we continue to see increased commercial order flow at Aviation and Bell, solid execution in our military businesses, strong retail demand for our products, the Industrial segment and improved cash generation that all contributed to the second-quarter performance and our improved EPS and cash outlook. With that, I'll turn the call over to Frank.Frank Connor -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Scott, and good morning, everyone. Let's review how each of the segments contributed, starting with Textron Aviation. Revenues at Textron Aviation of $1.2 billion were up $414 million from a year ago. largely due to higher Citation jet volume of $174 million, aftermarket volume of $98 million and commercial turboprop volume of $75 million. Segment profit was $96 million in the second quarter, up $162 million from last year's second quarter due to the higher volume and mix of $117 million, a favorable impact from performance of $34 million and favorable pricing net of inflation of $11 million. Backlog in the segment ended the quarter at $2.7 billion. Moving to Bell. Revenues were $891 million, up $69 million from last year on higher commercial revenues of $99 million, partially offset by lower military revenues. Segment profit of $110 million was down $8 million, primarily due to higher research and development costs in the quarter, largely related to the future vertical lift programs. Backlog in the segment ended the quarter at $4.8 billion. At Textron Systems, revenues were $333 million, up $7 million from a year ago. Segment profit of $48 million was up $11 million due to a favorable impact from performance. Backlog in the segment ended the quarter at $2.3 billion. Industrial revenues of $794 million were up $232 million from last year with $169 million from fuel systems and functional components and $63 million from specialized vehicles, largely reflecting higher volume and mix. Segment profit was $32 million, up $43 million from the second quarter of 2020, primarily due to the higher volume and mix at each of the businesses. Finance segment revenues were $12 million and profit was $3 million. Moving below segment profit. Corporate expenses were $37 million and interest expense was $32 million. With respect to our 2020 restructuring plan, we recorded a pre-tax charge of $4 million on the special charges line. We had another strong quarter of cash generation, reflecting our focus on working capital management across the segments and cash deposits from strong order activity at aviation. Our manufacturing cash flow before pension contributions was $509 million, $294 million higher than last year's second quarter. In the quarter, we repurchased approximately 3 million shares, returning $96 million in cash to shareholders, and we repaid at par $250 million of 5.95% notes with a stated maturity of September 2021. Following these activities, we ended the second quarter with approximately $2.2 billion of cash on the balance sheet. To wrap up, we now expect our full-year tax rate to be 16%, reflecting increased tax credits related to higher qualifying domestic investments in R&D. We are raising our expected full-year guidance for adjusted EPS to a range of $3 to $3.20 per share, up $0.20 from our prior outlook. We're also raising our outlook for manufacturing cash flow before pension contributions to a range of $800 million to $900 million, up $200 million from our prior outlook, with planned pension contributions of $50 million. That concludes our prepared remarks. So, operator, we can open the line for questions. 