  OperatorWelcome to Salesforce's fiscal 2022 first-quarter results conference call. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. After the speakers' presentation, there'll be a question-and-answer session. [Operator instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator instructions] I would like to hand the conference over to your speaker, Mr. Evan Goldstein, senior vice president of investor relations. Sir, you may begin.Evan Goldstein -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Chantal. Hello, everyone, and thanks for joining us for our fiscal '22 first-quarter conference call. I'm Evan Goldstein, senior vice president of investor relations. Our press release, SEC filings, and a replay of today's call can be found on our IR website at www.salesforce.com/investor. With me on the call today is Marc Benioff, chair and CEO; Amy Weaver, president and CFO; Bret Taylor, president and COO; and Gavin Patterson, president and chief revenue officer. As a reminder, our commentary today will primarily be in non-GAAP terms. Reconciliations between our GAAP and non-GAAP results and guidance can be found in our earnings press release. Some of our comments today may contain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions.In particular, our expectations around the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, acquisitions, results of operations and financial condition, and that of our customers and partners are uncertain and subject to change. Should any of these materialize or should our assumptions prove to be incorrect, actual company results could differ materially from these forward-looking statements. A description of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and other factors that could affect our financial results is included in our SEC filings, including our most recent report on Form 10-K. With that, let me hand the call to Marc. Marc Benioff -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Well, thank you so much, Evan, and thank you for everyone on being on the call today. I mean, it's just going to be a great call. I'll tell you this is the best quarter Salesforce has ever had. It was just a phenomenal Q1, and everyone is so excited to do this call with you and to talk about it and also just to talk about so many of the things that are important to Salesforce because everyone knows business is the greatest platform for change. We do believe that you can do well and do good at the same time. And before we go into these incredible results, we just want to let everybody know that our hearts and prayers are with all of our Ohana in India. They're on our mind every day, and we're so sorry for everything that they are going through. So I am now here with Amy and Bret and Gavin and Evan as well, and I'll just tell you that we're all vaccinated. We're grateful that we can be together. We're grateful that we are in a moment where we've been able to do that. We just finished a two-day off-site with our top managers from around the world. This is our third off-site we've done. We've done about eight total management off-sites and through the miracle of testing and now through the miracle of vaccinations and the ability to get back into business and be in person, we're just grateful for that. We definitely are missing each other, and it's been great to be able to run our business in person and to open our offices. Amy and I were in our offices on Monday in San Francisco, together on our Ohana floor and it just was an emotional moment to know that we're back and that our Ohana are back in the offices and that we're opening back up. This is just a critical time.

 



 So it's an amazing quarter, and it's juxtapose against -- the pandemic is not over everywhere, but it's starting to be over somewhere and certainly in San Francisco, where we have 850,000 people, but we only had a couple dozen infections per day last week. So it's a great moment. So we're grateful. We're grateful for this incredible performance by our team. We're grateful for the phenomenal quarter. It far exceeded our expectations. And I've just never seen a quarter like this. I mean, Gavin will go into the details. Bret will go into the details. It was just incredible. It was beyond our expectation. It's not just the best first quarter we've ever had. I think it's the best quarter we've ever had. We delivered $5.96 billion in revenue. It was up 23% year over year. Just the customer velocity, the pipelines, the growth of the company, the ability for the teams to interact and have a huge impact, it was just awesome. We delivered $3.2 billion in operating cash flow, and as a percentage of our revenue, it's just amazing what Salesforce can do today. Salesforce as a company, I said doing well and doing good. I mean, here's the doing well part, $3.2 billion in cash flow on $5.96 billion in revenue, and that's up 74% year over year, reflecting the strong performance we've had since the impact of the pandemic began last year. Operating margin, again -- and a huge call out here to Amy, and I'm going to talk more about Amy's amazing performance for the company and how she's rebuilt this incredible operating margin model and operating model and how she's really kind of almost redesigning the company from the bottom up. It's awesome, what she's been doing. And you can see it here. Operating margin in the quarter was a healthy 20.2%. You look at the last four quarters, now starting Q2 of last year, Q3, Q4 and now Q1, our margin, our revenue, our cash flow, it's awesome, and to see these changes that Amy has brought to the company has just inspired me. Now, for the fiscal 2022, I'm thrilled we are raising our revenue, our guide by $250 million to $26 billion. This is really one of the most -- this is one of the largest raises we've really ever had. It represents 22% projected growth year over year. And we're not just raising revenue. And again, thanks to Amy. We're raising our operating margin to 18%. So that is incredible. And in a few years, we're going to be doing $50 billion by fiscal year '26. So that is an incredible thing. I mean, we're really seeing some momentum and some cadence that's very powerful for the company. And the quarter once again demonstrates the strength and durability of our business, the quality of our leadership team. You're going to hear that today on the call, the relevance of our products, the incredible demand for digital transformation. But ultimately, it's been about customer success. And when I can talk about some of these customers and their amazing success with our products, companies that we know like Honeywell and 3M and Sonos. And I mean, the Sonos story is just awesome, where they've just had this 84% growth when they went to consumer using our products. We're so grateful to them. But also, you're going to see it in the core products like I'm going to hit some of the key things, like how eight of the top 10 deals included Tableau, what a successful story that acquisition has been and MuleSoft and ExactTarget. Now, it's all worked out so well for us. This quarter is really just demonstrating that strength and durability of our business. And I'll tell you, we're the leader in the CRM market. We all know that. We all know we're No. 1 CRM. Everyone's just saw the IDC again, ranked Salesforce No. 1 by market share in CRM. Everyone knows the strategic nature of CRM. And this is the eighth year in a row that we're No. 1 in CRM, which is awesome. And last week, Salesforce also received one of the very highest ratings from Gartner as a vendor. We track that information. It's our customers talking to Gartner. We tracked it and saw this incredibly, what we call, strong overall vendor rating. That meant a lot to us. And I'll tell you of something else that means a lot to us, and this is kind of a moment. And I think we can say this. We have to kind of get our head around this. We're about to pass SAP as the largest enterprise applications company in the world. And all the analysts have their models. I know you all track SAP and Salesforce. We don't really talk so much about SAP since they mostly exited the CRM market so many years ago. But I'll tell you that it's awesome to see not just be No. 1 in CRM, but yes, we're going to be the No. 1 enterprise software applications company in the world passing SAP. This is a moment. We can see it's imminent. And this pending acquisition of Slack also, I mean, we've never been better positioned for the future. This is all digital. It's an all work-from-anywhere world. It's made our company, Salesforce and Slack, well, more important to customers than ever. So bringing them together is so exciting. And once this merger is approved, we're going to be able to build Slack and all of our products, they'll all become Slack first. It's going to make our customers more productive. We're going to work with software companies in building incredible new capabilities like we've seen these amazing examples of what Slack can do. I'll tell you we're really excited about creating this No. 1 enterprise applications company, and I can't wait for all of us to be back together and with you. And hopefully, we'll be together in person at our Investor Day coming up. So of course, the real highlight of every quarter is the success of our customers. Customer success is one of our highest values, trust, customer success, innovation, the ease of use of our products, quality, and we just had amazing traction during the quarter across all parts of our business. We hit an all-time high in seven-figure-plus transactions, and I hope that Gavin will talk about that. It was really this kind of first really, quarter of our company history, more than 120% growth year over year in these huge transactions. It really shows the whole world is going digital, and customers are connecting with their customers in a new way, and everyone needs CRM to do it. And they need analytics, and they need integration. And we are the leaders in that area. And we're able to partner with them to deliver this incredible capability. On average, these seven-figure transactions, they included four or more of our clouds. That's awesome. It really goes to show the durability of the business built by so many amazing products, Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Marketing Cloud, Community Cloud, Commerce Cloud, Integration Cloud, the Analytics Cloud with Tableau is awesome. And our successful integrations of ExactTarget and Tableau and MuleSoft continue to drive these incredible results for our customers and gives us so much confidence in this pending Slack acquisition. We're seeing more and more inclusion of Tableau and MuleSoft in our large deals as customers accelerate their digital transformations. I mean, I'm sure it will shock everyone that Tableau, Tableau, was part of eight of our top 10 deals. That really is evidence and the integration we've had with Customer 360 of its success. And MuleSoft was included in five of these top 10 deals. It was awesome. Honeywell is a great example, and I love Darius Adamczyk, incredible CEO, great example of a company investment in Salesforce across their business. Now they've been manufacturing innovative products for more than 100 years, creating connected customer experience, breaking down silos for their 100,000 employees globally. But with Sales Cloud, Honeywell is enabling its global sales team to manage thousands of customers and sellers from anywhere. And anyone who was with Bret and I in Washington, D.C. or got to watch it online, we went there to deal with our customers, employees in person, and we did this incredible world tour. And we have the Honeywell executives. They're talking about this incredible transformation of their global sales team. And then it was really cool. And Tableau dashboards and Honeywell are providing their sales teams with these key insights to improve their productivity. And with My Trailhead, which is our reskilling platform, that's Honeywell reskilling their sales team right in their flow of work, increasing their performance. And Service Cloud, Service Cloud, together with Field Service and Experience Cloud is enabling Honeywell to seamlessly dispatch technicians for on-site product maintenance and proactive asset management and connected service partner experiences and customer experience for scheduling appointments and instantly troubleshooting problems. In fact, it was really that field service capability that helped us to amplify our relationship with Honeywell, and that's when Darius and I started to really collaborate and say, wow, we could bring this to the aviation business in Honeywell to transform how they're doing their amazing jobs. I'll tell you, for a long time, we've had a trusted relationship with Dell Technologies and their incredible founder and tremendous brand of Salesforce and Michael Dell. Last year, Dell partnered with Salesforce Professional Services, implemented the world's largest deployment of Sales Cloud to support its sales reps, go-to-market channel partners. I'll tell you I just finished Michael Dell's new book. It's called Play Nice but Win. And it inspired me, and it really was exciting in that Salesforce and Dell have this partnership that helped them win. It was powerful. And with Service Cloud, Dell is also giving its service agents a 360-degree view of every customer. That was so awesome to see. And they're using Marketing Cloud for B2B customer journeys. They're transforming their seller experience. It's incredible. Another amazing CEO that we work with, Mike Roman at 3M. And for those of you who watched Bret and I in Singapore, Bret and I flew to Singapore for the kickoff of the quarter. And we are there in Singapore, and we were live with our customers and with our Ohana and employees and everybody and government leaders, and well, we had the opportunity to talk to Mike Roman, the CEO of 3M, the iconic innovator, the center of efforts to combat COVID-19. And we were so happy to partner with them. And today, 3M is using Customer 360 across 83 countries. And when Mike realized there were counterfeit masks that weren't providing the protection of a 3M mask, they partnered with us to make sure we can immediately deliver fraud reporting center with Service Cloud, and we did it. It was an awesome story. And we had to do it instantly, immediately. There's been so many stories like that, especially in our governments. You see then what happened or what just is going on right now in Australia in Melbourne. They're, again, relying on Salesforce's contact tracing system to resolve this breakout. They're all locked down. I hope that they'll be able to identify everyone quickly and open back up quickly. And I know they've got the infrastructure to do it with Salesforce Work.com. It's an incredible story that's going on down there. 3M, getting back to them, well, they're also piling Tableau to create a single dashboard for their entire business. Tableau continues to be a strategic part of so many of our customers' business. And we're working with the pioneering online mortgage lender, Rocket Mortgage, to make complex transactions like buying a home or a car and evaluating personal loan. I mean, it's amazing what's going on with Rocket Mortgage. I'll tell you I've really enjoyed working with that company, and they're inspiring because they themselves are just such tremendous innovators. And if you know their CEO, Jay Farner, well, you'll understand how they're using our Financial Services Cloud and Marketing Cloud to deliver a source of truth for all their customers' data and drive personalized engagement and scale. Jim is incredible. And during the quarter, they also selected MuleSoft to integrate across all their various systems. Of course, I mentioned Sonos before. It was an incredible story. They went digital, direct to their consumer, well, grew their business 84% year over year. And with Marketing Cloud, Sonos connected with their customers through email, through mobile, through social channels. They built to Customer 360. They started pioneering a single source of truth. And it continues to scale its business. They've even invested very deeply in e-commerce with Salesforce, as well as Tableau, great story. And I'll tell you, those stories and the story I just mentioned, like what's happening in Melbourne, well, that's all about our public sector business or the country of Japan with our Vaccine Cloud. There are so many places here in the United States like Lake County. I mean, it's been an unbelievable year. It's been an unbelievable quarter. I mean, it really has been a lot about doing well and doing good. It's been about really showing how Salesforce is. The business could be the greatest platform for change. Now I'm telling you something that's really exciting and something new, and I couldn't be more excited to tell you this. And we're going to take another huge step forward here. Now, I've been telling you that we've been doing a number of off-sites, bringing our executives together. We've opened our offices now. We have our employees back, and we're about to take another huge leap forward. We're taking a hugely forward because Dreamforce is coming back in person in 2021 to San Francisco, as well as simultaneously in New York, Paris, London. It's going to be a global Dreamforce. And we're going to have thousands of people at every venue. We're going to work closely with local officials, and we're going to do an amazing show. I hope all of you will be there, September 21st to 23rd. It's going to be the first global Dreamforce. And we're going to host groups of Trailblazers in COVID-19 safe places, along with tens of millions online. It's going to be a hybrid event, physical and digital. Now we're going to follow these public health guidelines for every city, and I expect all of you to follow them as well. And in the U.S., we're going to require our attendees to be fully vaccinated to attend. That's going to be a critical part, and it's how our core epidemiologists and medical teams at Salesforce have decided that we can do this amazing reopening, Dreamforce. We've worked with our longtime partner and customer, Marriott. We've worked with leaders in our local medical communities and university, including Dr. Larry Brilliant. He's been a great friend of our company, a tremendous epidemiologist, to follow these best practices and create this amazing new Dreamforce. So Dreamforce 2021 is going to be the most inclusive, the most accessible. Dreamforce ever. It's going to bring the magic of Dreamforce to anyone, everywhere, anywhere. I mean, it's going to be great to be back together and be with all of you. It's going to be a family reunion, an incredible family reunion. And I'm also thrilled that, earlier this month, we opened Salesforce Tower. As I mentioned, Amy and I were together in San Francisco. It was also -- we've opened it in London. And then it's great to be back to work. And we we want to be the pioneers in back to work. We know that people are going to still be working at home, but they're going to be in the office, too. And we're going to be doing these off-sites and events and get-togethers and collaborations, and we're even going to have this incredible new training facility, a cultural immersion facility, a place where we can bring large groups of our employees or even customers and their families together with Salesforce ranch, and we couldn't be more excited about that. And we see those four things together: in the office, at home, events like off-sites and Dreamforce, and even this incredible new training facility. I mean, it's really inspired by General Electric. I went to Crotonville when I worked so closely with GE and their digital transformation. I was wondering, wow, we never had something like this. I never saw the need. Why would Salesforce need a Crotonville? But today, we knew. Because so many of our employees are at home, how are we going to immerse them in our values? How are we going to educate them on our products? How are we going to show them what Salesforce is really all about? And that's why this incredible facility will be so important to us, and we're looking forward to talking about that. Over the last 22 years, we built an amazing culture, an amazing company. Soon to be the No. 1 enterprise applications company in the world, already the No. 1 CRM in the world. Now, I'll tell you, when we started this business, we had three dreams: to create a new technology model. We call that the cloud, a new business model, subscription, we all understand that now. And a third model, a third model based on one-one-one, 1% of our equity, 1% of our time, our products, and that's become the business is the greatest platform for change. We couldn't be more excited. And I'll tell you 6 million employee volunteer hours, well, that's evidence that this is working. $450 million in grants so far. 51,000 nonprofits running on our service for free, it's more evidence. I'm happy to give this testimony that our culture has enabled us to create an amazing company but also to attract and retain amazing talent. And I'm enormously proud that Fortune just ranked us as one of the best places to work in the world. Again, I think this year, we're No. 2. But it's that 13th year that we've been on this list. It's really evidence that we can all do more in business. We can do well, and we can do good. And before I turn this over to Amy and I want to make sure you know about two amazing reimagine events that are also coming up this month. We're going to have Connections on June 2, our digital marketing event of the year; and on June 23, TrailheaDX. I hope you're going to be with us for both of those. I hope you'll be with us for Dreamforce. We're so grateful for your incredible partnership during this year, and we're delighted to deliver the best quarter we've ever delivered. And now, a key part of that, Amy. Amy, go ahead.Amy Weaver -- President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Marc, and good afternoon, everyone. Performance in Q1 was impressive across all financial metrics. We saw record levels of Q1 new business performance and strength across all products, regions, and customer sizes. Importantly, we were able to achieve growth while also delivering profitability. So let me take you through some of the results for Q1 fiscal '22. I'll begin with top-line commentary. Total revenue for the first quarter was $5.96 billion, up 23% year over year or 20% in constant currency. The strong new business pipeline that we discussed last quarter enabled us to deliver these results. While we had a favorable comparison for Q1, our two-year new business CAGR also illustrates the continued strength in the business. A few areas to highlight. As Marc mentioned, we saw a record number of Q1 seven-figure deals. Not only were these deals big, they were multi-cloud transformation with, on average, more than four clouds included in each. Our vertical strategy continues to align our products to strategic industries. In particular, we saw strength in the public sector, which continues to accelerate as governments around the world turn to Salesforce Solutions. Service Cloud demonstrated another quarter of incredible growth at scale with Q1 revenue of $1.5 billion, growing 20% year over year, and Tableau continues to perform well. We are pleased with the progress of the integration. For example, in Q1, Tableau was in eight of our top 10 deals for the company and in more than 60% of our seven-figure plus deals. Revenue attrition in Q1 was between 9% and 9.5%. We continue to be pleased with the progress made on attrition. Our remaining performance obligation representing all future revenue under contract ended Q1 at approximately $35 billion, up 19% year over year. Current remaining performance obligation, or CRPO, which represents all future revenue under contract that is expected to be recognized as revenue in the next 12 months, was approximately $17.8 billion, up 23% year over year or 20% in constant currency. Turning to operating margins. Q1 non-GAAP operating margin was 20.2%, largely driven by revenue outperformance and incremental expense efficiencies. Q1 GAAP EPS was $0.50, and non-GAAP EPS was $1.21. The outperformance in the quarter was primarily due to higher revenue and expense efficiencies, as well as realized and unrealized gains on our strategic investment portfolio. These mark-to-market adjustments benefited GAAP EPS by approximately $0.23 and non-GAAP EPS by approximately $0.24. Turning to cash flow. Operating cash flow in the first quarter was $3.2 billion, up 74% year over year. As a reminder, last year's cash flow seasonality was impacted by our decision to provide temporary financial flexibility to some of our customers during the pandemic. And we continue to expect cash flow seasonality to skew higher in Q1 and Q4. Capex for the quarter was $171 million, leading to free cash flow of $3.1 billion, up 99% year over year. Before moving on to guidance, I want to update you on the status of the Slack transaction. We remain on track to close in Q2. Now, as we've refined our Q2 and full-year guidance, we have also refined our expectation on the Slack closing date, which we now expect to be near the very end of the quarter. So I want to emphasize that all guidance assumptions involve -- changes involving Slack are completely timing-driven. So turning to guidance. We expect Q2 revenue of $6.22 billion to $6.23 billion or approximately 21% growth year over year. This guidance assumes no contribution from Slack. For Q2, we expect to deliver CRPO growth of approximately 20%. This guidance assumes approximately 3 points of growth from Slack. As a reminder, Q2 fiscal '21 benefited from strong renewals performance. We expect Q2 GAAP loss per share of negative $0.10 to negative $0.09 and non-GAAP earnings per share of $0.91 to $0.92. Our assumptions include a $0.09 impact from Slack, primarily driven by OIE and transaction and integration costs. Now, moving to fiscal '22 updates. As a result of our Q1 performance, we are raising our fiscal '22 revenue guidance by $250 million to $25.9 billion to $26 billion or approximately 22% growth year over year. And this guidance incorporates an expected revenue contribution of $500 million from Slack due to the changes I mentioned in our closed timing assumptions. Our guidance continues to include $190 million from Acumen. Net of the revised Slack contribution, this represents a $350 million raise on our core business. Our decision to raise fiscal '22 revenue is reflective of our Q1 performance and our confidence in our ability to execute for the rest of the year. We are also raising our fiscal '22 non-GAAP operating margin to 18%, an expansion of 30 basis points year over year. This continues to include an expected 160 basis points headwind from Slack and Acumen, continued investment in our core business, and the moderate increase of travel in the second half of this year. We are raising fiscal '22 GAAP diluted EPS to $0.22 to $0.24 and non-GAAP diluted EPS to $3.79 to $3.81. We expect recent M&A will be an approximately $0.53 headwind to non-GAAP diluted EPS. Please recall that our OIE and EPS guidance assume no contribution from mark-to-market accounting as required by ASU 2016-01. We are also raising fiscal '22 operating cash flow guidance by 2 points, now expecting 12% to 13% growth year over year. The increase from our previous guide is primarily driven by revenue performance and by the refined timing expectations on M&A. The dilutive cash flow impact of Slack and Acumen now represents a headwind to our year-over-year growth of approximately 8 points. We continue to expect capex to be approximately 3% of revenue in fiscal '22, resulting in a free cash flow growth rate of approximately 12% to 13% for the fiscal year. Excluding the anticipated impact of M&A, as previously noted, this rate would be 22% to 23%. To close, our impressive start to fiscal '22 positions us well for the rest of the year and keeps us on track to achieve our goal of $50 billion by fiscal '26. It really was a terrific quarter, and I'm grateful to our employees for their focus on both growth and efficiency during the quarter. Finally, it has been a pleasure to meet many of our shareholders over the past few months, and I want to thank all of you for your continued support of Salesforce. And with that, Chantal, let's open up the call for questions. 