
OperatorWelcome to the Fiserv 2021 Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, today's call is being recorded. At this time, I will turn the call over to Shub Mukherjee, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations at Fiserv.Shub Mukherjee -- Senior Vice President, Investor RelationsThank you, and good morning. With me on the call today are Frank Bisignano, our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Hau, our Chief Financial Officer.

 



Our earnings release and supplemental materials for the quarter are available on the Investor Relations section of fiserv.com.Our remarks today will include forward-looking statements about, among other matters, the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, expected operating and financial results, strategic initiatives and expected benefits and synergies from the First Data acquisition. Forward-looking statements may differ materially from actual results and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. You should refer to our earnings release for a discussion of these risk factors.Please refer to our earnings release and supplemental materials for today's call for an explanation of the non-GAAP financial measures discussed in this call, along with the reconciliation of those measures to the nearest applicable GAAP measures. Unless otherwise stated, performance references are year-over-year comparisons, and all references to internal revenue growth are on a constant currency basis.And now I'll turn the call over to Frank.

 



Frank J Bisignano -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Shub. Second quarter was a very strong quarter for us across the company. Total company adjusted revenue grew 20%. Adjusted operating margin grew 510 basis points, resulting in adjusted operating income growth of 41%. Adjusted EPS grew 47% to $1.37. Free cash flow in the quarter was in line with last year, just under $900 million, including the impact of a diminished NOL. Second quarter sales were up 31% with growth across the business.Our strong second quarter was driven by a combination of continued economic recovery and strong execution of our business strategy. On the macroeconomic side, we saw continued recovery in the US with uneven recovery in other parts of the world. The shift to digital commerce drove consumer demand for seamless experiences across channels. Amidst these trends, we executed on our strategies to continue to win business and grow share.We serve as the operating system for commerce across our client base, ranging from micro merchants to the world's largest corporations, financial institutions, banks and credit unions, fintechs and governments. This enables us to focus not only on growth at our core but also on new services, business models and adjacencies.

 



Given the strong results to date and our solid pipeline, we are raising our outlook range for internal revenue growth and now expect 10% to 12% growth for 2021 from 9% to 12% previously. Additionally, we are raising our adjusted EPS full year outlook and now expect a range of $5.50 to $5.60, up from $5.35 to $5.50 previously. The increased adjusted EPS guidance outlook represents a 24% to 27% growth versus last year.Drilling down to the business segments, the quarter was led by our Merchant Acceptance segment, which posted internal revenue growth of 41% year-over-year. Normalizing for the year-ago comps, the segment posted a 13% growth in the quarter on a 2-year basis above our pre-pandemic run rate. Both North America and international largely grew in line with the segment average. North America purchase volume was up 33% in the quarter led by strength in retail, petro and restaurants.One of the trends that the pandemic has accelerated is the shift to omni-commerce. Consumers are increasingly looking to engage with merchants in whatever way is most convenient. Fiserv's ability to support clients with leading solutions in both brick-and-mortar and e-commerce environments is a differentiator. We saw the manifestation of this trend during the second quarter as offline commerce recovered with volumes growing 46% versus 2020 and 11% versus 2019.Online commerce volume also grew unabated at 21% year-over-year, highlighting the criticality of equipping merchants with omnichannel commerce capabilities. Our lead in omni commerce is the reason we were honored with the omni channel provider of the Year Award from The Strawhecker Group, a leading payments industry analyst firm. As you know, Clover, Carat and Clover Connect are Fiserv's leading platforms for small and medium-sized merchants, enterprises, and ISVs respectively.Starting with Clover, GPV in the quarter grew 96% year-over-year, reflecting a 38% CAGR since 2019 to $184 billion on an annualized basis. In the SMB space, we continue to build out vertical specific solutions in retail, restaurants and services.Our vertical sector strategy aims at expanding beyond the buy button offering an integrated suite of products that help merchants generate revenue and run their business. Value-added services on the Clover platform include Clover Capital, Clover Dining, Clover Order Ahead and Clover Inventory as well as our unique app marketplace, which provides access to services such as payroll management, loyalty, and marketing that enable us to increase our share of the merchant's wallet and become the platform of choice.On the enterprise side, Carat, our enterprise omnichannel ecosystem, continued its strong momentum in the second quarter with new wins and continued innovation in key verticals. In restaurants, Carat powers digital commerce for 10 of the Top 15 QSRs. Carat has helped Burger King expand its mobile payments experience into Latin America; in restaurant brands international expansion in the UK and other parts of EMEA. In grocery, where Carat now serves 9 of the Top 10 grocers, we have helped new clients such as Wakefern, ALDI, and the companies of Ahold Delhaize USA, expand their digital grocery ordering capabilities with new payment types. Evidence to Carat's commitment to the grocery industry and transform digital experience is exemplified by Carat's leading online EBT program that has processed $2.5 billion in GPV year-to-date.In retail, where Carat serves 7 of the Top 10 retailers, we're expanding our merchant services by working with clients such as Adidas on innovative solutions, including our new consumer recommendation engine. This engine connects digital experiences to local stores enabled by the integration of Radius8, an acquisition we completed in the first quarter of this year.Carat has also established new at-scale leadership with crypto wallets, where we power cards funds in and funds out solutions. Through this capability, we helped consumers move more than $4 billion in payments volume in and out of wallets for the past 12 months. In the second quarter alone, we moved $2 billion of volume, demonstrating the sharp ramp in digital currency movement.Moving to Clover Connect, our ISV-focused offering, momentum continued in the second quarter with ISV volume up 122% year-over-year. We signed 53 new ISV partners in the quarter, bringing the new ISV partnerships to 95 year-to-date. We're signing up ISVs that are new to payments and those that are converting from competitors. Year-to-date, almost half of our wins are competitive takeaways. Our ISV partners derive great value in getting access to our partner management tool, CoPilot and integrating with Clover.On our Investor Day, we talked to you about our merchant acceptance growth strategy for international. We remain focused on growing our global market presence with world-class bank partners and through our direct channels, all while leveraging the strength of common platforms and connections. In the quarter, we announced the JV with Deutsche Bank in Germany that offers us access to over 800,000 merchants, many of whom will power with our Clover platform. In Asia Pacific region, we won a multi-country acquiring processing mandate from Citibank for its new integrated digital commerce offering, Spring by Citi.Early in July, we began onboarding and processing payment transactions as part of the merchant acquiring services agreement signed with Brazil's CaixaBank in April of this year. The onboarding began 70 days after contract signing, once again demonstrating our speed to market.In addition to the successes I mentioned above, in our Merchant Acceptance segment yesterday we announced a strategic relationship with Goldman Sachs to integrate cross-border payment functionality into our B2B accounts receivable and accounts payable solution, SnapPay. As you know, B2B payments is a vast and growing market ripe with opportunity. We believe that in partnership with Goldman Sachs, we can deliver best-in-class B2B payment capabilities, enhancing visibility, operational efficiencies and cost savings for our large and mid-market business clients.Moving to the Payments and Network segment, we posted internal revenue growth of 7% over the second quarter of last year. Positives in the quarter included the continued growth of Zelle, continued strength in debit transaction volume, initial recovery in credit account volumes and international growth with some weakness in bill pay, although results improved sequentially.The differentiated and industry-leading businesses within our Payments and Network portfolio and our agile execution are the key reasons why we continue to win with clients. We are proceeding well with onboarding $120 million of credit issuing wins we told you about on our Investor Day. We completed boarding Atlanticus in Q2 and have completed several stages of migrating both Alliance Data and Genesis Financial to the Optus environment. In less than 12 months, after announcing these three banner wins, we are poised to recognize revenue on all three clients in the third quarter of this year.We continue to grow our relationship with innovative growth-stage fintechs, digital banks and consumer lenders. In June, we signed an agreement with Prosper, a Fintech pioneer and a premier AI-driven consumer lending marketplace for credit card processing services. This space is a growth focus for us. Our revenue with fintech issuance grew over 300% during the first half of this year versus the same period in 2019. On Investor Day, you'll recall that driving best-in-class integrated digital consumer journeys is a key differentiator and imperative for our clients.Experiences are the new currency of loyalty.Customers gravitate toward institutions that could give them a unified, seamless experience across both channels and products. To that end, yesterday we announced enhanced Fiserv digital capabilities for integrated digital banking and card management. This enriched mobile-first suite will enable financial institutions to offer their consumer and business customers a best-in-class digital banking experience that's designed for the way customers expect to engage.To introduce these enhanced capabilities, we rapidly integrated two recent acquisitions, Ondot and SpendLabs. The result is a single unified platform for consumer and small and midsized business cardholders that enables expense and business card management. This offering allows us to deliver a single point of access for all banking products.Our enhanced Fiserv digital capabilities will span all three business segments: in payments through a leading digital cardholder experience; in financial technology, by driving the penetration of our core account processing in digital surrounds; in merchant acceptance, by increasing the uptake of value-added services from integrating SpendLabs with our Clover platform. We expect to see incremental usage, engagement and services revenue on the Fiserv platform as a result.Before I close out the Payments segment, I would like to mention the strong growth we are seeing in our debit networks, STAR and Accel as we are winning new issuers through our ability to support all transaction type, including best-in-class fraud management and chargeback products.Moving to the Financial Technologies segment, the quarter was in line with our expectations, posting internal revenue growth of 5%, including an 80 basis points headwind from periodic revenue. I want to highlight some key achievements in the quarter that reflect our strong market position. We added 10 new core account processing clients in the quarter, including 8 on the DNA platform and 4 in the over $1 billion asset size market. As the smaller end of the banking industry consolidates, we're moving up the asset chains, winning share in the $1 billion to $50 billion market. One such win is SunStream Business Services, a service entity which spans 12 financial institutions and provides business and technology services to farm credit associations, totaling more than $115 billion in assets. SunStream will be converted into DNA and a number of surround solutions.Continuing our strong momentum in the de novo bank market, we signed LCA Financial Services, a newly created -- a newly chartered bank focused on small business. While we continue to win with our digital surround solutions, Abiliti is the new paradigm in digital banking, a single retail and business online and mobile platform. We had our first client go live on the Abiliti platform in the second quarter with more than 100 clients signed up. We are also fully embracing openness as a strategy.The Fiserv Developer Studio is aimed at attracting the developer community to build innovative products using the range of APIs we expose across cards, payments, banking, small, medium and large businesses. Additionally, we are building a pre-integrated fintech app marketplace where our financial institutions clients can acquire, test and deploy third-party apps seamlessly, easily and quickly.This openness strategy creates a net new revenue opportunity within our existing client base while widening the value-added services opportunity.With that, let me update you on our integration efforts. Through the second quarter, we've already actioned over $1.1 billion of cost savings and are well on our way to completing our $1.2 billion cost synergy objective by the end of this year. With the majority of the integration work behind us, we are focused on driving further growth and sustainable value in the years ahead.On the revenue side, we're pleased with the level of synergy sales, which accelerated in the second quarter. As of the end of the second quarter, we've already actioned $325 million in annual revenue synergies, and our synergy sales pipeline is growing robustly and we expect to meet or exceed our $600 million target over the 5 years post merger.Revenue synergies in the quarter were driven by payments, debit network and card sales across our three major client segments FIs, corporates, and government. Additionally, as the partner of choice, we continue to see momentum in our bank merchant program.Now let me pass the discussion to Bob for more detail on our financial results.Robert Hau -- Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Frank, and good morning, everyone. If you're following along on our slides, I will cover some of the detail on each of our segments, starting with Slide 4.We had a very strong second quarter, thanks to our broad portfolio of products and services as well as the positioning of our assets and strong execution across the business. Total company internal revenue growth was 18% in the quarter, with growth across all segments and led by the Merchant Acceptance segment, which grew 41%. Year-to-date, total company internal revenue grew 11%, also led by the Merchant Acceptance segment, which grew 23%.Second quarter adjusted operating income was up a strong 41% to $1.3 billion, and adjusted operating margin increased by a very strong 510 basis points to 33.9%. This margin improvement was driven by our outstanding revenue results and our continued and disciplined cost synergy execution, which produced $90 million of incremental cost synergies during the quarter as well as strong operating performance.First half adjusted operating income increased 28% to $2.4 billion. Adjusted operating margin through the end of June expanded 440 basis points to 32.7%.Second quarter adjusted earnings per share increased 47% to $1.37 compared to $0.93 in the prior year. Through June 30, adjusted earnings per share increased 32% to $2.54, putting us on a pace to achieve our 36th consecutive year of double-digit adjusted earnings-per-share growth, a testament to the incredible resiliency of this company.Free cash flow in the quarter of $897 million was in line with last year, with free cash flow for the first 6 months of the year up 4% to $1.72 billion. Free cash flow conversion was 97% to adjusted net income, including a $172 million impact from reduced net operating loss carryforwards. Year-to-date, free cash flow conversion came in at 100% and we continue to expect at least 108% free cash flow conversion for 2021.Now looking at our segment results. Internal revenue growth in the Merchant Acceptance segment was a stellar 41% in the quarter and 23% year-to-date. Our results were driven by a strong performance of our SMB platform, Clover; our enterprise platform, Carat; and our ISV platform, Clover Connect. These results were driven by a strong global performance despite uneven economic recovery outside North America. The second quarter was a record quarter for Clover. In addition to a very strong 96% annualized GPV growth, this quarter was also the highest shipment volume for Clover hardware, having recently shipped our 2 millionth Clover device.Moving to Carat. We won 52 new global enterprise e-commerce clients on a platform in the quarter. Including existing clients, Carat won or expanded business with brands such as SportTrade, ALDI, and Yapstone. In India, Carat won the business of a leading digital food delivery platform.Our ISV volume in the quarter through Clover Connect grew 122% year-over-year. And we're winning both ISVs that are new to the payments as well as competitive takeaways.Adjusted operating income in the Acceptance segment increased 135% to $524 million in the quarter, and adjusted operating margin was up more than 12 full percentage points to 31.4%, driven by the strength in the top line. Through June 30, adjusted operating income improved 80% to $911 million and adjusted operating margin grew 950 basis points to 29.7%.The Payments and Network segment posted internal revenue growth of 7% in this quarter, resulting in year-to-date growth of 4%. Debit transactions grew a strong 31% in the quarter and this was a low double-digit sequential grower versus last quarter. We continue to build upon the strong momentum of transaction growth in account-to-account transfers and P2P solutions. Versus prior year, Zelle transactions in the quarter were up 94% and the number of clients live on Zelle was up 88% in the quarter.Our bill pay business saw a sequential improvement in growth from Q1 and is expected to continue to improve through the second half of this year. We continue to expect to see the full year internal revenue growth for the Payments and Network segment to be toward the upper end of the medium-term growth rate of 5% to 8%. Adjusted operating income for the segment was up 14% to $636 million, and adjusted operating margin was up 260 basis points to 44.6% in the quarter. Year-to-date, adjusted operating income was up 8% to $1.2 billion and adjusted operating margin was up 140 basis points to 43%. The results were driven by positive momentum in our issuer business and the impact of revenue and cost synergies.The Financial Technology segment internal revenue grew in line with expectations at 5% in the second quarter as continued growth in high-quality recurring revenue was partially offset by lower periodic revenue, which created an 80 basis points of headwind to internal revenue growth. For the first half of the year, internal revenue growth for the Financial Technology segment is now 4%, reaching the lower end of our medium-term outlook for the segment of 4% to 6%. Demand for our digital banking capabilities and for our deep offering of digital solutions continues to build momentum. As Frank mentioned, we added 10 new core account processing clients in the quarter.Total mobile subscribers across our leading digital platforms, Mobiliti and Architect, grew 9% in the quarter. Mobile deposits in Q2 grew 12% over the prior year, while self-service ATM deposits grew 70% over last year.Adjusted operating income was up a strong 8% in the quarter to $273 million and up 14% year-to-date to $519 million. Adjusted operating margin in this segment increased a robust 80 basis points in the quarter to 36.2% and 300 basis points to 34.9% through the end of June, due to a combination of revenue growth, operational effectiveness benefits, and cost synergies.The adjusted corporate operating loss was $124 million in the quarter, in line with our expectations, up from last year largely on higher variable compensation expenses. The adjusted effective tax rate in the quarter was 21.3%, increasing 80 basis points versus prior year. We also expect our full year adjusted effective tax rate will be fairly consistent with 2020 rate and at the lower end of our previously forecasted range of 21% to 22%.During the quarter, we continued our disciplined capital allocation strategy by repurchasing 5 million shares for $588 million, and we have more than 55 million shares remaining authorized for repurchase.We completed two acquisitions in the quarter, SpendLabs, a mobile native cloud-based commercial card payments and software company; and Pineapple Payments, a leading independent sales organization focused on integrated payments. Additionally, we divested our remaining interest in the Investment Services business and received pre-tax proceeds of $460 million from the transaction.Total debt outstanding was $20.8 billion on June 30, and the debt-to-adjusted EBITDA ratio decreased to 3.3 times, putting us well on track to achieve our targeted leverage of less than 3 times by the end of this year. We are fully committed to our long-standing capital allocation strategy, which includes maintaining a strong balance sheet, making organic investments in innovative solutions and pursuing high-value acquisitions. Importantly, share repurchase remains our benchmark for capital deployment.With that, let me turn the call back to Frank.Frank J Bisignano -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Bob. I'm very proud of the results we've delivered. The quality of our assets, our relentless focus on innovation, our agility, speed of new client implementation with examples like CAXIA, ADS, Atlanticus and Genesis put us in a great spot to serve our clients.Our speed to market with the enhanced Fiserv digital capabilities for banking and card management announced yesterday along with the integration of business expense management into the Clover platform, all of which leverage the full capabilities of recent acquisitions, Ondot and SpendLabs, add to our continued success.In addition to delivering on our financial results, we continue to focus on our people and on our communities. Earlier this month, Fiserv was named by Forbes as the Best Employer for Diversity, recognizing our commitment to putting diversity at the forefront of our values and having implemented long-term initiatives to create a more inclusive environment.During the quarter, we published our first annual corporate social responsibility report, which is available on the Corporate Social Responsibility section of our website. We also expanded our back-to-business grant program beyond the original locations that were selected in 2020.In May, we partnered with the New York Mets to recognize small businesses as part of our Asian, American and Pacific Islander Heritage month. And in June, we awarded grants to businesses in Tulsa as part of the centennial observation of the Tulsa Race Massacre. None of these achievements would have been possible without our world-class talent. I thank our more than 40,000 associates around the world for their commitment and courage as we stand together to deliver value for clients, our colleagues and you, our shareholders.And finally before I close, I want to congratulate the Milwaukee Bucks for winning the NBA championship at Fiserv Forum last week. The Bucks are terrific partners, and our partnership goes way beyond putting our name on their arena. Clover has been deployed throughout Fiserv Forum for food and beverage concessions, providing attendees with seamless, quick and easy transactions. They also partnered with us for several back-to-business events earlier this year. Congratulations to the entire Milwaukee Bucks organization.With that, operator, let's open up the line for questions.