
OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to ANSYS First Quarter 2020 Earnings Conference Call. With us today are Ajei Gopal, President and Chief Executive Officer; Nicole Anasenes, Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President of Finance; and Kelsey DeBriyn, Vice President, Investor and Government Relations. [Operator Instructions]At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Ms. DeBriyn for opening remarks. Please go ahead.Kelsey DeBriyn -- Head of Investor Relations & Government AffairsGood morning, everyone. Our earnings release, the related prepared remarks document and the link to our first quarter Form 10-Q, have all been posted on the homepage of our Investor Relations website. They contain the key financial information and supporting data relative to our first quarter financial results and business update as well as our Q2 and updated fiscal year 2021 outlook and the key underlying quantitative and qualitative assumptions. Today's presentation contains forward-looking information. Important factors that may affect our future results are discussed in our public filings with the SEC, all of which are available on our corporate website.We note that uncertainty regarding the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our performance could cause actual results to differ materially from our projections. Forward-looking statements are based upon our view of the business as of today, and ANSYS undertakes no obligation to update any such information. During this call, we will be referring to non-GAAP financial measures unless otherwise stated. A discussion of the various items that are excluded and reconciliations of GAAP to the comparable non-GAAP financial measures are included in this morning's earnings release materials. I would now like to turn the call over to our President and CEO, Ajei Gopal, for his opening remarks. Ajei?Ajei Gopal -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Kelsey, and welcome to ANSYS, and thanks to everyone for joining us this morning. I am excited to report that Q1 was an excellent quarter for ANSYS, where we beat our financial guidance for revenue, operating margin and EPS. I'm also pleased that we are ahead of our internal plan for ACV. This is significant because, as I explained on our previous call, ACV is heavily loaded toward the back end of the year following the pattern of the past several years. And we are seeing the continued strengthening of the pipeline of ANSYS customer activities across all major geographies. The strong Q1 and our growing sales pipeline, coupled with our excellent Q4 last year, gives us increased confidence in the momentum of our business and in our ability to execute against our goals.As a result, we are increasing our annual guidance for ACV, revenue, EPS and operating cash flow. We expect to see annual ACV growth, for example, to increase by over one percentage point in constant currency at the midpoint of our new guidance range. Nicole will provide more details in just a few minutes. In Q1, we were pleased to see that small and medium-sized customers who had slowed their purchasing decisions during the pandemic, showed stronger-than-expected sales growth across geographies and industries. Large customer behavior was as anticipated. From an industry perspective, our traditionally strong sector of hi-tech and semiconductor, aerospace and defense, and automotive and ground transportation continue to be our largest contributors.Our largest deal in the quarter was a five-year multimillion-dollar agreement with a large North American automotive OEM. This longtime customer is realizing savings by using ANSYS Simulation for its strategic warranty cost control initiative. The manufacturer is also using ANSYS Simulation to identify the sources of electromagnetic noise to prevent interference and wireless communications. This new contract deepens and expands the customer's use of ANSYS solutions for wireless communications, autonomy, explicit dynamics, materials intelligence and electrification. We saw numerous examples of simulation spurring product innovation and reducing development costs at our recently concluded Simulation World Virtual Conference.Nearly 40,000 engineers, designers, executives, students, investors and members of the press registered for this event, which showcased simulation success stories from a number of ANSYS customers, from small start-ups, to multinational organizations to span industries, including Northrop Grumman, Whirlpool, Medtronic, SC Microelectronics, Boeing and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals. Participants attended tracks on electrification, autonomy, digital transformation, 5G connectivity and digital mission engineering and listened to simulation use cases for vaccine distribution, spacecraft risk mitigation, crack propagation and gas turbines, virtual crash testing and automobiles and so on. We heard from Formula One's Red Bull Racing, which is relied on the power of pervasive simulation to provide a competitive edge.Red Bull Racing's engineering team operates within a tight development window to optimize its racecar aerodynamics and shave milliseconds off lap times. With only a few days between competition, ANSYS Simulation becomes the team's virtual wind tunnel to run external aerodynamic analysis. Simulation is also key to developing the chassis control circuits, in selecting the right materials and in ensuring driver safety through virtual crash analysis. We had an entire track dedicated to electrification, where start-up Lucid Motors discussed taking advantage of simulation to develop its luxury electric automobile entirely on a computer, significantly reducing the need for physical prototypes.Lucid achieved its goal of creating a battery that will run for 400 miles on a single charge while providing enough power to propel the car from 0 to 60 miles per hour in 2.5 seconds. In the process, the company addressed key customer needs, solved difficult engineering problems and brought a world-class vehicle to market in a fraction of the time required by conventional approaches. Electrification, of course, is not limited to ground vehicles. Simulation-led breakthroughs in battery technologies are powering all-electric aircraft. During Simulation World, we also heard from Air Race E, which is sponsoring a series of international racing competitions for electric aircraft. Air Race E teams are using ANSYS Simulation to develop batteries to deliver more power with less weight. And designing electric powertrains that overcome difficult thermal and high-voltage challenges.The lessons learned from these races could advance the development and adoption of electrification for commercial aircraft. Nokia discussed its use of ANSYS HFSS and our electromagnetic solutions to investigate and optimize material properties and the performance of phased antenna arrays. By using ANSYS Simulation, Nokia was not only able to develop an alternative design that was fast, inexpensive and accurate, but also one that facilitates design sharing with vendors and mobile network operators. One of the most exciting presentations was from NASA's Jet Propulsion Lab, which highlighted simulation's role in the Mars Perseverance Rover mission. The JPL simulated every component of the landing, giving engineers confidence that the Rover would successfully endure the so-called seven minutes of terror from atmospheric entry to landing.Simulation was also used to ensure that the Mission Ingenuity Helicopter could navigate the thin Marsian atmosphere. Simulation World let me more confident than ever that the ANSYS strategy of pervasive simulation is working. With over 60 hours of content and more than 300 speakers from companies around the world, there are simply too many ANSYS customer success stories to mention on this call. So I encourage you to visit simulationworld.com to learn how ANSYS Simulation is changing the way these organizations are developing, testing and operating their next-generation products. ANSYS partners were represented in Simulation World as well. Microsoft sponsored several sessions where they highlighted how users can leverage the Microsoft Azure cloud platform to gain easy access to high-performance computing resources directly from ANSYS products.Rockwell Automation discussed the key role that simulation plays in production, automation and digital transformation. In the PTC sessions, we learned how Creo Simulation Live and Creo ANSYS Simulation are driving a key change in product development. We also heard how ANSYS and Synopsys are bringing their integrated capabilities to cover a variety of multiphysics domain like power, timing, reliability and thermal simulation to maximize the speed and density achievable in advanced multi-die systems while ensuring robust reliability. Turning to ESG. ANSYS recently published our annual corporate responsibility report, which highlights progress across our environmental, social and governance initiatives.On ansys.com, you can view the report and learn more about how those pillars are driving long-term growth for our stakeholders through responsible and sustainable business activities. I'm also proud that Fast Company has named ANSYS to its list of the world's most innovative companies. ANSYS joins the prestigious list of organizations, including Microsoft, SpaceX, Sony and Honeywell. Fast Company has also recognized our digital twin at the human heart as one of its 2021 world-changing ideas. To summarize, Q1 was another great quarter for ANSYS, resulting in us beating our guidance for revenue, operating margin and EPS. The energy and enthusiasm seen during Simulation World and the strength of our customer pipeline gives me even more confidence in the importance of simulation, in the effectiveness of our pervasive simulation strategy and in our ability to meet our newly increased outlook for 2021. And with that, I'll turn the call over to Nicole. Nicole?Nicole Anasenes -- Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President, FinanceThank you, Ajei. Good morning, everyone. Let me take a few minutes to add some additional perspective on our first quarter financial performance and provide color around our outlook and assumptions for Q2 and 2021. Our strong Q1 results reflect outstanding execution across our business, which yielded revenue, operating margin and EPS all above our Q1 guidance. As Ajei mentioned, in Q1, our large customer behavior was as expected, and we were encouraged to see more momentum with our small and medium-sized customers. We're increasingly optimistic about SMB customer behavior for the full year based on the new deal activity we saw in Q1, which was broad-based across industries and geographies.Now let me discuss some of our Q1 financial highlights. Q1 ACV was $319.4 million and grew 6% or 3% in constant currency, with strong performance from the channel and 78% of ACV coming from recurring sources. Q1 total non-GAAP revenue was $372.1 million and grew 20% or 17% in constant currency. We saw strong performance in lease revenue, driven by new leases signed in the first quarter. In addition, we had a higher mix of sales than expected from perpetual licenses, which drives more upfront revenue recognition. The largest contribution to the growth in perpetual licenses came from Asia Pacific. We closed the quarter with a total balance of deferred revenue and backlog of $936.5 million, representing a 12% increase over last year's first quarter balance. During the quarter, we continued to manage our business with fiscal discipline.This yielded a solid first quarter gross margin of 88.5% and an operating margin of 33.5%, which was better than our Q1 guidance. Operating margins were positively impacted by revenue performance above our guidance as well as the timing of expenses. The result was first quarter EPS of $1.12, which was also above our guidance. Similar to operating margins, EPS benefited from strong revenue results and the timing of expenses. Our effective tax rate in Q1 was 19%, which is the tax rate that we expect for the remainder of 2021. Our cash flow from operations in Q1 totaled $171.1 million, which benefited from higher collections, given the strong Q4 finish in 2020. We ended the quarter with almost $1 billion of cash and short-term investments on the balance sheet. Now let me turn to the topic of guidance.We continue to build confidence in our outlook for the year. Coming off our strong finish in Q1, we are initiating guidance for Q2 and increasing our ACV, revenue, EPS and operating cash flow outlook for the full year. This increase reflects the strong financial performance in the first quarter and our pipeline while being mindful of regional uncertainties in a continuously evolving global pandemic environment. Let me also add that these increases to guidance occurred despite increased headwinds from currency exchange rates since initiating our full year guidance in February. For the second quarter, we expect non-GAAP revenue in the range of $415 million to $445 million and non-GAAP EPS in the range of $1.43 to $1.67.As I mentioned, for the full year, we are raising our ACV, revenue, EPS and operating cash flow outlook. We are increasing our full year ACV outlook range to $1.760 billion to $1.825 billion. This represents growth of 9% to 13% or 7% to 11% in constant currency. The increase to full year ACV reflects our Q1 performance, which exceeded our expectations and increased confidence in our full year pipeline, offset by approximately $14 million of foreign exchange headwind. As a result, operationally, we are raising the midpoint of our ACV guidance by $19 million, which translates to an increase of over one point of constant currency growth compared to our February guidance.As a reminder, it is best to look at full year ACV growth as quarters can be variable. This year, quarterly ACV growth rates will vary based on how the pandemic impacted quarterly sales in 2020. Overall, we expect first half and second half ACV growth rates to be roughly similar to each other. Consistent with prior years, the dollar value of ACV will be highly skewed toward the second half of the year. We expect non-GAAP revenue to be in the range of $1.810 billion to $1.875 billion, which is a growth of 7% to 11% or 5% to 9% in constant currency. Similar to our ACV guidance, this increase reflects our strong Q1 revenue performance, offset by approximately $14 million of foreign exchange headwind.As a result, operationally, we are raising the midpoint of our revenue guidance by $24 million, which translates to a constant currency growth of 1.5 points higher than the midpoint of our February guidance. As you know, ASC 606 introduces revenue growth volatility within the quarters. However, on a full year basis, revenue is less variable. We expect revenue growth to be higher in the first half versus the second half based on the mix of license types in our pipeline. Consistent with prior years, we expect the fourth quarter to be our largest revenue quarter in absolute dollars. We are increasing our full year EPS outlook and now expect EPS to be in the range of $6.69 to $7.10. This increase incorporates our strong Q1 performance and a favorable $0.14 gain on an investment that we expect to record in other income in the second quarter and is offset by approximately $0.06 of foreign exchange headwind.It is worth noting that some of our strong Q1 EPS performance was driven by the timing of expenses that will occur in the remainder of the year as we redeploy spending to focused areas of investment. Now let me turn to our full year operating cash flow guidance. We are increasing our 2021 outlook to a range of $480 million to $520 million. This increase relates to payments we are no longer expecting to make, offset by approximately $5 million of foreign exchange headwind. We were pleased with our strong start to the year in operating cash flow. But as a reminder, we would expect cash flow to be skewed toward the fourth quarter based on the timing of large deals and whether they close in the beginning or the end of the quarter.For modeling purposes, we're expecting second quarter operating margin of 34.5% to 38%. And for the full year, we continue to expect operating margins of 40% to 41%. Further details around specific currency rates and other assumptions that have been factored into our outlook for Q2 and fiscal year '21 are contained in the prepared remarks document. I would like to thank the ANSYS team for their exceptional execution during the quarter, which drove our strong Q1 financial and operational results. Our incredible technology, talent and deep customer relationships drives our optimism in the long-term outlook for ANSYS. Our focus on execution and investing in the business combined with the strength of our recurring business and growing sales pipeline provide a strong foundation to deliver on our 2021 goals as well as our longer-term financial targets. Operator, we will now open the phone line to take questions.