
OperatorGood morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Tractor Supply Company's conference call to discuss first quarter 2021 results. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that reproduction of this call in whole or in part is not permitted without written authorization of Tractor Supply Company. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to introduce your host for today's call, Ms. Mary Winn Pilkington, Senior Vice President, Investor and Public Relations for Tractor Supply Company. Mary Winn, please go ahead.Mary Winn Pilkington -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations And Public RelationsThank you, operator. Good morning, everyone. Thanks for taking the time to join us today, and I do hope you're all staying safe and well. On the call today are Hal Lawton, our Chief Executive Officer; and Kurt Barton, our Chief Financial Officer. After our prepared remarks, we'll open the call up for your questions. Seth Estep, our Executive Vice President and Chief Merchandising Officer, will join us for the question-and-answer session. Please note that we've made a supplemental slide presentation available on our website to accompany today's earnings release.Now let me reference the safe harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. This call may contain certain forward-looking statements that are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including the future operating and financial performance of the company. In many cases, these risks and uncertainties are beyond our control. Although the company believes the expectations reflected in its forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such expectations or any of its forward-looking statements will prove to be correct, and actual results may differ materially from expectations.Important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those reflected in the forward-looking statements are included at the end of the press release issued today and in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information contained in this call is accurate only as of the date discussed. Investors should not assume that statements will remain operative at a later time. Tractor Supply undertakes no obligation to update any information discussed in this call. Given the time constraints and the number of people who want to participate, we ask that you please limit your questions to one with a quick related follow-up. I appreciate your cooperation. We will be available after the call for follow-up. Thank you for your time and attention this morning.And now it's my pleasure to turn the call over to Hal.Hal Lawton -- President, Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Mary Winn, and good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. 2021 is off to a great start for Tractor Supply. I'm extremely proud and appreciative of the hard work by the more than 42,000 Tractor Supply and Petsense team members. Once again, they took care of each other and tirelessly served our customers, who depend on us to live the Out Here lifestyle. I also want to thank all of our supply chain and vendor partners. We've been operating in the COVID-19 environment for over a year now, and the Tractor Supply system has more than risen to the occasion as they strive to serve our mission and values every single day. While we anticipated that we would have our strongest growth of the year in the first quarter, our results were significantly ahead of our expectations. When you couple this performance with the continuing momentum we are seeing in the second quarter, the positive macro environment and our strong customer trends, we are adjusting our comp outlook to mid- to high single-digit growth in 2021. Kurt will share more details on the improved financial outlook for the year across our key financial metrics.Throughout the pandemic, our utmost priority has been the health and safety of our team members and customers. We continue to incur significant incremental expense for items like paid time-off, masks and testing. We remain committed to following the advice of the CDC and other medical professionals to protect our team and customers.As we enter the vaccination phase, we are committed to helping our team members who choose to get vaccinated to do so. We are providing a one-time payment of $50 and allowing time-off as needed for all team members who elect to receive a COVID-19 vaccine. To further alleviate the barriers to receiving a vaccine, we have partnered with a third-party provider to facilitate on-site vaccination at our eight distribution centers and store support center. During the quarter, we also announced our entry into an agreement to acquire Orscheln Farm and Home, a retailer with 167 stores across 11 states. This is an exciting step for Tractor Supply as we look to expand our footprint in the Midwest with the high-quality assets of Orscheln Farm and Home.We have always had great respect for Barry Orscheln and team for the strong connection they have with customers in the communities they serve, along with their industry knowledge and capabilities. With our shared values and passion for the Out Here lifestyle, we look forward to bringing together our highly complementary cultures and teams to realize the long-term value and benefit that we expect this acquisition to deliver over time. As we previously disclosed, we received a second request from the SEC as part of their review of the transaction and are cooperating with that confidential review. Accordingly, we are limited in the comments we can make about the transaction at this time.I hope you all saw our release this week with our updated ESG tear sheet for 2020, which provides new and updated performance metrics and context related to our environmental sustainability efforts, our commitment to our team members and communities and corporate governance. This report helps us provide detailed information and progress on our ESG journey. In addition, we laid out our commitment to provide new targets in the fall this year as it relates to our greenhouse gas emission plan and our aspirational goals for diversity, equity, inclusion. These initiatives make great business sense for Tractor Supply. As a purpose-driven company, setting targets for ourselves creates long-term value and our potential to have a positive impact on the world. We remain committed to constant improvement on this journey.Now let's turn to the business review for the first quarter of 2021. We had exceptional net sales gains of 42.5%, with comparable store sales up 38.6%. We materially benefited in the quarter from transitory factors such as stimulus spending, favorable weather and inflation. Importantly, however, the underlying foundation of our business is robust, and we're gaining share across all categories, online and in stores and also with existing customers and new customers. Our Neighbor's Club membership reached 20 million-member strong. This is an important milestone for our loyalty program as we know that they are customers that shop us more frequently and they spend more money with us.We saw 2.5 million new customers shop with us in the quarter, and that's an increase of over 30% over last year. Reengaged customers also exhibited strong growth, up over 12% from the first quarter of 2020. And customer retention for both our new and reengaged customers continues to run above last year. We saw strong growth across all product categories and geographic regions of the country. Comps for each month of the quarter were above 30%. And our growth was well balanced between transactions and ticket growth. The business, like the last few quarters, continues to be very consistent and stable.For the fourth quarter, our e-commerce saw strong, triple-digit growth and increased significantly as a percentage of our overall sales. The work we did last year to improve our omnichannel capabilities continues to resonate with our customers. Ongoing improvements to the customer experience for better search capabilities and enhanced personalization are being recognized by our customers. As we've experienced in the last several quarters, we continue to see strong performance and market share gains in our consumable, usable and edible categories with growth in the mid-20% range. More specifically, we continue to be very encouraged by the trends we're seeing within our pet and poultry categories, where we're driving shopping frequency and market share gains. Over the last 15 months, our unaided brand awareness scores are up 17 percentage points.I believe these types of metrics serve as leading indicators of our brand health and future spending patterns of our customers. We continue to execute our shift away from print advertising to brand building and digital marketing. We're currently airing our national TV spring advertising campaign that highlights the strengths of Tractor Supply's offering to serve the seasonal needs of our customers to take care of their land, pets and animals. Overall, the strong first quarter highlighted the unique advantages that we have at Tractor Supply. Our team members delivered exceptional results in a generation-defining moment.Now I'll turn the call over to Kurt to discuss some of the details of the first quarter and our outlook for the rest of the year.Kurt Barton -- Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and TreasurerThank you, Hal, and hello to everyone on the call. We're excited to be starting fiscal 2021 on such a positive note as we performed well ahead of our expectations. Let me share some further color on our strong first quarter results and our upward revisions to our guidance for the year. Our record first quarter earnings were driven by positive momentum in all areas of the business. Comp sales increased 38.6% as the trends we experienced over the past year continued throughout the first quarter of 2021. Traffic increased 21%, and average ticket grew 17.6%. All geographic areas reported sales gains of at least 30% positive comparison to last year. Big-ticket purchases had robust growth, up strong double digits that well outpaced our average comp sales increase. Safes, fencing, utility vehicles, trailers and outdoor power equipment, such as the zero-turn mowers, were some of the notable gainers in the quarter. As Hal mentioned, we did benefit from more transitory factors like stimulus payments, favorable weather and inflation that had a positive impact on the sales in the quarter. In total, we estimate that about 1/3 of our comparable store sales growth in the first quarter is attributable to these transitory factors.Our best estimate is that more favorable weather for the quarter contributed about 400 basis points to comps. Both January and February were colder than last year, with February being the coldest month in 30 years, while the last few weeks of March turned to a favorable spring weather in many of our markets. We also saw retail price inflation, primarily in commodities, which contributed around 300 basis points to our comp sales performance. The impact of stimulus payments is more difficult to quantify, but we recognize that consumers had more cash to spend during the quarter, and we believe Tractor Supply benefited from this in Q1. Towards the end of the quarter, in line with the timing of stimulus payments, we saw customer spending at elevated levels, especially in big-ticket items. Our best estimate is that stimulus contributed somewhere in the mid-single digits to our first quarter sales comps. Even factoring in the transitory benefits, we believe the underlying health of our business is structurally advantaged. Trends toward higher spending in consumables continued through the quarter with pet, bird and livestock feeds showing significant growth from last year. We saw growth in the quarter despite lapping last year's strong stock-up buying that occurred late in the first quarter of 2020 at the start of the pandemic.As we've said for the past few quarters, we see the growth in our C.U.E. categories as more evidence of an enduring consumer shift to higher pet adoptions and ownership, new customer hobbies like backyard poultry and gardening, along with trip consolidation. For the first quarter, our gross margin increased by 148 basis points to 35.2% of sales, which resulted in gross profit increasing to nearly $984 million in the first quarter. This quarter marked the ninth consecutive quarter of year-over-year gross margin rate expansion. Consistent with the trend since the beginning of the pandemic, this quarter's increase was primarily driven by a lower level of sales promotions and clearance activity. We also benefited from a positive product mix toward higher-margin categories. And, consistent with our guidance, we received approximately 40 basis points of benefit from vendor funding for the Field Activity Support Teams, or FAST, initiative. These factors were partially offset by higher transportation costs, which was a headwind for gross margin.Domestic and import freight costs have increased significantly as well as fuel costs. And we expect these trends to continue throughout 2021. SG&A, including depreciation and amortization as a percent of net sales was 27%, an improvement of 103 basis points. This improvement was primarily attributable to significant leverage in occupancy and other fixed costs from the strong increase in our comparable store sales. This leverage was partially offset by three factors: higher incentive compensation given the strong sales performance, COVID-related costs and higher operating expenses to support the elevated volumes. COVID-related costs were approximately $28 million, generally in line with prior quarters', as we continued to take appropriate actions to ensure the safety of our team members and customers. Additional overtime, temporary labor and other costs were also incurred to maintain high service levels. Operating profit dollars more than doubled compared to prior year to $231 million, an operating profit margin of 8.3%, an improvement of 251 basis points. Net income was $181 million, an increase of 117%. Diluted EPS was $1.55, representing an increase of 118% versus the first quarter of 2020. During the first quarter, we returned $314 million to shareholders through the combination of our share repurchases and dividends.Turning now to our balance sheet, which remains strong. Merchandise inventories were $2.1 billion at the end of the first quarter, representing an increase of about 2% in average inventory per store. This level of inventory is still lighter than we would like given the momentum of the business, and we are working with our suppliers and our vendors to build stock to support this momentum. The added supply chain costs and freight expense necessary to rebuild inventory is reflected in our updated guidance we provided.Moving now to our guidance for 2021. The impact that the COVID-19 pandemic and the vaccine rollout will have on the broader economy, the consumer and our fiscal 2021 results remains uncertain. We continue to plan for fiscal 2021 based on a range of potential outcomes, remaining nimble and adjusting as necessary. Our updated guidance reflects the strong results from the first quarter and the positive momentum we see in our business continuing into the second quarter. While the current environment and momentum are both favorable, we recognize that COVID-19 pandemic is not completely behind us and that economic conditions can change quickly. Please keep in mind that the prospective acquisition of Orscheln Farm and Home is not included in our guidance. Against the backdrop of what we know today, we are updating our guidance to a net sales range of $11.4 billion to $11.7 billion, with comparable store sales growth of 5% to 8%. For the year, we forecast an operating margin of 9.4% to 9.7% of sales, a step-up from our prior guidance.Diluted EPS is now forecast in a range of $7.05 to $7.40. This compares to our previous earnings range of $6.50 to $6.90 per diluted share. Compared to our initial outlook for the year, our forecast does reflect higher transportation costs and product inflation. We experienced increasing pressures from these factors during the first quarter and expect them to continue to be a headwind throughout 2021. In addition, we have a unique opportunity with the positive customer trends and momentum in the business. We are committed to investing in store and supply chain labor as we look to provide legendary customer service to meet our customers' expectations. I want to share additional context on our outlook for the second quarter. While we begin to lap more challenging sales and earnings comps, we currently see sales momentum continue, partially fueled by stimulus payments. We expect a positive sales comp in the second quarter in the mid single-digit range.Please keep in mind we'll be cycling our strongest gross margin performance of the prior year in Q2, where we benefited from minimal promotional or clearance activity as well as a favorable product mix. We are expecting gross margin decline in Q2 due to higher transportation costs, a less favorable product mix and a slight return to promotional activity. We also anticipate a modest onetime headwind in the second quarter relating to the rollout of our enhanced Neighbor's Club loyalty program. In terms of SG&A for the second quarter, COVID-related expenses are expected to moderate from the Q1 levels but are forecasted to be slightly higher than original expectations entering the year, along with higher labor cost to support these elevated volumes.For the second half of 2021, we anticipate tailwinds such as stimulus payments to moderate and performance to be more in line with our original guidance, expecting a modest decline in comp sales. Longer term, we continue to believe the best way to look at our business is not by the quarter but by the halves of the year. As I've stated before, a key component of our financial model is the strength of our balance sheet and the consistency of our free cash flow. We remain committed to returning cash to shareholders through the combination of a growing dividend and share repurchases. In January, we increased our annual dividend by 30% from $0.40 a share to $0.52. For 2021, we anticipate share repurchases in a range of $700 million to $800 million.In summary, it is an exciting time at Tractor Supply. We are very pleased with our performance in the first quarter and see positive momentum carrying into the second quarter. We see an opportunity to retain the loyalty of our longtime and newer customers by investing in our business to maintain everyday low prices and improve customer service, strengthen our supply chain and grow our digital commerce, all in support of our commitment to driving strong shareholder returns for the long term.With that, I'll turn the call back over to Hal.Hal Lawton -- President, Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Kurt. I'd like to spend the next portion of the call covering some of the key customer trends we're seeing in the business, providing an update on our Life Out Here strategy and highlighting our spring programs. Our customer base is experiencing robust, broad-based shopping patterns that provide significant opportunities for growth. These types of trends can simply be described as once in a generation. We're seeing growth in all our customer segments and across all value tiers of spending with strong retention of existing and new customers. The fastest-growth customer segment is our core farm and ranch. This segment is very healthy as rural economies, for the most part, were less impacted by the pandemic and are recovering at a steeper and more robust rate. Importantly, we're gaining wallet share with our core customer as our highest- and medium-spend customer tiers are outpacing our lower-spend customer tier.As mentioned earlier, we continue to see strong new customer growth and notably are also seeing strong customer retention. As an example, for our new customers from the first quarter of 2020 last year, more than 50% have returned to shop with Tractor Supply. This is about 300 basis points higher than the cohort from the first quarter of 2019. We are seeing significant growth in our millennial shoppers. Over the last 12 months, we've seen a 400 basis point shift in the customer age cohorts of 18 to 45 years old. This demographic has long resisted many of the traditional generational norms, things like household formation and homeownership. But the pandemic has shocked this generation and accelerated their embracement of these types of activities. There continues to be a net migration out of urban areas largely driven by the millennial segment.The most robust homeownership growth is in the millennial cohort, with the growth coming in suburban and rural areas. We believe growth in this customer segment has staying power and could be a structural game changer for us. Another structural customer trend that is working to our advantage is the significant increase in pet-owning households and number of pets adopted. Compared to the overall U.S. household pet ownership of approximately 2/3, our customers over-index in pet ownership by about 10 points. And our current survey work with our customers indicate 25% have recently acquired and adopted a new pet. New companion animal ownership acts as an annuity for our business as these puppies and kittens grow up and have growing life cycle needs. We're also uniquely positioned to offer a growing menu of services such as pet wash, vet clinics, prescriptions and televet services.Whether it's more food, treats, toys, containment and more, the humanization of pet provides us with future opportunities for growth. These customer trends are an indication that we continue to benefit from the numerous tailwinds such as pet ownership, the millennial urban exodus, backyard poultry, homesteading and home as an oasis. We believe many of these consumer trends will be enduring shifts well into the future. Our brand momentum is stronger than ever, and we're investing to ensure we continue to play offense in the context of these trends. We are making excellent progress on our Life Out Here strategy and initiatives.At the beginning of April, we announced the relaunch of our Neighbor's Club program to be even bigger and better. When we launched Neighbor's Club nationwide in 2017, our vision was to create a unique Out Here community for our customers and a place for them to connect with us. The Neighbor's Club has permitted us to show appreciation to our loyal customers and to accumulate actionable customer data that has allowed us to deliver to our customers more relevant and personalized communications. Over the last four years, our loyalty program has served us well to be able to thank participating customers for being loyal customers, provide rewards and special offers they value, learn more about their purchasing trends and interest and ultimately increase customer loyalty to Tractor Supply stores. Today, our Neighbor's Club program has over 20 million members and is comprised of our most valuable customers. It is a perfect time to upgrade the program with the introduction of points and three tiers of status.Now, neighbors, can earn points on their purchases and redeem them for more rewards. They can earn their way to different levels so that when they spend, they earn more. With the new features of Neighbor's Club, we believe we have more tools and features than ever to help facilitate upward migration in spending and mitigate downward migration of spending by our members. The changes to Neighbor's Club were specifically based on our customers' feedback. The new rewards and benefits of Neighbor's Club are relevant to the customer's lifestyle such as trailer rentals and shipping benefits. We believe with the new Neighbor's Club benefits, we have an opportunity to support our customers in a more meaningful way. This, in turn, will provide us a platform for multi-year trajectory for growth as a clear business driver for us.More broadly, we are aggressively advancing our Life Out Here strategy. The FAST team is at scale in providing significant improvement in the execution of our merchandising initiatives. We continue to forecast about 150 to 200 side lot transformations to occur this year. As of today, we have over 40 stores operating and continue to refine our learnings for future build-outs, of which 35 are currently under construction. Project Fusion store remodels are also on track for completion of 150 to 200 stores this year. In addition, new stores are being built as Fusion stores with improved layout, signage, SKU expansion and adjacencies. While still early, we're very pleased with our customers' response to both the side lot transformation and the Project Fusion store layout.Now turning to spring. Our stores in e-commerce are well positioned to take advantage of the seasonal change to serve our customers. We remain committed to being the zero-turn headquarters with our market-leading assortment from Toro, Bad Boy and Cub Cadet. We have substantially expanded our assortment in grilling, raised bed garden and other backyard categories. And to capture share of wallet in the lawn and garden category, we have expanded our offerings on core products like long-handled tools, wheelbarrows, trailers and tillers. And Chick Days are under way with millions of customers relying on us for their poultry passion. Leveraging our localization efforts, we're expanding our tool corral to an additional 400 stores. And on the product innovation front, we're partnering with Carhartt to open a new store-within-a-store concept. This concept was created with our customer at the center of the shopping experience. And by partnering with Carhartt to double our selection, our stores have even more of what makes Tractor Supply a destination for workwear. The new store-within-a-store concept will roll out in more than 100 Tractor Supply stores in 2021 with additional stores to be added next year.To wrap up, I couldn't be prouder of the Tractor Supply team as they've remained agile in the face of a very challenging operating environment. My thanks and appreciation go out to each of them for helping to take care of each other and our customers while operating at a record-setting pace. We have an incredibly strong business and foundation. We see more positive macro factors than we did at the beginning of the year. Customers are shopping with us in record numbers, and we're investing in multiple initiatives to retain them and provide more reasons to shop with us in the future. We participate in a large and attractive market that we're working to expand further with initiatives such as side lots that will add to our product offering. By doing the right thing for our team members and customers, we're executing our Life Out Here strategy and building a stronger company for our shareholders.Now we'd like to open up the call for questions.