
OperatorGood day, and welcome to the Kimco Realty Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to Dave Bujnicki. Please go ahead.David Bujnicki -- enior Vice President of Investor Relations & StrategyGood morning, and thank you for joining Kimco's Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. The Kimco management team participating on the call include Conor Flynn, Kimco's CEO; Ross Cooper, President and Chief Investment Officer; Glenn Cohen, our CFO; Dave Jamieson, Kimco's Chief Operating Officer; as well as other members of Kimco's executive team that are also available to answer questions during the call. As a reminder, statements made during the course of this call may be deemed forward-looking, and it is important to note that the company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements due to a variety of risks, uncertainties and other factors.

 



Please refer to the company's SEC filings that address such factors. During this presentation, management may make reference to certain non-GAAP financial measures that we believe help investors better understand Kimco's operating results. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures can be found in the Investor Relations area of our website. Also in the event our call was to incur technical difficulties, we'll try to resolve as quickly as possible and if the need arises, we'll post additional information to our IR website. And with that, I'll turn the call over to Conor.Conor C. Flynn -- Chief Executive Officer & DirectorGood morning, and thanks for joining us. Today, I'll focus my remarks on our operating results. The supply and demand dynamics surrounding those results, the strategic direction we are taking the organization and the powerful position Kimco will have upon the closing of our merger with Weingarten. Ross will then provide some perspective on the transaction market, and Glenn will provide additional financial insight on the quarter along with our updated guidance. As I have often mentioned, our core focus has been and will continue to be on leasing, leasing, leasing. It fuels our growth, validates the quality of our portfolio, strengthens our balance sheet, reduces risk and is a catalyst to overcome pandemic-induced disruption. Our second quarter leasing activity and overall results continue to build upon the success that began earlier this year as we leased 1.8 million square feet and signed 333 leases. This leasing included 139 new leases of GLA exceeding the prior sequential quarter. Overall occupancy finished at 93.9%, up 40 basis points while our new leasing spreads of 9.2% and renewal spreads of 4.7% resulted in a record 42 quarters or 10 years in a row of positive spreads.The combination of record leasing demand in a five year low of new vacancies continue to drive the earlier-than-anticipated occupancy recovery for Kimco. Traffic at our properties is back to 2019 levels and the healthy leasing market reflects the reopening of the economy and the rush by tenants to capture market share is apparent as they pursue our high-quality locations. Moreover, in our attractive and strategically selected markets, we do not anticipate any material new supply in the near term to impact our pricing power. Robust demand for anchor space continues across our portfolio. Centers of the grocery component have outperformed during the pandemic and continue to lead the rebound. We're also seeing data on restaurants that show people are eager to go out and eat again with the Sun Belt states outperformance. Similar trends with fitness where traffic is coming back quickly. On the store openings, off-price continues to be a leading source of demand but we're also seeing solid demand from furniture, home goods, pet supply, hobby, health and wellness, including discount fitness, just to name a few.

 



Our anchor occupancy finished the quarter at 96.9%, up 70 basis points which is the single largest quarterly gain since we started reporting anchor occupancy 10 years ago. Small shop demand also continues to recover, albeit at a slower pace. The small shop demand that's now building is coming from franchise quick service restaurants, beauty, hair and nail salons, medical and other services. While small shop occupancy did finish down 30 basis points to end at 85.5%, it was impacted from the inclusion of Dania Phases II and III into occupancy. If not for this, small shop occupancy would have actually increased sequentially by 30 basis points during the second quarter, and we remain confident that the smaller tenants will gradually accelerate their demand for space as they gain comfort that the recovery from last year's severe disruption is sustainable. Further, the importance of being located as a last mile solution for a multitude of potential tenants continues to grow. Our mission-critical last mile brick-and-mortar locations will prove to be durable solutions for consumers, retailers and many other businesses that want scale and reach to serve the end consumer.One silver lining of the last 1.5 years is that it showcased the strength of our repositioned grocery-anchored portfolio, the resiliency of our cash flows and the strength and diversity of our strong mix of high credit tenants. As our occupancy recovers, we anticipate EBITDA and FFO growth will follow and bolster our balance sheet metrics. We are also in a unique position to drive earnings results with multiple levers for growth, led by our continued emphasis on leasing and attractive redevelopment opportunities. On the strategic front, the completion of our accretive merger with Weingarten is fast approaching and ahead of schedule. The shareholder votes are scheduled for August three and subject to customary closing conditions, the closing should occur shortly thereafter. With Weingarten's portfolio, combined with Kimco's, following the merger, we will have even more confident in our ability to drive significant and sustained value from this concentrated platform of open air, grocery-anchored and mixed-use assets in the leading MSAs across the country.Touching further on the power of the merger, the combined company will continue to focus on operating a dynamic and well-diversified portfolio in these markets, but with greater scale, resources and embedded opportunities. We expect that the complementary business operations will allow us to extract annualized cost efficiencies while deleveraging our balance sheet. I think it is important to reiterate the scale and reach we will have with our targeted first ring suburbs of core markets across the Sun Belt. Together, we'll have approximately 550 open-air grocery-anchored shopping centers and mixed-use assets, comprising more than 100 million square feet of gross leasable area. At closing, approximately 82% of the company's total annual base rent will be derived from strategic Sun Belt growth markets and high barrier-to-entry top coastal markets. The combined platform will also have a highly diversified, strong credit tenant base with the top 10 tenants all essential, industry-leading grocers and best-in-class retailers with no single tenant representing more than 4% of ABR.And given that we are not completely out of the pandemic woods yet, with the reality and threat of new strains, we believe the combined portfolio, strong balance sheet and battle-tested team puts us in an even better position to withstand any disruptions to the ongoing recovery. Looking beyond the closing, the Weingarten portfolio brings a largely funded and derisked development pipeline and presents vast potential in the form of embedded untapped redevelopment from which we believe we can extract incremental value. Ultimately, we believe this accretive combination will result in enhanced financial strength with the flexibility and resources to efficiently capitalize on the value creation opportunities ahead. While we will be quantifying the impact until after the transaction is closed, we are highly energized by the opportunities in front of us to maximize value for shareholders. In closing, our team is motivated and executing. As we look forward, our ability to create value will be enhanced in the coming years by our last mile fulfillment opportunities with high-growth, high-quality open air, grocery-anchored shopping centers and mixed-use properties that will enable us to realize substantial operating benefits. With that, I will turn the call over to Ross.

 



Ross Cooper -- President & Chief Information OfficerGood morning, and thank you, Conor. As the recovery from the pandemic continues to take shape, and the essential nature of our open-air shopping center locations become more apparent, the capital flowing to the space also continues to significantly increase. A well-capitalized private equity investor recently told me there's only so much sub-4% cap rate industrial and multifamily products we can buy, the risk-adjusted return for high-quality open-air retail products has become increasingly evident. We have seen this sentiment play out in the transactions market this quarter and the momentum continues to build. We have seen it on portfolios and one-off centers alike. Leasing velocity and renewal rates have given investors confidence in both the stability and future upside of existing cash flows and rent rolls. With capital abundant on both the equity and debt side and with interest rates declining even lower recently, a very accommodative environment for deal flow exists. This includes a recently closed grocery portfolio in the Philadelphia MSA, a diversified portfolio of retail assets in Phoenix, one-off grocery deals in South Florida, New Jersey and several in Southern California and Atlanta to give a few examples.As we see brokers starting to report results, it is clear 2021 is on track to be one of the highest production years for the industry. There is no question that appetite for open-air retail is voracious. We continue to be opportunistic, yet selective and disciplined in the investments we make. In the second quarter, as an addition to our structured investments program, we invested approximately $55 million in a preferred equity position into The Rim, a dominant retail, entertainment and mixed-use district having over one million square feet of GLA located in the fast-growing San Antonio market. The property has consistently been the number one most heavily traffic center in all of Texas with exceptional tenant sales to support the property. We are extremely excited for the upside of this investment, which was made at an attractive current yield and reasonable basis along with the right-of-first refusal to buy the center in the future. Another recent success is the sale of two Rite Aid California-based distribution centers closed in the second quarter that were acquired by our taxable REIT subsidiary earlier this year in a sale-leaseback transaction. When we completed the sale of these two properties at a price of $108 million, it represented a significant increase from the $84 million paid just five months earlier and generated a 72% IRR for Kimco on this investment.As we carefully consider capital allocation and disciplined investment opportunities, we believe that selective acquisitions, structured investments and partnership buyouts will continue to present themselves at the appropriate times. Now to Glenn for the financial results for the quarter.Glenn Gary Cohen -- Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer & TreasurerThanks, Ross, and good morning. Our solid second quarter growth was fueled by continued improvement in rent collections, lower credit loss and very strong same-site NOI. Our strong leasing efforts, combined with an improving economy, produced a sequential uptick in occupancy and another quarter of positive leasing spreads. In addition, as EBITDA has increased, our debt metrics have also improved. Now for some details on second quarter results. NAREIT FFO was $148.8 million or $0.34 per diluted share for the second quarter 2021, which includes merger-related charges of $3.2 million or $0.01 per diluted share in connection with the anticipated merger with Weingarten. This compares to $103.5 million or $0.24 per diluted share for the second quarter of the prior year. The significant growth was mainly driven by increased pro-rata NOI of $44.7 million, comprised of lower credit loss from potentially uncollectible accounts and straight-line rents of $50.9 million and higher lease termination income of $2.7 million. These increases were offset by lower minimum rents and reduced CAM and real estate tax recoveries due to lower occupancy compared to the same quarter last year.The improvement in credit loss is attributable to our increased cash collections as we are approaching pre-pandemic rent collection levels. During the second quarter, we collected over 96% of pro-rata base rent bill. We also collected over 77% of rents due from cash basis tenants during the second quarter, up from 70% collected in the first quarter. Further, collections of prior period amounts from cash basis tenants totaled $7 million during the second quarter of 2021 versus $1.8 million collected during the same period in 2020. Our cash basis tenants comprise 8.8% of total annualized base rents. In addition, we collected almost 90% of the deferred rents billed during the second quarter. At the end of June, we have approximately $25.4 million of deferred rents, which remain to be billed over the next 12 months and 64% of this amount is reserved. As Conor mentioned, the operating portfolio delivered significant improvement in the second quarter with a sequential increase in occupancy and positive leasing spreads. Our same-site NOI growth, including redevelopments, was 16.7%, including a 30 basis point uplift from redevelopments.This is the first positive quarter of same-site NOI growth since first quarter 2020 and should be the start of a recurring trend. Another positive indicator is the increase in the spread of leased versus economic occupancy, which now stands at approximately 300 basis points, up from 230 basis points last quarter and represents $33.4 million of pro-rata ABR. This spread bodes well for future cash flow growth. Turning to the balance sheet. At the end of the second quarter, consolidated net debt-to-EBITDA was 6.3 times. On a look-through basis, including pro-rata share of JV debt and pro rata and preferred stock outstanding, the metric was 7.1 times. These metrics are better than the pre-pandemic levels at the end of 2019. From a liquidity standpoint, we ended the second quarter with over $230 million of cash and full availability on our $2 billion revolving credit facility. We will be using cash on hand and a portion of the revolver to fund the cash component of the Weingarten merger consideration and transaction costs. In addition, our Albertsons marketable security investment was valued at close to $800 million at the end of June, and there are no plans to monetize any portion of this investment during 2021. During the second quarter, we repaid $120 million of mortgage debt, unencumbering an additional 23 assets.We have no consolidated debt maturing for the balance of the year and our next bond maturity is not until November of 2022. Our weighted average consolidated debt maturity profile stands at 10.7 years, one of the longest in the REIT industry. As for JV debt, we have only $53 million maturing for the remainder of the year with refinancing alternatives already identified. With respect to outlook for the balance of the year, based on our first half 2021 operating results and expectations that include ongoing improvement in credit loss and same-site NOI growth, we are again raising our NAREIT FFO per share guidance range to $1.29 to $1.33 from the previous range of $1.22 to $1.26. This new range is presented on a stand-alone basis and does not incorporate any impact of the pending merger with Weingarten other than the $3.2 million or $0.01 per diluted share of merger-related charges incurred during the second quarter of 2021. Assuming the merger is completed during the third quarter as anticipated, we will provide updated guidance on a combined basis on our next earnings call. Lastly, with respect to our common dividend, shortly after the merger is completed, the Board of Directors expect to declare a regular quarterly cash dividend, which will be payable during the third quarter. And now we'll be ready to take your questions.David Bujnicki -- enior Vice President of Investor Relations & StrategyWe've been advised to keep this call focused on Kimco's second quarter results and the outlook as a stand-alone company. More information will be forthcoming once this transaction closes, which we anticipate will be shortly after the completion of the respective meetings of stockholders, which is on August 3. In terms of the Q&A, we want to make this an efficient process. You may ask a question with an additional follow-up. If you have additional questions, you're more than welcome to rejoin the queue. Tom, youCan take the first caller.