  OperatorWelcome to Devon Energy's first quarter 2022 conference call. [Operator instructions] This call is being recorded. I'd now like to turn the call over to Scott Coody, vice president of investor relations. Sir, you may begin.Scott Coody -- Vice President, Investor Relations Good morning, and thank you to everyone for joining us on the call today. Last night, we issued an earnings release and presentation that cover our results for the quarter and updated outlook. Throughout the call today, we will make references to the earnings presentation to support prepared remarks, and these slides can be found on our website. Also joining me on the call today are Rick Muncrief, our president and CEO; Clay Gaspar, our chief operating officer; Jeff Ritenour, our chief financial officer; and a few other members of our senior management team. Comments today will include plans, forecasts, and estimates that are forward-looking statements under U.S. securities law. These comments are subject to assumptions, risks, and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from our forward-looking statements. Please take note of the cautionary language and risk factors provided in our SEC filings and earnings materials.With that, I'll turn the call over to Rick. Rick Muncrief -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Scott. Great to be here this morning. We appreciate everyone taking the time to join us on the call today. As we all know, it's been an extraordinary time in the world, including the energy markets over the past few months. While no one could have accurately predicted the timing or the wide-ranging impact of the recent geopolitical events, I can assure you that our team at Devon deeply understands the importance of our role in providing energy security to the U.S. We take pride in providing our great nation, a reliable, safe and cost-advantaged source of energy. The first quarter operational results are yet another example of the resolve and dedication to our mission here at Devon. Our people overcame multiple bouts of extreme winter weather and fought through the challenges of a tight supply chain to not only meet but exceed oil production targets for the quarter. We were also able to keep a lid on inflation and deliver these volumes in a very cost-effective way. This type of tough and resilient performance is what defines us and I want to congratulate the entire Devon team for getting the job done the right way amid some very challenging conditions. Now turning to Slide 5. The first key message I want to convey is that the execution of our disciplined operating plan resulted in yet another quarter of impressive financial results. This was highlighted by Devon's earnings and cash flow growing at healthy double-digit rates versus last quarter. Our capital was in line with our plan, and our free cash flow increased 18% over the prior period. We grew our quarterly dividend to a new record high payout of $1.27 per share. Our buyback program further amplified for share growth and our rock-solid investment-grade balance sheet only continued to strengthen. These results continue to demonstrate the power of our disciplined business model, our focus on growing cash margins, and the benefits of our differentiated cash return framework. On Slide 6, my second key message today is that we are staying true to the game plan we've laid out earlier this year and are well our way to achieving our capital objectives for 2022. With our budgeted activity, Devon is one of the most active operators in the U.S. with 19 operated rigs running and our team is working hard to maximize our production. As I touched on earlier, in the first quarter, we delivered more volumes to the market than projected in our plan and a strong execution positions us to produce 570,000 to 600,000 BOE per day for the full year of 2022. This level of output makes us one of the largest producers in the U.S., and we're laser-focused on reliably delivering these essential barrels to the market in a capital-efficient manner. Now looking beyond the current year, I want to emphasize there's no real change to how we'll manage our business. To ensure we are excellent stewards of capital, we believe that fairly consistent activity through the cycle is the best pathway to optimize efficiencies and returns. To execute on this foundational principle, our disciplined strategy moderates Devon's production growth from 0 up to as much as 5% in any given year. Today's heightened pricing from recent geopolitical events does not impact our capital allocation strategy. I can assure you that we will continue to be very thoughtful and closely evaluate how the geopolitical landscape influences market fundamentals. Even with today's higher prices, we simply must consider the continued steep backwardation in strip pricing, the ongoing supply chain challenges, and the economic uncertainty resulting from the crisis in Ukraine. The third key point I want to make today is that our financially driven strategy is designed to reward shareholders with higher cash returns in this constructive price environment. This is demonstrated on Slide 8 with the attractive yield of Devon's fixed plus variable dividend policy offers compared to other segments of the equity market. In fact, at today's pricing, our yield is six times than the average company that's represented in the S&P 500 Index. With this market-leading dividend payout, we have seen a tremendous benefit to our shareholder base over the past several quarters by attracting dividend-oriented funds, value investors, pensions, family offices, retail, and we're even beginning to see evidence of growth investors. Furthermore, we've also seen a significant change among the culture of our employees who all own our stock and look forward to that quarterly dividend check just as much as you do. Now another way we're returning cash to shareholders is by repurchasing our stock. As you can see on Slide 9, since we commenced the program last November, we have executed $891 million of share repurchases. This activity has reduced our outstanding share count by 3% at a cost basis that is about 25% below current trading levels. With the board now expanding our share repurchase program by 25%, up to $2 billion, we can be active buyers of our stock throughout the rest of this year. We will be thoughtful, disciplined and convicted with this buyback activity, but I can assure you that we will take full advantage of any pullbacks and look for opportunities, especially to buy dips. At current levels, we feel that we are fundamentally undervalued and are at the start of a multiple expansion for our equity that should translate into true value creation for shareholders. Turning to Slide 11. My final key message for you today is that we expect a strong financial and operational performance we have been delivering to be sustainable for years to come. Confidence comes from the quality of our asset portfolio, the depth of our inventory, the diversity of our product mix, and the talented team we have assembled. These competitive advantages are further reinforced by our unwavering commitment to capital discipline through the cycle, the transparent cash return framework we have instituted, and the rock-solid balance sheet we possess. Now importantly, the market agrees with this view and has been rewarding us with an increasing share price for the advantaged trades over the past year. However, with many investors that are possibly new to our story, we believe it is still very early in this structural bull market. Devon's strong stock performance over the past year is largely a bounce back from the generational lows we experienced during the COVID crisis. This is evidenced by energy's waiting in the S&P 500 Index of only 4%, compared to the long-term average of closer to 10%. As you can see on the box to the right, we believe our attractive return profile and valuation compared to the broader market will be another catalyst for our share price appreciation as more and more investors discover Devon's unique investment proposition. Furthermore, with our geographic and commodity mix diversity, we have the ability to benefit on all fronts. And with that, I will now turn the call over to Clay to cover our operational highlights for the past quarter. Clay?Clay Gaspar -- Chief Operating Officer Thanks, Rick, and thanks to those listening in on our call today. As you can see from the results we issued last night, our team delivered another round of impressive operating results. I want to stress to you that I don't take these regular accomplishments for granted nor should it diminish the valiant work that the team does to make these consistent deliveries look easy. This is a technically challenging business that continues to get harder every day. I believe that our recipe for today's success will continue to deliver in the future. The foundation of that operational success is built on a high-quality portfolio. That foundation is brought to life by incredibly thoughtful and hard-working people. And that team is guided by a business model, as articulated on Slide 3, that provides a steady course for them to drive their efforts toward. Once again, this quarter, strong well productivity across the portfolio drove production to exceed the midpoint of the 1Q guide, while steady operational improvements allowed us to mitigate additional inflationary pressure and keep our cost structure in line with the full year plan. This comprehensive execution across all phases of our operations allowed the higher commodity prices to pass directly through our field level margins and generate the highest level of cash flow for Devon in nearly a decade. Now let's turn to Slide 13, where we can discuss our franchise growth asset in the Delaware Basin. In the first quarter, net production from the Delaware increased 27% on a year-over-year basis. This volume growth was driven by 52 high-impact wells brought online that were diversified across targets in the Avalon, Bone Spring, and Wolfcamp formations. In aggregate, these wells achieved average 30-day rates of 2,800 BOE per day with an average oil cut of over 60%. At an average completed well cost of around $7.5 million per well, the overall returns from this program are outstanding with many of these wells on track to pay out in less than a year at today's strip pricing. Turning to Slide 14, another highlight associated with the Delaware activity was the improvement in operational efficiencies and margin expansion we delivered in the quarter. Beginning with the graph on the left, we continue to achieve efficiency gains across each phase of our operations. In fact, in the most recent quarter, our drilled and completed feet per day metrics continued to improve to 85% and 135% respectively from just a few years ago. A great example of this progress is that team drilling our fastest well ever in the basin during the quarter with a spud to rig release time of only nine days. At this point -- as a point of comparison, I can remember evaluating the 2015 acquisition that brought WPX into the basin with spud to rig release times of greater than 40 days. Completion efficiencies also steadily advanced with our best results occurring in the Upper Wolfcamp development that reached a record high pace of 2,400 completed feet per day. These accomplishments clearly demonstrate the great work our team along with our service company partners have done to drive improvements across the entire planning and execution of our resource. Directing your attention to the right side of the slide, we also effectively controlled lease outing expense in the quarter by keeping our per unit LOE cost essentially flat on a year-over-year basis. Our consistent operating plan, leverage of technology, enhanced purchasing power, and relentless focus on margin allows us to manage and offset rising costs and maximize the value of this production in this inflationary environment. As you can see, this strong cost performance resulted in significant margin expansion compared to both the previous quarter and on a year-over-year basis. As I look ahead to maintain this high level of performance, a top priority for us is to continue to stay ahead of inflationary pressure and supply chain disruptions. As the market has tightened, we're experiencing substantial cost increases in raw materials, continue labor shortages, and uncommon scarcity across numerous products and services. We combat these challenges with thoughtful upfront planning, technology, consistent activity levels, and through bulk purchasing power we possessed due to our operating scale. Our effectiveness thus far is evidenced by our 1Q upstream capital spending coming in at only 24% of our full year. As we look at our full year guide, as I look forward to the rest of the year, our confidence in our team and processes to mitigate our exposure to supply chain disruptions and out-of-control inflation. We will continue to watch this closely. But if these trends continue, our capital spend could gravitate toward the top half of our guidance range for the year. Turning to Slide 16, a catalyst that will help us combat higher-cost environment is the recent commencement of a company-owned sand mine on the surface acreage we own in Loving County. This mobile sand mine is the first of its kind in the Delaware Basin and is expected to supply up to 25% of our proppant requirements in the basin this year. In addition to providing a certainty of supply, this mine could save us up to 200,000 per well, relative to the rising spot prices we are experiencing across the basin as activity picks up and sand supply has tightened. Equally important, this mine also has significant environmental and safety benefits due to the need for fewer trucks on the road and it eliminates the combustion-related emissions associated with drawing the sand that occurs in normal mining processes. Finally, controlling this critical baseline of supply in this market is incredibly valuable to operational certainty. This creative solution to the current supply chain crunch is another benefit from an investment we made a purchase of 15,000 acres of surface land in the Stateline field in 2018. With the early success from this project, we are excited about the potential to expand this concept to other areas of our portfolio with opportunities already identified in both Anadarko and the Powder River Basins. This innovative approach to sourcing sand for our completion operations serves as another great example to our team's drive for continuous improvement. Moving to Slide 17. While the Delaware Basin is clearly the growth engine for Devon, we also have several high-quality assets in the top U.S. resource plays. The teams that support these assets are doing an incredible job of working to drive capital efficiencies, optimize base production, keep operating costs low, and steadily improving our environmental footprint. As you can see by the slide, by executing at an extremely high level on these critical objectives, these assets are on pace to grow cash flow by about 20% this year to around $2.5 billion at today's pricing. I'm proud of what these assets are delivering, and I appreciate the team's hard work and efforts that go into fulfilling this important role within our portfolio. And with that, I'll turn the call over to Jeff for a financial review. Jeff?Jeff Ritenour -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Clay. I'll spend my time today covering the key drivers of our strong financial results for the quarter, and I'll also provide some insights into our outlook for the rest of the year. Beginning with production, our total volumes in the first quarter averaged 575,000 BOE per day. This performance exceeded the midpoint of our guidance due to another strong quarter of well productivity in Delaware Basin. We expect first quarter production to be our lowest production quarter of the year due to winter weather downtime that reduced volumes by 15,000 BOE per day. With these curtailments back online and more than 80 development wells scheduled to initiate first production, we expect Devon's volumes to increase by around 3% to nearly 600,000 BOE per day in the upcoming quarter. Moving to expenses. Our largest field-level cost category, lease operating and transportation cost, totaled $7.44 per BOE in the quarter. This strong cost performance was 3% below guidance expectations and allowed us to hold our per-unit cost essentially flat versus the year-ago quarter. Although we are experiencing moderate pricing pressure across several service and supply cost categories, our team's proactive planning and thoughtful cost management has mitigated these inflation pressures year to date. Overall, the strong cost performance, coupled with exposure to higher-value production, expanded Devon's field level cash margin by 17% quarter over quarter to nearly $50 per BOE. We also continue to control corporate cost. In aggregate, G&A and financing costs declined 13% year over year due to merger-related synergies and the company's ongoing debt reduction program. These structural improvements will help our margins remain resilient to inflationary pressures as we progress through the year. Current tax adjusted for nonrecurring items was 6% during the first quarter. Given the higher commodity prices we are experiencing, we now expect this to approach 10% for the full year. Cutting to the bottom line, Devon's core earnings increased for the seventh quarter in a row to $1.88 per share. A key contributor to this growth is lower depreciation rates driven by our capital efficiency improvements over the past several years. This level of earnings momentum translated into operating cash flow of $1.8 billion in the fourth quarter. After funding our disciplined maintenance capital program, we generated $1.3 billion of free cash flow, which is the highest level of free cash flow Devon has ever delivered in a quarter. With this increasing amount of free cash flow, our top priority is to accelerate the return of capital to shareholders. As we've communicated in the past, the first call on our excess cash is the funding of our fixed plus variable dividend. Based on our strong first quarter financial performance, we increased our dividend payout by 27% to $1.27 per share. This distribution will be paid at the end of June and includes $0.11 per share benefit from the divestiture contingency payments received earlier in the quarter. Another critical use for our free cash flow is the execution of our ongoing share repurchase program. Year to date, we bought back another $302 million of stock. As Rick touched on earlier, since we initiated the program last November, we've retired over 19 million shares, driving growth on a per-share basis by 3%. With the board expanding our share repurchase program to $2 billion, we now have just over $1 billion remaining on this authorization and expect to continue to opportunistically buy back stock as we progress through the year. We also have returned value to shareholders through our efforts to improve the balance sheet. In the first quarter, our cash balances increased by more than $350 million to a total of $2.6 billion. With this substantial liquidity and our strong cash flow generating capabilities, we expect Devon's leverage profile to push toward a 0 net debt balance by year end. Even with this advantaged financial position, we are not done making improvements. The next step in our debt reduction plan is to fully retire the $390 million of 2027 notes that become callable in October of this year. We will have the opportunity to retire another $600 million of debt in 2023 with a call of our 2028 notes in June, followed by the maturity of another note in August. And lastly, I want to highlight the outstanding returns on capital employed that we're generating. Based on our outlook for the remainder of the year, I expect our return on capital employed to exceed 40% in 2022. This return profile places us in the upper echelon of the broader market today, providing further evidence that our disciplined cash return strategy is working and delivering differentiated results. With that, I'll now turn the call back to Rick for some closing comments.Rick Muncrief -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Jeff. Great job. I'd like to close today by reiterating a few things. Number one, the execution of our strategy is delivering impressive financial results. You've just heard that. Number two, there is no change to our disciplined game plan in 2022. Number three, we are rewarding shareholders with record high cash payouts. And number four, we are confident we can continually and sustainably deliver this kind of performance for years to come. Lastly, I'd like to reiterate once again how proud I am with this team, the results they are delivering, and the reliable energy we provide our great nation. The energy crisis we're experiencing in certain regions across the globe is a stark reminder of how critical it is for the U.S. to have a clear and consistent energy policy to ensure our nation's security and global leadership. Oil and natural gas will remain a core source of energy for decades to come, and this needs to be acknowledged and accepted with any energy transition policy discussions. This transition is not an event in time but rather a multi-decade endeavor that will require enormous amounts of energy from all available sources to meet the world's growing demand. Energy policy matters. And if we misstep physics and economics, we will defeat platitudes and untethered ideologies over time. At Devon, we're committed to doing our part by showing up to work every day to responsibly produce low-cost, clean, and reliable energy. We're also dedicated to bettering the communities in which we live and work by supporting investments in public education, healthcare, infrastructure, and by providing high-paying jobs to American families. I will now turn the call back over to Scott for Q&A. Thank you.Scott Coody -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thanks, Rick. We'll now open the call to Q&A. Please limit yourself to one question and a follow-up. This allows us to get to more of your questions on the call today. With that, operator, we'll take our first question. 