
OperatorWelcome to Workday's Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2022 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] With that, I will now hand it over to Mr. Justin Furby, Vice President of Investor Relations. Thank you, sir. You may begin.Justin Furby -- Vice President of Investor RelationsThank you, operator. Welcome to Workday's third quarter fiscal 2022 earnings conference call. On the call, we have Aneel Bhusri and Chano Fernandez, our co-CEOs; Robynne Sisco, our Co-President and CFO; and Pete Schlampp, our Chief Strategy Officer.

 



Following prepared remarks, we will take questions. Our press release was issued after close of market and is posted on our website, where this call is being simultaneously webcast.Before we get started, we want to emphasize that some of our statements on this call, particularly our guidance, are based on the information we have as of today and include forward-looking statements regarding our financial results, applications, customer demand, operations and other matters. These statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including those related to the impacts of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic on our business and global economic conditions. Please refer to the press release and the risk factors and documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our 2021 Annual Report on Form 10-K and most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q for additional information on risks, uncertainties and assumptions that may cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in such statements.In addition, during today's call, we will discuss non-GAAP financial measures, which we believe are useful as supplemental measures of Workday's performance. These non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to and not as a substitute for or in isolation from GAAP results. You can find additional disclosures regarding these non-GAAP measures, including reconciliations with comparable GAAP results in our earnings press release and on the Investor Relations page of our website.The webcast replay of this call will be available for the next 90 days on our company website under the Investor Relations link. Also, the customers' page of our website includes a list of selected customers and is updated monthly.

 



Our fourth quarter quiet period begins on January 16, 2022. Unless otherwise stated, all financial comparisons in this call will be to our results for the comparable period of our fiscal 2021.With that, I'll hand the call over to Aneel.Aneel Bhusri -- Co-Founder, Co-Chief Executive Officer, and ChairmanThank you, Justin, and good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for joining us today for our third quarter fiscal year '22 earnings call. I'm pleased to report that Workday had another strong quarter. As we highlighted at our Analyst Day in September, we continue to expand our addressable market with a broadening product portfolio and multiple go-to-market levers to drive sustainable growth on our path to $10 billion and beyond.

 



As we discussed throughout this year, our expectation has been for accelerating growth. While not every expectation comes to fruition, this one certainly has, even faster than we expected. And we're optimistic on the momentum we see as we head into our all-important Q4 and prepare for a great year in fiscal year '23.Robynne will provide more detail shortly, but we are pleased to provide a preliminary view of 20% subscription revenue growth for next year. And with continued execution, we see opportunity to grow even faster.Before I hand it off to Chano to provide details on our go-to-market success in Q3, I want to quickly touch on the highlights from the quarter. Starting out with our industry-leading Workday HCM products. We had another strong quarter as we continue to attract new customers and also having strong success growing our relationship with our existing customers. In Q3, we added Asda Stores Limited, ConocoPhillips, Northern Trust, Toll Brothers and Vishay Electronic, among many other new HCM customers. Notable go-lives in Q3 included the State of Iowa and Five Below to name a few.In addition to strong growth from core HCM, our recently acquired Peakon Solution, newly named Workday Peakon Employee Voice, delivered another record quarter. We're seeing the benefits having recently rolled out Peakon globally across our own organization, and we couldn't be more excited about the long-term potential to help our customers better listen to and engage with their own employees.We also continue to see strong traction across our Financial Management suite of applications. Our growing product portfolio, combined with digital acceleration in the office of the CFO, is driving broader adoption of our financial management applications. To that end, new Workday Financial Management customers in Q3 included the City of Philadelphia, the World Health Organization, Wintrust, Memorial Healthcare and Diversified Restaurant Group.Of course, one of the big drivers behind our continued strong customer adoption is our relentless focus on innovation, by staying at the forefront of large trends that are secular drivers of future growth. One trend that has been accelerated by the demands of the pandemic is the future of work, which requires new ways of thinking about workforce composition and how to manage different types of workers. We expect to accelerate our efforts in this area with the proposed acquisition of VNDLY, a leading next-generation cloud-based vendor management solution platform. Workday and VNDLY together will deliver a comprehensive total workforce optimization solution that brings an integrated approach to managing all types of workers. It will help customers bridge the gap between internal and external workforce management, while enabling a holistic workforce strategy that delivers full visibility into the entire workforce and managing and planning for labor needs, while also helping to control compliance and security risks. We look forward to expanding our efforts in this area, and we'll share more information after the deal closes, which we expect to occur in our fourth quarter.Looking ahead to fiscal year '23 and beyond, we have an amazing growth opportunity in front of us, and we see a unique opportunity to accelerate our path forward by further ensuring that our purpose, strategic vision and product road map are in lockstep with our go-to-market strategy. To help us do that, we've announced a series of important organizational updates. The first two in late October and two more today that I'm excited to share with you.To help try to further articulate Workday's strategic vision, Pete Schlampp has been appointed as our first ever Chief Strategy Officer. Pete has successfully led our industry-leading product organization for the past two years. During that time, he implemented a robust product portfolio strategy that's contributed to our current momentum, both in terms of delivered innovation and financial success. His ability to set a strategic vision and execute makes him the perfect fit for this new role, overseeing and evangelizing our growth strategy going forward.Second, we are creating tight alignment across our products and technology organizations under the leadership of Sayan Chakraborty, who is now EVP of Product and Technology. Under Sayan's leadership the past two years, the technology team has infused Workday with game-changing innovations like machine learning, enabled customers and partners to innovate in our platform with Workday Extend, build strategic cloud partnerships and helped ensure that Workday is among the most reliable, scalable and secure platforms in the industry. His long and successful track record in delivering industry-leading innovations, along with his deep understanding of customer needs, makes him the ideal leader to map out our combined product and technology path going forward.And earlier today, we announced a couple more changes. First, we are pleased to share that Doug Robinson, EVP of Global Sales has been promoted to Co-President of Workday. Doug will serve as Co-President alongside Robynne Sisco. As Co-President, Doug will continue to lead our global sales organization, but also take on an expanded leadership role across the company, helping to spearhead cross-functional initiatives that will help Workday reach new heights.And finally, we're also happy to share that Barbara Larson, SVP of Accounting, Tax and Treasury, is being promoted to Chief Financial Officer effective February 1 of next year, reporting to Robynne. The transition of the CFO role from Robynne to Barbara is part of Workday's strategic succession planning, an approach that focuses on developing leaders from within. Barbara has been a rising star since joining Workday more than seven years ago. During that time, she has held several leadership positions across our finance and product organizations, providing her with the right foundation to step into the CFO role and lead our finance organization into the future.With Barbara's move to CFO, Robynne will now focus more on her co-present responsibilities. This will include an increased emphasis on engaging with some of our most strategic FINS customers and prospects to increase Workday's footprint within the office of the CFO, in addition to continuing to lead our current organization.It's an exciting time to be at Workday, and we're looking forward to the impact Pete, Sayan, Barbara, Doug and Robynne will continue to make as we all strive to inspire a brighter Workday for all.As I look ahead, my optimism for Workday's future couldn't be higher. We have a great team in place and a significant global opportunity in front of us as companies continue to embark on their HR and finance transformation journeys.With that, I'll turn over to our Co-CEO, Chano Fernandez. Over to you, Chano.Chano Fernandez -- Co-Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Aneel, and thank you to everyone for joining us today. I want to start by offering my congratulations to Pete, Sayan, Barbara and Doug. You're all amazing leaders and fantastic colleagues, who have worked tirelessly to push us forward as a company and your promotion to these roles is incredibly well deserved.As Aneel mentioned, we delivered a solid Q3, driven by strong execution, combined with healthy demand for financials and HCM solutions. The strong conversion rates that we experienced in the first half of the year continued in Q3, driving net new business acceleration that once again outpaced our expectations. In addition, our pipeline generation remained very healthy, setting us up incredibly well to achieve our full year acceleration targets and providing incremental confidence in our goal of sustaining 20%-plus subscription revenue growth on our path to $10 billion in revenue.Strength in Q3 was once again broad-based with solid growth in landing new core HR and FINS customers. Performance in North America remained strong across the large enterprise, while the medium enterprise in international markets both drove significant outperformance. EMEA was a highlight, with standout results in the U.K., Spain and Switzerland. In addition to solid performance from our land sales team, the momentum within our customer base team continued in Q3, driving continued strength in net revenue retention. We once again saw a very strong renewal performance and our customer base team drove strength cross-selling a number of solutions aimed at the CHRO and CFO, including Core FINS, Learning, People Analytics, Planning and Spend Management.We were also excited by the strength we saw with Peakon, which has been part of Workday now for a couple of quarters. and which drove record performance, including the signing of its largest-ever deal. Customer base expansions with Peakon in Q3 included Banco Santander and Diner Trucks North America and new Peakon first customers, including Holland & Barrett and SThree. And Extend had another fantastic quarter with wins of Bristol Myers Squibb, Cardinal Health, Burlington Stores and U.S. Food.Not only does the extensibility of our platform help us go deeper with our customers, it also allows us to engage our partner ecosystem in very strategic ways. A great example of this is through our partnership with Deloitte, who built an emissions planning model in Workday adaptive planning to address critical sustainability objectives related to carbon reduction for governments in Asia Pacific. This ESG solution has global applicability and is one of several examples of partners adding their IP to enhance the value of the Workday platform.Our industry approach is winning in the market and strengthening our government vertical was one of the many highlights in Q3. As Aneel mentioned, we were selected by the City of Philadelphia for Financial Management, in addition to Planning, Pricing, Extend Spend Management and several other solutions. We also signed platform HCM and FINS deals with the City of Worcester, Massachusetts and the county of Mobile, Alabama. And we had wins across a number of other state, city and local governments, both in the U.S. and internationally.Successes such as these highlight the importance of taking an industry approach and we expect to continue to make significant investments across key industries from both a product and go-to-market standpoint.As we've discussed throughout this year, we're investing aggressively in our go-to-market effort and we made continued progress on this front in Q3, adding global sales capacity across both our net new and customer-based teams. We're also accelerating our investment across key brands and marketing initiatives. These investments, which we expect will continue in Q4 and into FY '23, are focused on sustaining 20%-plus subscription revenue growth.In closing, I would like to thank the more than 14,200 global Workmates, who have enabled us to drive such a strong Q3 and year-to-date results. We are very well positioned as we enter the all-important fourth quarter, and we have our eyes set on record pipeline generation targets as we look to lay the foundation for a strong FY '23.And now I will turn it over to our Co-President and CFO, Robynne Sisco. Over to you, Robynne.Robynne Sisco -- Co-President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Chano, and good afternoon, everyone. First, I'd like to say that I could not be more excited about the leadership changes, and I'm incredibly proud to share the President title with Doug and to pass the CFO mantle to Barbara. I look forward to continuing to partner with both of them.As Aneel and Chano mentioned, we reported a strong third quarter, once again accelerating subscription revenue growth as organizations across the globe look to Workday as their strategic partner in driving their HR and finance digital transformation. Subscription revenue in Q3 was $1.17 billion, up 21% year-over-year, driven by healthy new business sales and strong customer renewals with gross retention once again over 95%.Professional services revenue was $156 million, resulting in total revenue of $1.33 billion. Revenue outside the U.S. was $336 million, up 23% year-over-year and representing 25% of the total. 24-month backlog at the end of the third quarter was $7.12 billion, growth of 20%. Total subscription revenue backlog was $10.97 billion, up 24%.Our non-GAAP operating income for the third quarter was $332 million, resulting in a non-GAAP operating margin of 25%. Margin overachievement was driven by a combination of top line outperformance, some favorable expense variances and significantly more back-end-loaded hiring in the quarter than we anticipated. Operating cash flow in Q3 was $385 million, growth of 31%, driven by the margin strength combined with very strong collections.Our largest investments continue to be in our people and in attracting top talent to Workday. In the third quarter, we meaningfully ramped up the pace of hiring, successfully adding and integrating approximately 800 net new employees, bringing our total employee count to over 14,200 at the end of Q3. Overall, we're extremely pleased with our results and execution in Q3, and we're very well positioned as we enter our final quarter of the year.Turning now to guidance. Based on our strong Q3 and the continued momentum we're seeing in our business, we are raising our FY '22 outlook and providing Q4 guidance as follows: for subscription revenue, we're raising our full year estimate to be in the range of $4.533 billion to $4.535 billion, approximately 20% growth. For Q4, we expect subscription revenue of $1.216 billion to $1.218 billion, 21% growth, and we project 24-month backlog growth of 19.5%. We still expect Professional Services revenue to be $590 million in FY '22, with $145 million in Q4 as we continue to prioritize driving the highest levels of customer success.Based on our Q3 outperformance, we now expect full year FY '22 non-GAAP operating margins of 22%. For Q4, we estimate non-GAAP operating margins of 16% as we continue the pace of hiring and growth investments, and begin our new performance cash bonus program in Q4. The GAAP operating margin is expected to be lower than the non-GAAP operating margin by approximately 24 percentage points in Q4 and for the full year.We are updating our FY '22 guidance for operating cash flow to $1.65 billion, growth of 30%, and we still expect $270 million of other capital investments in FY '22 to support our customer growth and continued business expansion.While we're early in our FY '23 planning cycle and have an important Q4 to close, we'd like to provide a preliminary and high-level view of FY '23. We currently expect subscription revenue of approximately $5.44 billion, growth of 20% year-over-year. We expect subscription revenue in Q1 of FY '23 to increase approximately 2.5% sequentially from Q4 FY '22.As we shared at our recent Analyst Day, we are focused on driving sustainable subscription revenue growth of 20% or higher on our path to $10 billion in revenue.Given the strength of our market position and the accelerating trends we see across HR and finance digital transformation, we expect to increase the pace of our top line focused investments. Taking into account these investments, our expectation of COVID-related cost savings phasing out and the full year impact of our new bonus program, we continue to expect FY '23 non-GAAP operating margins of 18%.Investing for growth will remain our focus, and we'll continuously evaluate gross margin trade-offs but we currently expect to resume margin expansion after next year, putting us on a path to reach 25% margins at $10 billion in revenue.I'll close by thanking our amazing employees, customers and partners for their continued support and hard work. With that, I'll turn it over to the operator to begin Q&A.