  OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to Anthem's fourth quarter earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, today's conference is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to the company's management. Please go ahead.Steve Tanal -- Vice President of Investor Relations Good morning, and welcome to Anthem's fourth quarter 2021 earnings call. This is Steve Tanal, vice president of investor relations. And with us this morning on the earnings call are Gail Boudreaux, president and CEO; John Gallina, our CFO; Peter Haytaian, president of our diversified business group and IngenioRx; Felicia Norwood, president of our government business division; and Morgan Kendrick, president of our commercial business. Gail will begin the call with a brief discussion of the quarter, recent progress against our strategic initiatives, and close on Anthem's commitment to its mission. John will then discuss our financial results and outlook in greater detail. After our prepared remarks, the team will be available for Q&A. During the call, we will reference certain non-GAAP measures. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are available on our website, antheminc.com.We will also be making some forward-looking statements on this call. Listeners are cautioned that these statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the control of Anthem. These risks and uncertainties can cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations. We advise listeners to carefully review the risk factors discussed in today's press release and in our quarterly filings with the SEC. I will now turn the call over to Gail. Gail Boudreaux -- President and Chief Executive Officer  Thanks, Steve, and good morning, everyone. Today, we're pleased to share Anthem once again delivered solid operating results in the fourth quarter, capping off another year of outstanding growth as we transform with focus and discipline from a health benefits company to a lifetime trusted partner in health. I'll start by sharing performance highlights for the quarter and the year and follow with some key actions and investments that drove our growth and laid the groundwork for what we expect will be another year of strong operating performance in 2022. In the fourth quarter, Anthem delivered GAAP earnings per share of $4.63 and adjusted earnings per share of $5.14, ahead of expectations and against the backdrop of COVID-19. For the full year, Anthem reported GAAP earnings per share of $24.73 and adjusted earnings per share of $25.98, reflecting a 16% increase year over year. During 2021, our investments in enhancing the customer experience, delivering innovative, customized whole health solutions, and deepening digital engagement helped to deliver strong growth across our health benefits businesses, all while rapidly scaling our diversified health services solutions. We ended the year with 45.4 million members up 2.4 million or 6% year over year with approximately three-fourths of those gains coming from organic growth. In our commercial business, improved selling strategies in innovative, customized product offerings sustained our momentum and led to the best ever selling season for our National Accounts team. In addition, traction is accelerating as we address clients' unique needs in targeted subsegments, such as balanced funding for midsized employers and customized plans and digital tools for college students. The flexible architecture of our Sydney Health mobile app enables seamless integration into clients' ecosystems while helping deepen digital engagement with members in this fast-growing market. As a result, we anticipate delivering another year of growth in our Group and Individual businesses in 2022. For many employers, our focus on affordability and integrated whole health solutions is prompting consolidation with Anthem, eliminating other medical carriers, and integrating pharmacy management. Consequently, IngenioRx saw significant growth in net new sales to start 2022, keeping us on track with our goal of narrowing the profitability gap of risk-based and fee-based commercial customers. Moving to Medicare Advantage, our continuing work to strengthen Anthem's value proposition helped drive another strong annual election period. Customers want their benefits to meet their needs today and in the future, and packages like our everyday extras that offer holistic services, such as transportation, personal home health, and healthy preprepared meal delivery, are resonating because they provide the flexibility to choose what matters most to each individual. Offering flexible and personalized benefits will remain a key part of our approach in individual MA, and we expect ongoing enhancements to power another year of double-digit growth in 2022. We also expect a substantial membership increase in group Medicare Advantage when our contracts serving the retirees of the City of New York begins on April 1. This timing is consistent with the recent court ruling that upheld our contract and extended the open enrollment period for an additional three months. In Medicaid, our team did an outstanding job in 2021 demonstrating the differentiated value we offer states built on our deep understanding of the needs of their communities. Our rich legacy of investing in community health uniquely positions us to address health disparities with solutions that extend beyond clinical care to improve health outcomes. Our 100% RFP win rate included renewals of our statewide contracts in Tennessee and Indiana and a new statewide contract in Ohio, which will help further deepen our roots in that state given our leading market share positions in commercial and Medicare Advantage. Then as we begin serving Ohio in July, our pending acquisition of Paramount Advantage's Ohio Medicaid contract will amplify our Medicaid footprint. This investment follows our pending acquisition of Integra, a New York-managed long-term care plan that will strengthen our presence and capabilities in the greater New York City area. These examples demonstrate our commitment to strategic and programmatic M&A. And we've become more agile and proactive as we target health plans that deepen our existing benefits business and acquisitions, which diversify and expand our addressable markets. A good example is our myNEXUS acquisition, which enables members to live healthier lives in their homes. myNEXUS has performed well to date, driven partly by its expanding scope within Anthem. In addition, we expect the ongoing aging of the population and consumer preference for at-home care to propel growth for years to come. Over the last year, we significantly advanced our care provider strategy with investments in risk-bearing primary care providers and aggregators while enhancing value-based arrangements across our network. These arrangements accounted for more than 60% of our medical expense last year. We expect this strategy to accelerate membership growth, increase STAR ratings and improve health outcomes and cost of care. Investing in providers and aggregators secures joint governance to maintain alignment of shared interest with our partners, giving Anthem value from sharing risk and elevating the customer and provider experience. Importantly, this strategy ensures Anthem is not overly reliant on one care model as value-based care matures. Our diversified business group will increasingly benefit from these arrangements by opportunities to service Anthem's providers with enablement programs and other diversified services, many of which target the needs of complex and chronic patient populations where we see significant opportunities to improve outcomes, access, and total cost of care. We expect to remain flexible and thoughtful in our provider strategy, partnering in most markets and investing in care delivery and others where it makes sense. We also made meaningful headway in our digital transformation during the quarter with accelerated investments to deepen digital engagement and meet the increasing need for convenience and personalized care. During our peak onboarding period earlier this month, digital registrations rose 150%, and visits to Sydney Health grew 142%. Capabilities and investments in artificial intelligence, which power our personalization engine, are helping optimize the customer experience and reduce low-value administrative tasks. For example, our virtual primary care platform builds real-world learnings on commercial members' usage patterns and preferences to anticipate customer needs and offer customized experiences, and automating the onboarding process delivers better experiences by saving time and improving the accuracy of critical data and the quality of virtual visits. To illustrate, more than 1,000 emergency room visits were avoided last month by predicting and addressing adverse health events through our virtual care options. Results like this are encouraging, and we're excited to accelerate the pace. Anthem enters 2022 with strong growth momentum across all of our businesses. This gives us confidence in our ability to deliver growth in adjusted earnings per share consistent with our long-term target range of 12% to 15%, as John will discuss more in a moment. Looking ahead, you can expect us to continue investing in profitable growth, innovating for consumers, and advancing our digital platform for health as we work to achieve our purpose of improving the health of humanity. As part of our community health and sustainability commitments, I'm pleased to share we recently met our 100% renewable electricity goal four years ahead of schedule and are now producing enough clean energy via off-site purchase agreements to power all of the Anthem's offices, data centers, and clinics. It's gratifying to see our efforts earn Anthem a place on the 2021 Dow Jones Sustainability Index for the fourth consecutive year and on JUST Capital's 2022 rankings of America's most just companies. We're also in the early stages of leveraging insights derived from a dynamic model, tracking the health of our communities across local, social, and clinical drivers. We call it our whole health index, and we believe it will help us more closely assess our progress toward helping people live healthier lives. In its simplest form, the index will help us identify the most promising opportunities to improve the health of our members and their communities. To date, we've leveraged the index to design and launch programs to manage obesity in five of our Medicaid states, where this health issue is especially severe. We're currently learning from field tests and are excited about the possibilities ahead, notably in diabetes prevention and customized wellness campaigns for employers based on the needs of their employees. As part of our ongoing work to support our customers' health, we also began offering risk-based commercial members free at-home COVID tests through our Sydney app starting last November. Delivered within one to two business days, the kits allow members to test safely without leaving the comfort of their homes. This program has positioned us well to comply with the administration's recent requirement to provide home testing at no cost. In closing, I'll leave you with these three takeaways. Anthem's fiscal year 2021 performance demonstrates our strategy to become a lifetime trusted partner in health is helping unlock Anthem's full potential. With our plans and continued investments for fiscal year 2022, we are excited about our ability to sustain this momentum and deliver growth in the years ahead. And our strategic approach to innovation and digital transformation enables us to move even faster and with greater agility as we accelerate our digital platform for health and offer new ways to attract, engage and retain more customers while streamlining our business and simplifying the consumer experience. Now I'd like to welcome John to add his view on the quarter and our outlook for 2022. John?John Gallina -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Gail, and good morning to everyone on the line. As Gail stated, we are pleased to have delivered solid fourth quarter financial results, closing out another year of strong growth, driven by the continued execution of our long-term strategy, all while navigating the ongoing uncertainties associated with the pandemic. Fourth quarter earnings per share of $5.14 was ahead of our expectations and drove full year adjusted earnings per share to $25.98, reflecting growth of approximately 16% year over year, above our long-term 12% to 15% annual earnings-per-share growth target. Total operating revenue for the fourth quarter was $36 billion, an increase of more than 14% over the prior-year quarter, reflecting solid growth in our benefits business, coupled with continued momentum in our services businesses. We closed the year with 45.4 million members, growth of nearly 6% or 2.4 million members in the year, including 303,000 lives, added just during the fourth quarter and with growth in both our government and commercial businesses. This was the 14th consecutive quarter in which we grew total medical membership underscoring the strength and resilience of our core benefits businesses through periods of economic strength and periods of economic uncertainty. In 2021, we grew our government membership over 17%, driven by organic growth in Medicaid, another year of double-digit organic growth in Medicare Advantage, and the acquisition of MMM. Commercial enrollment grew modestly as solid growth in our risk-based areas were partially offset by in-group attrition in our fee-based business due to broader labor market dynamics that occurred during the year. Our fourth quarter benefit expense ratio was 89.5%, an increase of 60 basis points over the prior-year quarter, driven by the repeal of the Health Insurance Tax in 2021. As expected, total medical costs in the quarter were above normal or baseline levels but still compared favorably to our expectations, driven by lower utilization of non-COVID care, partially offset by higher-than-expected COVID-related costs, notably in December. Anthem's SG&A ratio in the fourth quarter was 11.7% on a GAAP basis, a decrease of 200 basis points over the prior-year quarter. Excluding adjustment items noted in our press release, our adjusted SG&A ratio would have been 11.1%, down approximately 250 basis points year over year. The decrease was driven by the repeal of the Health Insurer Tax and the expense leverage associated with strong growth in operating revenue, partially offset by increased investments, to support our growth and digital transformation efforts afforded by outperformance in our investment income. Fourth quarter operating cash flow was $1.7 billion, bringing full year 2021 operating cash flow to $8.4 billion or 1.4 times net income. Our fourth quarter and full year cash generation beat our expectations, reflecting strong operating performance this year, as well as a shift in the timing of the planned payment of our share of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association litigation settlement. We now expect to make this payment of approximately $500 million in 2022, which is included in the guidance we provided this morning for operating cash flow of greater than $6.9 billion. We ended 2021 with a debt-to-capital ratio of 38.9%, in line with our expectations and well within our targeted range. Consistent with our approach throughout the pandemic, we maintained a prudent posture with respect to reserves. Days and claims payable ended the year at 45.2 days, an increase of 1.8 days year over year, with medical claims payable up 19% year over year, compared to premium revenue increasing by 13%. During the quarter, we repurchased 1.3 million shares of our stock at a weighted average price of $417.92. For the year, we repurchased 5.1 million shares for $1.9 billion, ahead of our original guidance of $1.6 billion. We were opportunistic in the year, capitalizing on periods of market volatility, notably during the fourth quarter. Turning to our outlook for 2022. We are pleased to provide initial guidance, including adjusted earnings per share of greater than $28.25, which reflects growth of at least 12% from the normalized adjusted earnings per share baseline of $25.20 in 2021. As a reminder, we benefited from significant investment income outperformance during the year, including amounts that we believe to be nonrecurring. We offset a portion of the upside in the fourth quarter by accelerating investments in our business. In total for the year, we believe nearly $0.80 of our adjusted earnings per share to be outside of our run rate. Accordingly, we continue to view $25.20 as the appropriate starting point for our growth in 2022. We expect to end 2022 with total medical membership in the range of 45.6 million to 46.2 million members. This outlook includes the expectation of generating double-digit organic growth in our individual Medicare Advantage business and the launch of our group Medicare Advantage contract serving the retirees of the City of New York in April to add at least 200,000 group Medicare Advantage lives while shifting a like number of members out of our commercial fee-based enrollment given that we currently serve the city's retirees on a self-insured basis. In all, Medicare Advantage membership is expected to grow in the mid-teens percentage range. Our outlook also reflects strong growth in our commercial risk and fee-based businesses, including a strong starting point due to a record selling season for national accounts. We expect commercial fee-based membership to grow by 2% to 3% or 530,000 to 730,000 members net after covering the transition of our more than 200,000 existing fee-based members in New York into our new group Medicare Advantage contract and low single-digit growth in our commercial risk-based members. With respect to Medicaid, our guidance assumes that public health emergency will end in mid-April, as is currently planned, with Medicaid eligibility redeterminations resuming around the middle of the year. Correspondingly, we expect to capture our commensurate share of growth in commercial fee and risk-based markets as consumers losing Medicaid benefits migrate to employer-sponsored coverage and individual plans. As you might expect, our membership outlook for our commercial and Medicaid business is highly dependent on the timing and pace of Medicaid eligibility redeterminations. The launch of our new statewide Medicaid contract serving Ohio in July is also contemplated in our guidance range, while membership associated with pending acquisitions is not. We expect continued momentum in our Diversified Business Group and IngenioRx segments with revenue growth on a combined basis in the low to mid-teens. Altogether, the momentum we are seeing across all of our businesses will drive operating revenue up 11% year over year to approximately $152 billion. This includes approximately $130 billion of premium revenue, also up 11% over 2021, representing an increase of nearly $13 billion. The consolidated benefit expense ratio is expected to be 88% plus or minus 50 basis points in 2022, consistent with our initial outlook for 2021. At the midpoint, this reflects a 50-basis-point increase year over year, driven primarily by the launch of our New York group Medicare Advantage contract. With respect to the impacts of COVID on our overall cost structure, we anticipate another year in which the overall cost of care will track above normalized levels, driven by COVID-related treatment, vaccination, and testing costs. We expect the SG&A expense ratio to be 10.8% plus or minus 50 basis points in 2022, reflecting a reduction of 60 basis points at the midpoint of the range relative to our adjusted SG&A ratio in 2021. The reduction was primarily driven by operating expense leverage due to strong growth in revenue, in addition to the benefits of our ongoing modernization efforts, including workflow automation and digitization. This is partially offset by continued investment in our initiatives that will drive future growth in the operating efficiencies, including digital engagement and system migrations. We expect our operating gain for the year to be greater than $8.4 billion, reflecting growth of at least 8% year over year over adjusted operating earnings in 2021. Below the line, investment income is expected to be approximately $1.1 billion and interest expense is expected to be approximately $840 million. Our effective income tax rate for the year is expected to be in the range of 22% to 24%, consistent with 2021. Full year operating cash flow is expected to be greater than $6.9 billion, which includes the anticipated payment of our share of the BCBSA litigation settlement, which, as I noted earlier, is approximately $500 million. From a capital deployment perspective, our long-term targets remain unchanged, and we will continue to pursue programmatic M&A in an effort to enhance the organic growth of our existing operations and diversify and extend our capabilities, moving us closely to our goal of becoming a lifetime trusted partner in health. While our guidance does not include any benefit from future or pending M&A, it does contemplate a 4% to 5% contribution to growth in adjusted earnings per share associated with capital deployment, including M&A completed in 2021, notably MMM and myNEXUS, and anticipated share repurchases of at least $1.5 billion in 2022 that we expect will drive our weighted average share count into the range of 243 million to 244 million shares outstanding for the full year. With respect to seasonality, we are projecting profitability patterns close to our historical ranges and expect to earn approximately 55% of our income in the first half of the year, although earnings in the first and second quarter will be split roughly evenly. Our guidance assumes that our benefit expense ratio will approximate the midpoint of our full year range in the first quarter, which we believe will be a prudent assumption in light of the uncertainties associated with the COVID-19 pandemic. I am also pleased to announce that our Board recently authorized and increased our quarterly dividend of more than 13% to $1.28 per share, continuing our track record of increasing our dividend every year since we began paying dividends in 2011. Our new dividend annualizes to $5.12 per share, a yield of approximately 1.2% based on our current share price. In closing, we are pleased to have delivered another year of strong growth despite significant challenges related to the COVID-19 pandemic. While much of the backdrop remains uncertain, we are committed to managing the uncertainty thoughtfully and prudently. We look forward to making further progress against our strategy and delivering on our financial commitments once again in 2022. Operator, we will now open it up for questions.  