
OperatorGood morning, and welcome to the Bio-Techne Earnings Conference Call for the Third Quarter of Fiscal Year 2021. At this time, all participants have been placed in listen-only mode and the call will be open for questions following management's prepared remarks. During our Q&A session, please limit yourself to one question and a follow-up.I would now like to turn the call over to David Clair, Bio-Techne's Senior Director, Investor Relations and Corporate Development.David Clair -- Senior Director-Investor Relations and Corporate Development

 



Good morning, and thank you for joining us. On the call with me this morning are Chuck Kummeth, Chief Executive Officer; and Jim Hippel, Chief Financial Officer of Bio-Techne.Before we begin, let me briefly cover our Safe Harbor statement. Some of the comments made during this conference call may be considered forward-looking statements, including beliefs and expectations about the companys future results, as well as the potential impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our operations and financial results. The company's 10-K for fiscal year 2020 identifies certain factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements made during this call.The company does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements as a result of any new information or future events or developments. The 10-K, as well as the company's other SEC filings are available on the company's website within its Investor Relations section.During the call, non-GAAP financial measures may be used to provide information pertinent to ongoing business performance. Tables reconciling these measures to most comparable GAAP measures are available in the company's press release issued earlier this morning on the Bio-Techne Corporation website at www.bio-techne.com.

 



I will now turn the call over to Chuck.Charles R. Kummeth -- President, Chief Executive Officer and DirectorThanks, Dave, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us for our third quarter conference call. As you read in our press release earlier this morning, I am very pleased to announce that the Bio-Techne team delivered again another strong quarter in our fiscal Q3. Our year-over-year organic growth accelerated 22% for the quarter as we continue to build on momentum from the first half of our fiscal year. This growth was the best organic growth the company has delivered over 25 years, both year-over-year as well as on a two-year CAGR basis.As it has been all year, the growth in Q3 was broad-based across our segments and geographies as penetration into biopharma remained very strong and continued improvement in academia drove the year-over-year and sequential acceleration in our business. The growth between our product categories was also broad-based with most accelerating sequentially from Q2 and continued by leadership from our Simple Plex, Simple Western, cell and gene therapy and genomics platforms.

 



As we've been doing all year, we delivered our record organic growth with a focus on profitability, achieving 40.1% adjusted operating margin for the quarter. The timing of hiring to support growth investments, combined with COVID restricted travel, once again benefited our profitability. However, our positioning in high-growth markets with high gross margin products have strengthened the conviction in our ability to sustain 40% operating margins in the future pursuant to our strategic plan.Before we dive deeper into our Q3 performance, I would like to welcome the Asuragen team to Bio-Techne. As a reminder, we announced the Asuragen acquisition in early March and closed the transaction in early April. Asuragen adds a portfolio of leading genetic carrier screening and oncology research products and diagnostic kits complements our legacy clinical controls business with molecular diagnostic controls and brings pipeline of high-value products to accelerate its penetration and growth.The Asuragen team also brings deep diagnostic commercialization and regulatory expertise, which we will leverage to accelerate the growth of our clinical platforms across the organization. Unlike many diagnostic companies of its size, Asuragen is already profitable, and we anticipate this business to be accretive to Bio-Techne's top line growth and accretive to our Diagnostics and Genomics segment operating margin over time. I look forward to giving you all updates on Asuragen's progress in coming quarters.Now let's discuss the performance of our growth platform, starting with the Protein Sciences segment, where growth accelerated to 24% organically in the quarter. Our core proteomic research reagent portfolio had another strong quarter, with research use only proteins growing nearly 10% and antibodies growing in the mid-teens. Our newest proteins are more frequently being used in mRNA research and production. Given the recent success and growing interest in mRNA-based vaccines, these could be a sustainable growth driver for this product line going forward.Meanwhile, our antibody business continues to benefit from our custom antibody service business, which grew over 50% in Q3. The catalog of over 6,000 proteins and approximately 450,000 antibody variations, we have amassed not only enabled scientific research, but also has potential therapeutic applications. This potential is supported by the recently announced licensing agreement with Xencor, a clinical stage biopharmaceutical company developing engineered monoclonal antibodies and cytokines for the treatment of cancer and autoimmune diseases.Xencor is now evaluating a third proprietary Bio-Techne antibody for its therapeutic development pipeline. This agreement speaks to the potential value of vast protein and antibody content we have built over the last 30-plus years and represents a largely untapped potential revenue stream for the company.Our leadership in antibodies has also not gone unnoticed in our industry, with Bio-Techne's R&D Systems and Novus brands recently named winners of the side -- COVID-19 Innovation Award. This award celebrates innovative solutions or products that help shape the life sciences sector's understanding of or resilience to COVID-19. The COVID-19 Innovation Award reflects Bio-Techne's quick and impactful response to the COVID-19 pandemic, developing and commercializing new antibodies to support research as well as COVID-19 testing initiatives. This represents the fifth consecutive year of Bio-Techne's antibody innovation efforts have been recognized with the CiteAb Award, and we are very proud of our antibody team.During Q3, we also continued to make significant progress advancing our cell and gene therapy initiatives, including our GMP protein business. As a reminder, GMP proteins are a key ingredient in a cell and gene therapy workflow, providing the nutrients to grow the genetically modified cells prior to being infused back into the patient.Our portfolio of GMP proteins increased over 90% in the quarter as customers leveraged our GMP cytokines to advance immune cell and regenerative medicine therapies. We continue to scale our state-of-the-art GMP production facility with qualifications completed and production lots of initial proteins currently under way. We have launched a digital marketing campaign to promote the new facility, our capacity and capabilities. This marketing message is resonating with the cell and gene therapy industry as our final potential GMP protein supply agreements with biopharma customers continue to grow in Q3.We are also building momentum in market awareness and acceptance of another key component of our cell and gene therapy workflow solution, TcBuster, our novel, nonviral transposon-based gene delivery system. During Q3, we announced the signing of a licensing agreement with Luminary Therapeutics for the use of TcBuster in their development of a BAFF CAR T therapeutic.Our genomic engineering service business, which includes the TcBuster solution, is gaining traction with customers, developing cell and gene therapies with a growing funnel of biopharma companies relying on our experience in hard-to-transfect cell lines to deliver solutions for the complex projects.Bio-Techne's reach into cell and gene therapy is much broader than our best-in-class GMP proteins and TcBuster technologies. Biopharma companies, CROs and CDMOs are increasingly relying on offerings across Bio-Techne's portfolio, including antibodies, media and supplements as well as our portfolio of analytical tools, including Simple Western, Simple Plex, RNAscope and our Maurice instrument to develop and scale their cell and gene therapy manufacturing capabilities. We have united our business leaders from across the company to develop strategies on how our products and technologies can be best positioned to create synergistic solutions and maximize productivity for these customers.Now let's discuss the proteomic and analytical tools portion of our Protein Sciences segment, where the strength we experienced in recent quarters continued into our Q3. Once again, our automated multiplex immunoassay solution, Simple Plex, had a stellar quarter, with revenue increasing 90% globally. Simple Plex' ability to deliver high-quality and reproducible data with a sub-picogram level of sensitivity in a smaller footprint, comparatively less expensive offering, continues to drive awareness, interest, placements and utilization of the platform.We are seeing increased Simple Plex adoption from cell and gene therapy customers and the broader biopharma industry as they leverage the platform for biomarker discovery, immune cell characterization and quality control processes. We also helped accelerate broader adoption in Q3 by expanding Simple Plex' immunoassay cartridge portfolio to include nine new cartridge formats. These new cartridge offerings provide Simple Plex users with increased flexibility in a number of samples and biomarker assays run on each cartridge.Until now, Simple Plex assay cartridges were only available in formats delivering one, four or eight assays run simultaneously. The expanded portfolio of cartridge offerings provides users new options to better align their assay panels with the throughput requirements of their studies.Finally, to keep up with the high demand for our Simple Plex solution, we have added a second manufacturing shift in Q3 and are in the initial stages of expanding our physical capacity to meet the forecasted demand, and Simple Plex' value proposition continues to resonate with customers in need of a fully automated, cost-effective multiplexing solution.It was a similar stellar quarter for our fully automated Western platform. Simple Western, with year-over-year growth accelerating to approximately 50% in Q3. Even with the rapid adoption of Simple Western that we have seen for many quarters now, we continue to invest in the future of this platform and expand its addressable market. For example, we recently introduced the latest number of the Simple Western family, an instrument we call Abby. This lower cost platform offers picogram level sensitivity with the ability to perform a sequential chemo luminescence assays within the same capillary, a feature we introduced in our higher NGS instrument last year called RePlex.Academic customers have been increasingly adopting our automated Western platforms to alleviate COVID-induced limitations on their lab activities and maximize productivity, and we anticipate Abby's features and cost profile to increase penetration of this technology into this customer segment.Finally, our biologics instruments, which provide protein purity information and are used directly in bioprocessing, also as a standout quarter with over 30% growth as we continue to experience broad demand from biopharma, including several companies with COVID-19 vaccines in various stages of development or commercialization as well as continued interest from companies working on cell and gene therapies.Now, I will provide an update on our Diagnostics and Genomics portfolio, where organic revenue increased 17% in Q3. Let's start with an update on our ACD or tissue pathology franchise, where organic revenue increased above 40% for the quarter, with RNAscope, BaseScope and our multiplexing technology, HiPlex, all having a very strong quarter.ACD is seeing significant traction with cell and gene therapy applications, with RNAscope representing the only currently available method for understanding single cell bio-distribution information within the context of tissue histology. This information is critical to understanding the safety and efficacy profile of gene and RNAi therapies. And as a result, RNAscope is being used by these companies on many IND-enabling studies. ACD is also being increasingly used as a validation technology following superplexing experiments, with the single cell resolution and spatial information provided by our solutions, supporting the move from discovery to translational research. We remain in the early stages of penetrating both the research and clinical potential of this exciting technology and have plenty of room for continued growth.As we look ahead to Q4 and FY 2022, we are very excited about a new product to the ACD family that we launched recently, which leverages RNAscope technology and expand its addressable market. Bio-Techne's new chromogenic DNA in situ high renovation technology, DNAscope, employs a proven double Z probe design and signal application system of RNAscope, enabling a rapid and flexible probe development for any DNA target and enabling digitalization of targets in formalin, fixed paraffin embedded tissues.DNAscope delivers benefits over current commercial fish techniques that fall short on morphological detail due to the use of fluorescent nuclear staining that rely on a high-resolution microscopy to visualize gene rearrangement and copy number variation signals. Additionally, traditional fish uses bacterial artificial chromosome back colon-based probes that are large and tend to span multiple genes and lack single gene detection specificity.Unlike most commercially available assays, DNAscope utilizes oligo probes, coupled with proprietary signal amplification system, to enable high-resolution and precise target detection for small genomic regions and single gene locals.Now let's discuss our Exosome Diagnostics liquid biopsy platform, starting with our prostate cancer liquid biopsy assay, the ExoDx Prostate test. While urology practices have largely reopened at this point, the older population, that is the primary audience for the ExoDx Prostate test, has remained hesitant to visit their doctor or urologists due to COVID-related concerns. Clearly, a headwind to test volume since the pandemic began.During Q3, we experienced a continued recovery of ExoDx Prostate test volumes, with March representing the best month for test sample inflow since the beginning of the pandemic. We are encouraged with the volume trajectory we experienced in March and anticipate continued momentum in this business as vaccinations continue to work their way through the population and patients returned to their physicians for checkups and their urologists for our ExoDx Prostate test.Private payers are increasingly recognizing the patient benefits and cost savings ExoDx Prostate delivers by avoiding unnecessary biopsies as well as the strong dossier of data we have supporting the efficacy and clinical utility of the test.During Q3, this recognition led to a contracted coverage decision with Humana, the first national payer to issue a favorable coverage decision. We remain in discussions with several other national and regional payers and look forward to expanding access to this test and enabling additional men to make more informed decisions on whether to defer or proceed with prostate biopsy.We have also expanded our geographic reach with the ExoDx Prostate test by completing its clinical validation with self-enabled certification as a CE-IVD kit as of March 22, 2021. The EPI-CE test will be performed in our Munich ISO 15 1 89 accredited clinical laboratory and be made available throughout Europe through various distribution channels beginning in Q4.In addition to the ExoDx Prostate test, we continue to advance our pipeline of novel Exosome-based liquid biopsy products. In Q3, we announced initial data on our next commercial test, Exo TRU, an assay designed to detect kidney transplant rejection. Initial data supporting the potential of Exo TRU was published in the Journal of the American Society of Nephrology, with the assay capable of discriminating between any cause rejection and no rejection with a negative predictive value of 93.3% and positive predictive value of 77.8%.We view this initial data as best-in-class compared to competing kidney transplant rejection assays. Exo TRU is not just differentiated with best-in-class data. This test uses urine, not blood, as the sample which opens up opportunities for at-home sample collection, allowing these immuno uncompromised patients to the ability to take the test in the comfort of their home and avoid a trip to the hospital for a blood draw.We look forward to launching Exo TRU later in calendar 2021. The COVID-related headwinds and restrictions have not just impacted our Exosome Dx test volumes with patients deferring routine business to physicians also impacting broader diagnostic testing volumes. Despite these ongoing challenges, our Diagnostic Reagents division increased mid-single digits during Q3. This is the seventh quarter in a row that our Diagnostic Reagents division has delivered positive growth as the development pipeline and new COVID-related opportunities continue to smooth out the impact of what can sometimes be lumpy bulk reagent orders.I'd like to now give an update on our COVID-19 initiative. Since the start of the pandemic, Bio-Techne's reagents and instruments have enabled insights into the virus, including ACD probes, to detect the virus in tissue, sales of bulk diagnostic reagents used in COVID testing applications as well as pathogen specific by antibodies and proteins to known variance of the COVID virus.COVID was an estimated 3% tailwind to our business in Q3, including initial revenue from sales of the Kantaro IgG antibody serology kit. We expect the COVID research and diagnostics will be around for many years, particularly as new viral strands continue to emerge, making this tailwind as sustaining new layer of our product portfolio going forward.Our business is clearly firing on all cylinders. Our innovative portfolio of proteomic reagents -- research reagents and analytical tools, tissue biopsy and spatial products are meeting the productivity needs of the scientific community to drive research and discoveries forward. Our emerging cell and gene therapy workflow solutions are set to enable the next class of biological therapies with increased efficiency at lower cost. And our liquid biopsy platform is expanding with the best-in-class assay for kidney transplant patients in need of a better solution for detecting allograft rejection.Layer on this, a favorable research funding environment, and I believe Bio-Techne is in the best position ever, or at least since I've been with the company, to deliver on our long-term revenue and profitability aspirations, which keeps getting bigger every year.With that, I'll turn the call over to Jim.\James T. Hippel -- Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Chuck. I will provide an overview of our Q3 fiscal 2021 financial performance for the total company, provide some additional details on the performance of each of our segments and give some thoughts on the remainder of our fiscal year. Starting with the overall third quarter financial performance. Adjusted EPS was $1.79 versus $1.39 one year ago, an increase of 29% over last year, representing a new company record.Foreign exchange negatively impacted EPS by $0.04. GAAP EPS for the quarter was $1.12 compared to $0.92 in the prior year, representing a 22% increase year-over-year. Q3 revenue was $243.6 million, an increase of 25% year-over-year on a reported basis and 22% on an organic basis.Foreign exchange translation had a favorable 3% impact on our revenue. All geographies had strong growth in Q3, led by China growing nearly 50%, followed by EMEA with over 30% growth and in the Americas with growth north of 20%. The rest of the world grew in the low teens.You will recall that last year was the start of a pandemic, which severely hit China and, to a slightly lesser extent, Europe in our Q3 fiscal year 2020. Our business in the US was not materially impacted by pandemic shutdowns until April of last year. Hence, the comps in Q3 this year were easier in China and Europe than the US. That being said, China's revenue in Q3 of this year was still nearly 60% higher than the same quarter in fiscal year 2019, and Europe's revenue was over 20% higher than Q3 of fiscal year 2019, while the Americas revenue is up over 35% from the same quarter in fiscal year 2019.By end market, biopharma continues to be very strong with year-over-year growth well over 25%, while academia continues to make big improvements, growing approximately 20% for the quarter compared to last year.Moving on to the details of the P&L. Total company adjusted gross margin was 72.9% in the quarter compared to 71.5% in the prior year. The increase is primarily driven by favorable product mix and volume leverage. Adjusted SG&A in Q3 was 25.8% of revenue, a 100 basis point decrease compared to the prior year, and R&D expense in Q3 was 7% of revenue, 120 basis points lower than the prior year. While our adjusted SG&A and R&D spend both increased sequentially and versus the prior year, a tight labor market in the life science space did not allow us to fill all planned headcount additions to the team at the pace we had anticipated, especially in the more technical scientific and engineering fields.However, our pace of hiring did increase over the course of Q3, and we still plan to fill remain open positions in Q4. This investment in critical human capital position the company for growth going forward. The resulting adjusted operating margin in Q3 was 40.1%, an increase of 360 basis points from the prior year and 140 basis point sequential improvement from Q2, the highest adjusted operating margin for the company in six years.Looking at our numbers below operating income. Net interest expense in Q3 was $2.5 million, decreasing $1.7 million compared to the prior year period. The decrease was due to a continued reduction of our bank debt during fiscal 2021 as well as lower floating rates.Our bank debt on the balance sheet as of the end of Q3 stood at $215.4 million. Other adjusted non-operating expense was $4.1 million for the quarter compared to $3 million of income in the prior year, primarily reflecting the foreign exchange impact related to our cash pooling arrangements. For GAAP reporting, other non-operating income included unrealized losses from our investment in ChemoCentryx.Moving further down the P&L. Our adjusted effective tax rate in Q3 was 20.2%, a 110 basis point improvement over the prior year, with the improvement primarily driven by geographic mix. We expect our effective tax rate going forward to be consistent with Q3, barring no changes in corporate tax law.Note that the GAAP effective tax rate in Q3 was favorably impacted by the discrete timing of stock option exercises. As a reminder, during Q2, we made a strategic equity investment in China-based Eminence, a company focused on providing media as well as custom cell line development and media formulation services to the Chinese biopharmaceutical market.The $380,000 non-controlling interest line item on the P&L reflects the loss on the portion of Eminence we do not own. The impact to other lines of the P&L as a result of consolidating Eminence was immaterial in Q3.Turning to cash flow and return of capital. $74.9 million of cash was generated from operations in the quarter, more than a 50% increase over the prior year. In Q3, our net investment in capital expenditures was $10.6 million. And during Q3, we returned $55.6 million of capital to shareholders by a way of $12.4 million in dividends and $43.2 million in stock buyback. We finished Q3 with 40.7 million average diluted shares outstanding. Our balance sheet finished Q3 in a very strong position with $276.2 million in cash and short-term available for sale investments and essentially zero net debt leverage position.Next, I'll discuss the performance of our reporting segments, starting with the Protein Sciences segment. Q3 reported sales were $185.6 million, with reported revenue increasing 28%. Organic growth increased 24%, with foreign exchange having a favorable impact of 4% on revenue growth. Within the segment, the strong growth was very broad-based with double-digit growth in nearly all reagent assay and instrument platforms.As Chuck described in his remarks, platforms of noble mention include Simple Plex, Simple Western, biologics and cell and gene therapy, especially pertaining to GMP proteins as well as our core proteomic reagent business. Operating margin for the Protein Sciences segment was 47.6%, an increase of 290 basis points year-over-year due primarily to favorable volume leverage and cost management.Turning to the Diagnostics and Genomics segment. Q3 reported sales were $58.1 million, with reported revenue increasing 18%. Organic growth of the segment was 17%, with foreign exchange translation having a favorable 1% impact on revenue. Similar to the first half of our fiscal year, our Genomics division led this segment in the quarter. We experienced strength across the entire ACD branded portfolio with RNAscope, miRNAscope, BaseScope in our diagnostic partnership with Leica all driving growth.Exosome Diagnostics Q3 revenue increased over 20% from last year, with strong revenue from our companion diagnostic partnerships, driving the growth as our ExoDx Prostate test continue to recover from the pandemic lows experienced in our fiscal Q4 of last year.And as Chuck mentioned, our Diagnostics Reagents division continued its growth streak by executing on COVID-related opportunities to offset the headwind and many of its traditional OEM diagnostic customers are facing with patients forgoing routine visits to the doctor.Moving on to the Diagnostics and Genomics segment operating margin at 17.9%. The segment's operating margin improved 360 basis points compared to the prior year. The increase reflects strong volume leverage in our Genomics division as well as strong cost management across the segment.In summary, the momentum we experienced in the first half of our fiscal 2021 accelerated during Q3. With 17% organic revenue growth year-to-date, our products remain at the forefront of science, enabling cutting-edge scientific and therapeutic discoveries, while our key growth drivers remain underpenetrated in large and growing markets.We believe that COVID pandemic has elevated the profile and market awareness of our tools and solution offerings, positioning Bio-Techne to exit the pandemic stronger than before the pandemic hit. This brings us to our thoughts on how we might close the year. In short, for our base business, we see Q4 looking very strong and similar to Q3, both on the top line in terms of absolute revenue and on bottom line in terms of adjusted EPS.With most of our customers, both in biopharma and academia, now back to work, and with the need and priority to fund medical research still high in both the private and public sector, we see the strong revenue run rate we experienced in Q3 continuing into Q4.To fuel and support further revenue growth in fiscal year 2022 and beyond, it is critical that we catch up on the growth investments that were in our strategic plan to accomplish this year. As I've already mentioned, we made good progress at the end of Q3 on hiring the human capital needed, and we see that continuing into Q4 as we fully expect our adjusted operating margins to finish sequentially lower than Q3 but still significantly higher than the prior year as well as higher than previous analyst consensus estimates.Also, we expect the acquisition of Asuragen in April to contribute 2% to 3% sequentially more revenue on top of our base business in Q4. However, as Asuragen has just recently become profitable, it will likely be dilutive to our overall adjusted operating margins in Q4 by approximately 100 basis points.That concludes my prepared comments. And with that, I'll turn the call over to Maria to open the line for questions.