
OperatorGood day, and welcome to the Q1 2021 NXP Semiconductors Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded.I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Jeff Palmer from NXP.Jeff Palmer -- Vice President of Investor Relations

 



Thank you, Renz [Phonetic], and good morning, everyone. Welcome to the NXP Semiconductors first quarter 2021 earnings call. With me on the call today is Kurt Sievers, NXP's President and CEO; and Peter Kelly, our CFO. The call today is being recorded and will be available for replay from our corporate website.Today's call will include forward-looking statements and include -- involve risks and uncertainties that can cause NXP's results to differ materially from management's current expectations. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the continued impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, the macroeconomic impact on the specific end markets in which we operate, the sale of new and existing products and our expectations for the financial results for the second quarter of 2021. Please be reminded that NXP undertakes no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements. For a full disclosure of forward-looking statements, please refer to our press release today.Additionally, we'll refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures, which are driven primarily by discrete events and that management does not consider to be directly related to NXP's underlying core operating performance. Pursuant to Regulation G, NXP has provided reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in our first quarter 2021 earnings press release, which will be furnished to the SEC on Form 8-K and is available on NXP's website in the Investor Relations section at nxp.com.Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Kurt. Kurt?

 



Kurt Sievers -- President and Chief Executive OfficerYeah. Thanks very, very much, Jeff, and good morning, everyone. We really appreciate you joining our call today. Today, I will review our quarter one results and discuss our guidance for Q2. Furthermore, I will provide an updated perspective on how we view the current supply/demand environment, including the recovery of our two Austin-based facilities, which were hit by the severe winter storm in February. And additionally, I will discuss our efforts for sustainability.Now, let me get started with quarter one. Our results were better than the midpoint of our guidance with the contribution from the Industrial and the Communication Infrastructure end markets, both stronger than planned. At the same time, trends in the Mobile and Auto markets were generally in line with our expectations, with Automotive being just slightly impacted by the severe winter storms in Texas. Taken together, NXP delivered quarter one revenue of $2.57 billion, an increase of 27% year-over-year and $17 million above the midpoint of our guidance range.Non-GAAP operating margin in Q1 was a strong 30.9%, 600 basis points better than the year ago period and about 50 basis points above the midpoint of guidance, driven both by improved mix and additional revenue.

 



Now, let me turn to the specific trends in our focus end markets. In Automotive, quarter one revenue was $1.23 billion, up 24% versus the year ago period and about $13 million below our guidance. In Industrial & IoT, our quarter one revenue was $571 million, up 52% versus the year ago period and about $13 million better than our guidance. In Mobile, quarter one revenue was $346 million, up 40% versus the year ago period and in line with our guidance. Reconciling for the sale of the Voice and Audio business, which closed during quarter one 2020, the underlying mobile end market growth was actually up a robust 46% year-over-year. And lastly, in Communication Infrastructure and Other, quarter one revenue was $421 million, up 4% year-on-year and about $17 million better than our guidance.Now, let me move to our outlook. We are guiding quarter two revenue at $2.57 billion, up about 40% versus the second quarter of 2020, within the range of up 38% to up 45% year-over-year. And from a sequential perspective, this is about flat at the midpoint versus the prior quarter.At the midpoint, we anticipate the following trends in our business. Automotive is expected to be up in the upper 80% range versus quarter two 2020, and up in the low-single digits versus quarter one 2021. Industrial & IoT is expected to be up in the low-30% range year-over-year and flat versus quarter one 2021. Mobile is expected to be up in the mid-30% range and flat versus quarter one 2021. And finally, Communication Infrastructure and Other is expected to be down in the low-teens percent range versus the same period a year ago and down in the mid-single-digit range on a sequential basis.Now, at this point, let me turn to an update on the current supply/demand environment. As I had shared with you on our last earnings call, as many of our customers started to resume full production during Q3 of 2020, we were faced with the challenge to balance a very accelerated rate of customer orders versus a very tight, if not sold out, wafer supply situation. While our foundry partners have attempted to address our needs, it really has not been enough, and we were supply constrained in quarter one. This supply trends will continue through quarter two and our current expectation is, we will face a tight supply environment for at least the remainder of 2021.We would also note that in the medium-term we have seen a significant increase in demand for our products, which is very consistent with our anticipated content gains and our design wins. In that very context, it is really insightful to compare to the pre-pandemic levels of 2019. When you look at total current revenue levels compared to the pre-pandemic levels in 2019, we actually plan to ship nearly 20% more in the first half of 2021 versus the first half of 2019. And more specifically, in Automotive, we plan to ship at least 20% more in the first half of 2021 versus the first half of 2019. And this is while IHS suggests a drop of 10% in car production over the very same period.And now going forward, we see our overall revenue in the second half of 2021 being stronger than the first half of this year. And against these trends, we continue to have low channel and low on-hand inventory, which we do not anticipate rebuilding this year. Our customers are responding by placing long-dated non-cancellable and non-returnable order requests. And we are making long-term strategic supply commitments to our partners in order to assure future supply.Against this challenging supply environment, we also had the very unfortunate and unexpected winter storms in Austin. And I am today pleased to share that our two wafer facilities in Austin are now fully back online. And I would like to comment our manufacturing, our operations and our facilities teams for their superb effort and dedication to getting these two facilities back online in record time, truly a job very well done. Notwithstanding the challenging supply environment or the natural disasters we faced, our results and guidance clearly validate the underlying long-term growth and profitability of our business. We acknowledge it has been a long process to deliver on our committed gross margin target. The next objective will be to demonstrate full-year performance at the 55% gross margin target. And furthermore, on a positive note of recognition, NXP was added to the S&P 500 Index, which is a strong validation of a lot of hard work the entire NXP team has undertaken to drive growth, improve profitability and enhance free cash flow.Now, before I pass the call over to Peter, I would like to take a minute and discuss our sustainability efforts, an area to which NXP has a long demonstrated history of commitment. At a more personal level, I do believe sustainability is a very important journey we all need to embrace and undertake, and it's not just the finite destination. At NXP, we are dedicated to our long-term sustainability goals, which our employees, our customers, our suppliers and investors all believe are of the utmost importance. All our stakeholders are paying attention to the products we develop, to how our Company complements the communities we operate within, and to how we attempt to lessen the impact our Company has on our environment. And hence, we just recently published our Annual Corporate Sustainability Report and our Annual Proxy Statement, both of which set forth the progress we have achieved toward previously stated goals and lay out our vision for the future.In support of our continuous commitment to improve our environmental and social responsibility and our corporate governance metrics, there are a few areas I would like to highlight. Starting with social responsibility. We have made clear our commitment to workplace diversity, equality and inclusion. In order to ensure our working environment provides equal access and opportunity, we appointed a Head of Diversity, Equality and Inclusion, reporting directly to me and to our Executive Vice President of Human Resources. We are dedicated to creating an inclusive and diverse work environment that NXP appropriately mirrors to society and communities in which we operate. We have an ongoing commitment to improve and refine our corporate governance. In 2020, we have enhanced our human capital management disclosures, which expanded and detailed workforce demographics. We are committed to improving gender diversity throughout the organization, but especially within the Company's leadership teams.Now, turning to environmental impact. In 2020, we met our 10-year goal of reducing our carbon footprint by 30%. We have achieved a 47% water recycling rate, and we purchased 27% of our electricity from renewable sources, led by our factory in Nijmegen, which is running a 100% on renewable energy.Finally and certainly not least, our employees. We definitely believe our employees are the lifeblood of innovation and the spirit at NXP. We are dedicated to building a highly engaged workforce, who will continuously push the boundaries of innovation. We view a highly engaged workforce as the very best early indicator of potential success for our Company in the future. We measure this annually through a global employee survey called the Winning Culture Survey. That survey looks at multiple early indicators of long-term employee engagement. It includes factors as employee views on Company's strategy, innovation, execution and leadership, as well as culture, collaboration and a supportive work environment. And I'm proud to say that in 2020, we had a 90%-plus global participation rate.Now, in summary, we are very, very encouraged by the rapid rebound in demand across our end markets. Based on our customer conversations and order rates, it appears NXP is in the early stages of a longer-term Company-specific growth cycle. Our employees are highly engaged to drive our success. We have a robust pipeline of new and innovative products, and customer response engagement, design win momentum, all underpin our optimism about the future potential of NXP.I'm extremely proud of all our employees, but today, I would like to especially commend our manufacturing, our operations and customer-facing teams for their relentless focus and energy on assuring our customer success. Their dedication and hard work in the face of a very challenging supply environment truly make a big difference.And now, I would like to pass the call to Peter, for a review of our financial performance. Peter?Peter Kelly -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Kurt, and good morning to everyone on today's call. As Kurt has already covered the drivers of the revenue during the first quarter and provided our revenue outlook for the second quarter, I'll move on to the financial highlights. Overall, our first quarter financial performance was very good. Revenue was above the midpoint of our guidance range, and we drove an improvement to both non-GAAP profit and non-GAAP operating profit.Moving to the details of the first quarter, total revenue was $2.57 billion, up 27% year-on-year and above the midpoint of our guidance range. We generated $1.39 billion in non-GAAP gross profit and reported a non-GAAP gross margin of 54.2%, up 240 basis points year-on-year and above the high-end of our guidance.Total non-GAAP operating expenses were $600 million, up $55 million year-on-year and up $37 million from the fourth quarter. This was $10 million above the midpoint of our guidance due to increased variable compensation, driven by an improved first half performance.From a total operating profit perspective, non-GAAP operating profit was $792 million and non-GAAP operating margin was 30.9%, up 600 basis points year-on-year and was at the high-end of our guidance.Non-GAAP interest expense was $87 million, cash taxes for ongoing operations were $40 million and non-controlling interest was $11 million. Taken together, $13 million better than our guidance. Stock-based comp, which is not included in our non-GAAP earnings was $91 million.Now, I'd like to turn to the changes in our cash and debt. Our total debt at the end of the fourth quarter was $7.61 billion, essentially flat versus the fourth quarter. Our ending cash position was $1.84 billion, down $433 million sequentially, mainly due to share repurchases, offset by cash generation during the first quarter. The resulting net debt was $5.77 billion, and we exited the quarter with a trailing 12-month adjusted EBITDA of $3.09 billion. Our ratio of net debt to trailing 12-month adjusted EBITDA was at the end of quarter one was 1.9 times, and our 12-month adjusted EBITDA interest coverage was 8.6 times. Our liquidity is excellent and our balance sheet continues to be very strong.During the first quarter, we paid $105 million in cash dividends and repurchased $905 million of our shares for a total of $1 billion of capital return to our owners during the quarter.Turning to working capital metrics. Days of inventory was 81 days, an increase of three days sequentially and continues to be significantly below our long-term target of 95 days. We continue to closely manage our distribution channel with inventory in the channel at 1.6 months, flat sequentially and below our long-term target. Both metrics reflect the continuation of strong customer order rates, and we continue to be in the supply constrained position. It will take several quarters before we are able to rebuild on-hand and channel inventories to our long-term target levels. Days receivable were 30 days, up two days sequentially and days payable was 79 days, an increase of four days versus the prior quarter as we continue to increase material orders to our suppliers. Taken together, our cash conversion cycle was 32 days, up one day versus the prior quarter, reflecting strong customer demand, solid receivables collections and positioning for customer deliveries in future periods.Cash flow from operations was $732 million and net capex was $150 million, resulting in non-GAAP free cash flow of $582 million.Turning to our expectations for the second quarter, as Kurt mentioned, we anticipate Q2 revenue to be about $2.57 billion, plus or minus about $70 million. At the midpoint, this is up 41% year-on-year and flat sequentially. We expect non-GAAP gross profit to be about 55.5%, plus or minus 30 basis points.Operating expenses are expected to be about $623 million, plus or minus about $10 million, and taken together, we see non-GAAP operating margin to be about 31.3% at the midpoint.We estimate non-GAAP financial expense to be about $87 million and anticipate cash tax related to ongoing operations to be about $55 million.Non-controlling interest will be about $9 million, and for the second quarter, we suggest that for modeling purposes, you use an average share count of 283 million shares.Finally, I have a few closing comments I'd like to make. Firstly, demand trends continue to be strong across our target end markets and customer interest in our newest products continues to be robust. We are diligently working with our customers and our suppliers to address order requests in a timely manner.Our second quarter guidance reflects the clear potential of our business model, both in terms of revenue growth, as well as a significant pull through, which will enable us to drive our non-GAAP gross margin target to the 55% level.With the new United States administration in place, the potential increase for corporate -- sorry. Thirdly, with the new US administration in place, the potential increase for corporate income taxes is a large topic of interest. Unfortunately, at this point in time, there are too many variables in play and it just makes it impossible for any company to forecast. Therefore, it seems pointless to speculate until we can get more clarity. On a more positive note, we do expect our cash taxes to be slightly lower than the originally envisaged for 2021. So, 2021 will likely be 9% versus a previously indicated 10%.Fourthly, as we've said in the past, our capital return policy is to return all excess free cash flow to our owners. During the first quarter, the Board approved a $2 billion buyback authorization, as well as a 50% increase in our quarterly cash dividend. During the quarter, we returned $1 billion to shareholders, and we will continue to execute our stated capital return policy.Fifthly, as Kurt mentioned, we believe the demand environment is strong and notwithstanding the supply constraints, we believe the second half of 2021 will be greater than the first half of the year.Sixth and finally, I'd like to thank all my colleagues at NXP for their dedication and the incredible job, executing in a truly unbelievable environment.So with that, I'd like to turn it back to the operator for any questions you might have.Jeff Palmer -- Vice President of Investor RelationsWe're ready to poll for questions.