
OperatorGood afternoon and welcome to the F5 Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2021 Financial Results Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] After the speaker presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]I will now turn the call over to Ms. Suzanne DuLong. Ma'am, you may begin.Suzanne DuLong -- Vice President of Investor RelationsHello and welcome. I'm Suzanne DuLong, F5's Vice President of Investor Relations. Francois Locoh-Donou, F5's President and CEO and Frank Pelzer, F5's Executive Vice President and CFO will be making prepared remarks on today's call. Other members of the F5 executive team are also on hand to answer questions during the Q&A session.A copy of today's press release is available on our website at f5.com where an archived version of today's call will be available through January 25, 2022. Today's live discussion is supported by slides which are viewable on the webcast and will be posted to our IR site at the conclusion of today's discussion. To access the replay of today's call by phone dial 800 585 8367 or 416-621-4642 and use meeting ID 6879935. A telephonic replay of this call will be available through midnight Pacific Time October 27th. For additional information or follow-up questions please reach out to me directly at s.dulong@F5.com.Our discussion today will contain forward-looking statements which include words such as belief, anticipate, expect and target. These forward-looking statements involve uncertainties and risks that may cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these statements. Factors that may affect our results are summarized in the press release announcing our financial results and described in detail in our SEC filings. Please note that F5 has no duty to update any information presented in this call.With that, I will turn the call over to Francois.Francois Locoh-Donou -- President, Chief Executive Officer and DirectorThank you, Suzanne, and hello everyone. Thank you for joining us today. On the pandemic conditions that have persisted far longer than anyone initially expected, the F5 team delivered another very strong quarter closing out a robust year for us. Customer demand for application, security and delivery, the mid skyrocketing application growth and heightened application security awareness are driving strong demand for F5 solution. This demand span our portfolio and our regional theaters in Q4, driving 11% revenue growth and our fourth consecutive quarter of double-digit revenue growth. We delivered 35% software growth, 12% systems growth, and 2% global services growth in the quarter.With software revenue representing 45% of product revenue in the quarter and 80% of our software coming from subscriptions, we continue to market milestone after milestone in our rapid transformation to a more software-led business. I will speak more about our business drivers and customer highlights from the quarter after Frank reviews our Q4 and FY '21 results and our outlook for Q1 and FY '22. Frank?Frank Pelzer -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Francois, and good afternoon everyone. I'll review our Q4 results before briefly recapping our fiscal year results. As Francois just outlined, our team delivered another very strong quarter. Fourth quarter revenue of $682 million is up 11% year-over-year and above the top end of our guidance range. Please note as I review our revenue mix, I will be referring to non-GAAP revenue measures for the year-ago period. Q4 product revenue of $340 million is up 21% year-over-year, representing a significant acceleration from 6% in the same period last year.Q4 software revenue grew 35% to $152 million representing 45% of product revenue, up from 40% in the year-ago period. Systems revenue of $108 million is up 12% compared to Q4 last year when systems were down 8%. Rounding out the revenue picture, we continue to see strength from our global services at $342 million in Q4, up 2% compared to last year and representing 50% of revenue.Taking a closer look at our software revenue, customers' preference for subscription-based consumption models is evident. In Q4 '21, subscription-based revenue represented 80% of total software revenue, up from 76% in the year-ago period. Subscription-based revenue includes our ratably recognized as a service offerings and our solutions sold as term-based licenses.Within subscriptions, customer demand is driving substantial volume and value growth from our multi-year subscriptions. The deal volume of our multi-year subscriptions more than doubled year-over-year and is approaching 500 in total. This consumption model offers flexibility for the customer and through the annual true-forward and normal renewal cycles -- offers us visibility to customers' utilization and consumption patterns. In addition, we ended the year with more than 600 SaaS and managed service customers reflecting growth of 50% year-over-year.Revenue from recurring sources, which includes term subscriptions as a service and utility-based revenue as well as the maintenance portion of our services revenue totaled 67% of revenue in the quarter. On a regional basis in Q4, Americas delivered 11% revenue growth year-over-year representing 59% of total revenue. EMEA delivered 11% growth, representing 24% of revenue and APAC delivered 9% growth, accounting for 17% of revenue.The strength in Q4 spanned customer verticals as well. Enterprise customers represented 69% of product bookings in the quarter. Service providers represented 13% and government customers represented 18% including 8% from U.S. Federal.I will now share our Q4 operating results. GAAP gross margin in Q4 was 81.1%. Non-GAAP gross margin was 83.7%. GAAP operating expenses were $427 million. Non-GAAP operating expenses were $350 million. Our GAAP operating margin in Q4 was 18.5%. Non-GAAP operating margin was 32.4%. Our GAAP effective tax rate for the quarter was 10.3%. Our non-GAAP effective tax rate was 15%. GAAP net income for the quarter was $111 million or $1.80 per share. Non-GAAP net income was $185 million or $3.01 per share.I will now turn to the balance sheet. We generated $197 million in cash flow from operations in Q4. Cash and investments totaled approximately $1.04 billion at quarter-end. DSO was 45 days and capital expenditures for the quarter were $7 million. Deferred revenue increased 17% year-over-year to $1.489 billion up from $1.273 billion. The growth in total deferred was largely driven by subscription and SaaS bookings growth and to a lesser extent deferred service maintenance.Finally, we ended the quarter with approximately 6,460 employees, up approximately 80 from Q3. This does not include approximately 90 employees added with the Threat Stack acquisition, which closed in our fiscal first quarter of 2022.I will now briefly recap our full year 2021 results. For the year, revenue grew 10% to $2.6 billion. Product revenue of $1.25 billion grew 21% from the prior year and accounted for 48% of total revenue, up from 44% in the year-ago period. Within product revenue, software grew 37% to $500 million, a beat on our outlook for at or about 35% growth for the year. Systems revenue in FY '21 grew 12% to $748 million. Global services grew 2% to $1.36 billion representing 52% of total revenue.Looking more closely at our software revenue. Since fiscal 2018, we've grown our software revenue at a 49% compounded annual growth rate and our software subscription revenue at 115% compounded annual growth rate. GAAP gross margin in FY '21 was 81.1%. Non-GAAP gross margin was 83.9%. Our GAAP operating margin in FY '21 was 15.1% and our non-GAAP operating margin was 31.6%. Our GAAP effective tax rate for the year was 14.4%. Our non-GAAP effective tax rate for the year was 17.7%. GAAP net income for FY '21 was $331 million or $5.34 per share. Non-GAAP net income was $671 million or $10.81 per share.Application security is a big and growing reason customers turn to F5. Our application security offerings including DDoS protection, advanced vulnerability defense for web application firewall, and bot fraud and abuse protections are increasingly recognized as industry-leading. As a result, we estimate our stand-alone security product revenue grew 26% in FY '21 to approximately $350 million, reflecting a 38% compounded annual growth rate since FY '18.Including bundled security offerings and then estimate for our services revenue associated with security, we estimated a total application security portion of our business grew to more than $900 million in FY '21, representing approximately 35% of total revenue.Supply chain challenges have been well acknowledged across the industry over the last year. Our supply chain team continues to do an impressive job managing global supply chain constraints and working through our supplier ecosystem to manage through challenging conditions. At this point, like many others, we are working with extended lead times. In part as a result of supply chain constraints, we ended FY '21 with approximately $125 million in backlog, the vast majority of which is system-based.Now, let me share our guidance for our first quarter as well as some color on our view for FY '22. Unless otherwise stated, please note that my guidance comments reference non-GAAP metrics. Let me start with sharing our expectations for the first quarter of 2022. We are targeting Q1 revenue in the range of $665 million to $685 million implying roughly 8% growth at the midpoint. We expect Q1 '22 gross margins of approximately 84%. We estimate operating expenses of $342 million to $354 million. Our Q1 earnings target is $2.71 to $2.83 per share, with a share count of approximately 62 million. We expect Q1 share-based compensation expense of approximately 64 to 66 million.Now, let me share some operating expectations for our 2022 fiscal year. For the year, we expect revenue growth of 8% to 9%. We expect software growth of between 35% and 40%. We expect to the range of software variability, we will see quarter-to-quarter, we'll narrow relative to what we have experienced in the past. This is due in part to what we expect will be a higher contribution from ratable revenue over time and also in part due to increased scale of our software business overall.We expect systems revenue growth will be flat to slightly up for the year. And we continue to expect low single-digit global services revenue growth. I note that all of these revenue expectations are at or above our most recent Horizon 2 outlook provided in January with the Volterra acquisition announcement. We anticipate continued pressures related to our global supply chain in the next several quarters. We expect these pressures will result in some increased costs related to the expedite fees and sourcing of long lead-time components. In light of this dynamic, we anticipate non-GAAP gross margins of approximately 83.5% to 84% for the year, and we will continue to closely monitor this situation as we have throughout the past year.We continue to target operating on the Rule of 40 basis, where the combination of our revenue growth and non-GAAP operating margins total 40. The combination of our strong FY '21 revenue growth and our continued operating discipline enabled us to achieve the Rule 40 in four out of four quarters in FY '21 ahead of our initial Horizon 2 target. We continue to target achieving the Rule of 40 in FY '22.Given our anticipated revenue growth and the ongoing benefits from the cost reduction initiatives that we discussed at our Analyst and Investor Meeting last year, we expect non-GAAP operating margin in the range of 32% to 33% for FY '22. We expect our typical operating margin seasonality, which translates to operating margins stepping down in Q2 and improving in the back half of the year. We anticipate our full fiscal year of effective tax rate will be at around 21%, with some fluctuations quarter-to-quarter. This estimate does not account for any potential future federal tax changes.We expect fiscal 2022 stock-based compensation expense in the range of $250 million to $270 million and capital expenditures in the range of $40 million to $60 million. Finally, for the year, we expect share count to remain at approximately 62 million shares inclusive of the expected share repurchase of $500 million during FY '22 as we previously discussed.With that, I will turn the call back to Francois. Francois?Francois Locoh-Donou -- President, Chief Executive Officer and DirectorThank you, Frank. Our very strong fourth quarter results are the perfect cap to our robust outperformance in FY '21. In the last 18 months, our reliance on application both as businesses and as consumers has escalated sharply and likely forever changed. Our customers are massively accelerating digital transformation to keep up with current demand and forecasted growth. They are doing this while also working to consistently meet consumers' high expectations for application performance and availability, and while also ensuring their application and the consumers data are secure.In my conversation with investors, I am often asked what is potentially misunderstood about F5? Let me address the key points here. First, traditional on-premise applications continue to grow counter to the prevailing expectations from two to three years ago. In fact, traditional apps are generating more traffic and more revenue than ever because every aspect of life and business relies on applications. For F5, this means BIG-IP demand will continue to grow in both software and systems form factors.Second, contrary to early cloud hype, the vast majority of traditional applications are not being refactored. They are either remaining on-premise or they are moving to the cloud with a lift and shift motion. In other words, F5 run applications are remaining attached to F5. As a result, BIG-IP is growing both on-premise and in public clouds.Third, modern container-based applications continue to grow at a rapid pace, and not only for new applications. Customers are bolting new modern components onto traditional applications to improve the user experience. In many cases, Cloud Native application security and delivery simply are not robust enough to meet the application's needs. For F5 this means accelerating NGINX demand, enabling app security and scale for modern application often as a complement to BIG-IP.And finally, given the volume of business and data that is now flowing through application, and the increasingly distributed nature of applications, application security has taken on new significance where in the past, network and infrastructure security was a focus for customers and vendors alike. We expect application security will be one of the hottest areas of investment over the next decade.F5 is one of the few players 100% focused on application security and we protect not just access to applications, but also how they are used. As a result, we expect our role and reputation as a leading application security provider will accelerate. To sum up these points, F5 is differentiated and well-positioned to benefit from significant emerging secular trend. There are some companies focused on applications. There also are some focused on application security. F5 is the only one that is at the epicenter of these two secular forces with a focused, expertise and the technology assets to secure and deliver any application anywhere. That's grown our opportunity in real customer trends and use cases. Last quarter, I talked about five sustainable customer trends we expected to drive demand across our portfolio. Let's revisit those trends with some customer examples from Q4.Number one, enterprise customers developers and DevOps teams are using NGINX to insert security earlier in the application lifecycle. NGINX with App Protect delivers robust application security for microservices with the flexibility and agility developers demand. In one example during Q4, we secured an NGINX win with a global insurance group. They are migrating their consumer-facing insurance services into a public cloud. For risk mitigation and security reasons, they required a scalable and container-friendly solution. They also needed enterprise-grade security capable of protecting their strategic high-value apps and guaranteeing risk management compliance. And they wanted all of this within a lightweight footprint that could drive automation, saving time and money. NGINX with App Protect was the natural choice.Trend number two, heightened security concerns and high profile ransomware attacks are escalating demand for top-notch application security and fraud and abuse mitigation. With pronounced application growth and an ever-expanding threat landscape, including high profile ransomware and potential stuffing attacks, we see growing demand for application security in cloud environment and rising demand for fraud and bot defense. During Q4, a North American electric utility experienced a credential stuffing attack resulting in substantial infrastructure failure. More than 6 million customers had to reset their account passwords. Based on their experience of the BIG-IP customer, the utility turned to F5 for help. Shape was emergency onboarded, identified high volumes of automated traffic and deployed highly effective mitigation measures to stop the attack.Trend number 3, customers are leveraging F5 for Kubernetes, containers, and cloud-native architectures. Our growth in modern application continues to accelerate driven by NGINX Kubernetes and cloud-native deployments. We are seeing several top use cases emerge for NGINX including managing API, optimizing Kubernetes traffic management and load balancing cloud-native and hybrid cloud application. With customers modern applications experiencing significant and constant swings in user demand, they need infrastructure that scales up automatically to meet user demands or down to save cloud costs. During Q4, the Canadian online investment manager selected NGINX to move their Kubernetes-based application into production at scale. Initially, they attempted to use a competitive solution, but it lacked performance and did not integrate well with the HashiCorp console or with AWS autoscaling. NGINX Plus delivered low latency and high uptime to improve user experience and integrated seamlessly with AWS autoscaling to spin down half of their instances during off-peak traffic demand.Trend number four. Customers are scaling their existing hardware-based infrastructures to handle accelerating application growth, driving continued strength for BIG-IP systems. We are finding that customers are often looking to scale both their existing infrastructure and their modern apps infrastructure simultaneously. This is particularly true among stack and SaaS provider customers who continue to experience rapid adoption and growth of their digital products and services.In the latest of a growing list of examples, during Q4, a high growth SaaS provider selected F5 to help them scale both the traditional apps on BIG-IP and their modern public cloud apps with NGINX. This deal was made sweeter by the fact that NGINX displaced the competitor that wasn't performing as promised.Finally, trend number five. Customers are leveraging BIG-IP for transformation including cloud migration and automation initiatives. The demand we are seeing for BIG-IP systems and software is about more than just capacity additions. Customers also are using BIG-IP to drive transformation often combining it with NGINX. F5 is particularly well suited for enterprises that operate both modern and traditional applications, which most do. NGINX integrations with BIG-IP provide differentiation over competitor and cloud-native offering and we will extend this with integrations into Volterra at the edge.During Q4, the BIG-IP and NGINX combination was selected by one of the largest online betting companies in Asia Pacific. The customer who processes more than $1 billion annual transaction needed hybrid on-premise's data security as well as the ability to support modern app development and new engaging multimedia capability. They selected BIG-IP and NGINX as the foundation for their digital transformation. Let me touch briefly on service providers and our Volterra integration progress before concluding our prepared remarks.We had a good year with service providers in FY '21. While it's true that several of the trends I have just described also apply to our service provider customers, they also face unique challenges as a result of 4G to 5G migration and growing 5G traffic demands. Thus far, our service provider demand has come largely from 4G core network upgrades as they expand hardware capacity and upgrade existing infrastructures to handle 5G traffic. We expect software use cases will begin to emerge as carriers virtualize their 5G course.Looking forward, our Volterra platform is generating significant interest from service provider. They view it as a way to insert their capabilities at the edge thus creating 5G in a box offerings.That offers a good transition to discussing progress on the integration of Volterra. Volterra is a universal edge platform, which will enable us to insert critical application services at the edge and allow our customers to consume the services in a SaaS format. Our initial priority is on security offerings. We have one of the best, if not the best application security software stacks in the industry, including our Web Application Firewall, our DDoS protection, API security, and WAF capabilities. We are taking that entire security stack and integrating it natively into the Volterra platform.Our first priority is a SaaS security offering that will address the shift toward modern web apps and API, and we are on track to deliver within our committed 12 to 18 months integration window. Our recent acquisition of Threat Stack, a leader in cloud security and workload protection is designed to accelerate our SaaS security offerings with cloud endpoint telemetry and analytics for better detection and response. Threat Stack also augments our telemetry and virtual security and technology expertise and I want to take this opportunity to once again welcome the entire Threat Stack team to F5.In closing, we are more confident than ever in our vision and in our ability to continue to execute. The combination of application growth, our expanded solutions platform, our continuously evolving go-to-market strategy and our vision for the future of adaptive applications is resonating with customers and puts us at the epicenter of several emerging strong secular trends. I extend my heartfelt thanks to the entire F5 team for their steadfast focus and execution. As a team, we have accomplished more faster than anyone, even us, thought we could. We've got more work ahead, but I am more confident than ever in our ability to achieve our goals. My thanks to our customers and partners for being on our journey with us and providing guidance and support along the way.With that, operator, we will open the call to Q&A.