
OperatorGood morning, and welcome to Otis's First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. This call is being carried live on the Internet and recorded for replay. Presentation materials are available for download from Otis website at www.otis.com.I'll now turn it over to Stacy Laszewski, Vice President of FP&A and Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Stacy Laszewski -- Vice President, FP&A & Investor Relations

 



Thank you, Stephanie, and good morning, everyone. Welcome to Otis's first quarter 2021 earnings conference call. On the call with me today are Judy Marks, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Rahul Ghai, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Please note, except where otherwise noted, the company will speak to results from continuing operations, excluding restructuring and significant non-recurring items. The company will also refer to adjusted results where adjustments were made as though Otis was a stand-alone company in the current period and prior year. A reconciliation of these measures can be found in the appendix of the webcast. We also remind listeners that the presentation contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to risks and uncertainties. Otis's SEC filings including our Form 10-K and quarterly on the Form 10-Q provide details on important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially.With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Judy.Judith F. Marks -- Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Stacy, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us, and we hope that everyone listening is safe and well. I'm pleased to share that Otis had an outstanding first quarter, demonstrating the power of our strategy, the global execution strength of our company and the capability of all our colleagues. Our New Equipment business was robust and we gained close to 2 points of New Equipment share with orders up high-teens globally in a market that was up mid-teens.

 



In Korea, Otis was selected to provide approximately 170 elevators, escalators and moving walkways to support the fourth phase of the Incheon International Airport project. This addition will expand Otis's presence at the airport to over 650 units. In China, we continue to support key infrastructure projects throughout the country, including Xiong'an New Area, a new Metropolis being built near Beijing. More than 1,000 Otis elevators and escalators have already been ordered in support of projects in the area that will be a new home to administrative services and residential communities being relocated from Beijing.In Munich, we're continuing an over 35-year relationship with Stadtwerke Munchen. We have been selected to install 92 escalators for the Munich Metros Modernization project, bringing the total number of Otis escalators provided to the Metro System to over 500 units. Using custom-made controllers, these escalators will seamlessly integrate with the Stadtwerke mobility app to provide passengers and maintenance crews with real-time data on escalator operational status.And finally in New York City, we received an order to modernize 3 Time Square, the Thomson Reuters Building, we'll provide new controls, drives and Compass 360 destination dispatching on several units. This extends our long-term relationship with the building. We installed the original equipment nearly 20 years ago and have been providing maintenance services ever since.Our high-margin recurring service business also grew in all lines of business, including modernization, while achieving adjusted operating profit margins of 22.6%. Our strategy is based on our service model, which drives approximately 80% of our profit. This is the model that proves our resilience year after year, including during COVID. The global service market grows faster than the global New Equipment market and pricing tends to be more consistent in service. Data and technology-based innovations help us attract and retain customers. And in Q1, we continue to deploy Otis ONE units in the field and our shipping IoT-enabled units in both China and North America.

 



We drove profit growth in both segments, largely from the drop-through benefit of higher volume, with organic growth in both segments and continued benefits from our material and service productivity initiatives. Our strong performance allows us to create more value for our shareholders. In January, we completed the remaining $150 million of debt repayment we had committed to ahead of schedule. And just last week, we announced a 20% increase in our quarterly dividend. In addition, we're now in a position to increase our planned share repurchases for the year to $0.5 billion after completing $300 million in the first quarter. And we're equally dedicated to delivering on our commitments as a global corporate citizen.In March, we shared additional details with you on our important ESG initiatives, including becoming a signatory of the UN Global Compact, and we continue to make progress toward our goals. Our ESG programs are integral to bringing our vision to life. This month, we completed the inaugural year of Made to Move Communities, our signature global corporate social responsibility initiative. This pioneering program focuses on two principal goals, advancing STEM education and supporting young innovators in the development of inclusive mobility solutions for underrepresented communities. Students from around the world put their knowledge and skills to work alongside Otis mentors to come up with many creative solutions. The winners were announced in April. We look forward to extending this program geographically and to more students and mentors in the coming years.Turning to Slide 4, Q1 results and 2021 outlook. First quarter New Equipment orders were up high teens at constant currency, with mid-teens growth in the Americas, low single-digit growth in EMEA and double-digit growth in Asia, driven by China. On a rolling 12 months, total Otis orders were up 1.4%. This strong order performance led to continued growth in New Equipment backlog of 8% and 2% at constant currency versus the prior year.Organic sales were up 10.3% in the first quarter, with 25.1% organic growth in the New Equipment segment and 1.3% organic growth in the Service segment. Adjusted operating profit was up $83 million and margin expanded 40 basis points. Overall margin expansion was impacted by segment mix as the New Equipment business grew faster than the Service business. Free cash flow was robust at $541 million with 176% conversion of GAAP net income.I'm encouraged by this positive momentum and we're confident in our revised 2021outlook improving across all key metrics. We now expect net sales to be in the range of $13.6 billion to $13.8 billion, up 6.5% to 8.5% versus prior year and up 4% to 6% organically. This is a two-point improvement from the prior outlook at the midpoint, driven by faster-than-expected recovery in the New Equipment segment. Adjusted operating profit is expected to be up $170 million to $210 million at actual currency and up $120 million to $160 million at constant currency, with adjusted EPS in a range of $2.78 to $2.84, a 10% to 13% increase versus the prior year and a $0.09 improvement from the prior outlook at the midpoint. Lastly, we expect free cash flow to be robust in a range of $1.35 billion to $1.45 billion with approximately 120% conversion of GAAP net income.With that, I'll turn it over to Rahul to walk through our Q1 results and 2021 outlook in more detail.Rahul Ghai -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Judy, and good morning, everyone. Starting with the first quarter results on Slide 5. Net sales grew 14.9% to $3.4 billion with organic sales up 10.3%, as the growth momentum continued in New Equipment and Service returns to growth in the quarter. Adjusted operating profit was up approximately 18% or $83 million and up $57 million at constant currency, as a drop-through on higher volume, strong material and service productivity and favorable service pricing more than offset the headwinds from New Equipment mix and pricing as well as incremental public company expenses.We maintained the focus on cost containment, while continuing to invest in the business. As a percentage of sales, adjusted SG&A was down 20 basis points, despite the step up in public company expenses, and R&D spend and other strategic investments were about flat versus prior year. This strong focus on execution drove 40 basis points of margin expansion in the quarter.First quarter adjusted EPS was up 20% or $0.12, driven by $0.13 of operating profit growth and $0.05 from a lower adjusted tax rate. This was partially offset by incremental interest cost from the full quarter impact of an external debt.Moving to Slide 6. New Equipment orders were up 18.4% at constant currency, with growth in all regions. Orders rebounded strongly in Americas, up mid-teens and we're up for the fourth straight quarter in Asia, including strength in China where the orders were up double digits. Booked margin in the quarter was down 60 basis points year-over-year, but improved sequentially. Organic sales were up 25.1%, with Americas and Asia up about 22% and 46% respectively, driven by strong backlog execution. EMEA was up low-single digits, sustaining the turnaround that started in Q4 of 2020. Despite the strong sales, there was broad-based growth in backlog, that was up 8% and up 2% at constant currency, with backlog margin down slightly versus prior year and up 20 basis points sequentially from prior quarter. New Equipment adjusted operating profit was up $44 million and margin expanded 170 basis points, as higher volume and strong material productivity that met our 3% target more than offset the impact of unfavorable mix and pricing.Service segment results on Slide 7. The number of units under maintenance contracts increased by 2% with growth in all regions, and China up low-teens after high single-digit growth in 2020, from strong improvement in underlying operational metrics. Modernization orders were up slightly at constant currency, as double-digit growth in Asia, driven by successful go-to-market strategy to leverage the mandated regulatory upgrades in certain markets, and low single-digit growth in the Americas was partially offset by lower order intake in EMEA.Service organic sales were up 1.3% in the first quarter, with continued resiliency of the contractual maintenance business and discretionary repair and modernization sales returning to growth in the quarter. Adjusted operating profit margin expanded 60 basis points and profit grew $35 million on the benefit of higher volume, strong contribution from productivity initiatives and favorable pricing. Translational FX benefit of of $20 million was mostly offset by higher SG&A, including incremental public company expenses.As we look forward to the remainder of 2021 on Slide 8, we feel confident about growth across all key metrics, given the higher backlog, strength of the maintenance business and our focus on operational excellence. Service callbacks, our proxy for repair volume is also showing continued sequential improvement and contributed to the growth of the repair business in the first quarter after three quarters of year-over-year decline. These encouraging trends combined with the strong Q1 results gives us confidence to raise the organic sales outlook to be up 4% to 6% for the year, up 2 points versus prior outlook, driven by accelerated recovery in the New Equipment business.We now expect adjusted operating profit to grow $175 million to $215 million at actual currency, up $45 million from prior outlook at the midpoint, with sales growth, operating profit growth and margin expansion in both segments. Adjusted EPS is expected in a range of $2.78 to $2.84, $0.09 higher than prior outlook and up 12% versus prior year at the midpoint. The year-over-year increase is driven by strong operating profit growth, a 90 basis point reduction in the adjusted tax rate to 29.5% and reduced share count. This EPS outlook is ahead of the high-single digit medium-term growth target that we had provided at Investor Day.Following the strong cash generation in Q1 from higher net income and more than $300 million reduction in working capital, we now expect free cash flow for the year to be in a range of $1.35 billion to $1.45 billion, $50 million higher than prior outlook at the midpoint, reflecting the improvement in net income and better working capital performance. Given the strong Q1 free cash flow and success in repatriation of foreign cash, we raised our dividend 20% last week and are increasing the share buyback target for 2021 to $500 million.Taking a further look at the organic sales outlook on Slide 9, the new Equipment business is projected to be up between 7.5% to 8.5%, driven by accelerated backlog conversion and continued recovery in the market. This 4.5% improvement at the midpoint is driven by increased expectations in all regions and is supported by strong order intake in Q1 and demand signals from the market. Americas is now expected to be up high single digits, EMEA up low-to-mid single digits, and Asia up approximately 10% from improved outlook in China and other markets in Asia Pacific returning to growth.Consistent with our prior outlook, we expect Service sales to be up 2% to 4%, with maintenance and repair sales up 2% to 4% as well, and modernization sales up low-to-mid single digits, as maintenance remains resilient and we see continued recovery in the repair and modernization businesses. In addition to our success in Asia Pacific, modernization growth is also driven by market growth in China and conversion of backlog in the Americas and EMEA. Overall, the organic sales growth outlook of 5% at the midpoint represents a solid turnaround after a difficult 2020, with growth across all regions and all lines of business and puts us above 2019 levels in both segments on a reported basis.Switching to operating profit on Slide 10, we now expect operating profit to be up $175 million to $215 million and up $120 million to $160 million at constant currency, reflecting the benefits of higher volume, service and material productivity initiatives and favorable Service pricing environment, partially offset by unfavorable mix and pricing in the New Equipment segment, headwinds from commodities and incremental stand-alone expenses. This represents a $45 million increase versus prior expectations, driven by the improvement of outlook in both segments, lower corporate expenses and higher translational FX benefit.New Equipment margins at the midpoint, I now expect it to be up 80 basis points for the year versus prior expectations of 50 basis points and above 2019 levels. Service margins are now expected to be up 40 basis points from 30 basis points previously, building on the 110 basis point improvement in 2020. We expect overall margin expansion of approximately 40 basis points for the year. Overall, we believe that this strong outlook for the business on sales growth, margin expansion and cash flow generation reflects our focus on execution and the benefits for solid market recovery.And with that, I will request Stephanie to please open the line for questions.