  OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the EPAM Systems fourth quarter and full year 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, David Straube, head of investor relations. Please go ahead.David Straube -- Head of Investor Relations Thank you, operator, and good morning, everyone. By now, you should have received a copy of the earnings release for the company's fourth quarter and full year 2021 results. If you have not, a copy is available on epam.com in the investors section. With me on today's call are Arkadiy Dobkin, CEO and president; and Jason Peterson, chief financial officer.

 



 I would like to remind those listening that some of the comments made on today's call may contain forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties as described in the company's earnings release and SEC filings. Additionally, all references to reported results that are non-GAAP measures have been reconciled to the comparable GAAP measures and are available in our quarterly earnings material located in the Investors section of our website. With that said, I will now turn the call over to Ark.Ark Dobkin -- Chief Executive Officer and President Thank you, David. Good day, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. Before turning to Jason to provide a detailed update on our fourth quarter overall 2021 results and our 2022 outlook, I would like to spend some time reflecting on last year performance and share some thoughts on our positioning for 2022. But even before doing that, I would like to share a couple of other thoughts. Just last week, we celebrated the 10-year anniversary of our initial public offering on the New York Stock Exchange. So that is why this call is a bit special. Exactly 10 years ago, we provided our first guidance on our first earnings call. EPAM in Q1 2012 was a company with 7,000 people and about $335 million in revenue.

 



 We really felt back then, which reflected a strong company indeed. EPAM was very much an unknown start-up with a minimal presence in the United States and Western Europe and with development centers across just a few countries in Eastern Europe. And we were extremely nervous because of all of that. During our first call, we shared that our quarterly revenue grew 34% and our annual headcount increased by about 30%. And we guided that our 2012 revenue should go up around 23%, 25% from the prior year of 2011. Ten years later, we are a very different company. Since our IPO, EPAM has grown more than tenfold, expanded our global footprint across five continents and growing our team of professionals to more than 58,000 people and across 40 countries to become a recognized world leader in digital engineering and consulting services. So at this moment, I would like to personally thank all of our employees, customers and shareholders who participated in achieving this notable milestone in EPAM journey, which we just deliberated last week on New York Stock Exchange podium, unfortunately, in very small team due to understandable COVID restriction. What is also important is that 10 years later, we still feel very much as a fast-growing, constantly changing and learning start-up. As of today, we still can share that in our fourth quarter, we grew 53% and 44% organically, increased our annual head count by 43% and plan to grow revenues by at least 37% in 2022. So in short, we are running today faster than we did back then during our first post IPO days. To be on a bit more formal side, for 2021, we generated almost $3.8 billion in revenues, reflecting a greater than 40% year-over-year growth, which included a strong result across all dimensions of our portfolio. Non-GAAP earnings per share were $9.05, a 43% increase over fiscal 2020. And in 2021, we also generated $461 million of free cash flow. During our previous call three months ago, we shared the history of our transformational efforts while we were setting our three-year mission plans. I will not go into the details again, but I would like to mention that 2021 was actually a special year for us.

 



 For the third time in a row since our IPO, we doubled the company in three years. 2021 was a year when we were aggressively building and expanding EPAM capabilities through our strong organic growth, especially across cloud data and consulting credits. And also, it was a record year from an M&A point of view, which help us to fill some white spaces and also to mature our offerings in consulting, cybersecurity, digital marketing, digital platform and cloud delivery as well as in data and analytics. It also allows to better diversify our global delivery organization. For sure, our 2021 results would not have been possible if not for our ability to attract and retain talent. To meet the extraordinary demand in 2021, we refined our employee value proposition, to elevate EPAM as the one with next-generation technologies where engineers, designers, architects and consultants can embrace modern practices, cutting-edge tech and deep collaboration approach during our client engagement. We added more than 17,600 EPAM-ers, which is approximately two and a half times more employees in our previous record year of 2019. 2021 was the second year in a row of very much distributed with very high percentage of remote work, and with still very limited opportunities to meet in person with our team members and clients on a regular basis. So it was a year when we doubled our efforts to focus on talent engagement practices through understanding of people capabilities, investing in their training and development and providing a wide area of opportunities to communicate and gather together as a team as well as through finding the best suitable engagement both from professional and from vocational point of view. Additionally, we drove deeper connections across our global talent pool to each other and to global community of people and partners through our digital platforms, all which help us to keep high level of productivity and our attrition levels manageable in the current very challenging environment. In 2021, the majority of our clients have been at the center of significant amount of transformation. This has driven very strong demand for our services across all verticals. In travel and consumer, we absorbed an extra rebound as post-pandemic priorities once again moved to the forefront of the discretionary spend agenda. In financial services, we saw demand growth in both our existing customers and in several new and previously smaller clients. We'll continue the same of modernization and innovation of key business domains. Insurance, which was relatively new focus area within our financial services last year is today one of our fastest-growing subsegments. Telecommunications, automotive and merger, all part of our emerging vertical segment outpace previous year performance as clients in these sectors turn to EPAM's expertise and innovation, design experience and product and platform engineering skills. Life sciences and healthcare and software and hi-tech both continue to grow fast and demonstrating the potential to accelerate fast. While business information & media slowed down during the year, returned to a 30-plus-percent growth rate in Q4. 2021 was also a noticeable year from a market recognition point of view. Some of them we shared previously, but I would list those together to demonstrate the progress we achieved or being not only the engineers anymore, but moving beyond into the integrated consulting and advanced engineering zone. EPAM was ranked as a top IT services company on Fortune's 100 Fastest-Growing Companies list for the third consecutive year. And also was included on the list of Forbes Global 2000 companies, recognized by Ad Age as 1 of the top 25 largest agencies in the world and Consulting Magazine named EPAM Continuum as one of the top 20 fastest-growing consultancies. Also included by Forrester as EPAM Continuum in the list of eight largest customer experience strategy consulting practices, along with Accenture, BCG, Deloitte, E&Y, IBM, McKinsey and PwC. Named the top 50 most loved workplaces by Newsweek, recognized for our employee-centric work by Great Place to Work in a number of our key talent markets and was also awarded the Best Culture of Learning Talent by LinkedIn. Just last week was included in the top 100 Barron's Most Sustainable Companies list. And lastly, was accepted in S&P 500 Index in December. Just several quarters ago, in last May actually, we talked probably for the first time about becoming a $5 billion to $10 billion company sometime in the future. Today, we know that we are guiding to close the $5 billion mark already in 2022. So we feel much more confident to set our near-term sights on growing to $10 billion company. We believe we are well positioned to do so with our overall progress today, and we continue advancing on our key client markets and growing a very fast, diversifying global delivery capabilities. I know it feels like I'm missing one hot topic at this point. And I am sure that you follow the news about Ukraine and Russia as much as we do. That is why I would like to share the following before passing the microphone to Jason. 2021 was actually a very challenging year, especially for us. First, due to fast-growing geopolitical and social uncertainties across some of our key talent markets and the continued disruption of global pandemic too. That is exactly why we are very pleased with our standing in first quarter and overall performance we delivered in 2021. Despite all of that, our results demonstrate the level of maturity published over the years and our ability to operate and win our share performance during difficult times. We also should remember that this conflict is not new for the region. We do well remember 2014 and 2015 and then 2020 as well. We have dealt well with those in the past, and we also learned a lot since then. So in 2021, to navigate the situation, we continued something which we started actively implementing since 2014. Both organic and M&A-based efforts to improve our geographic timing diversification and to do it without any degradation in quality of our delivery. That was our key focus over those years as well as significantly maturing our portfolio of consulting industry and overall engineering capabilities. So today, we believe we are well prepared to address the challenges ahead in 2022 by leveraging our broad global reach in addition to our deep regional insight and by applying our strong engineering DNA and very importantly, never ending entrepreneurial spirit to continue making the future real for our clients, our employees and our global and local communities while keeping everyone as safe as possible as our key priority at the same time. With that, I would like one more time to thank our employees, customers and shareholders for their continued understanding and support. Now let me turn the call over to Jason.Jason Peterson -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Ark, and good day to all. In the fourth quarter, EPAM delivered extremely strong results, reflecting continued high levels of demand for the company's services across a full range of industry verticals and geographies. During the quarter, EPAM generated revenues of $1.107 billion, a year-over-year increase of 53.1% on a reported basis and 54.1% in constant currency terms, reflecting a negative foreign exchange impact of 100 basis points. Q4 was the first quarter EPAM delivered quarterly revenues in excess of $1 billion, a notable milestone in the company's journey. Performance across the industry verticals in the quarter was consistent and very strong, long-standing trends, which have been driving significant growth continue and include the need to modernize and transform applications while transitioning them to the cloud. Human-centered innovation is the merging of physical and digital experiences continues to spread across industries and creation of new digital products and businesses, while harnessing the resulting data to improve our customers' revenue growth, supply chain operations and end customer experiences. Turning to the performance of our industry verticals. Travel & consumer grew 91.3%, driven by very strong growth from both our consumer and retail clients. The accelerated growth in the quarter is partially the result of recent acquisitions. Financial services grew 60.3% with very strong growth coming from payments, banking, asset management and insurance. Larger consulting-led engagements are helping to drive higher levels of growth. Software and hi-tech grew 34.7% in the quarter. Life sciences and healthcare grew 33.9%. Business information & media delivered 32.9% growth in the quarter. And finally, our emerging verticals delivered 67.6% growth, driven by clients in manufacturing and automotive, energy and telecommunications. Moving to our geographic performance. In Q4, we renamed our geographic regions to better reflect EPAM's ongoing geographic expansion. These changes are in name only. The methodology used to report revenues remains unchanged. The Americas, our largest region, representing 58% of our Q4 revenues, grew 47.2% year over year or 47.4% in constant currency. EMEA, representing 35% of Q4 revenues, grew 66.6% year over year or 69.7% in constant currency. The accelerated growth in the quarter is partially the result of recent acquisitions. CEE, representing 5% of our Q4 revenues, grew 46.4% year over year and 43.9% in constant currency. And finally, APAC grew 38% year over year and 38% in constant currency terms and now represents 3% of our revenues. In Q4, revenues from our top 20 clients grew 29% while revenues from clients outside our top 20 grew 70% year over year, driving greater diversification across our revenue base. Growth in our clients outside of the top 20, most notably below the top 200, reflected a higher level of inorganic contribution during the quarter. Moving down the income statement. Our GAAP gross margin for the quarter was 34.3% compared to 35.6% in Q4 of last year. Non-GAAP gross margin for the quarter was 35.9% compared to 36.9% for the same quarter last year. Gross margin in Q4 2021 was impacted by higher levels of funding for our variable compensation programs, given the company's outperformance versus financial targets established at the beginning of the 2021 fiscal year. GAAP SG&A was 17.2% of revenue compared to 17.8% in Q4 of last year, and non-GAAP SG&A came in at 15.6% of revenue compared to 16.2% in the same period last year. GAAP income from operations was $166 million or 15% of revenue in the quarter, compared to $112 million or 15.5% of revenue in Q4 of last year. Non-GAAP income from operations was $206 million or 18.6% of revenues in the quarter compared to $136 million or 18.8% of revenue in Q4 of last year. Our GAAP effective tax rate for the quarter came in at 11% versus our Q4 guide of 14% due to a higher-than-expected level of excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation. Our non-GAAP effective tax rate, which excludes excess tax benefits, was 21.9%. Diluted earnings per share on a GAAP basis was $2.40, Our non-GAAP diluted EPS was $2.76, reflecting a $0.95 increase and 52.5% growth over the same quarter in 2020. In Q4, there were approximately 59.3 million diluted shares outstanding. Turning to our cash flow and balance sheet. Cash flow from operations for Q4 was $285 million compared to $159 million in the same quarter of 2020. Free cash flow of $228 million produced a 139% conversion of adjusted net income, compared to free cash flow of $141 million in the same quarter last year. The higher level of free cash flow in the quarter reflects a strong level of cash collections. We ended the quarter with approximately $1.4 billion in cash and cash equivalents, which is net of $366 million used in our acquisition efforts during 2021. At the end of Q4, DSO was 62 days and compares to 70 days in Q3 2021 and 64 days in the same quarter last year. Looking ahead, we expect DSO will trend up in 2022. Moving on to a few operational metrics for the quarter. We ended Q4 with more than 52,600 consultants, designers, engineers, trainers and architects, a year-over-year increase of 43.2%. Our total headcount for the quarter was more than 58,800 employees. In Q4, we had approximately 6,100 net additions, a record number of new additions for EPAM. Utilization was 76.8% compared to 77.9% in Q4 of last year and 77.1% in Q3 2021. Turning to our results for 2021. Revenues for the year were $3.758 billion, producing 41.3% reported growth and 39.9% on a constant currency basis when compared to 2020. During fiscal 2021, our acquisitions contributed approximately 4% to our growth. GAAP income from operations was $542 million, an increase of 43% year over year and represented 14.4% of revenues. Our non-GAAP income from operations was $678 million, an increase of 43.5% over the prior year and represented 18% of revenue. Our GAAP effective tax rate for the year was 9.7%. Our non-GAAP effective tax rate was 22%. Diluted earnings per share on a GAAP basis was $8.15. Non-GAAP EPS, which excludes adjustments for stock-based compensation, acquisition-related costs and other certain onetime items was $9.05, reflecting a 42.7% increase over fiscal 2020. In 2021, there were approximately 59.1 million weighted average diluted shares outstanding. And finally, cash flow from operations was $572 million compared to $544 million for 2020. And free cash flow was $461 million, reflecting an 86% adjusted net income conversion. We are very pleased with our 2021 results, which exceeded each of the guided metrics we set at the beginning of the year. Before I move on to our outlook, I'd like to provide a few highlights on our progress in the area of corporate responsibility and ESG. EPAM has a long-standing commitment to serve the communities in which our people and our customers operate. As we continue to expand, we recognize our responsibility to act according to our principles by operating ethically, protecting the environment and supporting our global and local communities. Our focus on sustainable growth today will be a catalyst to fuel continued expansion in the future. Over the last year, EPAM-ers have donated more than 30,000 hours of their time and skills across 27 EPAM sites and partner organization events, creating and conducting STEM-related courses, supporting social innovation platforms and environmental initiatives and supporting events, including the British Interactive Media Association's Digital Day, the Raspberry Pi Foundation's Coolest Projects and the Global Scratch Conference. While we are working through specific long-term commitments to fight climate change, we have continued to challenge ourselves to significantly reduce the effects of our carbon emissions. We're also focused on innovating new sustainability concepts and developing digital solutions to support sustainability in our communities. Now, let's turn to guidance. Starting with our full year outlook, revenue growth will be at least 37% on a reported basis, and in constant currency terms will be at least 38% after factoring in an approximate 1% negative foreign exchange impact. We expect inorganic revenue contribution to be approximately 6% from acquisitions we closed in the last 12 months. We expect GAAP income operations to be in the range of 13.5% to 14.5%, and non-GAAP income from operations to be in the range of 16.5% to 17.5%. We expect our GAAP effective tax rate to be approximately 15%. Our non-GAAP effective tax rate, which excludes excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation will be 22%. For earnings per share, we expect that GAAP diluted EPS will be in the range of $10.43 to $10.76 for the full year, and non-GAAP diluted EPS will be in the range of $11.36 to $11.69 for the full year. We expect weighted average share count of 59.8 million fully diluted shares outstanding. For Q1 of 2022, we expect revenues to be in the range of $1.170 billion to $1.180 billion, producing a year-over-year growth rate of approximately 50% reported at the midpoint of the range. Our guidance reflects unfavorable FX impact of 1% and the year-over-year growth rate on a constant currency basis is expected to be 51%. Lastly, we expect approximately 9% of our growth to come from revenues contributed by acquisitions closed over the last 12 months. For the first quarter, we expect GAAP income from operations to be in the range of 14.5% to 15.5% and non-GAAP income from operations to be in the range of 16.5% to 17.5%. We expect our GAAP effective tax rate to be approximately 8% and our non-GAAP effective tax rate, which excludes excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation to be approximately 22%. For earnings per share, we expect GAAP diluted EPS to be in the range of $2.65 to $2.73 for the quarter, and non-GAAP diluted EPS to be in the range of $2.58 to $2.66 for the quarter. We expect a weighted average share count of 59.5 million diluted shares outstanding. Finally, a few key assumptions that support our GAAP to non-GAAP measurements in 2022. Stock-based compensation expense is expected to be approximately $116 million with $19 million in Q1, $31 million in Q2 and $33 million in the remaining quarters. Amortization of intangibles is expected to be approximately $24 million for the year, evenly spread across each quarter. The impact of foreign exchange is expected to be approximately a $6 million loss for the year, evenly spread across each quarter. Tax effect of non-GAAP adjustments is expected to be around $27 million for the year, with $4 million in Q1, $7 million in Q2 and $8 million in each remaining quarter. And finally, we expect excess tax benefits to be around $67 million for the full year with approximately $27 million in Q1, $18 million in Q2 and $11 million in each remaining quarter. Our 2022 outlook reflects the strong demand environment we see across the business and end markets we serve. In addition to expected ongoing investments across our people, platforms and processes, which will equip and position EPAM for future growth. As we've done in the past, we will adjust our business outlook each quarter to reflect changes in the demand environment and in our operations. OK, operator, let's open the call for questions. 