
OperatorGood day and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Nasdaq Second Quarter 2021 Results. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded.I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Ed Ditmire, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Ed Ditmire -- Vice President, Head of Investor Relations

 



Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today to discuss Nasdaq's second quarter 2021 financial results. On the line are Adena Friedman, our CEO; Ann Dennison, our CFO; John Zecca, our Chief Legal and Regulatory Officer, and other members of the management team. After prepared remarks, we'll open up to Q&A.The press release and presentation are on our website. We intend to use the website as a means of disclosing material, non-public information and complying with disclosure obligations under SEC Regulation FD.I'd like to remind you that certain statements in this presentation and during Q&A may relate to future events and expectations, and as such, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results may differ materially from these projections. Information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ from forward-looking statements is contained in our press release and periodic reports filed with the SEC.I will now turn the call over to Adena.

 



Adena T. Friedman -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Ed, and good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us. My remarks today will focus on Nasdaq's second quarter 2021 financial and business performance, as well as the progress we've made to drive forward along our strategic direction.I would like to begin by acknowledging the Nasdaq team's deep commitment and delivering results for our clients, while creating sustainable value for all of our stakeholders. Nasdaq's mission reflects our focus on becoming the premier platform and ecosystem for the global capital markets and beyond with unmatched technology, insights, and markets expertise, and we made important progress during the second quarter. Our financial results demonstrate our businesses ability to capture opportunity in a unique economic environment, even as we continue to strengthen its position for long-term growth.We see strong demand for many of our products and services as corporate issuers, institutional investors, banks, brokers, and marketplace operators, all navigate today's rapidly changing world. Our core foundational marketplace is benefited from an active capital market backdrop that saw record setting industry, US equity and options trading volumes in the first half of 2021. Our client-first model has also driven our ability to win the majority of new listings and one of the strongest periods of industry activity in years. Meanwhile, expanding demand from institutional owners for index strategies, as well as asset allocation and portfolio management tools from banks for modern anti-financial crime solutions and from corporates for ESG and investor relations solutions underpinned our performance in the Solutions segment businesses. Our performance in these businesses is also a testament to our client-centric approach and strategically aligned offerings as we invest in and grow new and innovative technology to meet that demand.

 



We also achieved other important milestones against our corporate journey of this quarter. First, Nasdaq completed the sale of our US Fixed Income business to Tradeweb Markets at the end of the second quarter. Second, we announced our strategic investment in Puro.earth, a leading carbon removal marketplace, along with the launch of our new ESG Data Hub, these solutions further expand the ways that we can partner with our clients to support their unique sustainability efforts. And third, we announced yesterday that we are starting an exciting next chapter for the Nasdaq Private Market as part of our partnership with the group of leading banks in the private market space. It highlights both the success of the Private Market platform we developed at Nasdaq, and the growing interest in developing a robust ecosystem for private company liquidity. All of these actions underscore our commitment to our strategy and allow us to reprioritize elements of our unique business model to advance our focus on the most impactful secular opportunities.I will now turn to our financial results from the second quarter of 2021. Overall, Nasdaq delivered net revenues of $846 million, an increase of $147 million, or 21% from the prior-year period, driven by 18% organic revenue growth in our Solutions segments and 10% organic growth in our Market Services businesses. We continue to execute against key secular growth opportunities as illustrated by strong momentum in our institutional investor, analytics and anti-financial crime solutions businesses, as well as the broad-based growth in total Company ARR of $1.8 billion. This equated to an increase of 22%, compared to the prior-year period, reflecting both the acquisition of Verafin and a 12% increase in our existing ARR.Turning now to specific segment highlights from the second quarter, I'll begin with our foundational marketplace and corporate businesses. Our Market Services segment saw net revenues of $312 million, a 13% increase from the prior-year period. Market Services transactional revenues, the sum of our cash equity, equity derivative and fixed income and commodities trading businesses increased by 27% in total in the second quarter of 2021, compared to the prior-year period, with the largest contributor of this being our equity derivatives revenues, where we experienced strong increases in US options industry volume. Nasdaq's options markets specifically traded $782 million of multiply listed options contracts, an increase of 28% year-over-year.Driven by an active dynamic equities market, we have also seen increased levels of activity from companies seeking to tap the public market to raise capital, which has resulted in a 13% increase in the overall number of operating companies listed on the US on Nasdaq in the last 12 months. Specifically, we have 352 more operating companies listed on Nasdaq in the US than we did in June of 2020. The increase in our number of listed companies naturally contributes to higher industry volumes and contributes to higher trading on Nasdaq in particular since we have approximately two times higher market share in our own listed stocks than we have in stocks listed on other markets.I would also like to highlight for a moment another record-breaking Nasdaq Closing Cross during the annual Russell US Indexes reconstitution, which occurred in late June. The Closing Cross successfully executed 2.3 billion shares of Nasdaq listed securities, representing approximately $81 billion in market value and occurred in under two seconds. This Closing Cross was 760 million shares larger than our second largest Closing Cross ever, which occurred in March of this year with the triple witch [Phonetic] exploration. I'm incredibly proud of our team as this milestone underscores our leadership and operating the industry's most robust and resilient market infrastructure.Next, our Corporate Platforms segment delivered revenues of $154 million, a 22% increase year-over-year. The business continues to thrive with elevated levels of new listings since the market recovery in the second half of 2020.In our Listings business, Nasdaq again led US exchanges for IPOs during the period, welcoming 135 IPOs that raised $31.7 billion, including 88 operating company IPOs and 47 SPAC IPOs. The Nasdaq Stock Market led US exchanges with a 78% total win rate on IPOs, as well as executing the largest direct listing ever, Coinbase. In addition to new listings, we also welcomed 10 switches from the second -- in the second quarter 2021, representing a combined $183 billion in market value, including Honeywell, a Dow 30 company. The total market value of all companies transferring to Nasdaq since 2016 now exceeds $1 trillion.Meanwhile, our Nordic listing platform hosted 62 IPOs in the second quarter, bringing the total to 86 in the first half of 2021, contributing to an 11% year-over-year increase in the Nordic listed issuer base, compared to the prior year quarter.Nasdaq is proud to be the exchange partner supporting companies throughout their corporate lifecycle with our commitment to providing issuers with an industry-leading market model and a full suite of investor relations, board engagement, and ESG solutions. Revenues in our IR & ESG Services increased $4 million, or 8% to $56 million in the second quarter, compared to the prior-year period. As we continue to see strong demand for our investor relations and advisory and ESG product offerings. The economic impacts of the pandemic, combined with the sudden and likely lasting this landscape of virtual or hybrid investor engagement, has increased corporates focus on investor relationships and has accelerated their professionalization of their ESG programs, both of which has intensified the demand for new data and tools to power their programs.Now, let me take a minute to talk about the actions we've taken to advance the Nasdaq Private Market going forward. This week, we announced an agreement to contribute Nasdaq Private Market into a joint venture with Silicon Valley Bank, Citi, Goldman Sachs, and Morgan Stanley. This creates a new entity to build upon NPM success becoming the leading marketplace platform for issuer-led private company tender transactions. The partnership will enable increased investment in a broader set of capabilities designed to enhance NPM's position as the go-to marketplace for private company liquidity. Nasdaq Private Market will continue to expand from its foundation of facilitating private company tender programs to enhance and refine its buyside book building, auctions, investor block trades, and pre-direct listing continuous trading program. Additionally, the platform will provide end-to-end settlement, and through the new ownership structure, we'll create a unique and powerful distribution network serving private companies and institutional investors. Nasdaq's Market Technology business will be contracted to supply NPM with this as technology platform on a go-forward basis.Nasdaq Private Markets talented team has made strong progress in the seven years since we established the business, as measured by the close relationships we've built with more than 250 leading private companies worldwide. And the more than $30 billion in transaction volume that they've executed for many of the world's largest private companies. This new entity will expand upon that success going forward. In the last 12 months, ended June 30, revenues for Nasdaq Private Market increased $30 million or approximately 200% over the prior-year period. Going forward with our partners, we expect to unlock significantly more value for our clients and shareholders by advancing the market for private company shares with a high integrity advanced platform that facilitates liquidity in new ways, and build on the momentum that we've developed over the past several years.Now, let me turn to our Market Technology and Investment Intelligence segments. Our Market Technology segment delivered $117 million in revenues, a 39% increase year-over-year, including a 5% organic increase from our existing business and an additional $27 million contribution from Verafin. Revenues in the second quarter of 2021 also included a temporary $10 million purchase price adjustment on deferred revenue associated with the closing of the Verafin transaction.In our Anti Financial Crime Technology business, revenues increased $29 million or 88% driven by the inclusion of revenues from our Verafin -- from Verafin, as well as the continued growth in surveillance solutions. With Verafin as part of Nasdaq for its first full quarter, we continue to find great opportunities working collaboratively with the Verafin team to open doors to new clients and expand their footprint. Verafin signed 36 new clients during the second quarter and we remain extremely pleased with the business and its growth potential as it achieves its mission of fighting financial crime.In our Marketplace Infrastructure Technology business, revenues increased $4 million, or 8% in the second quarter of 2021, compared to the second quarter of 2020. New order intake for Market Technology hit a six-quarter high at $81 million, excluding Verafin. Technology -- Market Technology ARR increased 9% year-over-year also included -- excluding the impact of Verafin. If you include Verafin, Nasdaq Market Technology's ARR increased 61%.Turning to our Investment Intelligence segment, we delivered net revenues of $263 million, up $50 million, or 23% from the prior-year period. Overall, assets under management in ETPs benchmarked to Nasdaq's Indexes totaled $415 billion at the end of the quarter, an increase of 53% from the prior-year period. We are pleased to expand our long-standing partnership with Invesco during the second quarter with the launch of two new thematic technology ETFs tracking the Nasdaq Biotech Index and the PHLX Semiconductor Sector Index. These two indexes are the longest-standing benchmarks for their respective sectors, and in the past year have increased in relevance for investors, given the recent pandemic-related events.We also continue to see strong global interest in our index franchise, with 12 of 15 new license ETP launches in the second quarter occurring outside of the US. We are committed to bringing investment opportunities through our index partnerships and empower investors globally with access to diversified investment opportunities. For example, XP Inc., a technology-driven investment management platform in Brazil, launched one of the first locally listed Nasdaq-100 ETF offerings in Latin America during the second quarter, while Hashdex, also from Brazil, partnered with Nasdaq to launch the world's first ETF available in Brazil to investors utilizing the Nasdaq Crypto Index.During the quarter, two ETP sponsors, BlackRock and Vanguard announced that they would be switching and consolidating their relationships with some index providers. And as a consequence, certain of their products would no longer be licensing Nasdaq indexes. While we're always disappointed to lose sponsors, the loss had a minimal financial impact, which Ann will touch on in her comments. And the continued expansion of our relationships with the broader sponsor universe, as well as the continued innovation and growth of the index product suite, gives us great cause for optimism going forward.Turning next to our Analytics business, we delivered revenues of $50 million, a 14% increase from the prior-year period due to growth in eVestment and Solovis revenues from higher new sales and increased retention. Driven in part by the success of the enterprise license contracting initiative, which spreads usage of eVestments unique analytics to more users and more business areas of our client base.Lastly, revenues in our Market Data business grow -- rose 5% as compared to the prior-year period to $106 million, driven primarily by expanding international demand for proprietary data products.As our business, our clients and the broader markets begin to prepare to operate in a post-pandemic environment, we are excited to carry forward the strong momentum from the first half of 2021 and into the future. One increased area of focus for us is ESG, which we've seen growing interest from a range of clients in both the US and Europe. Nasdaq's position at the intersection of financial, corporate and regulatory communities, gives us a unique perspective on corporate sustainability. From this vantage point, we're actively engaging with clients to help them successfully navigate the complex and fast maturing ESG landscape. We were thrilled to have the opportunity in the second quarter to add Puro.earth marketplace for carbon removal solutions to help our corporate clients meet their emission reduction commitments. At the same time, as a public company ourselves, we engage with our employees and our communities to improve our own practices, performance and transparency on our own ESG journey. In that regard, I encourage our stakeholders to review our recently published an expanded Sustainability Report, which is available on our website.As I wrap up, I want to highlight how each of our businesses has expanded the diversity and depth of their client base in recent years, which underpins the strength and resiliency of the Nasdaq platform as we move through each quarter. Our strong engine of talent and technology is allowing us to expand our position in the capital markets in ways that can capitalize on the powerful secular tailwinds in a post-pandemic period. We're leading Nasdaq into the second half of 2021 with incredible momentum and I look forward to updating all of you on our progress in the months to come.And with that, I will turn it over to Ann to review our financial results in detail.Ann Dennison -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Adena, and good morning, everyone. My commentary will primarily focus on our non-GAAP results and all comparisons will be to the prior-year period, unless otherwise noted. Reconciliation of US GAAP to non-GAAP results can be found in our press release, as well as in a file located in the Financials section of our Investor Relations website at ir.nasdaq.com.Before we review the financial comparisons and developments, I want to cover some reporting changes going forward related specifically to some of the strategic developments within the business portfolio that Adena mentioned previously. First, with regards to the Nasdaq Private Market, or NPM, as recently announced, we have contributed this business to a newly formed joint venture for which we will own a minority interest. As a result, we will no longer consolidate the results, instead we'll be recognizing our share of net income as a non-operating item consistent with how we treat other unconsolidated investees.Second, with regards to both NPM and Nasdaq Fixed Income, or NFI, beginning in the third quarter of 2021 we will reclassify the revenue and operating expenses of these two businesses out of the Corporate Platforms, Market Services and Investment Intelligence segment results for all prior periods and move them into corporate items, so that the business results of each of these segments can be compared to prior periods on a like-for-like basis. On Slide 12, we provide a table previewing the reclassified operating segment results.Now, I will start by reviewing second quarter revenue performance. The 21% increase in reported net revenue of $846 million is the result of organic growth of 15%, including 18 organic increase in the Solutions segments and a 10% organic increase in Market Services, a 4% positive impact from acquisitions and a 2% positive impact from changes in FX rates.I will now review the quarterly highlights within each of our reporting segments as shown on pages 5 through 8 of the slide presentation. I will start with Investment Intelligence revenue, which increased $50 million, or 23%. Organic revenue growth totaled $47 million, or 22%, and there was a $3 million positive impact from changes in FX rates. Organic revenue growth during the period reflects very strong growth in our Index business, as well as strong contributions from both the Analytics and Market Data businesses. Annualized Recurring Revenue, or ARR, was $547 million, an increase of 11%, compared to the prior-year period. AUM in ETPs licensed to Nasdaq indices rose 53%, compared to the prior-year period to $415 billion, including $47 billion from net inflows and $113 billion net increase from market appreciation, partially offset by $17 billion in negative net impact related to an ETP sponsor switching its index provider.The Investment Intelligence segment operating margin of 65% increased 3 percentage points, compared to the prior-year period. As Adena mentioned earlier, we will see an additional impact to AUM in the third quarter of 2021 related to previously announced ETP sponsor index switches. The total revenue impact of all of the 2021 switches announced to date is estimated to be approximately $3 million per quarter.Market Technology revenue increased $33 million, or 39%. The increase reflects organic revenue growth of $4 million, or 5%, $27 million from the acquisition of Verafin and a $2 million positive impact from changes in FX rates. Excluding a temporary $10 million purchase price adjustment on deferred revenues associated with the Verafin transaction, Verafin revenues would have been $37 million. The organic revenue increase, which excludes revenue generated from Verafin during the first 12 months after the acquisition close, was driven primarily by higher support and licensing revenues and higher SaaS-based surveillance solutions revenues. ARR for Market Technology was $432 million in the second quarter of 2021, an increase of 9%, compared to the prior period, excluding the impact of Verafin. Including Verafin, Market Technology ARR increased 61% in the period. The Market Technology segment operating margin was 15% in the period. Market Technology expenses include a partial reversal of the reserve recorded in the fourth quarter of 2020 of approximately $6 million as we finalize client negotiations and updated our estimate of cost to service our client agreements.Corporate Platforms revenues increased $28 million, or 22%. Organic revenue growth totaled $25 million, or 20%, and there was a $3 million impact from changes in FX rates. The organic revenue increase was primarily driven by higher US listings revenues due to the expansion in our listed issuer base together with an increase in IR advisory services and ESG product offering. Corporate Platforms ARR was $509 million and increased 16%, compared to the prior-year period. The Corporate Platforms segment operating margin of 42% increased 3 percentage points, compared to the prior-year period and it was driven by both the continued increase in the listed issuer base and strong activity on the Nasdaq Private Market.Market Services net revenues increased $36 million, or 13%. The organic revenue increase was $28 million, or 10% and there was an $8 million impact from changes in FX rates. The organic increase during the period primarily reflects increases in equity derivatives and trade management services revenues. The segment operating margin of 65% increased 1 percentage point from the prior-year period, reflecting strong operating leverage on trading revenues.Turning to pages 9 and 10 to review both expenses and 2021 guidance. Non-GAAP operating expenses increased $65 million to $392 million. The increase reflects a $24 million, or 7% organic increase, a $26 million increase from the impact of acquisitions, as well as a $15 million increase from the impact of changes in FX rates due to a weaker US dollar. The organic expense increase was two main drivers. First, higher variable performance linked compensation expense reflecting our outstanding revenue growth. And second, increased costs related to what has been a very active capital markets backdrop, including expenses related to increased trading capacity and marketing commitments supporting our listing clients.We are narrowing our 2021 non-GAAP operating expense guidance to a range of $1.59 billion to $1.62 billion to reflect that our strong and broad-based organic revenue growth in the first half of 2021 has impacted variable expenses like performance-based compensations and marketing commitments. As we look forward to the remainder of the year, if performance continues to be strong in relation to our medium-term growth objectives. We would, as we said last quarter, expect to come in near the high-end of this updated expense guidance range.Moving to operating profit and margins, non-GAAP operating income increased $82 million in the second quarter of 2021. Our non-GAAP operating margin of 54% increased 1 percentage point, compared to the prior-year period. Net interest expense was $33 million in the second quarter of 2021, an increase of $8 million, compared to the prior-year period due to incremental interest expense related to the financing of the Verafin acquisition. The non-GAAP effective tax rate was 25% for the second quarter of 2021. For full-year 2021, we still expect our non-GAAP effective tax rate to be in the range of 25% to 27%. And barring any changes in the corporate tax landscape, we expect to come in near the bottom end of the range for the year. Non-GAAP net income attributable to Nasdaq for the second quarter of 2021 was $316 million, or $1.90 per diluted share, compared to $256 million, or a $1.54 per diluted share in the prior-year period.Turning to Slide 11, debt decreased by $189 million versus the first quarter of 2021, primarily due to a net reduction of $214 million of commercial paper, partially offset by $24 million increase in euro bonds book values caused by a stronger euro. Our total debt to trailing 12 months EBITDA ratio ended the period at 3.2 times, a decrease from 3.4 times in the first quarter of 2021. During the second quarter of 2021, the Company paid common stock dividends in the aggregate of $88 million and repurchased common stock in the amount of $248 million. As of June 30, 2021, there was $1.46 billion remaining under the share repurchase authorization.As previously communicated, upon the consummation of the sale of our US Fixed Income business, we issued approximately 6.2 million shares to a third-party. We intend to use the proceeds from the sale, as well as available tax benefits, working and clearing capital of this business and other sources to repurchase shares in order to offset the EPS dilution from the sale. This week, we plan to execute an accelerated share repurchase program for approximately $470 million.Let me talk for a moment about share count expectations. Our average diluted shares outstanding for the second quarter were $166 million. Due to timing, this average reflected only a minimal impact of the $6.2 million NFI-related share issuance. At the end of the second quarter, however, diluted shares outstanding were approximately $172 million. With our plan to execute the accelerated share repurchase program in the third quarter of 2021, at the current share price we would retire approximately 2 million shares in the third quarter and roughly 0.5 million additional shares in the fourth quarter. We plan to execute additional repurchases to offset the remaining NFI dilution in 2022 and 2023. We continue to expect EPS dilution from the sale of NFI to be about 2% in the first 12 months following the June 25 close, but to diminished immaterial levels after that.I'll wrap up by saying that this capital reallocation actions, both in terms of the sale of NFI and the related capital return program support Nasdaq's acceleration of our strategy and allow the Company to further concentrate our resources on strategic opportunities.Thank you for your time. And I'll turn it back over to the operator for Q&A.