  OperatorGood day and welcome to Seagen first-quarter 2021 financial results conference call. [Operator instructions] After today's presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. Please note, this event is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to Peggy Pinkston, senior vice president of investor relations. Please go ahead.Peggy Pinkston -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, operator, and good afternoon, everyone. I'd like to welcome all of you to Seagen's first-quarter 2021 financial results conference call. This afternoon, we issued a press release with our results. The press release and supporting slides are available on our website in the investor section, events and presentations page. Speakers on today's call will be Clay Siegall, president and chief executive officer; Chip Romp, executive vice president, commercial U.S.; Todd Simpson, chief financial officer; and Roger Dansey, chief medical officer. Following our prepared remarks, we'll open the line for questions. We aim to keep this call to one hour and to ask that you limit yourself to one question to give everyone an opportunity to participate in Q&A during our call today. Today's conference call will include forward-looking statements regarding future or anticipated events and results, including the company's 2021 financial outlook, anticipated product sales, revenues, costs and expenses, and potential clinical and regulatory milestones, including data readouts, regulatory submissions, and approvals.Actual results or developments may differ materially from those projected or implied in these forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause such a difference include the difficulty in forecasting sales, revenues, and expenses, impacts related to the COVID-19 pandemic, and the uncertainty associated with the pharmaceutical development and regulatory approval process. More information about the risks and uncertainties faced by Seagen is contained under the caption risk factors, including the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and the company's subsequent reports filed with the SEC. And with that, I'll turn the call over to Clay. Clay Siegall -- President and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thank you, Peg, and good afternoon, everyone. Following a transformational 2020, we continue to make substantial progress in the evolution and global expansion of our business. We remain focused on investments to maximize the opportunity and value of our assets, fueling our ability to advance cancer care worldwide. We look forward to sharing key business, regulatory, and development progress on the call today. We reported a record net product sales of $303 million in the first quarter, representing 3% sequential quarterly growth and 52% growth over the first quarter of 2020. These results reflect rapid adoption of both Padcev and Tukysa on top of strong sales of Adcetris. Our financial strength is driven by product sales, as well as royalties and multiple strategic collaborations. We ended the quarter with $2.5 billion in cash and investments which positions us to expand our programs, advance our research and development, and invest in our business. As we look ahead, we're focused on three strategic priorities to drive continued innovation and growth. Focusing on these key pillars will ensure our organization is aligned and empowered to deliver substantial benefit to shareholders, our employees, oncology healthcare providers, and especially cancer patients. Our first strategic priority is to maximize the global potential of our three approved medicines through robust clinical development programs and exceptional commercial execution. I'll begin with Adcetris, a remarkable product that is the foundation of care in multiple CD30 expressing lymphomas. With six indications in the U.S., Adcetris serves as the basis of our core business. Adcetris is commercially available in 76 countries. Importantly, our partner, Takeda, continues to pursue additional approval for frontline Hodgkin lymphoma and peripheral T-cell lymphoma in its territories. We are committed to maximizing Adcetris as patient reach and are advancing a clinical development program in Hodgkin lymphoma and multiple other malignancies.

 



 Our global success with Adcetris is enabling us to continue investing in our pipeline in newer medications. Our next key product is Padcev, a first in class ADC that has quickly become standard of care in previously treated metastatic urothelial cancer. Locally advanced and metastatic urothelial cancer is an aggressive disease with poor survival, high associated healthcare costs, and limited treatment options. Padcev is the first drug to improve survival after patients have received a platinum chemotherapy and a checkpoint inhibitor. Since the beginning of 2021, we've made substantial progress with health authorities toward expanding the U.S. label and securing global approvals across Europe, Asia, and Latin America. Roger will share details about these activities during his remarks. We're also advancing two trials designed to redefine frontline treatment for metastatic urothelial cancer patients globally with a focus on the combination of Padcev and Keytruda. And we continue to make significant headway in exploring earlier stages of bladder cancer. In collaboration with Astellas and Merck, Padcev is being tested in two randomized phase 3 trials in muscle-invasive bladder cancer patients and intend to initiate an exploratory study of Padcev in non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer. Our third key product is Tukysa, a best-in-class HER2 tyrosine kinase inhibitor for HER2 positive metastatic breast cancer patients with and without brain metastasis. Tukysa is now approved in 36 countries. In February, the European Commission approved Tukysa in the EU and the regulators in the U.K. granted its marketing authorization in Great Britain. This is a significant milestone for patients in Europe who, for the first time, have an approved medicine that has demonstrated a survival benefit for HER2 positive metastatic breast cancer after disease progression following two anti-HER2 treatment regimens. In anticipation of these approvals, over the past year, we've established affiliates in key European countries and build teams with deep industry experience. We recently launched Tukysa in Germany, France, and Austria. We're pleased by the early uptake, physician's feedback, and that Tukysa has already been included in some key treatment guidelines given the strength of clinical evidence. Through our expanded European footprint, we're poised to execute upon another upcoming Tukysa launches and collaborate with individual countries to maximize its ability, availability, and patient access. In addition to this commercial progress, we are conducting a broad political development program designed to maximize Tukysa's potential, including trials evaluating it in HER2 positive breast, colorectal, and gastric cancers, and in HER2 mutant tumors. Our second strategic priority is to advance our late-stage programs toward securing approvals for new products. One such asset is Tisotumab Vedotin or TV. Earlier this month, FDA accepted proprietary review or BLA, seeking accelerated approval for TV with an action date of October 10. The submission comprised data from innovaTV 204 pivotal phase 2 trial, which was presented at ESMA and was recently published in The Lancet Oncology. This is an important development in the treatment of cervical cancer, which remains one of the leading causes of cancer death in women globally. TV is positioned to be our fourth commercial product as we look to expand our portfolio further. And together with our partner, Genmab, we are preparing for its launch. Our third strategic priority is to advance our innovative early stage pipeline through continued leadership and innovation in antibody-drug conjugates, internal R&D investments, and corporate development opportunities. Our earlier stage pipeline includes seven programs in clinical trials and multiple preclinical assets advancing toward the [Inaudible]. I'm proud of the remarkable progress we've made in growing and evolving our business and assets to better meet the needs of cancer patients. Next, I'll turn the call over to Chip who will discuss our commercial business. Then, Todd will provide an overview of our quarterly financial results. After that, Roger will detail our clinical development and pipeline progress. Chip?Chip Romp -- Executive Vice President, Commercial U.S. Thanks, Clay. Our three approved products are important first-in-class or best-in-class medicines that have been embraced by oncologists and patients. We believe that each of the brands have blockbuster potential and we continue to invest in our commercial capabilities to ensure we can maximize the opportunity to gain future approvals and label expansions. We are engaging with our customers through multiple channels and are pleased that most of our sales representatives have been able to safely return to making face-to-face calls. Adcetris' sales were $163 million, a 1% decline versus Q1 2020. The COVID-19 pandemic continues to impact Hodgkin lymphoma diagnosis. But we are seeing early signs of recovery. And despite this headwind, we've maintained share in our frontline indications. We are monitoring these trends and it is our expectation that diagnosis rates will return to historic norms. We continue to message the landmark five-year ECHELON-1 progression-free survival data in frontline Hodgkin lymphoma. We are encouraged by the favorable reaction to the data we received during recent market research with physicians. Moving on to Padcev. First-quarter sales were $70 million, double the first quarter of 2020. We were pleased with our quarterly growth after a strong launch. Our efforts continue to focus on promoting the full breadth of the Padcev label. The locally advanced metastatic urothelial cancer marketplace is rapidly changing, and we are confident that Padcev is well-positioned this year for continued growth as the market evolves. Our sales representatives have been proactive in educating healthcare providers on our label update and customer sentiment remains positive on Padcev's risk-benefit profile. Transitioning to Tukysa. First-quarter sales were $70 million, an increase of 14% over last quarter. These results are in line with our expectations given the challenging Q1 patient popu dynamics of oral oncolytics. We continue to gain market share in both patients with and without brain metastasis. Tukysa provides an overall survival benefit for patients with and without brain mets. And we are confident that we can continue to drive share gains for all patients. Tukysa is now the most utilized product in second and later lines for HER2 positive breast cancer patients with brain mets. And finally, we are very pleased to receive a priority review for TV. A brand team is in place and we are working closely with our co-promotional partner, Genmab. We will be ready for a launch ahead of the October 10 PDUFA date. If approved, this would be an important new drug for women with metastatic cervical cancer, and we look forward to adding it to the proven Seagen commercial model. Now, I'll hand it over to Todd.Todd Simpson -- Chief Financial Officer Great. Thanks, Chip, and thanks, everyone, for joining us on the call this afternoon. Our financial results for the first quarter reflect significant progress across the business. I'll briefly summarize our financial results for the quarter which are in line with our expectations for the full year. Total revenues were $332 million in the first quarter of 2021. This included net product sales of $303 million from Adcetris, Padcev, and Tukysa, representing growth of 52% over the first quarter of 2020. Growth in product sales is driven by the continued strong uptake of Padcev and Tukysa since their launches in the U.S. Royalty revenues in the first quarter of 2021 increased to $27 million, compared to $20 million in the first quarter of 2020. This growth reflects royalties earned on increasing sales of Adcetris by Takeda, as well as royalties on sales of Polivy by Roche and Blenrep by GSK. Collaboration revenues were $2 million in the first quarter of 2021, compared to $16 million in the first quarter of last year. As discussed when we gave our 2021 financial guidance, collaboration revenues are primarily driven by progress dependent milestone payments from our collaborators which causes quarterly variations in revenue. In the future, we expect collaboration revenues to reflect the profit share from Astellas from sales of Padcev in its territories. Cost of sales in the first quarter of 2021 increased to $64 million. This included product costs of sales and royalties for each of our three brands, the Padcev profit share of $33 million to Astellas, as well as non-cash amortization of acquired technology costs for Takeda. R&D expenses increased to $230 million in the first quarter of 2021. This reflects continued investment across our pipeline to drive progress of our late and early stage pipeline. SG&A expenses increased to $160 million in the first quarter of 2021. This reflects commercialization efforts related to the launch of the Padcev and Tukysa in the U.S., as well as investments to support the launch of Tukysa in Europe. We ended the first quarter with $2.5 billion in cash and investments and we have no debt. This positions us strongly to advance our plans in 2021 and beyond. And lastly, our financial guidance for 2021 is unchanged. With that, I'll now turn the call over to Roger.Roger Dansey -- Chief Medical Officer Thank you, Todd, and good afternoon, everyone. I'm happy to share today key R&D activities for our approved medicines, as well as our pipeline programs. I'll start today with Padcev. As a reminder, Padcev has accelerated approval in the United States for metastatic urothelial cancer patients who have previously received both platinum-based chemotherapy and the checkpoint inhibitor. The randomized phase 3 EV-301 trial, which compared Padcev to chemotherapy in this setting, demonstrated a clinically meaningful and statistically significant 30% reduction in the risk of death among patients who received Padcev. These data were presented at ASCO-GU and simultaneously published in The New England Journal of Medicine. The EV-301 data were also submitted to FDA in a supplemental BLA under the Real-Time Oncology Review and Orbis Programs. And this month, the application was accepted for priority review with a PDUFA date of August 17. This application seeks to convert Padcev's accelerated approval to regular approval and integrate into the label the important overall survivor data that Padcev has demonstrated. To address the potential for Padcev in metastatic patients supersedes a checkpoint inhibitor and are cisplatin-ineligible, we conducted Cohort 2 of the EV-201 clinical trial. Positive data from this cohort were presented at the ASCO-GU meeting in February. Earlier this month, FDA accepted our supplemental BLA to potentially expand the U.S. label to include this population. The application is also being reviewed under RTOR and has been given priority review with the same PDUFA date of August 17. An abstract, including additional follow-up data from Cohort 2, will be reported at ASCO in June. Our strong Padcev data have enabled substantial regulatory progress outside of the United States. In the past two months, we and Astellas have engaged with eight regulatory authorities around the world and marketing applications are currently under review, including in Australia and Canada, with Health Canada signing priority review, in the EU where the application has been assigned to accelerated assessment. Importantly, this could shorten the time to approval. And lastly, in Japan, Brazil, Switzerland, and Singapore. We continue to advance the substantial Padcev clinical development program, which includes two trials that could support approval in first-line metastatic urothelial cancer. We expect to complete enrollment of Cohort K of the EV-103 trials in cisplatin-ineligible patients receiving Padcev plus Keytruda by the end of this year. And if data are supportive, we plan to submit a supplemental BLA after appropriate follow-up for duration of response. In addition, we continue to enroll patients into the phase 3 EV-302 global trial, which includes both cisplatin-eligible and ineligible patients, evaluating Padcev plus Keytruda compared to a platinum-containing chemotherapy regimen. These trials are supported by initial data from the EV-103 trial which resulted in breakthrough therapy designation. Updated durability results and long-term outcomes from these initial data will be presented at ASCO. As we move Padcev into earlier stages of bladder cancer, two phase 3 trials are enrolling patients with muscle-invasive disease. Both trials utilized Padcev in combination with Keytruda. The KEYNOTE B15 trial, also called EV-304, is enrolling cisplatin-eligible patients, and KEYNOTE 905, also called EV-303, is enrolling cisplatin-ineligible patients. Additionally, we continue to work to bring Padcev into a clinical trial for non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer patients and have completed our initial regulatory discussions with the FDA. In summary, we are making great progress with Padcev. Turning now to Tukysa. The development team is advancing a similarly broad clinical program to support label expansions in breast cancer and investigate Tukysa in other HER2-positive cancers. In breast cancer, we are evaluating Tukysa plus Kadcyla in first and second-line metastatic patients in the HER2CLIMB-02 trial. Additionally, we are pleased to report that the first patients was recently enrolled in the randomized COMPASS HER2 RD trial being run by the Alliance Cooperative Group, evaluating Tukysa plus Kadcyla in high-risk adjuvant breast cancer patients. In GI cancers, we are on track to complete enrollment in the MOUNTAINEER trial by the end of 2021. This trial is intended to support accelerated approval in the United States for patients with advanced surgery-positive CRC. Also, we are advancing Tukysa in several exploratory studies, including in combination with an obsolete platinum-based chemotherapy regimen in first-line GI cancers, in a basket trial for solid tumors with HER2 alterations that include mutations and in combination within HER2 for HER2-positive breast cancer. Moving on now to Adcetris. We are excited that the ECHELON-1 five-year manuscript has now been accepted and we anticipate publication in the coming weeks. Results demonstrated robust and durable remissions in patients with newly diagnosed advanced Hodgkin lymphoma who received Adcetris in combination with AVD. Five years free of disease progression is a clinically meaningful and important milestone in a cancer patient's journey. Going forward, we continue to invest in the development of Adcetris with several ongoing clinical trials. Notably, we have a randomized phase 3 trial in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, exploratory evaluations of Adcetris plus nivolumab plus AD in frontline advanced and early stage Hodgkin lymphoma. And we are exploring Adcetris in combination with Keytruda as an immunomodulatory agent in solid tumors. Now, I would like to turn to our late-stage program, Tisotumab Vedotin, which we are developing in collaboration with Genmab. Earlier this month, we announced that FDA accepted our BLA seeking approval of TV for treatment of women with recurrent or metastatic cervical cancer. The FDA has assigned a priority review and the PDUFA action date is October 10. We believe TV could make a meaningful difference to these patients where there is such a high unmet needs. We also recently initiated the innovaTV 301 global phase 3 trial in a similar population of recurrent or metastatic cervical cancer patients that is intended to support global regulatory applications and serve as a confirmatory trial in the United States. Turning now to Ladiratuzumab Vedotin. We continue to work with our partner, Merck, to co-develop LV as monotherapy and in combination with Keytruda in LIV-1 expressing solid tumors. Our clinical development program is focused on optimizing dose and schedule as monotherapy and in combination with Keytruda in breast cancer. A basket trial is also currently enrolling patients with lung, head and neck, prostate, esophageal, gastric cancer, and melanoma. Across the rest of our pipeline, I'd like to summarize a few recent highlights. At the AACR meeting in early April, we presented several compelling preclinical data sets from our phase 1 clinical programs. This included SEA-TGT where we showed the enhanced anti-tumor activity when combining SEA-TGT with a checkpoint inhibitor or of a vedotin-based ADC. In addition, we described encouraging preclinical data with SGN-B6A and SGN-STNV, both of which are novel vedotin-based ADCs that have recently entered the clinic. We also entered into a clinical trial collaboration with Pfizer, under which will evaluate SEA-TGT in combination with sansanlimab, their subcutaneous PD-1 inhibitor. The combination will be evaluated as part of our ongoing phase 1 SEA-TGT trial in advanced solid tumors and lymphomas. And lastly, we completed enrollment in our clinical trial evaluating SEA-CD40 as part of a combination regimen for the treatment of pancreatic cancer. We expect to report clinical data from the trial sometime later this year, which will inform next steps with as novel effector function enhanced non-fucosylated antibody that binds CD40. In closing, we have achieved many important milestones and have made significant progress across our pipeline in the first quarter of 2021. We look forward to providing you with further updates as the year progresses. And now, I will turn the call over to Clay.Clay Siegall -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Roger. The past year has been pivotal for Seagen and the company is well-positioned for the future. Today, we have a deep and diverse pipeline, a multi-product commercial portfolio, and additional potential approvals on the horizon. Additionally, we have powerful partnerships, a broad geographic footprint, and substantial financial strength to maximize our assets from our early stage pipeline to our expanding portfolio of approved medicines. The solid foundation we have built sets the stage for Seagen's next phase of innovation and execution. I'm confident in our ability to continue delivering cutting-edge innovation and medicines that make a meaningful difference to the lives of cancer patients. I would like to thank everyone listening to this call for your continued interest in Seagen. Operator, please open the line for Q&A. 