
OperatorGood day and welcome to the Dollar Tree's Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Randy Guiler. Please go ahead.Randy Guiler -- Vice President, Investor RelationsThank you, Katie. Good morning and welcome to our call to discuss results for Dollar Tree's third fiscal quarter 2021. With me on today's call are Mike Witynski and Kevin Wampler.

 



Before we begin, I would like to remind everyone that various remarks that we will make about our expectations, plans, and prospects for the Company constitute forward-looking statements for the purposes of the Safe Harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.These statements are subject to risk and uncertainties and our actual results may differ materially from those indicated in these forward-looking statements. For information on the risk and uncertainties that could affect our actual results, please see the Risk Factors, Business, and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations sections in our annual report on Form 10-K filed March 16, 2021, our Form 10-Q for the most recently ended fiscal quarter, our most recent press release and Form 8-K and other filings we will make from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We caution against reliance on these forward-looking statements made today and we disclaim any obligation to update or revise these statements except as required by law. Following our prepared remarks, we will open the call to your questions. Please limit your questions to one and one related follow up, if necessary.I will now turn the call over to Mike Witynski, Dollar Tree's President and Chief Executive Officer.Michael A. Witynski -- President and Chief Executive Officer

 



Thank you, Randy. Good morning. Thank you for joining us on today's call. I would first like to take a moment to recognize our store associates, distribution center staff, our field leadership and our world-class merchants. Our teams are working around the clock to do everything they can to defend against the current inflationary environment, keep our shelves stocked and provide customers with undeniable value and great service in easy-to-shop, close-to-home store locations. Their hard work and dedication is critical to our Company's success and I'd like to extend sincere thanks for their unwavering commitment to our customers.We experienced a strong finish to the third quarter as shoppers are increasingly focused on value in this inflationary environment. We continue to see accelerated progress in our key strategic initiatives, including Dollar Tree Plus, Combo Stores and our H2 format.During the past quarter freight costs were significantly higher than expected. Our fourth quarter outlook, which Kevin will provide later in the call, reflects the higher cost structure we experienced in the third quarter. However, our EPS for the third quarter was at the higher end of the range as the performance of the rest of the business offset these higher freight costs.Freight and supply chain disruptions, of course, continue to be our biggest challenge in the near term by far and the impact will continue for a while. But this challenge is transitory. As we detailed last quarter, our team continues to take robust action to mitigate the impact of freight costs and supply chain disruptions. We believe that based on the steps that we have taken, we will benefit meaningfully as these challenges abate.

 



The Dollar Tree segment delivered a comp sales increase of 60 basis points against its toughest quarterly compare in nearly three years. On a two-year comp stack basis, this was a sequential improvement of 170 basis points from the prior quarter. Discretionary continues to perform well with a 3.2% comp for the quarter. Consumables were impacted by assortment constraints and past dues. Our $3 and $5 Plus assortment continues to resonate well with our shoppers as we had tremendous sell-through on our Halloween merchandise and fall decor. And for the year our multi-price point merchandise will exceed our sales plan and we will end this fiscal year with Dollar Tree Plus in nearly 600 stores, exceeding our previous target of 500 stores by the end of the year.Family Dollar delivered a positive 2.7% comp against the 6.4% increase a year ago. This represented the third consecutive quarter that Family Dollar two-year comp stack has exceeded 9%. The consumable side of the business comped over 3% while discretionary was slightly negative as we cycled stimulus dollars from the prior year. We are extremely pleased with the Family Dollar brand as the business continues to gain share.Comps of both banners were driven by an increase in average ticket, partially offset by a decline in transaction count. The last month of the quarter, October, represented the strongest comp for both banners.Our digital offerings continued to evolve, while we are steadfastly focused on best meeting our customers' changing needs. In October, we announced our expanded partnership with Instacart to now include same-day delivery from nearly 7,000 Dollar Tree stores. Nearly 100 million US households now have delivery options from 13,000 of our store locations. We are very pleased with the initial results from the latest expansion.Turning to the $1.25 price point. Our leadership team has been planning for the expansion of this initiative since late summer. As you know, in September we announced our plans to add price points above $1 to all Dollar Tree Plus stores and on a test and learn basis to selected legacy Dollar Tree stores. As a result of the positive customer feedback and store performance during the initial phase, we have introduced the initiative to nearly 200 additional legacy Dollar Tree stores.In today's press release, we announced for the first time in Dollar Tree's 35-year history we are lifting the $1 price point cap at all Dollar Tree stores on the majority of our assortment. The $1.25 price point enhances our ability to materially expand assortments, introduce new products and sizes and provide families with more of their daily essentials. We will have greater flexibility to continue providing incredible value and help customers get the everyday items they need and celebratory and seasonal products that Dollar Tree is best known for.Additionally, we are now reintroducing many customer favorites and key traffic driving domestic and consumable products that Dollar Tree had previously discontinued due to the constraints of the $1 price point. The new price point will also enable us to mitigate the historically high merchandising cost increases, including freight and distribution costs as well as higher operating costs such as wage increases. Our teams are focused on speed, execution and customer research and our shoppers are responding favorably. When surveyed the majority of our customers indicated they were already aware of the previously announced new price point and not surprisingly, many have also indicated they are seeing price increases across the market and that Dollar Tree is still providing the products they need at undeniable value.We are extremely focused on flawless execution and are providing our leadership team out in the field with tools to support a seamless transition. Actions include providing teams with a conversion checklist to ensure consistently achieve [Phonetic] across markets and stores, dedicate adequate store hours to complete the preparation tasks, including removing the signage and display elements referring to the EveryThing's At Dollar, implementing the new signage regarding the $1.25 price point on displays, end caps and shelf strips throughout the store, hosting clear communications to customers in entry ways and at the checkout and we are equipping our store teams with messaging for responding to customer inquiries.We have closely monitored the performance of the test stores and sharper reaction through extensive customer intercepts and third-party surveys since our initial test began. We will continue to gather feedback throughout the process to ensure we remain fiercely committed to our brand promise of providing customers with extreme value every day along with more thrills, more fun and more new items every week.For 35 years, we've been able to manage through inflationary periods to maintain the Everything for $1 philosophy that distinguished Dollar Tree and made it one of the most successful retail concepts for three decades. However, we strongly believe this is the appropriate time to shift away from the constraints of the $1 price point in order to continue offering extreme value to our customers.The independent surveys of shoppers across US have indicated that 77% of the shoppers were almost immediately aware of the price point change. And of those 77%, 31% already knew before they visited the store and 17% became immediately aware upon entering store, while 29% were aware within minutes of entering the store. Critically, 91% of those surveyed indicated they would shop with the same or increased frequency. We will continue to monitor the success of these initiatives and we believe we will see improvement in the survey results since now we have the ability to further expand the product offering and reintroduce key traffic-driving items.Upon validating the store execution, customer reception and the performance results were as anticipated, we expanded the program to nearly 200 additional stores across three major markets and we are pleased to say the results have been relatively consistent. As expected, we are seeing lifts in comp sales, partially offset by smaller decline in unit sales. We are seeing an initial lift to product margins that will normalize over time as our merchant teams evolve our assortments. Importantly, we expect this initiative will enable us to mitigate the higher freight other inflationary costs in order to return to our historical gross margin of 35% to 36% in fiscal 2022 while improving the merchandising we are providing for our customers.All the steps I mentioned have set a solid foundation to streamline the execution of this important milestone in our Company's history. We have been working hard to prepare this for -- this key strategic initiative to ensure that we are providing customers with great products while unlocking long-term shareholder value. We are focused on aggressively executing our plan to roll out the new price point across the entire footprint of legacy Dollar Tree stores. Our teams will be introducing the new price point in more than 2,000 additional legacy Dollar Tree stores in December and complete the rollout to all stores by the end of the first quarter in fiscal 2022.Concurrently our company's merchants are working to continually enhance the offerings to drive traffic, capture market share and further grow customer loyalty. We are working with our suppliers and we have already begun introducing new items every week, including seasonal crafts, party supplies, food essentials and more. Beyond the changes at our legacy Dollar Tree stores, we are also continuing to expand the availability of $3 and $5 Plus assortment.As I noted a few moments ago, we will exceed our previous goal of now adding the Plus concept to nearly 600 stores by the end of the year. We plan to add the Plus assortment to another 1,500 stores in fiscal 2022 and complete at least 5,000 stores in total by the end of fiscal 2024.We are enthusiastic about the opportunity and improved performance of Dollar Tree by continuing to deliver extreme value to our customers at the new 1.25 price point, driving comp sales and improving store productivity, enhancing flexibility to better manage the overall business in an inflationary environment. And as previously mentioned, we are turning Dollar Tree gross margins back to the chain's historical 35% to 36% annual range in fiscal 2022.I will now hand the call over to Kevin to provide details on Q3 performance and our outlook.Kevin S. Wampler -- Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Mike, and good morning. Our third quarter EPS of $0.96 per share was near the high end of our $0.88 to $0.98 guidance range. Consolidated net sales increased 3.9% to $6.42 billion, comprised of $3.42 billion at Dollar Tree and $3 billion at Family Dollar. Enterprise same-store sales increased 1.6% as we cycled a 5.1% increase from a year ago, representing a 6.7% increase on a two-year stacked basis.Comps for the Dollar Tree segment increased 0.6%. Family Dollar same store sales increased 2.7% cycling a strong 6.4% increase from last year. On a two-year stacked basis, Dollar Tree comps increased 4.6%, which was 170 basis point improvement from Q2 and Family Dollar increased 9.1%.Dollar Tree's comp was comprised of a 1.8% increase in average ticket, partially offset by 1.1% decline in traffic. Family Dollar experienced a 5.8% increase in average ticket, partially offset by a 3% decline in traffic.Gross profit was $1.76 billion for the quarter. Gross margin was 27.5% compared to 31.2% in the prior year's quarter. Gross profit margin for Dollar Tree segment declined 470 basis points to 30.2% when compared to the prior year's quarter. Factors impacting the segment's gross margin performance included merchandise cost, including freight, increased 475 basis points driven by higher freight costs and lower initial markdown, partially offset by favorable mix from increased sales of higher-margin discretionary merchandise.Occupancy costs increased 10 basis points as a result of loss of leverage due to a lower comparable store net sales increase and higher real estate tax expense. Distribution costs increased 10 basis points from higher depreciation costs related to two new distribution centers and higher hourly wages, partially offset by lower COVID-19 related expenses. Shrink improved 25 basis points related to favorable inventory results and a decrease in the shrink accrual rate.Gross profit margin for the Family Dollar segment declined 240 basis points to 24.4% in the third quarter. The year-over-year delta included the following. Merchandise costs including freight increased 220 basis points related to higher freight costs. Distribution costs increased 20 basis points compared to the prior-year quarter due to higher wages partially offset by lower COVID-19 related expenses. Markdown costs increased 20 basis points, primarily due to higher clearance markdowns. Occupancy costs increased 5 basis points, primarily due to higher real estate taxes and shrink improved 30 basis points related to favorable inventory results and a decrease in the shrink accrual rate.Consolidated selling, general and administrative expenses improved 100 basis points to 22.7% of total revenue compared to 23.7% in Q3 last year. We cycled $35.3 million in COVID-19 related costs of 57 basis points in the prior-year's quarter. For the third quarter, the SG&A rate for the Dollar Tree segment as a percentage of total revenue improved 50 basis points to 21.7% when compared to the prior year's quarter.Payroll cost improved 30 basis points, primarily due to lower COVID-19 related store payroll costs and lower incentive compensation expenses, partially offset by minimum wage increases and higher health insurance costs. And other SG&A decreased by 25 basis points resulting from the benefit associated with the settlement of a contractual dispute and the realization of certain tax credits.For Family Dollar the third quarter SG&A rate, as a percentage of total revenue, improved 80 basis points to 21.4% compared to 22.2% in the prior year's quarter. Payroll costs decreased 65 basis points, primarily due to lower COVID-19 related store payroll costs and lower incentive compensation expenses, partially offset by minimum wage increases. Store facility costs decreased 30 basis points, primarily due to lower repair and maintenance expenses and lower telecommunication expenses.Depreciation and amortization expense increased 5 basis points due to expenditures associated with the store optimization program and other SG&A expense increased 20 basis points, primarily due to increases in advertising and travel expenses and an increase in insurance costs related to general liability claims. Corporate support and other expenses as a percentage of total revenue decreased approximately 30 basis points compared to the prior year's quarter, primarily due to lower incentive compensation.Operating income was $310.5 million or 4.8% of total revenue in the third quarter. Our non-operating expenses totaled $33.6 million comprised primarily of net interest expense. Our effective tax rate was 21.7% compared to 22.8% in the prior-year quarter.Company had net income of $216.8 million or $0.96 per diluted share as compared to net earnings of $330 million or $1.39 per diluted share in the prior-year's quarter. Both cash and cash equivalents at quarter-end totaled $701.4 million compared to $1.42 billion at the end of fiscal 2020. Outstanding debt as of October 30 was $3.25 billion. The Company did not repurchase shares during the quarter as it was preparing for the announcement and launch of its $1.25 price point initiative across the Dollar Tree stores. We currently have $2.5 billion remaining on our share repurchase authorization.Inventory for Dollar Tree at quarter-end increased 15.2% from the same time last year, consisting primarily of a significant increase in goods on the water year-over-year. Comp store inventories are down 6.4% compared to a year ago when they were down 7.4%. Inventory for Family Dollar at quarter-end increased 12.4% from the same period last year. Comp store inventories are up 7.2% after being down 13.2% in 2020.Capital expenditures were $295.6 million in the third quarter versus $238.7 million in Q3 last year. For fiscal 2021, we expect the consolidated capex will be approximately $1.1 billion.Depreciation and amortization totaled $178.5 million for Q3 compared to $170.1 million in the third quarter last year. For fiscal 2021 we now expect consolidated depreciation and amortization to be approximately $715 million.Our outlook for the remainder of 2021 includes the following assumptions. We have forecasted continued pressure on wages due to the current shortage of workers available for our stores and distribution centers. We expect shrink will continue to be a tailwind but not at the same rate as we are cycling improved results from the prior year. Higher sales, lower store inventory levels, technology, and better processes continue to drive better results.Net interest expense is expected to be approximately $33.6 million in Q4 and approximately $133 million for fiscal 2021. We estimate consolidated net sales for the fourth quarter will range from $7.02 billion to $7.18 billion based on a low single-digit increase in same-store sales for the combined enterprise. Diluted earnings per share are estimated to be in the range of $1.69 to $1.79.As Mike mentioned earlier, freight costs were significantly higher than expected in the third quarter. Our fourth quarter outlook reflects the expectation of higher transportation costs. These costs will be offset by the benefit of the Dollar Tree stores that are transitioned to the $1.25 price point, net of one-time costs to implement that change. Consolidated net sales for full fiscal year 2021 are expected to range from $26.25 billion to $26.41 billion based on a low single-digit increase in same-store sales and 3.3% square footage growth. The Company now estimates diluted earnings per share will range from $5.48 to $5.58.The freight costs for fiscal 2021 are now expected to be approximately $2 higher than fiscal 2020 expressed in terms of the impact on diluted earnings per share. While much of the focus has been on transpacific ocean container rates, we are being impacted by all aspects of freight, including higher costs for inland transportation by truck and rail and higher diesel costs. Additionally, in the third quarter we moved more containers than originally planned, which required utilizing the spot market rates higher than forecasted.To echo Mike's comments, freight continues to be our biggest challenge in the near term. We believe the majority of the freight challenges are transitory. The rest of the business is performing much better in the near term. Our outlook assumes a tax rate of 22.1% for the fourth quarter and 22.7% for fiscal 2021. Weighted average diluted share counts are assumed to be 225.9 million shares for Q4 and 228.9 million shares for the full year. Our outlook does not include any share repurchases. We have $2.5 billion remaining on our existing share repurchase authorization.And I'll now turn the call back over to Mike.Michael A. Witynski -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Kevin. As I mentioned earlier on the call, we ended the third quarter with momentum in the business and that has certainly continued in both segments. Through the end of last week quarter-to-date, our comps were running at a 4.9% increase at Family Dollar and a 3% increase at Dollar Tree and we are seeing positive trends as customers are planning to gather in person with family and friends to celebrate the holidays this year.The combination of shoppers seeking value in the inflationary environment along with the acceleration of the Company's initiatives, including Combo Stores and Dollar Tree Plus bode well for the continued traction and store productivity. In 2022 we plan implementing the $3 and $5 Plus assortment into 1,500 more Dollar Tree stores. We will also be adding 400 Combo Stores through new or renovated stores and we plan to renovate 800 legacy Family Dollar stores into the H2 format.Additionally, lifting the $1 constraint represents a monumental step for our organization and we are enthusiastic about the opportunity to meaningfully improve our shoppers' experience and unlock value for our stakeholders. We will be relentless in our commitment to offer our customers the best value possible, albeit at a different price point while guided by Dollar Tree's same founding principles. We are extremely excited and confident about the opportunities in 2022 and beyond. We are very focused on the acceleration of the initiatives that are working for us and are operating with clarity, focus and speed. As I previously mentioned, we do expect Dollar Tree banner to return to its historical annual range of 35% to 36% gross margin in fiscal 2022.Before we go into Q&A, I would like to make a brief statement. We appreciate that many of you are focused on the Form 13D filed by Mantle Ridge two Fridays ago. So we will make a short statement about that but will not entertain any questions on the topic.We believe Mantle Ridge has made a very smart investment. As we said, Dollar Tree's Board of Directors and management team are always open to listen to input and engaging with our shareholders and we evaluate any ideas for constructive value creation with the best interest of all shareholders and stakeholders in mind. In keeping with our practice not to comment publicly on our private discussions with individual investors, we will not take any questions regarding Mantle Ridge. We appreciate your understanding and cooperation.Operator, we are now ready to take questions.