
OperatorGood morning, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to Keurig Dr Pepper's Earnings Call for Third Quarter of 2021. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to introduce Keurig Dr Pepper's Senior Director of Investor Relations, Mr. Steve Alexander. Mr. Alexander, please go ahead.Steve Alexander -- Senior Director Of Investor RelationsThank you, and hello, everyone. Thanks for joining us. Earlier this morning, we issued our press release for the Third Quarter of 2021. If you need a copy, you can get one on our website in the Investors section. Consistent with previous quarters, today, we will be discussing our performance on an adjusted basis, excluding items affecting comparability. The company believes that the adjusted basis provides investors with additional insight into our business and operating performance trends.While the exclusion of items affecting comparability is not in accordance with GAAP, we believe that the adjusted basis provides a meaningful comparison and an appropriate basis for discussion of our performance. Details of the excluded items are provided in the reconciliation tables included in our press release and our 10-Q, which will be filed later today. Due to the inability to predict the amount and timing of certain impacts outside of company's control, we do not reconcile our guidance.Here with me today to discuss our Third Quarter 2021 results are KDP Chairman and CEO, Bob Gamgort; our CFO, Ozan Dokmecioglu; and our Chief Corporate Affairs Officer, Maria Sceppaguercio. And finally, our discussion this morning may include forward-looking statements, which are subject to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially, and the company undertakes no obligation to update these statements based on subsequent events. A detailed discussion of these risks and uncertainties is contained in the company's filings with the SEC.And with that, I'll hand it over to Bob.Robert J. Gamgort -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Steve, and good morning, everyone. As we approach the completion of our 3-year post-merger period, we're looking forward to our next chapter of transformation and growth. We're entering that phase from a position of strength, with topline momentum fueled by new tools and capabilities, robust innovation and the right team and culture to enable continued success. Importantly, we're also nearing our targeted leverage ratio, which enables us to shift the use of our industry-leading cash generation from debt reduction to a new set of options for increased value creation.We have successfully navigated the macro dislocation that has occurred over the past 20 months and expect to be able to do the same in the face of the new challenges that are causing incremental disruption across the economy. The escalation and input cost inflation, coupled with labor shortages and supply chain disruptions, including constraints in transportation, impacted us in the quarter and will likely persist for some time. As part of the offset, we have increased price and utilized a wide range of RGM initiatives across our portfolio, along with stepped-up productivity, alternate sourcing and supplier strategies and other cost mitigation activities.Given the strength of our brands, driven by increased investment in innovation and marketing, we have been successful in limiting the elasticity impact of the pricing to date. Our third quarter results provide a good example of KDP's ability to manage through challenges and deliver strong and balanced results. We posted another quarter of high single-digit constant currency net sales growth with all four business segments reporting strong increases. We also delivered double-digit adjusted diluted EPS growth, while increasing marketing investment in the quarter.As discussed last quarter, we believe it's helpful to highlight our results on a two-year basis because we are layering strong current year performance on top of strong year-ago performance, which we believe sets KDP apart from most companies. On this basis, constant currency net sales advanced 13% versus the third quarter of 2019, and adjusted diluted EPS was up 38%. On a year-to-date basis, results were similarly strong compared to 2019. KDP's in-market performance for the third quarter was as strong as our financial performance.We continue to grow share in carbonated soft drinks, reflecting core brand growth and successful innovation and renovation, most notably our new zero sugar variety. Sunkist continue to post strong double-digit consumption growth behind its new flavor lineup, and is now the #1 fruit flavored CSD brand in the category. Other CSDs posting strong growth in the quarter were Canada Dry, A&W and Squirt. The Dr Pepper brand also continued to perform exceptionally well, consistently gaining market share on the strength of double-digit consumption growth.This growth has accelerated with the recent launch of this year's Fansville campaign, which celebrates the passion consumers have for college football and Dr Pepper. In-market performance of our key noncarb beverage brands, such as Snapple, Bai and CORE continue to be impacted by supply chain challenges that cap growth. The supply chain situation is already showing signs of improvement, with Snapple's latest 4-week consumption well above its 13-week trend. And Bai growing consumption by nearly 15% in the most recent periods, behind the success of Bai Boost. On a two-year stack basis, in-market performance of our cold beverages was very strong, with nearly 75% of the portfolio's retail sales base expanding market share.We continue to drive our newest brand partnerships and deepen existing ones. In the case of Polar, we expanded availability outside of the Northeast region, achieving a 3.7% share and 60% ACV distribution in markets for which KDP is responsible for the brand. We also invested in Vita Coco's recent IPO, and as part of that transaction, extended our distribution agreement with them. In coffee, our K-Cup pod shipments advanced 6% in the quarter and are up almost 7% year-to-date. This reflects continued strong at-home performance and a modest improvement versus a year ago in away-from-home coffee, although, the latter continues to be down significantly versus pre-COVID levels. Market share of KDP manufactured pods and tracked channels was 83%, up almost a full point versus a year ago.As we discussed during our recent Investor Day, we expect to add at least two million new Keurig households in 2021, continuing our long-term growth trajectory and clearly showing no pullback following our accelerated level of three million new Keurig households added in 2020. We will provide a final 2021 household penetration number when we report our Q4 earnings. Brewer shipments grew 2.2% in the quarter, successfully comping a 34% increase in the third quarter last year. On a year-to-date basis, brewer sales were up 22% versus a year ago. And compared to the third quarter of 2019, brewer sales are up 44%.Driving this impressive growth is effective marketing and our comprehensive quality and innovation strategy that is widening choice, functionality and price points of our brewer portfolio. The most recent example is our new MultiStream Technology, which delivers a richer, more balanced and flavor-woke cup of coffee. Our newest brewer is the Keurig Supreme Plus SMART, initially launched on keurig.com in July and now rolling out to retailers in time for the holidays. In addition to incorporating MultiStream Technology, this Internet connected brewer also features our new BrewID technology, which recognizes the specific K-Cup pod in use and automatically customizes brew settings.The brewer smart technology also enhances our successful auto delivery business by utilizing SKU-level pod consumption data to automatically replenish consumers via shipments direct to home. Both our auto delivery and broader e-commerce business continued to expand in the quarter, on top of the exceptionally strong growth experienced last year. We also continue to innovate in pod sustainability and have begun the introduction of easy peel lids to our recyclable K-Cup pods in order to make the recycling process simpler for consumers.In addition to the good progress we've made in coffee pod sustainability, the accomplishments in our companywide ESG efforts continue to be recognized. Recently, we received the Reuters Responsible Business Award for the social and human capital category, recognizing our 20-year journey of putting farmers first by improving one million lives in our coffee supply chain -- a top 10% ranking among 350-foot in agriculture companies by the World Benchmarking Alliance, a United Nations affiliated organization that focuses on improving private sector performance against the UN sustainable development goals.A #2 ranking out of 50 of the largest CPGs and retailers in North America by the nonprofit, As You Sow in their assessment of plastic usage and packaging sustainability progress. And LEED Gold Certification for our new Frisco headquarters. Before turning it over to Ozan, I want to highlight the increase in our outlook for 2021 net sales growth to 7% to 8%, as communicated in our press release this morning. We continue to expect adjusted diluted EPS growth in the range of 13% to 15% as pricing, productivity and revenue growth are being leveraged to offset significant and accelerating industry inflation as Ozan will now discuss in his comments.Ozan Dokmecioglu -- Chief Financial Officer and President, InternationalThanks, Bob, and good morning, everyone. Continuing on an adjusted basis, I will briefly review our performance for the third quarter, which was another strong one for us. I will then turn to our outlook for the balance of 2021. Constant currency net sales increased 6.8%, fueled by higher volume mix of 3.2% and favorable net price realization of 3.6%. Importantly, all four business segments posted growth driven by successful innovation and strong marketing, along with continued solid in-market execution. For the first nine months of 2021, constant currency net sales grew 8.4% versus year ago.And on a two-year basis, advanced 13.3% versus the same period in 2019. Adjusted gross margin in the quarter advanced 50 basis points versus year ago to 56.4% of net sales, reflecting higher pricing and productivity, partially offset by significant and accelerating inflation in cost of goods sold. Adjusted operating income in the quarter grew 6.5% versus year ago to $931 million, driven by the strong and balanced net sales growth and the gross margin expansion as well as productivity and merger synergies in SG&A. These positive drivers were partially offset by significant inflation in transportation and logistics and significantly higher marketing investments.On a constant currency basis, adjusted operating income increased 5.7% versus year ago. Adjusted operating margin declined 30 basis points, reflecting our decision to reinvest in marketing to drive brand strength. Excluding the increase in marketing, adjusted operating margin was up versus year ago. For the first nine months of 2021, adjusted operating income increased 7.6% versus year ago. And on a two-year basis, adjusted operating income was up 21% versus the first nine months of 2019. Adjusted net income in the quarter advanced 13.3% versus year ago to $631 million, primarily driven by the growth in adjusted operating income and lower interest expense, largely reflecting lower interest rates stemming from the strategic refinancing completed in the first quarter of 2021, lower outstanding indebtedness and realized gains on interest rate swap contracts.Also, benefiting the growth in adjusted net income was a lower adjusted tax rate. Adjusted diluted EPS in the quarter grew 12.8% to $0.44 compared to $0.39 in the year-ago period. For the first nine months of 2021, adjusted diluted EPS advanced 13.9% versus year ago. And on a 2-year basis, adjusted diluted EPS was up 32% versus the first nine months of 2019. Let me take a moment to discuss the inflationary pressures and supply chain challenges, we have referenced this morning, that are impacting the broader economy and our industry.We are experiencing significantly higher inflation this year than we expected at the start of the year, which we were managing with pricing, productivity and accelerated growth. For perspective, we expect all-in inflation this year, which includes inflation in cost of goods sold, transportation, warehousing and logistics and SG&A to be up approximately 6% versus year ago. This inflation has accelerated in the second half of 2021. Our updated guidance for 2021 incorporates all of these considerations. And we are confident that we have the tools and management disciplines in place to deliver our guidance for both revenue and earnings growth.Let me now turn to our segment performance in the third quarter. Coffee Systems, constant currency net sales increased 4.6%, driven by higher volume mix of 5.7%, partially offset by lower net price realization of 1.1%, which continue to moderate as expected. The volume/mix performance reflected pod shipment volume growth of 6.3% and brewer volume growth of 2.2%. The pod volume growth reflected continued strong momentum in our at-home pods and improved performance in our away-from-home business, although returning to offices continues to be slow and this business remains well below pre-pandemic levels.The 2.2% increase in brewer shipments, which is on top of the 34% increase in brewer shipments in the fourth quarter last year was fueled by continued strong consumer purchases stemming from successful brewer innovation and a double-digit increase in marketing. During the quarter, we took pricing in our brewer portfolio and more recently, took pricing on our owned and licensed coffee brands, giving the escalation in coffee commodity pricing. As a reminder, most of our partner contracts require the partner to be responsible for coffee beans.Therefore, the increased commodity costs and any pricing they chose to take for these brands does not follow through the KDP profit and loss. Adjusted operating income for Coffee Systems increased 1.1% to $377 million, driven by the net sales growth and continued productivity and merger synergies, partially offset by inflation and a double-digit increase in marketing investment in the quarter. This marketing investment supported the launch of our new Keurig Supreme Plus SMART brewer, featuring our new BrewID technology platform. The campaign was executed nationally via digital, social and earned media, and was amplified by experiential activations.On a constant currency basis, adjusted operating income increased 0.5% in the quarter. Adjusted operating margin in the quarter was 32.6% compared to 34% in the year-ago period, largely reflecting the significant increase in inflation and marketing investment. Packaged Beverages' constant currency net sales grew 6.8% in the quarter, with volume/mix growth of 1.5% and higher net price realization of 5.3%, reflecting continued growth in both our company-owned DSD operations and warehouse direct business. The majority of our liquid refreshment beverage portfolio contributed to this growth with CSDs, notably, Dr Pepper, Canada Dry and Sunkist, particularly strong along with Polar, Vita Coco and Mott's driving growth.Adjusted operating income for Packaged Beverages increased 2.6% in the third quarter to $312 million, driven by the strong net sales growth, productivity and merger synergies, partially offset by inflation, particularly in transportation as well as marketing investment and increased operating costs to meet continued strong consumer demand. On a constant currency basis, adjusted operating income increased 2.3% versus year ago. Adjusted operating margin for Packaged Beverages was 20.2% in the quarter compared to adjusted operating margin of 21% in the year-ago period, largely reflecting the impact of inflation and higher marketing investment.Beverage Concentrates' constant currency net sales increased 10.8%, reflecting favorable net price realization of 11.4%, resulting from higher pricing and lower trade expense, slightly offset by lower volume/mix of 0.6%. The growth in net sales also reflected a continued recovery in the fountain foodservice business due to increased consumer mobility in the restaurant and hospitality channels, with brand Dr Pepper driving the growth. Offsetting this growth was a decline in bottle can concentrate shipment volume.Adjusted operating income for Beverage Concentrates increased 9.1% to $289 million, driven by the net sales growth, partially offset by a strong double-digit increase in marketing investment. This increase reflected investment behind Dr Pepper Zero Sugar and the Dr Pepper College Football campaign. On a constant currency basis, adjusted operating income advanced 8.7%. Adjusted operating margin in the quarter totaled 73.7% compared to 75.3% in the year-ago period, reflecting the impact of significantly higher marketing investment.Excluding the increase in marketing, adjusted operating margin was up versus year ago. And finally, Latin America Beverages' constant currency net sales grew 14.5%, reflecting strong volume/mix growth of 10.5% and favorable net price realization of 4%. Liquid refreshment beverage in-market execution in Mexico continued to be strong across all channels, which drove significant net sales growth for key brands, namely Penafiel and Clamato. Adjusted operating income increased 48% to $37 million. And on a constant currency basis, adjusted operating income increased 36%. This strong operating income performance reflected the net sales growth and productivity, partially offset by significantly higher marketing investment and inflation.Adjusted operating margin in the quarter advanced 350 basis points to 23.7% despite the meaningful increase in marketing investment. Free cash flow in the quarter continued to be strong at $676 million, driving year-to-date free cash flow to $1.6 billion. This strong free cash flow performance for the quarter and year-to-date periods represented free cash flow conversion ratios of approximately 107% and 100%, respectively. During the quarter, we reduced our outstanding bank debt by $325 million and structured payables by $2 million. We also ended the third quarter with $200 million of unrestricted cash on hand.Due to our growth in earnings and reduction in bank debt, we improved our management leverage ratio to 3.2 times at the end of the third quarter of 2021. Since the merger closed in July 2018, we have reduced our management leverage ratio by 2.8 times and continue to expect to achieve a management leverage ratio at or below 3 times at year-end. Let me now move to our outlook for full year 2021. For the third time this year, we increased our guidance for constant currency net sales growth to reflect the significant momentum in the business, and we now expect growth in the range of 7% to 8%. This compares with our original 2021 guidance for constant currency net sales growth of 3% to 4% and our most recent guidance of 6% to 7%.We continue to expect adjusted diluted earnings-per-share growth in the range of 13% to 15%. And we expect to continue to invest significantly in marketing to maintain our top line momentum. Supporting this guidance, we expect the following: Adjusted interest expense is now expected in the range of $495 million to $500 million, reflecting the realized gains on interest rate swap contracts that benefited the third quarter; adjusted effective tax rate is expected in the range of 23.5% to 24%; diluted weighted shares outstanding are estimated to be approximately 1.43 billion; and finally, our management leverage ratio is expected to be at or below three times at year-end.With that, let me hand it back to Bob for some closing remarks.Robert J. Gamgort -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerClosing out 2021 completes the three-year commitment established in January of 2018 at the announcement of the merger. Clearly, a lot has transpired since then. And throughout this time, the KDP team has remained focused, flexible and resilient. With one quarter left to go, we are confident that we will significantly over-deliver our net sales commitment and achieve our 15% to 17% adjusted EPS commitment.I will now turn it back to the operator for your questions.