  OperatorGood afternoon, and welcome to Skyworks Solutions second-quarter fiscal-year 2021 earnings call. This call is being recorded. At this time, I will turn the call over to Mitch Haws, investor relations for Skyworks. Mr. Haws, please go ahead.Mitch Haws -- Investor Relations Thank you, Rob. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to Skyworks second-fiscal quarter 2021 conference call. With me today are Liam Griffin, our president and chief executive officer; and Kris Sennesael, our chief financial officer. Before we begin, I would like to remind everyone that our discussion will include statements relating to future results and expectations that are or may be considered forward-looking statements. Please refer to our earnings press release and recent SEC filings, including our annual report on Form 10-K for information on certain risks that could cause actual outcomes to differ materially and adversely from any forward-looking statements made today. Additionally, the results and guidance we will discuss include non-GAAP financial measures, consistent with our past practice. Please refer to our press release within the Investor Relations section of our company website for a complete reconciliation to GAAP. With that, I'll turn the call to Liam.Liam Griffin -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Mitch, and welcome, everyone. Skyworks delivered another record quarter with strong year-over-year growth in revenue, margins, and earnings per share for Q2. We continue to leverage our expansive technology reach and deep customer engagements, spanning both mobile and broad markets to capture the exploding demand for connectivity. And with our planned acquisition of the infrastructure and automotive business of Silicon Labs, we expect to accelerate that momentum further. Here are a few highlights in the quarter. We delivered revenue of $1.17 billion, 53% above Q2 of last year. Our broad markets portfolio generated record revenue of $385 million, 67% growth over the same period last year. We posted a new Q2 record for earnings per share of $2.37, representing a year-over-year increase of 77% and demonstrating strong operating leverage. Importantly, we drove $616 million in operating cash flow, a quarterly record -- a new quarterly record for the company. Looking ahead, the technology bar has never been higher as billions of daily interactions move online, spawning a growing set of use cases from remote work, virtual education, touchless commerce, cognitive audio, machine-to-machine communication, and autonomous transport. These advances rely on radical upgrades in speed, latency, and reliability with comparable requirements for power efficiency and smaller form factors. For nearly two decades, Skyworks has prepared for this opportunity, investing in innovative technologies, human capital, and manufacturing infrastructure, positioning us to capitalize on the secular global transition. Notably, our strong cash generation fortifies our ability to fund deep investments in technology, fabs, and manufacturing scale. Further, our proven and flexible model is squarely aligned with the complex demands of our customers. Our demonstrated operational expertise allowed us to drive yet another strong quarter of design win execution. In mobile, we expanded the reach of our Sky5 portfolio across premium and mid-tier 5G smartphone launches at Samsung, Oppo, Vivo, Xiaomi, and other leading OEMs. In the IoT space, we secured wins across a diverse set of customers. Specifically, we partnered with NETGEAR to deploy Wi-Fi 6 and 6E routers, launched Wi-Fi 6 gateways at Deutsche Telekom, Nokia, and Altice, shipped home security solutions to Xfinity, capture design wins with Google Nest, and we delivered low latency cognitive audio systems powering wireless gaming headsets at Microsoft and Sony. Moving to the industrial space. We delivered IoT modules to Quectel and Gemalto, in an infrastructure, we leveraged our wireless portfolio to deploy MIMO base stations with Nokia and Ericsson. And finally, in automotive, we ramped telematics and driver-assist platforms with Volkswagen, LG, and GM OnStar. Moving forward, we see a multiyear technological -- technology evolution with our aperture widening from smartphones, industrial to automotive to an expanding set of IoT devices. Today, we support a global network that extends to over 20 billion interconnected devices, spanning a new class of ecosystems from autonomous transport to smart cities and robotics. Skyworks is fueling this dramatic shift with our unique capabilities, integrating not only 5G but other critical protocols, including high-performance Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, and precision GPS. Finally, Skyworks is well-positioned to win with deep customer relationships established over 20 years, experience across multiple technology transitions, a technically seasoned and talented workforce, and an efficient cash flow engine that funds a pipeline of market-leading solutions, while providing strong returns to our shareholders. With that, I will turn the call over to Kris for a discussion of Q2 and our outlook for Q3.Kris Sennesael -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Liam. Skyworks posted another quarter of strong financial results delivering record Q2 revenue of $1.172 billion, exceeding the midpoint of our guidance. Total revenue grew 53% year over year based on early 5G adoption, as well as strong demand for our broad market solutions. Mobile revenue grew 47% year over year, largely driven by widespread content increases as 5G phones are ramping across smartphone OEMs worldwide. Broad markets revenue grew further in Q2 to an all-time record of $385 million. This reflects revenue growth of 67% over Q2 of last year, benefiting from a diverse set of use cases, including the adoption of technologies such as Wi-Fi 6 and 6E, 5G wireless infrastructure, and automotive, along with the continued positive momentum in our audio solutions business. Gross profit in the quarter was $595 million, resulting in a gross margin of 50.8%, up 60 basis points year over year. Operating expenses were $155 million or 13.2% of revenue, demonstrating spending discipline while continuing our strategic investments to drive growth. We generated $440 million of operating income, translating into an operating margin of 37.6%, a 510-basis-points improvement over Q2 of last year. Other income was $1 million, and our effective tax rate was 10.5%, resulting in net income of $395 million or a net income margin of 33.7%. Execution on both gross and operating margins drove record Q2 diluted earnings per share of $2.37, beating the guidance by $0.03 and an increase of 77% when compared to fiscal Q2 of 2020. Turning to the balance sheet and cash flow. Second-fiscal quarter cash flow from operations was $616 million, a quarterly record for Skyworks. Capital expenditures were $141 million, resulting in a record $475 million of free cash flow, translating into a strong free cash flow margin of 41%. We paid $83 million in dividends. And given the recently announced acquisition of the infrastructure and automotive business of Silicon Labs, which we expect to close in the September quarter, we have temporarily suspended our share repurchase program. Now, let's move on to our outlook for Q3 of fiscal 2021. Based on robust demand for connectivity solutions in mobile and broad markets, we expect continued momentum and year-over-year growth in the June quarter. Specifically, in the third fiscal quarter of 2021, we anticipate revenue to be between $1.075 billion and $1.125 billion with non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $2.13 at the midpoint of our revenue range. This translates into year-over-year revenue growth of 49% at the midpoint of the revenue range and year-over-year non-GAAP diluted earnings-per-share growth of 70%. Gross margin is projected to be in the range of 50.25% to 50.75%. We expect operating expenses to be between $159 million and $161 million. Below the line, we anticipate roughly $1.5 million in other income and a tax rate of approximately 10.5%. We expect our diluted share count to be approximately 167 million shares. And with that, I'll turn the call back over to Liam.Liam Griffin -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Kris. Skyworks is on track to deliver record results for fiscal 2021, clearly demonstrating the value of our technologies as we address an increasingly broader landscape of impactful customers and applications. Further, the pending acquisition of the I&A business fits squarely with our strategic priorities to expand our market reach, accelerate revenue diversification and drive industry-leading profitability and cash flow. In parallel, Skyworks is solidifying its global leadership, technology breadth, and vast operational scale, powering the connected experience in mobile, industrial, automotive, enterprise, and other emerging applications. That concludes our prepared remarks.Mitch Haws -- Investor Relations Operator, we can open the line to questions. 