
OperatorGood day, and welcome to the Cardinal Health, Inc. Fourth Quarter Fiscal Year 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Vice President of Investor Relations, Kevin Moran. Please go ahead, sir.Kevin Moran -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



Good morning, and welcome. Today, we will discuss Cardinal Health's Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2021 Results along with guidance for fiscal year 2022. You can find today's press release and presentation on the IR section of our website at ir.cardinalhealth.com. Joining me today are Mike Kaufmann, Chief Executive Officer; and Jason Hollar, Chief Financial Officer. During the call, we will be making forward-looking statements. The matters addressed in the statements are subject to the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected or implied. Please refer to our SEC filings and the forward-looking statement slide at the beginning of our presentation for a description of these risks and uncertainties. Please note that during the discussion today, our comments will be on a non-GAAP basis unless they are specifically called out as GAAP. GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations for all relevant periods can be found in the schedule attached to our press release. [Operator Instructions]With that, I will now turn the call over to Mike.Mike Kaufmann -- Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Kevin, and good morning, everyone. I will start my comments today by acknowledging that our fourth quarter results were below our expectations and yours primarily due to an inventory reserve adjustment of $197 million. This reserve adjustment was driven by changing market conditions related to COVID-19 on certain highly commoditized PPE products. To meet our customer commitments during the pandemic, we carried higher levels of inventory in certain PPE categories during a period of significantly increased demand, higher prices and longer-than-normal supply chains. Our analysis at the quarter end of both the anticipated customer demand and projected future sale prices for these products resulted in a sizable inventory reserve that affected a subset of our medical products inventory. In addition, there were a few other unexpected items that affected our results, which Jason will cover in his remarks. Throughout the past year, we have been taking action to drive performance, and we will continue to move forward with urgency. For example, we divested the Cordis business, extended our Red Oak Sourcing agreement with CVS Health, identified $250 million of additional cost savings opportunities, restructured parts of our organization to increase accountability and made important leadership changes. We are continually reviewing our business and seeking areas to improve.

 



With the actions we've taken to date and our plans for FY '22, we feel confident in our strategy and are encouraged by the tailwinds behind our growth areas and strong cash flow generation. In FY '21, we grew revenue 6% versus the prior year and despite an estimated $200 million year-over-year operating earnings headwind related to COVID-19, we grew EPS. We continue to aggressively streamline our cost structure and surpassed our enterprise cost savings target for the third consecutive year. We generated strong operating cash flow, prioritized returning cash to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases and took actions to further strengthen our balance sheet. As I reflect on the unprecedented events of the past year, our team has prioritized our customers, maintained continuous operations, partnered with governmental agencies to support vaccine administration and protect patients has further improve the resiliency of our supply chain. Before turning it over to Jason, I want to highlight last week's announcement that we have negotiated a comprehensive proposed settlement agreement and settlement process designed to achieve broad resolution of governmental opioid claims. If all conditions are satisfied, this agreement would result in the settlement of a substantial majority of opioid lawsuits filed by state and local governmental entities, and depending on the level of state and subdivision participation, we would pay up to $6.4 billion over 18 years. This is an important step forward for our company. As we've consistently said, we remain committed to being part of the solution for the U.S. opioid epidemic and believe the settlement would be a prudent way to provide necessary leads to our communities and certainty for our shareholders.With that, I'll turn it over to Jason to further discuss our results and FY '22 guidance.Jason Hollar -- Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Mike, and good morning, everyone. In the fourth quarter, we delivered EPS of $0.77, which as Mike mentioned, included a $197 million inventory reserve on certain PPE in the Medical segment. Turning to the Pharma segment on slide six. Fourth quarter revenue increased 15% to $38 billion, driven primarily by sales growth from large Pharmaceutical Distribution and Specialty Solutions customers. As a reminder, the fourth quarter of fiscal '20 included reduced pharmaceutical demand related to COVID-19, which, to a lesser extent, contributed to the growth in the quarter. Pharma segment profit was flat in the fourth quarter at $358 million. This reflects COVID-19-related volume recovery in our Nuclear business, offset by Pharmaceutical Distribution customer contract renewals. This impact from renewals was in line with our expectations and generally consistent with prior quarters. However, there were some other items, including inventory adjustments and opioid-related legal costs that were higher than previously assumed. As we've mentioned, we continue to prioritize investing for growth and optimizing our core operations. In the fourth quarter, the deployment of some of these technology enhancements resulted in incremental costs for implementation and depreciation, which we also expect the next several quarters as we continue to deploy new capabilities. I will further discuss our investments as we look to fiscal year '22. As we highlighted last quarter, we continued to experience softer volumes in certain therapeutic classes within our generics program. Our generics program continued to see generally consistent market dynamics. With respect to other product types, including brand, specialty and consumer health, we largely saw volumes at or above pre-pandemic levels during the fourth quarter. In Medical, depicted on slide seven, revenue increased 23% to $4.2 billion in the fourth quarter.

 



This revenue increase was driven by a net positive impact from COVID-19 on products and distribution, primarily due to a recovery in elective procedure volumes and a positive PPE pricing impact. Medical segment loss of $63 million in the fourth quarter was due to an adverse impact from COVID-19, primarily due to the previously mentioned inventory reserve, partially offset by a recovery in elective procedure volumes. Additionally, benefits from cost savings initiatives were offset by elevated supply chain costs. During the quarter, we were encouraged to see elective procedure volumes effectively return to near pre-COVID-19 levels. While our team continued to execute on our cost savings and efficiency initiatives within our global manufacturing and supply chain, we did experience elevated supply chain costs, particularly in the areas of freight, labor and commodities. We are taking actions to help mitigate these impacts. But as we look forward, we do expect some of these higher costs to continue into next year. Now I'll transition to full year results, beginning with the enterprise. Total company revenue increased 6% to $162 billion with strong top line growth in both segments. Consolidated gross margin decreased 2% to $6.8 billion. Despite sales growth, SG&A decreased 1%, reflecting the benefits of our enterprisewide cost savings measures. Operating earnings decreased 5%, reflecting a headwind of approximately $200 million year-over-year related to COVID-19, which was split fairly evenly between the segments. Excluding COVID-19, operating earnings would have grown in the low single digits in fiscal '21. Moving below the line, interest and other decreased 44% to $133 million, driven by multiple items, including lower interest expense from debt reduction actions and increase in the value of our deferred compensation plan and onetime investment gains.As a reminder, deferred compensation gains or losses reported in interest and other are fully offset in corporate SG&A and net neutral to our bottom line. Our annual effective tax rate finished at 22.8%, benefiting from discrete items. We finished the year with EPS of $5.57, reflecting growth of 2% despite the net COVID-19 headwind. Turning to the balance sheet. We continue to operate with high net working capital efficiency, generating robust operating cash flow of $2.4 billion for the full year. We finished the year with a strong cash position of $3.4 billion, with no outstanding borrowings on our credit facilities. As a reminder, the day of the week in which the quarter ends affects point-in-time cash flows. We continue to deploy capital according to our priorities, investing $400 million back into the business in capex to drive organic growth, strengthening our balance sheet to approximately $550 million in debt paydown, which occurred primarily in the fourth quarter and returning nearly $800 million to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. As for the segment's full year results, beginning with Pharma on slide 10. Pharma revenue increased 6% to $146 billion, driven by sales growth from Pharmaceutical Distribution and Specialty Solutions customers. Pharma segment profit decreased 4% to $1.7 billion due to volume declines in the company's generics program, including the impact of COVID-19. This was partially offset by favorable brand sales mix. Excluding COVID-19, we estimate the Pharma segment would have grown low single digits in fiscal '21. Turning to Medical on slide 11. Full year Medical revenue increased 8% to $16.7 billion, driven by a net positive impact from COVID-19 on products and distribution. As we saw throughout the year, this increase was primarily due to the impact of PPE sales and higher volumes in our Lab business. Medical segment profit decreased 13% to $577 million due to an adverse impact from COVID-19 on products and distribution.This was primarily due to the fourth quarter inventory reserve on certain PPE products, partially offset by higher volumes in our Lab business. Additionally, the team delivered strong cost savings, including global manufacturing efficiencies on the year. When adjusting for COVID-19-related impacts in Medical, we estimate the segment would have grown mid-single digits for the full year. While our fiscal '21 results fell short of our expectations, the underlying growth we saw in both segments, excluding COVID-19, gives us confidence as we move into next year and the pandemic effects in our businesses continue to dissipate. Turning to our guidance for fiscal '22 on slide 13. We expect earnings per share in the range of $5.60 to $5.90. This reflects incremental technology investments of approximately $120 million to drive growth and efficiencies across the enterprise, the Cordis divestiture and other assumptions that we will detail momentarily. We expect interest and other in the range of $150 million to $180 million. We anticipate continued reduction in interest expense with the increase over the prior year, primarily a result of the fiscal '21 capability in deferred compensation not expected to repeat. We are assuming a non-GAAP effective tax rate in the range of 23.5% to 25.5%. We expect diluted weighted average shares outstanding in the range of $287 million to $292 million, and capex of $400 million to $450 million. Transitioning to the segments, beginning with Pharma on slide 14. We expect high single-digit revenue growth driven by growth from large customers and continued COVID-19 recovery and mid-single-digit segment profit growth. We anticipate COVID-19 will be an overall tailwind of approximately $100 million to Pharma segment profit compared to the prior year. While we will likely continue to see some choppiness, we expect volume recovery in certain generic therapeutic classes by the end of the calendar year.As mentioned, we are investing in technology enhancements to drive growth and efficiencies, which we expect will lead to an $80 million segment profit headwind in fiscal '22, including the annualization of the investments made in the fourth quarter. Adjusting for the COVID-19-related impacts and the incremental technology investments, we see Pharma normalized growth in the low to mid-single-digit range. We believe normalizing for these impacts provides a better approximation for the long-range growth trajectory of the business. As for other assumptions, we continue to expect consistent market dynamics in our generics program. We expect increased contributions from our growth areas, specialty, including biosimilars, nuclear and outcomes. We anticipate a similar contingent brand inflation rate as in fiscal '21 with continued less dollar contribution each year. And we expect opioid-related legal costs of approximately $125 million, an increase of $10 million versus fiscal '21. For Medical on slide 15. We expect revenue to be approximately flat in fiscal '22, primarily due to the prior year COVID-19 comparison with low double-digit segment profit growth. With respect to COVID-19, we expect an approximate $100 million year-over-year tailwind to Medical segment profit. We are assuming elective procedures to remain at or near pre-COVID levels for the duration of the year. We expect moderate headwinds in fiscal '22 related to timing of selling higher-cost PPE products and lower lab testing utilization versus the prior year. And we anticipate a year-over-year comparison benefit related to the PPE inventory reserve. Outside of COVID-19, we expect an approximate $80 million impact to segment profit due to the Cordis divestiture. Note, the anticipated reported impact for fiscal '22 is higher than previously communicated, primarily due to exchange rate favorability and other operating improvements within the business in the prior year.Additionally, we expect to invest an incremental $20 million in technology enhancements in our at-Home business to drive growth and efficiencies. Adjusting for these items, we see normalized Medical segment profit growth of mid- to high single digits in fiscal '22. Finally, as seen in the fourth quarter, we expect elevated supply chain cost to persist, particularly in the first half of the year. We anticipate these elevated costs will be partially offset by the continued benefits from our global manufacturing and supply chain transformation, which will ramp up throughout the year. Now a few additional comments on the expected cadence next year. We expect profit growth to be significantly back-half weighted in both segments. In Pharma, this is primarily driven by the timing of the previously mentioned incremental technology investments being more weighted toward the front half as well as stronger expected second half performance in our generics program, including the impact of COVID-19. In Medical, in addition to the elevated supply chain costs, we also anticipate the total unfavorable fiscal '22 COVID-19 impact of approximately $50 million to occur primarily in the first half of the year. As a reminder, we also experienced favorable COVID-19 impact in the first half of fiscal '21, which was of a similar magnitude. Across the organization, we continue to place a high priority on cash flow generation as well as allocating capital in a balanced, disciplined and shareholder-friendly manner. Our strong cash flow and improving capital position will enable our capital allocation priorities, support our company's obligations and provide increased flexibility and the ability to be more opportunistic in our capital deployment. Along those lines, we anticipate deploying the Cordis proceeds through a combination of share repurchases and debt paydown, which is expected to offset the earnings dilution on a pro forma basis. We expect share repurchases in the range of $500 million to $1 billion in fiscal '22. In addition, we expect total debt paydown of approximately $850 million, reflecting the completion of the remaining June 2022 debt tower at or before maturity.With that, I'll now turn it over to Mike.Mike Kaufmann -- Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Jason. To be clear, we are disappointed with this finish to the year and are moving forward for the sense of urgency to improve our operation and execute our strategy. We're prioritizing investments in our strategic growth areas and expect these businesses to collectively realize double digit growth in FY '22. And across our business, we're enhancing our IT infrastructure in key areas to increase, capabilities and digitization improve the customer experience and drive productivity. While we expect to benefit from these investments this fiscal year, the majority of these benefits will materialize in FY '23 and beyond. In Pharma, we're investing an additional $80 million in technology infrastructure to create additional operational efficiencies, improve data insights and drive cost synergies to enhance our ability to grow and generate better outcomes for our customers. Our generics program remains a critical priority. This week, we extended our Red Oak agreement with CVS Health for an additional five years, which takes the term of our generic sourcing joint venture through June 30, 2029. This ensures that we can continue to deliver best-in-class sourcing capabilities for our customers well into the future. We are also investing in data and analytics, including our components of our generics program and expect market dynamics consistent with the last few years. We remain committed to supporting the retail pharmacy community. At our recent Annual Retail Business conference, we connected virtually with over 4,000 retail independent pharmacy customers and launched two new digital offerings, NavixRx and e-commerce storefront to help independent pharmacies expand their services and improve healthcare outcomes. In Specialty, we're investing in our SynXis patient hub where our technology solutions help biopharm customers remove barriers to patient care. In our third party logistics business, we're expanding our cold chain storage space to accommodate the growing number of temperature temperature-sensitive products, including cell and gene therapies.In Nuclear, we received FDA approval to use our radioactive diagnostic agent Lymphoseek in pediatric patients one month and older. We continue to build out our multimillion dollar center for Theranostics advancement in Indianapolis and are also investing to expand our PET capabilities. We expect double-digit profit growth in Nuclear over the next several years. And in outcomes, we also expect double-digit profit growth as we expand our direct-to-patient digital footprint and implement new patient adherence programs. Turning to Medical. We have been taking quick decisive actions throughout the fiscal year to streamline and simplify our Medical business, and this work remains a top priority heading into FY '22. We've recently restructured our organization to establish clearer value and made some management changes, including appointing a single leader to manage U.S. medical products and distribution as well as a single leader to manage international. With the divestiture of Cordis, we plan to significantly reduce our international commercial footprint and have initially identified 36 markets we intend to exit, so we can focus on the locations where we have a competitive advantage and can generate sustained long-term growth. We're laser-focused on enhancing supply chain resiliency, improving business continuity and investing in advanced planning capabilities to drive forward-looking insights to better serve our customers and their patients. In addition, our Medical Services businesses, OptiFreight Logistics and WaveMark continue to enable clinically integrated and digitally automated supply chains. Our at-Home business continues to focus on enabling and supporting comfortable home-based care for patients with acute and chronic conditions. We continue to see volume growth as care is rapidly shifting to the home. For FY '22, we're investing an additional $20 million in technology infrastructure to create operational efficiencies and better data visibility.With respect to the Enterprise, we're aggressively reviewing our cost structure to continue streamlining our operations and processes and intend to reinvest a portion of these savings to fuel future growth. In FY '22, we plan to launch initiatives that will deliver at least an additional $250 million savings by FY '23. As Jason discussed earlier, we take a balanced, disciplined and shareholder-friendly approach to capital deployment with a focus on investing in the business, maintaining a strong balance sheet and returning cash to shareholders. In closing, I want to thank our employees for their hard work and contributions that make it possible for Cardinal Health to fulfill its mission of improving the lives of people every day.And now Jason and I will take your questions.