  OperatorGreetings. Welcome to the Align Q1 '22 earnings call. [Operator instructions] Please note this conference will be recorded. I will now turn the conference over to your host, Shirley Stacy with Align Technology. You may begin.Shirley Stacy -- Vice President, Corporate Communications and Investor Relations

 



 Thank you. Good afternoon. Thank you for joining us. I'm Shirley Stacy, vice president of corporate communications and investor relations. Joining me for today's call is Joe Hogan, president and CEO; and John Morici, CFO. We issued first quarter 2022 financial results today via GlobeNewswire, which is available on our website at investor.aligntech.com. Today's conference call is being audio webcast and will be archived on our website for approximately one month. A telephone replay will be available today by approximately 5:30 p.m.Eastern Time through 5:30 p.m. Eastern Time on May 11. To access the telephone replay, domestic callers should dial (866) 813-9403 with access code 335004. International callers should dial (929) 458-6194 using the same access code. As a reminder, the information provided and discussed today will include forward-looking statements, including statements about Align's future events and product outlook. These forward-looking statements are only predictions and involve risks and uncertainties that are described in more detail in our form -- in our most recent periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission available on our website and at sec.gov. Actual results may vary significantly, and Align expressly assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. We've posted historical financial statements, including the corresponding reconciliations, including our GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation, if applicable, and our first quarter 2022 conference call slides on our website under Quarterly Results.

 



 Please refer to these files for more detailed information. With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Align Technology's president and CEO, Joe Hogan. Joe? Joe Hogan -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Shirley. Good afternoon, and thanks for joining us. On our call today, I'll provide an overview of our Q1 results and discuss the performance of our two operating segments: systems and services and clear aligners. John will provide more detail on our financial performance and our view for the remainder of the year. Following that, I'll come back and summarize a few key points and open the call to questions. Overall, the first quarter proved to be a tougher-than-expected operating environment globally. And we believe our results primarily reflect three key factors: the continued impact of COVID-19 waves in every region and especially in China, with its restrictions and lockdowns under their zero-COVID policy; a weaker economic environment and waning consumer confidence driven by increasing inflationary pressures and supply chain disruptions; and the military conflict in the Ukraine and fallout across Europe. In addition, with approximately half our business occurring outside the United States, unfavorable foreign exchange rates negatively impacting our revenues, margins, and EPS.

 



 Notwithstanding these headwinds, Q1 '22 total revenues of $973.2 million were up 8.8% year over year, compared to Q1 '21 revenues of $894 million with a growth rate of 62% year over year. Our Q1 '22 operating income was $198 million, and operating margin was 20.4%. In Q1, systems and services revenues were up 15.6% year over year, but down 24% sequentially, coming off our sixth consecutive quarter of sequential growth and record scanner and services revenue. Sequential results primarily reflect lower volumes from our aforementioned headwinds and from seasonality as Q4 is historically a stronger capital equipment sales quarter. For Q1, clear aligner revenues were up 7.5% year over year, reflecting revenue growth across regions and products, and were down slightly sequentially from Q4 at minus 0.7%. In the teen segment, 175,000 teens started treatment with Invisalign aligners, up 6% year over year. Invisalign First for kids as young as six years old grew sequentially year over year and was strong across all regions. Q1 non-case revenues, which include doctor-prescribed retention products, clinical training and education, and other dental consumables, performed well and grew both year over year and sequentially. Our Doctor Subscription Plan, or DSP, pilot was launched last year in the United States and Canada, and it continues to ramp nicely, driving strong revenue growth. DSP is a monthly subscription program designed for a segment of experienced Invisalign doctors who are not regularly using our retainers or low-stage aligners. We're very excited about the feedback and uptake we're seeing, and we'll expand the program into other markets this year. Here are just a few things some doctors are saying about DSP. Dr. Drew Ferris in Santa Barbara, California, "We have shifted our retention model and workflow. We really like the material, the fit and the precision of the product and having everything in Align systems versus printing in-house and having to maintain it ourselves." Dr. Sandra Tai in Vancouver, Canada, "This program fits my business model very well. I'm able to pass savings to patients." Now let's turn to the specifics around the first quarter results, starting with the Americas. For Q1, Invisalign case volumes were down 1.5% year over year. On a sequential basis, Americas case volumes were down 4.3%, primarily reflecting the impact from the COVID-19 waves, first experienced in North America beginning in Q4 '21 and continuing to Q1 and later in Latin America, causing consumers customer staffing shortages and practice closures, as well as decreased patient traffic and increased appointment cancellations. The latest data from the Gaidge practice analysis tool that collect and consolidates data from about 700 ortho practices, covering more than 1,000 orthodontists across 1,600 locations in the United States and Canada, showed weakening underlying patient demand trends in the first quarter for both adult and teens and across wires and brackets and clear aligner products. New patient visits were down 7.6% year over year, and ortho starts were down 7.2% year over year. In the DSO channel, in Q1 '22, DSO practices grew faster than non-DSO practices, with utilization led by Heartland and Smile Doctors. Earlier this month, we announced a new DSO partnership with dentalcorp, Canada's largest and fastest-growing network of dental practices. dentalcorp plans to extend its offering of Invisalign brand clear aligner treatment to Canadians nationwide through its Ortho Acceleration Program. This strategic collaboration also provides dentalcorp's network of doctors across nearly 460 practices with access to enhanced benefits, dedicated learning opportunities, and treatment planning support for the Invisalign system. Also this month, we launched a new Invisalign Teen Subscription Program in the United States and Canada to help unlock the massive opportunity from teen orthodontics, which makes up approximately 75% of the 5 million annual case starts in North America. The Teen Subscription Program enables orthodontists to buy clear aligners in case packs in advance, much like the way they buy wires and brackets today, offering simple and more predictable billing for doctors. It also includes exclusive practice development benefits with the Invisalign brand and requires an incremental volume commitment from doctors. The timing of the new teen program coincides with the beginning of the summer teen season, and we're excited to continue partnering with doctors to grow their practice with Invisalign treatment. With less than 10% share of teen case starts, the Teen Subscription Program has the potential to help accelerate Invisalign adoption in the largest segment of the orthodontic market, teens. For our international business, Q1 Invisalign case volumes were up 3% year over year. On a sequential basis, international case volumes were down 6.1%, primarily reflecting the headwinds described earlier, especially the impact of COVID-19 restrictions and lockdowns in China and the fallout across Europe from the military conflict in Ukraine. For EMEA, Q1 Invisalign case volumes were up 2.1% year over year with core -- growth in our core markets led by Italy and Germany and DACH, along with the growth expansion markets led by Turkey and MEA. The Q1 year-over-year Invisalign case volume in EMEA was driven by increased submissions, primarily from the orthodontist channel, especially in the teen market. During the quarter, we launched our first ever direct-to-teen campaign in EMEA focused on educating teens about the benefits of Invisalign treatment over traditional wires and brackets; increasing consumer demand as part of our wider teen growth plan, combined with our Parent of Teen campaign; and to help give teens critical influence in the parent decision by driving peer word-of-mouth. More recently, we launched the Invisalign Go Express system, the latest addition to the Invisalign Go portfolio for general dentists. First launched in EMEA in 2016 as a 20-stage aligner treatment offering, the Invisalign Go portfolio system is designed for general dentists to treat mild to moderate malocclusions and to integrate tooth alignment into restorative and comprehensive dental care. Additionally, building of our European manufacturing facility in Wroclaw, Poland, remains on track to go live this quarter, increasing our flexibility and timeliness in supporting our valued doctor customers across the EMEA region. Turning to APAC for Q1. APAC Invisalign case volumes were up 4.7% year over year with strength in the GP dentist channel, primarily through increased Invisalign submissions with the Invisalign Go product and, in the teen market with increased submissions from the orthodontic channel. On a sequential basis, APAC was down 2.6%, reflecting a larger impact from surges in new COVID-19 cases that led to significant lockdowns in China. Alternatively, despite headwinds, Japan and Taiwan performed well and we had strong growth in emerging markets like Korea and India and Thailand on a year-over-year basis. Earlier this month, we expanded the Invisalign clear aligner product portfolio with new offerings that better serve the expanding market in China. The two new products, Invisalign Adult and Invisalign Standard clear aligners, are designed for more specific types of malocclusion cases and provide doctors and their patients with a more clinical and affordable options for moderate to complex cases. Invisalign Adult and Invisalign Standard clear aligners built on our proven technology for a wider range and scope of malocclusion. During the quarter, we announced new Invisalign innovations for the Align Digital Platform, a proprietary combination of software, systems and services designed to provide a seamless experience and workflow that integrates and connects all users, doctors, labs, patients, and consumers. These new Invisalign innovations include ClinCheck Live Update, the Invisalign Practice App, Invisalign Personalized Plan or IPP, Invisalign Smile Architect, and the Cone Beam Computed Tomography, CBCT, integration feature for ClinCheck digital treatment planning software. These innovations will revolutionize digital treatment planning for orthodontics and restorative dentistry by providing doctors with greater flexibility and real-time treatment plan access and modification capabilities. Each of these innovations is designed to enhance Invisalign treatment planning quality, efficiency and scale and contribute to a better doctor-patient experience. More recently, we introduced a new enhancement for the Invisalign system with mandibular advancement feature. The Invisalign system with mandibular advancement is the only clinically proven clear aligner product in the world today that addresses Class II correction with simultaneous alignment. Using feedback from customers, we've enhanced the original design with new enhanced precision wings that provide increased durability and comfort, as well as great overlap to help ensure that the aligners remain seated and properly engaged to more effectively address class 2 malocclusions in growing preteen and teen patients. Our consumer marketing focuses on educating consumers about the Invisalign system and driving that demand to Invisalign doctors' offices, ultimately capitalizing on the massive market opportunity to transform 500 million smiles. In Q1, we built on a successful Invis Is multimedia campaign across the Americas, EMEA, and APAC, driving awareness and interest in Invisalign treatment with adult, teen, and parent consumer segments. Globally, we delivered strong impression volume with over 23.7 million visits to our websites, 113% year-over-year increase, and over 7.8 billion impressions delivered, representing a 32% year-over-year increase. In the U.S., we continue to amplify our campaigns across the top social platforms such as TikTok, Snapchat, Instagram, and YouTube to increase the awareness of Invisalign brand with young adults and teens. Our campaigns featured collaborations with some of the largest influencers in social media, including Charli D'Amelio, Lana Candor, Devan Key, Michael Le, and Josh Richards. Each of these creators shared their personal experience with Invisalign treatment and why they chose to transform their smiles with Invisalign aligners. To continue growing our young adult business across the Americas, EMEA, and APAC, we built upon our successful "Invis is a Powerful Thing" campaign, which highlights how powerful the smile transformation with Invisalign treatment can be for even young adults' self-confidence. We leveraged top influencers like Leilani Green and Lana Candor in integrated media campaigns. Further, we are expanding our collaboration with influencers globally and are excited to welcome Olympic Gold Medalist, Suni Lee, and creators Josh Richards, Hyram Yarbro, and Scarlett Estevez who have chosen to shape their smiles with Invisalign treatment. In the EMEA region, we accelerated our media investments across digital media platforms, including YouTube, TikTok, Meta, and Snapchat, and expanded our Invisalign Smile Squad roster with new influencers. Additionally, we launched a pilot in the U.K. to reach teens with special campaigns to create awareness of the unique benefits of Invisalign treatment. Our consumer campaigns delivered more than 8.8 million unique visitors to our website, representing 170% increase year over year with over 2.5 billion media impressions. We continue to expand our investment in consumer advertising across the APAC region, excluding China, resulting in a 278% increase year over year in unique visitors and a 265% year-over-year increase in impressions. We continued to strengthen our investments in Australia by expanding our reach via social media platforms such as TikTok, Meta, and YouTube. In Japan, we built upon our successful consumer campaigns by expanding into Twitter and continue to see strong response from consumers, as evidenced by a 373% increase in unique visitors to our site. For our systems and services business, Q1 revenues were up 15.6% year over year, reflecting strong scanner shipments and services; and down 24.2% sequentially, primarily reflecting lower volumes from the previous mentioned headwinds and capital equipment seasonality. During the quarter, we saw continued adoption of the iTero Element 5D Plus imaging system we launched last year that features innovative technology like Near Infra-Red technology that we call NIRI, which aids in detection and monitoring of interproximal caries lesions or cavities without -- above the gingiva without harmful radiation. A strong indicator of the digital adoption within dental offices is the number of intraoral scans used for Invisalign case submissions. Total worldwide intraoral digital scans submitted to start an Invisalign case in Q1 increased to 87.1% from 80.9% in Q1 last year. International intraoral digital scans for Invisalign case submissions increased to 83%, up from 75% in Q1 last year. For the Americas, 91% of Invisalign cases were submitted using an intraoral digital scan, compared to 85.5% in Q1 of last year. Cumulatively, over 54.9 million orthodontic scans and over 11.4 million restorative scans have been performed with iTero scanners. During the quarter, the iTero Element 5D Plus won the Best New Imaging or CAD/CAM Product from DrBicuspid.com, a Cuspie award. The award reflects our commitment to develop innovative solutions that help doctors transform lives by improving patients' journey to a healthy, beautiful smile. We are pleased to share that the iTero Element scanner received an Orthotown 2021 Townie Choice Award, which seeks to recognize the top peer-recommended products and services in dentistry. We're proud that the iTero Element 5D Plus imaging system provides dental practices with latest in imaging technology, cutting-edge enhanced chairside visualizations, and applications that can drive practice growth and treatment acceptance. Continued growth in the iTero scanner installed base is driving increased services revenues, as well as exocad CAD/CAM software solutions that integrate workflows to the dental labs and dental practices. Our Q1 exocad CAD/CAM products and services, which include restorative dentistry, implantology, guided surgery, and smile design offerings, are included in scanner and services revenues and are helping extend our digital dental solutions and broaden Align Digital Platform toward fully integrated interdisciplinary end-to-end workflows. As we continue to lead the evolution of digital orthodontics and restorative dentistry, our goal is to make orthodontics a pillar of dentistry. April 2 marked our second anniversary since welcoming exocad into the Align family. And together, we're working to ensure that every dental technician and every dentist planning a restorative treatment considers the benefits of digital orthodontics first. We're continuing to focus on integration and road map development to strengthen the Align Digital Platform by addressing restorative needs to facilitate both ortho restorative and comprehensive dentistry. Two years after exocad joined Align, we are more excited than ever about the opportunities ahead to shape the dental industry and with technology and expertise that complement the many benefits of the Align Digital Platform and bringing all key stakeholders together, doctor, customers, labs, partners and users as we continue transforming smiles and changing lives. During the quarter, exocad participated in the 2022 Dental South China show in Guangzhou, China, showcasing its newest software release, DentalCAD 3.0 Galway plus other open software solutions like innovative smile design program called Smile Creator. The show allowed the exocad team to deepen their relationships with the dental community to discover new trends emerging in the growing dental market in China. Attendees at booth experienced firsthand how exocad's wizard-guided workflows and easy online communication programs streamline the treatment journey from consultation to final restoration. Finally, this quarter, exocad is opening its new headquarters in Seoul, South Korea, which provides a robust high-tech infrastructure to a key region of our business. exocad has been working with a growing number of Korean manufacturers for many years, and this location help facilitate strategic relationships in the region. With that, I'll now turn over the call to John.John Morici -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Joe. Now for our Q1 financial results. Total revenues for the first quarter were $973.2 million, down 5.6% from the prior quarter and up 8.8% from the corresponding quarter a year ago. For clear aligners, Q1 revenues of $809.7 million were down 0.7% sequentially due to lower Invisalign case volumes, partially offset by higher ASPs and up 7.5% year over year, reflecting higher ASPs and non-case revenues. In Q1, Invisalign case volume were down 5.1% sequentially and up 0.5% year over year. In addition, we shipped clear aligners to 82,400 Invisalign doctors worldwide, of which over 5,000 were first-time customers. Q1 comprehensive volume increased 2.4% year over year and decreased 5% sequentially. Q1 non-comprehensive volume decreased 4% year over year and decreased 5.4% sequentially. Q1 adult patients decreased 1.6% year over year and decreased 5.7% sequentially. In Q1, teens or younger patients increased 6% year over year and decreased 3.6% sequentially. Clear aligner revenues were unfavorably impacted by foreign exchange of approximately $6.5 million or approximately 0.8 points sequentially. On a year-over-year basis, Clear aligner revenues were unfavorably impacted by foreign exchange of approximately $24 million or approximately 3.2 points. For Q1, Invisalign comprehensive ASPs increased sequentially and year over year. On a sequential basis, Invisalign comprehensive ASPs reflect per order processing fees charged on most clear aligner shipments, lower discounts, and higher additional aligners, partially offset by unfavorable foreign exchange. On a year-over-year basis, comprehensive ASPs reflect higher additional aligners and per order processing fees, partially offset by unfavorable foreign exchange. Q1 Invisalign non-comprehensive ASPs increased sequentially and year over year. On a sequential basis, Invisalign non-comprehensive ASPs were favorably impacted by per order processing fees and lower discounts, partially offset by unfavorable foreign exchange. On a year-over-year basis, Invisalign non-comprehensive ASPs reflect per order processing fees, higher additional aligners, partially offset by foreign exchange. Clear aligner deferred revenues on the balance sheet increased $53 million or 5% sequentially and $307.1 million or 38.1% year over year and will be recognized as the additional aligners are shipped. Our systems and services revenue for the first quarter were $163.5 million, down 24.2% sequentially and up 15.6% year over year. The decrease sequentially can be attributed to lower scanner volume following a strong Q4 and consistent with seasonality in the capital equipment business, coupled with the headwinds described earlier. The increase year over year can be attributed to increased services revenue from our larger installed base, as well as slightly higher scanner volume. Our systems and services deferred revenues on the balance sheet was up $16.5 million or 7.2% sequentially and up $114.9 million or 87.6% year over year, primarily due to the increase in scanner sales and the deferral of service revenue included with our -- with the scanner purchase, which will be recognized ratably over the service period. Moving on to gross margin. First quarter overall gross margin was 72.9%, up 0.7 points sequentially and down 2.8 points year over year. On a non-GAAP basis, excluding stock-based compensation expense and amortization of intangibles related to acquisitions, overall gross margin was 73.3% for the first quarter, up 0.7 points sequentially and down 2.8 points year over year. Overall gross margin was unfavorably impacted by approximately 0.8 points on a year-over-year basis and by approximately 0.2 points sequentially due to foreign exchange. Clear aligner gross margin for the first quarter was 74.8%, up 0.6 points sequentially due to higher ASPs, partially offset by higher mix of additional aligner volume and higher freight costs. Clear aligner gross margin was down 2.8 points year over year due to higher mix of additional aligner volume and higher freight costs, partially offset by higher ASPs. Systems and services gross margin for the first quarter was 63.4%, down 1.3 points sequentially due to lower volume and lower ASPs, partially offset by lower freight costs. Systems and services gross margin was down 2 points year over year due to higher manufacturing inefficiencies, partially offset by a higher mix of service revenues and increased ASPs. Q1 operating expenses were $511.3 million, down sequentially 2.4% and up 13.2% year over year. On a sequential basis, operating expenses were down $12.4 million. Year over year, operating expenses increased by $59.6 million, reflecting increased headcount and our continued investment in marketing, sales, and R&D activities and investments commensurate with business growth. On a non-GAAP basis, excluding stock-based compensation, amortization of acquired intangibles related to certain acquisitions, and acquisition costs, operating expenses were $480.2 million, down sequentially 2.9% and up 13.1% year over year due to the reasons described above. Our first quarter operating income of $198.1 million resulted in an operating margin of 20.4%, down 1.1 points sequentially and down 4.8 points year over year. The year-over-year decrease in operating margin is primarily attributed to lower gross margin, investments in our go-to-market teams and technology, as well as unfavorable impact from foreign exchange. On a non-GAAP basis, which excludes stock-based compensation, amortization of intangibles related to certain acquisitions, and acquisition costs, operating margin for the first quarter was 24%, down 0.7 points sequentially and down 4.6 points year over year. Interest and other income and expense, net for the first quarter, was a loss of $10.6 million, down sequentially by $9.7 million and down year over year by $46.8 million. Q1 of 2021 included the SEC arbitration award gain of $43.4 million. The GAAP effective tax rate for the first quarter was 28.4%, compared to 13.2% in the fourth quarter and 23.4% in the first quarter of the prior year. Our non-GAAP effective tax rate was 24.2% in the first quarter, compared to 11.5% in the fourth quarter and 20.2% in the first quarter of the prior year. The first quarter GAAP and non-GAAP effective tax rates were higher than fourth quarter effective tax rates, primarily due to tax benefits related to expiration of statutes of limitations for timely asserting claims and an out-of-period adjustment recorded last quarter. First quarter net income per diluted share was $1.70, down sequentially $0.70 and down $0.81 compared to the prior year. Our EPS was unfavorably impacted by $0.13 on a sequential basis and $0.28 on a year-over-year basis due to foreign exchange. On a non-GAAP basis, net income per diluted share was $2.13 for the first quarter, down $0.70 sequentially and down $0.36 year over year. Moving on to the balance sheet. As of March 31, 2022, cash, cash equivalents, and short-term and long-term marketable securities were $1.1 billion, down sequentially $176.1 million and down $11.1 million year over year. Of our $1.1 billion balance, $453 million was held in the U.S. and $667.6 million was held by our international entities. Q1 accounts receivable balance was $950.9 million, up approximately 6% sequentially. Our overall days sales outstanding was 87 days, up approximately nine days sequentially and up approximately 15 days as compared to Q1 last year. Cash flow from operations for the first quarter was $30.5 million. Capital expenditures for the first quarter were $87.3 million, primarily related to our continued investment to increase aligner manufacturing capacity and facilities. Free cash flow, defined as cash flow from operations less capital expenditures, amounted to negative $56.8 million. In February, we repurchased $75 million of our common stock through open market repurchases of approximately 143,600 shares at an average price of $522.61 per share. We have approximately $650 million remaining available for repurchase under our May 13, 2021, $1 billion repurchase program. As described during our Q4 2021 earnings call, we provided our fiscal year 2022 outlook with revenue growth in line with our long-term revenue range of 20% to 30%. This revenue growth assumed no significant new COVID surges after current wave, no meaningful practice disruption nor material supply chain issues throughout the year. At that time, we were seeing some recovery as Omicron headwinds began to ease and COVID restrictions were relaxing. However, later in the quarter, unfavorable impacts on our business occurred, driven by China lockdowns, weaker consumer confidence, inflationary pressures, and the Russia-Ukraine conflict. For April, we have not seen momentum return as the headwinds previously mentioned persist. Now turning to full year 2022. We remain confident in the huge under-penetrated market, our technology and industry leadership, and our ability to execute and make progress toward our long-term model of 20% to 30% revenue growth. At the same time, the headwinds we're experiencing, which include increased COVID waves and significant China lockdowns, weaker consumer confidence, inflation pressures, and the Russia-Ukraine conflict, have increased uncertainty across all markets. We also anticipate capital equipment sales will be increasingly constrained throughout the year as practices adjust to these headwinds. Given less visibility and an increasing unpredictable operating environment, we are not providing revenue guidance for the year. However, assuming no additional material disruptions or circumstances beyond our control, our goal for fiscal 2022 is to deliver GAAP operating margin above 20%, while making strategic investments in sales, marketing, R&D, and operations. In addition, during Q2 '22, we expect to repurchase up to $200 million of our common stock through either a combination of open market repurchases or an accelerated stock repurchase agreement. For 2022, we expect our investments in capital expenditures to exceed $300 million. Capital expenditures primarily relate to building construction and improvements, as well as digital manufacturing capacity to support our international expansion. This includes our investment in an aligner fabrication facility in Wroclaw, Poland, which is expected to begin serving doctors in the second quarter of 2022 as part of our strategy to bring operational facilities closer to customers. As we continue growing, we intend to expand our investments in research and development, manufacturing, treatment planning, sales, and marketing operations to meet the actual and anticipated local and regional demands. With that, I'll turn it back over to Joe for final comments. Joe?Joe Hogan -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, John. 