  OperatorGood day, and welcome to the Conagra Brands third-quarter fiscal-year 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] Please note today's event is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to Brian Kearney with investor relations. Please go ahead.Brian Kearney -- Investor Relations Good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining us. I'll remind you that we will be making some forward-looking statements today. While we are making those statements in good faith, we do not have any guarantee about the results we will achieve.

 



 Descriptions of the risk factors are included in the documents we filed with the SEC. Also, we will be discussing some non-GAAP financial measures. References to adjusted items, including organic net sales, refer to measures that exclude items management believes impact the comparability for the period referenced. Please see the earnings release for additional information on our comparability items.The GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations can be found in either the earnings press release or the earnings slides, both of which can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website, conagrabrands.com. With that, I'll turn it over to Sean. Sean Connolly -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Brian. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining our third-quarter fiscal 2021 earnings call. Today, Dave and I will discuss our strong third-quarter results, our perspective on how Conagra is succeeding in the current environment, and how we are well-positioned to drive future growth from behavioral tailwinds. So let's get started.

 



 Our business continued to perform well, both in the absolute and relative to competition during the third quarter. Our ability to deliver for stakeholders during this pandemic is not only a testament to our team's ability to adapt to the current environment but a reflection of the work we've done to transform our business over the past five-plus years. Our ongoing execution of the Conagra Way playbook, perpetually reshaping our portfolio and capabilities for better growth and better margins, has enabled us to rise to the occasion during the COVID-19 pandemic and has positioned the business to excel in the future. During the third quarter, we continued to build on our momentum and invested across the company to further strengthen the business. This included ongoing investments in physical availability to ensure our products are accessible, online and in stores, and mental availability to ensure we're making the right connections with our consumers. As I've said previously, the COVID-19 pandemic has presented an incredible consumer trialing opportunity. Our innovation and marketing approach has enabled us to secure not only strong trial but also strong repeat rates and market share gains. Based on the evidence we are seeing, which I will summarize today, we expect to emerge from the pandemic with structurally higher volumes and share driven by the stickiness of the COVID-driven demand. But to be clear, we are not relying on these benefits to achieve our fiscal 2022 organic net sales guidance. Given our confidence in the longer-term value creation opportunities of our business, we opportunistically repurchased approximately $300 million of shares in the quarter. We remain committed to a balanced approach to capital allocation, which includes investing in our business, maintaining solid investment-grade credit ratings, executing smart M&A, and returning capital to shareholders via share repurchases, and paying an attractive dividend. Our decision to repurchase shares demonstrates our willingness to capitalize on occasions when we believe we're undervalued. As we navigate the current environment, we're seeing input cost inflation accelerate in many of our categories and across the industry. Dave will detail multiple levers we have to manage this inflation. And finally, we are again reaffirming our fiscal 2022 guidance. I'll unpack these items a bit further in a moment, but I want to start by acknowledging our frontline team.

 



 Our supply chain is a vital component of our success, and I want to commend our team once again for their extraordinary execution amid the COVID-19 pandemic. I'm extremely proud of the thousands of hard-working Conagra team members whose dedication has enabled our industry-leading performance. We remain focused on keeping employees safe while meeting the needs of our communities, customers, and consumers; and I'd like to thank everyone at Conagra for making this possible. Let's get into the business update. As the table on Slide 8 shows our organic net sales growth of 9.7% exceeded our expectations in the quarter, despite the winter storm in February causing a small temporary disruption in the supply chain. We also delivered adjusted operating margin of 16% and adjusted EPS of $0.59, both in line with our quarterly guidance. This strong performance was driven by our continued execution of the Conagra Way playbook. The foundation of everything we do is building superior products with modern attributes, great taste, and contemporary packaging. Our third-quarter results demonstrate the continued strong performance of our new innovation, which is being accepted by customers and sought after by consumers. Once we have the product right, we need to make sure that consumers and customers have access to it across all channels. As we will detail today, this is exemplified by our investments in transportation to ensure physical availability amid elevated demand. And finally, we support the mental availability of our products to ensure we connect with consumers in the right place, at the right time, and with the right messages. In the third quarter, we supported our brands with continued investments in e-commerce and digital marketing. Our playbook is not just a slogan. It's the framework we use to run the business, and it continues to deliver great results. During the third quarter, we grew retail sales 13.8%, with each of our domains, frozen, staples, and snacks, outpacing the industry. As a result, we grew share in each of our domains. Our strong broad-based growth and share gains were fueled by both our superior penetration and repeat purchase rates in the quarter. Slide 11 shows that our household penetration rate during the third quarter was on average double that of our top 15 peers, and we outpaced those same peers in terms of repeat purchase rate. As I mentioned a minute ago, the Conagra Way playbook starts with building superior products. When we began this journey over five years ago, we recognized that we had a lot of latent potential in the portfolio, but it had to be modernized, so we set out to aggressively do just that. And you'll recall that we established a goal of having 15% of our annual retail sales come from products launched within the preceding three years. As you can see on Slide 12, our innovation performance has consistently exceeded our 15% goal over the last two fiscal years and through the last 52 weeks, and our fiscal '21 innovation is performing even better than prior-year innovation. Compared to last year's launches, the products we introduced through the third quarter this fiscal '21 have achieved 66% more sales per UPC and 53% more distribution points per UC than during the comparable time period last year. And as you can see on Slide 13, many of our new innovations are leading their categories. Looking ahead, we're starting to see strong customer acceptance our fiscal '22 innovation. Customers trust our innovation track record and rely on our new products to drive consumer trial and overall category growth. Slide 14 shows just a few of our exciting innovations that will begin shipping in fiscal 2022. Critical to our ability to sustain our growing relevancy with consumers is the physical availability of our products, whether through brick-and-mortar or online, and Slide 15 demonstrates how our ongoing investments in e-commerce have continued to yield results. Conagra has outpaced total edible retail sales in e-commerce growth each quarter throughout the pandemic, and we have grown share in e-commerce across 76% of our brands over the past year. As we've discussed before, we believe that e-commerce investment is a high-ROI opportunity to deliver our message to consumers. Slide 16 details some of the specific benefits to expanding our e-commerce platform. E-commerce shoppers over-index to younger millennial consumers. When consumers start to shop online, they're likely to continue the behavior and become heavy users of a brand, and online shoppers, in general, have higher brand loyalty than those shopping in-store. All of this demonstrates the opportunity for superior lifetime value that's being generated by our e-commerce investment and growth. Now, let's turn briefly to each of our retail domains and start with frozen on Slide 17. Total Conagra frozen retail sales grew an impressive 12% on both a one- and two-year basis in the quarter, which is an acceleration from the second quarter. And Slide 18 demonstrates our growth in frozen accelerated on a sequential basis across many of our leading brands and categories. Our snacks business also continued to deliver strong growth throughout the third quarter. As you can see on Slide 19, we generated double-digit retail sales growth on a year-over-year and two-year basis in snacking, led by impressive increases across popcorn, sweet treats, and meat snacks. And as consumers continued snacking at elevated rates, we capitalized with strong Q3 velocity growth across our leading brands. Our staples portfolio also delivered solid results in Q3, including 15% retail sales growth, led by double-digit quarterly growth across key staples categories. And as Slide 22 shows the broad-based growth we delivered in the third quarter exceeded the already strong growth we delivered in the second quarter. People are returning to their kitchens during the pandemic, and new younger consumers are discovering the joy of cooking. As we've discussed before, the current environment has resulted in consumers trying or reengaging with our staples products and coming back again and again. Overall, I'm very pleased with our end market performance across the portfolio this quarter. And it's even more impressive, given the fact that we delivered these results despite continued supply constraints resulting from sustained elevated demand outpacing our ability to supply. And that takes us to what we see looking ahead. As we try to understand where consumer trends are going, it's always helpful to look back at lessons from recent history. During the '08/'09 recession, we saw consumers shift from primarily consuming meals sourced away from home to meal sourced in home. While this shift is not surprising during the heart of a recession, it's important to recognize that the change in behavior, although event-driven, lasted well past the recovery. And we believe that a good portion of that change in behavior was driven by the formation of new habits. Psychology experts assert that it takes on average 66 days for a new behavior to become habitual. As you all know, we are nearly 400 days into the COVID-19 pandemic. Consumers have adapted to at-home eating and formed new habits that we expect to sustain well beyond the current conditions. And early data supports our hypothesis. If you take a sampling of data from states that have been the most open based on the mobility of their residents throughout the pandemic, what you'll find is the two-year growth rates in retail sales are materially higher than pre-pandemic and fairly consistent as states reopen and stay open. So while people are starting to leave their homes more frequently, they are still choosing to eat at home. Consumers are largely maintaining the habits they've acquired over the past 400 days, just like psychology predicts. And while we're poised to benefit from sustained elevated at-home eating, we are not resting on our laurels or taking our consumers for granted. We're continuing to invest behind our brands to create connections with consumers. Slide 27 shows just one fun example of our innovative approach to brand building. We listen to our communities and identify the trends that resonate with them. As an example, the Slim Jim community online was built on memes. Given that fact, DOGE and Dogecoin were a natural fit for our brand. Since joining the online conversation about the Do Good Everyday sentiment of Dogecoin, we've tapped into another channel for Slim Jim to engage with its community. We've seen a market uptick in audience interaction, including direct engagement and advocacy from the person that created Dogecoin, as you can see on this slide. Not only is this community hungry for our product and new innovation, but they've also been quick to rally behind the brand playing a large part in Slim Jim being crowned the champion of Adweek's March Adness Bracket of the top 64 brands. On its way to the title, Slim Jim defeated Doritos, Pepsi, Amazon, Wendy's, M&M, and OREO in head-to-head matchups. We're excited about this, and you should be on the lookout for additional crypto-themed activations in the future. And Slim Jim is just one example of how we're connecting with the consumer. Since the onset of COVID-19 last March, we've gained the equivalent of more than four years' worth of incremental new buyers. COVID has effectively supercharged new trial at a level rarely seen in our industry. Importantly, we're winning with younger consumers. Nearly half of our new buyers are millennials and Gen Z. The steady trends shown on Slide 29 demonstrate that these new buyers are even more likely to repeat purchases across many of our key brands. They are discovering our modernized portfolio and developing new habits that include our products. And as you can see on Slide 30, we're outpacing our peers in terms of repeat rate as consumers are flocking to our brand more than to those of our top competitors across all of our domains. And we continue to believe that we are very well positioned to capture the benefits of consumer behavior post-pandemic. Let's start with frozen. The adoption of remote work provides a structural increase in the demand for frozen food compared to pre-COVID levels. Importantly, some aspects of the remote workforce adoption are expected to be permanent. And this shift to remote work has the biggest impact on lunch and dinner occasions, the meals with the largest exposure to frozen foods. Our portfolio of brands and products uniquely meet these consumers' needs. Our frozen portfolio over-indexes in these occasions by offering hyper-convenient meals and sides perfect for a quick lunch or family dinner. In addition to enjoying more food cooked together at home and including frozen as a key part of those meals, consumers are making what we believe is a significant and lasting shift to at-home entertainment. People increased their time spent watching digital video by over 40% in 2020. Recent studies and our understanding of habit formation tell us that this shift toward at-home entertainment is likely to continue post-pandemic. When consumers, particularly the younger generations, move their entertainment to the home, they increase the number of at-home snacking occasions. And during those occasions, consumers are choosing our brands time and time again. And as I've already touched on younger groups are engaging more and more with our staples segment as they learn how to cook at home. As the chart on the left demonstrates, young adults are increasingly moving from urban areas to smaller cities and suburbs, where there are fewer options for eating away from home. And as the chart on the right demonstrates, these young consumers, Gen Z, and millennials, are increasingly engaging with Conagra's staples portfolio as they discover their kitchens. Today, we are reaffirming our fiscal '22 guidance. As I said earlier, we're not incorporating expectations about the stickiness of COVID-driven demand in our reaffirmation of the organic net sales guidance. However, as we have detailed today, we are increasingly confident that we will benefit from the stickiness of the pandemic-driven demand. And as Dave will discuss, while the current inflationary environment provides us more of a challenge on margin than we were originally expecting, we will be pulling on all of our margin levers to manage through the current environment and remain focused on delivering our profitability targets. So to summarize, we continued to deliver solid execution during the third quarter, and our business remains strong in the absolute and relative to peers. While inflation is accelerating, we have multiple levers to manage inflation and drive margin improvement. And we're continuing our execution of the Conagra Way playbook, which includes investments to capitalize on significant behavioral tailwinds. And with that, I'll turn it over to Dave.Dave Marberger -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Sean, and good morning, everyone. I'll start my remarks by calling out a few third-quarter performance highlights, which are captured on Slide 37. As we have detailed this morning, the business continued to perform very well throughout the third quarter. Strong execution from the supply chain and outstanding performance by our teams across the company enabled us to exceed expectations for net sales during the third quarter while meeting margin and earnings targets as we continued to strategically invest in the business while managing inflation. Overall, reported and organic net sales for the quarter increased 8.5% and 9.7% respectively compared to the same period a year ago. Adjusted gross margin increased 12 basis points to 27.5%, and adjusted operating margin increased 31 basis points to 16% in the quarter. Adjusted EBITDA increased 9.9% to $566 million in the quarter, while adjusted diluted EPS grew to $0.59, up 25.5%. Slide 38 illustrates the drivers of our 8.5% net sales growth versus the same period a year ago. The 9.7% increase in organic net sales was driven by a 6.1% increase in volume connected to the continued increase in at-home food consumption as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. A favorable price/mix impact contributed a 3.6% increase to organic sales growth. As Sean mentioned, our organic sales growth was impacted a bit from the February winter storms that impacted our ability to deliver product for a short time during the quarter. Our strong organic net sales growth was partially offset by the impact of a 1.2% decrease associated with the divestitures of the Lender's, H.K. Anderson, and Peter Pan businesses, as well as the exit of the private label peanut butter business. As a reminder, we completed the divestiture of our Peter Pan business on January 25, which was approximately two months into our fiscal third quarter. Turning to Slide 39. You will find a summary of our net sales by segment. In the third quarter, we saw continued growth in each of our three retail segments on both a reported and organic basis as the continuation of elevated demand for at-home food consumption benefited these segments. Our foodservice segment was negatively impacted by reduced demand away from home. Importantly, innovation momentum in our retail segments continued throughout the quarter. Slide 40 outlines the adjusted operating margin bridge for the third quarter versus the prior year. As you can see, our adjusted operating margin increased 30 basis points to 16%, in line with our guidance range for the quarter. Our adjusted gross margin increased by 12 basis points in the quarter versus the same period a year ago as our margin levers of mix, cost management, fixed cost leverage, and pricing more than offset the combination of inflation and COVID-related costs. Included in the 180 basis points of COVID-related costs is 60 basis points of additional transportation investments that we made during the quarter. I'll discuss those in more detail in a moment. A&P increased 11.8% in the quarter, primarily driven by higher e-commerce marketing investments, particularly for the refrigerated and frozen segment. And finally, our adjusted SG&A rate was favorable to our operating margin by 30 basis points versus a year ago as net sales grew at a faster pace than SG&A. I'd now like to touch on certain transportation investments we made in the quarter. These are incremental transportation costs incurred on top of the core transportation inflation we experienced, so we've included these in our COVID-19-related costs in the margin bridge. These investments had a negative impact on our margins, but they helped us deliver more profit dollars. As you can see by Q3 organic net sales exceeding guidance, demand was higher than we expected during the quarter. To adequately service this demand, we made the decision to invest approximately $15 million in the quarter. This meant aggressively seeking out every available truck and adjusting how we ship to customers. To best service demand for certain brands, we had to bypass our normal distribution network and ship directly to customers. While we incurred additional costs to implement these actions, which impacted our operating margin, this enabled us to minimize out of stocks, maximize on-shelf availability and maximize profit dollars. COVID has provided a period of significant elevated consumer trial of our brands, and our innovation has outperformed expectations, allowing us to gain share with existing and new consumers. Investing to keep product on shelves to support this momentum and to support our retail customers while they manage tighter inventory levels was an easy business decision for us. While we expect demand to remain elevated for the foreseeable future, we believe we will be in a position to start rebuilding inventory over the next two quarters, which we believe will start removing the need for these incremental investments. I want to take a moment to comment on the input cost inflation we're seeing in the market and provide an overview of what we're doing to navigate it. As you can see on Slide 42, inflation increased 3.9% in the third quarter. This was higher than our 3.5% estimate and reflects the broad-based impact on the cost of materials, manufacturing and transportation, and logistics. We expect the rate of inflation to continue to accelerate over the next few quarters. Fortunately, we have a variety of levers that can be used to offset this pressure, including pricing. We have already mobilized our inflation-justified pricing plans with some actions already in market, others communicated to customers, and some yet to come. History shows us that price adjustments are more likely to be accepted in the market when industrywide and broad-based input cost inflation occurs, and that's the environment we see today. We will also leverage our capabilities beyond just pricing to offset margin pressure, including overall mix management, cost savings measures such as our ongoing supply chain realized productivity programs, and the optimization of our fixed cost leverage. In short, we will continue to closely evaluate the impact of inflation on our business and are confident in our ability to utilize our entire tool kit to manage through this environment. Turning to Slide 43. You can see an outline of our adjusted operating profit and margin by segment for the quarter. We are very happy with the continued profit growth in our retail business in the quarter, which more than offsets the decline in foodservice. Slide 44 summarizes the drivers of our third-quarter adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations. In the quarter, our adjusted diluted EPS of $0.59 increased by 25.5% compared to the same period a year ago. The growth in the quarter was primarily driven by the increase in adjusted operating profit associated with the net sales increase and margin expansion, as well as reduced interest expense driven by lower debt. Slide 45 summarizes Conagra's net debt and cash flow information. We ended the third quarter with our net debt to adjusted EBITDA leverage ratio at our longer-term target of 3.5 times, which is down from 4.8 times a year ago. With our balance sheet in a stronger position and given our strong operating cash flow, we have increased our investments in the business. Our year-to-date capex increased over $130 million compared to last year to fund important capacity and productivity projects. The combination of the improved balance sheet and strong free cash flow generation has enabled us to return additional capital to shareholders via our recently increased dividend, as well as by executing our first share repurchases since the close of the Pinnacle acquisition. During the quarter, we opportunistically repurchased 8.8 million shares for $298 million, demonstrating our willingness to capitalize on occasions when we believe we are undervalued. Looking forward, we will continue to be focused on executing a balanced capital allocation policy focused on driving sustainable value creation. We remain committed to maintaining solid investment-grade credit ratings as we use the strength of our cash flow and balance sheet to opportunistically play offense as compelling investment opportunities arise in the future. Slide 46 summarizes our current outlook. As we've said throughout our comments today, Conagra's business is performing well, and we remain optimistic regarding our ability to generate continued strong performance in the quarters ahead. For the fourth quarter, we expect organic net sales to decline approximately 10% to 12% as we lap the 21.5% growth in Q4 a year ago. Our Q4 guidance represents a strong two-year growth rate of approximately 7% to 9.5%. As a reminder, reported net sales will also be impacted by last year's 53rd week. We expect fourth-quarter operating margin to be in the range of 14% to 15%. This estimate includes the combination of continued transportation investments to support product availability at similar levels to Q3, the lag in timing between our pricing actions, and the expected acceleration of inflation, as well as a continuation of the A&P investment increase that started in Q2. As a reminder, our fiscal fourth quarter is historically our lowest operating margin quarter given seasonality and as just mentioned, does not include a 53rd week. Given these sales and margin factors, we expect to deliver fourth-quarter adjusted EPS in the range of $0.49 to $0.55. Our fourth-quarter guidance also continues to assume that the end-to-end supply chain operates effectively during this period of heightened demand. And finally, we are reaffirming all of our fiscal '22 guidance metrics. As Sean mentioned, the benefits of the stickiness of COVID-related demand are not required to reach our fiscal '22 organic net sales guidance. While the current inflationary environment provides us more of a challenge on margin than we were originally expecting, we remain focused on utilizing our entire tool kit to deliver our profitability targets, which we are reaffirming today. When we report Q4 results in early July, we plan to provide more detail on our fiscal '22 expectations. That concludes my remarks this morning. Thanks for listening. I'll now pass it to the operator to open it up for questions. 