
OperatorGreetings, and welcome to the Align Technology, Inc. Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Shirley Stacy, VP, Corporate Communications and Investor Relations.Shirley Stacy -- Vice President of Corporate Communications & Investor Relations

 



Good afternoon and thank you for joining us. I'm Shirley Stacy, Vice President of Corporate Communications and Investor Relations. Joining me for today's call is Joe Hogan, President and CEO; and John Morici, CFO.We issued second quarter 2021 financial results today via Globe Newswire, which is available on our website at investor.aligntech.com. Today's conference call is being audio webcast and will be archived on our website for approximately one month. A telephone replay will be available by approximately 5.30 PM Eastern Time through 5.30 PM Eastern Time on August 11. To access the telephone replay, domestic callers should dial 877-660-6853 with conference number 13720779 followed by pound. International callers should dial 201-612-7415 with the same conference number.As a reminder, the information provided and discussed today will include forward-looking statements including statements about Align's future events and product outlook. These forward-looking statements are only predictions and involve risks and uncertainties that are described in more detail in our most recent periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, available on our website and at sec.gov. Actual results may vary significantly, and Align expressly assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.We have posted historical financial statements, including the corresponding reconciliations, including our GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation, if applicable, and our second quarter 2021 conference call slides on our website under Quarterly Results. Please refer to these files for more detailed information.

 



With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Align Technology's President and CEO, Joe Hogan. Joe?Joseph Hogan -- President & Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Shirley. Good afternoon and thanks for joining us. On our call today, I'll provide some highlights from the second quarter, then briefly discuss the performance of our two operating segments, Systems and Services and Clear Aligners. John will provide more detail on our financial results and discuss our outlook. Following that, I'll come back and summarize a few key points and open the call to questions.I'm pleased to report our first $1 billion revenue quarter with record volumes reflecting continued momentum from both Clear Aligners and Systems and Services. For Q2, Systems and Services revenues reflect strong growth across all regions and the strategic value of the iTero business with continued adoption of the iTero Element 5D Plus Series of next-generation scanners and imaging systems which launched in February.

 



Increasingly, doctors are seeing the strategic impact and value of iTero scanners in their practices. In addition to its role in Invisalign case submissions, it is a true workhorse and digital enabler in every type of practice and across every type of orthodontic and restorative workflow.Q2 sequential Clear Aligner volumes were primarily driven by strength in both adult and teen market segments and across customer channels and regions, especially from the Americas and EMEA regions, reflecting the expanding opportunity for Invisalign treatment among adults globally, as well as the underlying orthodontic market as we continue to build awareness of the Invisalign brand and drive utilization among teens and younger patients.For Q2 '21, Invisalign Clear Aligner volumes for teens were up 9.5% sequentially and 156% year-over-year to 181,000 teens, representing one-third of total cases shipped, with strong growth from North America and EMEA orthodontists. During the quarter, we hosted several team-focused, peer-to-peer events designed to build clinical competence in teen treatment and highlight the teen digital treatment journey with Invisalign treatment.The recent APAC Virtual Symposium featured leading providers focusing on clinical excellence with teen treatment, and North America hosted the Invisalign Teen forum; Virtual Edition for Invisalign doctors bringing together clinical speakers, digital industry experts and teen patient panelists to share their insights.In May, Align focused on the Align Digital Platform at the 2021 AAO annual session, featuring a dynamic virtual line-up of Invisalign doctors describing how they have grown their practices through adoption of digital technology.Our Q2 results also reflect the positive impact of our investments in consumer marketing, generating billions of impressions and 33% year-over-year increase in leads for Invisalign doctors. During the quarter, we launched the next phase of our Mom/Teen multi-touch campaign, as well as the new "Invis is a Powerful Thing" campaign designed to engage teens and young adults.We also deepened our partnership with influencers like Charli D'Amelio with the first limited-edition aligner case as part of our new e-Commerce initiative featuring custom cases, cleaning and oral care products, as well as accessories like Invisalign Stickables, all of which are available on Invisalign.com.These and other consumer initiatives are important in supporting doctors' practices especially through the busy summer teen season and beyond. They also build on our investments in digital technology and innovation that are the foundation of the Align Digital Platform, including integrated digital workflows and virtual tools designed to improve clinical confidence, treatment efficiency, and patient outcomes.A year ago, we released Invisalign Virtual Appointment and Invisalign Virtual Care tools within our My Invisalign app, in response to the global pandemic to enable Invisalign doctors to provide continuity of care for their patients. Today, Invisalign Virtual Care is available globally in 60 markets and the My Invisalign app has been downloaded 1 million times with Invisalign patients worldwide.It was recently recognized as the "Best Virtual Care Platform" by the MedTech Breakthrough Awards program and as "Digital Innovation of the Year" by Healthcare Asia Medtech Awards. As part of Invisalign Virtual Care, patients use My Invisalign app to stay engaged with their treatment and convey progress photos to their doctor, fostering two-way communication with their doctor throughout their Invisalign treatment journey.Now let's turn to the specifics around our second quarter results, starting with the Americas. For the Americas region, Q2 was another strong quarter with Invisalign case volumes up 11% sequentially and 261% year-over-year, reflecting growth across the region especially in the United States and Canada, from both comprehensive and non-comprehensive products, and increased Invisalign utilization from orthodontic and GP channels. DSO utilization continues to be a strong growth driver as well, led by Heartland and Smile Docs.For our international business, Q2 Invisalign case volume was up sequentially 12.7% on a year-over-year basis. International shipments were up 149%. For EMEA, Q2 volumes were up sequentially 17% and 265% year-over-year with broad-based growth across all markets, led by Iberia, UK, and Italy along with continued growth in our expansion markets.In Q2, growth from both channels was strong, with orthodontic channel growth reflecting increased Invisalign utilization, and GP channel growth driven by increased Invisalign submitters. For Q2, EMEA growth also reflects adoption of the Invisalign First product, designed to treat a broad range of teeth straightening issues in growing children, from simple to complex, including crowding, spacing, and narrow dental arches.Aiding in treatment engagement for those younger patients, Invisalign Stickables are innovative accessories designed exclusively for use with the patented SmartTrack material in Invisalign clear systems. Available in an array of designs, colors, shapes, and themes, Invisalign Stickables are a fun way for patients to show their personal style during Invisalign treatment. During the quarter, we also hosted a successful virtual edition of GP Growth Summit attended by over 1,200 doctors from the EMEA region.For APAC, Q2 volumes were up sequentially 4.8% and 50% on a year year-over-year basis, reflecting growth across the region, led by Japan, China and ANZ, despite new and extended COVID restrictions in several APAC markets. APAC performance reflects strength in GP Channel with increased Invisalign submitters, especially in Japan which continues to deliver strong growth.During the quarter, we hosted our China Forum, attended by over 1,500 doctors from private clinics, our APAC Virtual Symposium, attended by 1,400 doctors as well as the China Public Hospital Forum in June.Our consumer marketing is focused on educating consumers about the Invisalign system and driving that demand to Invisalign doctors' offices, ultimately capitalizing on the massive market opportunity to transform 500 million smiles. We have provided many of our key metrics that show increased activity and engagement with the Invisalign brand in our Q2 quarterly presentation slides available on aligntech.com.In Q2, we launched the next generation of "Invis Is" multi-touch campaign driving reach and awareness with adult, mom and teen consumers yielding more than 200% growth in visitors globally to our websites and more than 82% increase in searches for an Invisalign trained doctor.Leading with the Invis is Not Your Parents Braces campaign, we connected with teens, utilizing digital media such as YouTube, Twitch, and social media. We also continued with our Invisalign ChangeMakers program that celebrated and recognized teens driving change in their communities which was covered by multiple media outlets such as Elite Daily, Refinery29, Yahoo! Unwind, Hollywood Life, SheKnows, J-14, Yahoo Finance, Parents.com, Glamour and NewBeauty and generated more than 600 million impressions.In the EMEA region, our new marketing campaign to drive engagement, "Invis is a powerful thing," went live in the UK, Germany, and France during the quarter resulting in more than 170% year-over-year increase in unique visitors and 136% year-over-year increase in doctor locater searches. We will continue to roll out the campaign to additional markets in the region during the third quarter.We continued to expand our consumer advertising in the APAC region in Australia, Japan, and China and saw more than an 800% increase in consumer engagement and a 55% year-over-year increase in leads.Lastly, we continue to build strong relationships with global search and social media giants like Google, Snapchat, and TikTok in order to further leverage our best-in-class consumer demand programs more effective globally. These partners recognize the power of the Invisalign brand and are helping us amplify and gain efficiencies from our investments.For our Systems and Services business, Q2 revenues were up 20% sequentially and up 214% year-over-year reflecting strong scanner shipments and services. This represents the fourth consecutive quarter of sequential revenue growth.The iTero Element 5D Plus Imaging System continues to gain traction across all regions with strong adoption with new customers in the APAC and EMEA regions and with existing customers in the Americas region.In APAC, the iTero Element 2 intraoral scanner did well during the quarter, helping to transform digital workflows and chairside consults for doctors. During the quarter, we announced a new iTero Workflow 2.0 software and previewed auto-upload functionality in the iTero Element 5D Imaging System.The iTero Workflow 2.0 software advanced features, including faster scanning, improved visualization, and enhanced patient communication tools, were rolled out regionally in all markets where the iTero Element Plus imaging systems were sold.The iTero Element 5D imaging system auto-upload feature will eliminate steps and streamline Invisalign case submissions with intraoral color scan images that can be used in place of traditional intraoral photos. The auto-upload functionality is scheduled for release during the third quarter of 2021.There is great symmetry between Systems and Services business with Clear Aligner business reflected in the positive correlation between the deployment of scanners and the increased utilization of Invisalign Clear Aligners.In terms of digital scans used for Invisalign case submissions, total digital scans in Q2 increased to 82.2% from 78.5% in Q2 last year. International scans increased to 76.2%, up from 72% in the same quarter last year. For the Americas, 86.6% of cases were submitted digitally compared to 86% a year ago.Cumulatively, over 40.1 million orthodontic scans and 8.4 million restorative scans have been performed with iTero scanners. I'm also pleased to share that Align received regulatory approval for the iTero 5D Plus series in Japan on July 1, with a formal launch event planned for August.Turning to exocad. During the quarter, exocad launched the Creator Center, the new exocad one-stop-shop for online and in-person educational events with a database consisting of 35 educational webinars showcasing the highlights and add-on features of exocad's software solutions, DentalCAD Galway 3.0 and exoplan 3.0 Galway. More than 2,500 users and distributors have been trained on the new software releases worldwide.Exocad also expanded their market coverage with a new global OEM partner, Ivoclar Vivadent, or we call IV, one of the largest manufacturers in the dental industry. This strategic collaboration will give exocad access to thousands of new IV users worldwide and will also provide exocad users with access to production processes with removable prosthetics in the future.Earlier this month, exocad has released PartialCAD3.0 Galway, its module for removable partial denture frameworks, which has new and advanced features for the design of high quality partial dentures. This new release enhances digital CAD/CAM possibilities for exocad users and dental technicians by providing simpler design solutions for complex cases. PartialCAD3.0 Galway provides both experts and new users with smooth, improved integration with DentalCAD, exocad's leading software for dental laboratories.Bringing the iTero and exocad businesses together makes us more viable within the GP segment and more relevant in day-to-day comprehensive dentistry for our customers. The combination of Invisalign Clear Aligners and iTero scanners have long provided a seamless workflow for orthodontic treatment.The integration of exocad's expertise in restorative dentistry and implantology, guided surgery and smile design takes the Align technology portfolio beyond our established footprint in orthodontics to ortho-restorative and restorative treatment, and paves the way for new, cross-disciplinary workflows that span from visualization and treatment planning to lab production to chairside. exocad also broadens Align's platform reach in digital dentistry with over 200 partners and more than 40,000 licenses installed worldwide.With that, I'll now turn the call over to John.John Morici -- Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President of Global FinanceThanks, Joe. Let me begin by reminding everyone that for Align and many companies, Q2 2020 was significantly impacted by COVID-19 business disruptions, and comparisons of our results for Q2 2021 should be considered accordingly. Now for our Q2 financial results.Total revenues for the second quarter were $1 billion, up 13% from the prior quarter and up 186.9% from the corresponding quarter a year ago. For Clear Aligners, Q2 revenues of $841 million were up 11.6% sequentially and up 181.9% year-over-year reflecting Invisalign volume growth in most geographies.In Q2, we shipped a record 665.6 thousand Invisalign cases, an increase of 11.7% sequentially and 200% year-over-year. In addition, we shipped a record 83.5 thousand Invisalign doctors worldwide, of which approximately 7.2 thousand were first-time customers.Q2 Clear Aligner revenues reflect strong growth across the Invisalign portfolio for both Comprehensive and non-Comprehensive products. Q2 Comprehensive volume increased 11.4% sequentially and 181.9% year-over-year. And Q2 non-Comprehensive volume increased 12.3% sequentially driven by strength in Invisalign Moderate and Invisalign Go and up 251.7% year-over-year.Q2 adult patients increased 12.6% sequentially and 220.4% year-over-year. In Q2, teens or younger patients increased 9.5% sequentially and 156.3% year-over-year. Clear Aligner revenues were unfavorably impacted by foreign exchange of approximately $3.4 million or approximately 0.5 points sequentially. On a year-over-year basis, Clear Aligner revenues were favorably impacted by foreign exchange of approximately $36.7 million or approximately 12.3 points.For Q2, Invisalign Comprehensive ASPs decreased sequentially and year-over-year. On a sequential basis, Invisalign Comprehensive ASPs reflect higher discounts, credits, and foreign exchange, partially offset by regional mix. On a year-over-year basis, Comprehensive ASPs reflect the increase in net revenue deferrals for new Invisalign cases versus additional aligner shipments partially offset by foreign exchange.Recall Q2 2020 ASPs increased as a result of more additional aligner shipments as doctors were focused on maintaining treatment progress for existing Invisalign patients. This trend reversed itself after practices reopened in Q3 and demand for new cases ramped up significantly.Q2 Invisalign non-Comprehensive ASPs increased sequentially and were flat year-over-year. On a sequential basis, Invisalign non-Comprehensive ASPs reflect lower discounts partially offset by foreign exchange.On a year-over-year basis, Invisalign non-Comprehensive ASPs were favorably impacted by foreign exchange offset by higher mix of new Invisalign cases versus additional aligner shipments. Clear aligner deferred revenues on the balance sheet increased $101 million sequentially and $337 million year-over-year and will be recognized as the additional aligners are shipped.Our System and Services revenues for the second quarter were a record $169.8 million, up 20% sequentially and up 214.7% year-over-year. The increase sequentially and year-over-year can be attributed to increased scanner shipments, higher ASP and increased services revenues from our larger installed base.Our Systems and Services deferred revenue on the balance sheet was up 22% sequentially and up 135% year-over-year, primarily due to the increase in scanner sales and the deferral of service revenues, which will be recognized ratably over the service period.Moving on to gross margin. Second quarter gross margin was 75%, down 0.6 points sequentially and up 11.4 points year-over-year. On a non-GAAP basis, excluding stock-based compensation and amortization of intangibles related to our exocad acquisition, overall gross margin was 75.4% for the second quarter, down 0.7 points sequentially and up 11 points year-over-year. Overall gross margin was favorably impacted by approximately 1.1 points on a year-over-year basis due to foreign exchange and relatively unchanged sequentially.Clear Aligner gross margin for the second quarter was 76.9%, down 0.7 points sequentially due to higher freight costs and slightly lower ASPs. Clear Aligner gross margin was 12.4 points year-over-year due to increased manufacturing efficiencies from higher production volumes, partially offset by lower ASPs.Systems and Services gross margin for the second quarter was a record 65.9%, up 0.5 points sequentially primarily due to higher ASPs, partially offset by manufacturing variances and higher freight costs.Systems and Services gross margin was up 6.6 points year-over-year due to higher ASPs and services revenues, in addition to improved manufacturing efficiencies from higher production volumes, partially offset by higher freight costs.Q2 operating expenses were $489.6 million, up sequentially 8.4% and up 64.7% year-over-year. The sequential increase in operating expenses is due to increased consumer marketing spend, increased compensation related to additional headcount and higher commissions, and other general and administrative costs.Year-over-year, operating expenses increased by $192.3 million, reflecting our continued investment in marketing and sales and R&D activities and investments commensurate with business growth.On a non-GAAP basis, which excludes stock-based compensation and amortization of intangibles related to our exocad acquisition, operating expenses were $461.2 million, up sequentially 8.6% and up 73.6% year-over-year due to the reasons described above.Our second quarter operating income of $268.9 million resulted in an operating margin of 26.6%, up 1.4 points versus prior quarter and up 47.3 points year-over-year. The sequential increase in operating margin was attributable primarily to operational leverage.The year-over-year increase in operating margin was primarily attributable to higher gross margin and operating leverage as well as the favorable impact from foreign exchange by approximate 1.8 points.On a non-GAAP basis, which excludes stock-based compensation and amortization of intangibles, operating margin for the second quarter was 29.8%, up 1.2 points sequentially, and up 40.8 points year-over-year.Interest and other income and expense, net for the second quarter was a loss of 0.1 million, down sequentially by $36.3 million primarily due to the SDC arbitration award gain recorded in the first quarter.With regards to the second quarter tax provision, our GAAP tax rate was 25.7%, which was higher than the prior quarter rate of 23.4% primarily due to lower excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation. Our GAAP tax rate was lower than the same quarter last year, which was 44.8%, primarily due to foreign income taxed at lower rates.The second quarter tax rate on a non-GAAP basis was 19.5% compared to 20.2% in the prior quarter and 27.8% in the prior year. The second quarter non-GAAP tax rate was lower than the prior quarter and the second quarter of the prior year rates due to foreign income taxed at lower rates.Second quarter net income per diluted share was $2.51, flat sequentially and up $3.03 compared to the prior year. On a non-GAAP basis, net income per diluted share was $3.04 for the second quarter, up $0.55 sequentially and up $3.39 year-over-year.Moving on to the balance sheet. As of June 30, 2021, cash and cash equivalents were $1.1 billion, flat sequentially. Of our $1.1 billion of cash and cash equivalents, $551 million was held in the U.S. and $535.3 million was held by our international entities.Q2 accounts receivable balance was $808.1 million, up approximately 12.4% sequentially. Our overall days sales outstanding was 72 days, flat sequentially and down approximately 49.1 days as compared to Q2 last year.Cash flow from operations for the second quarter was $317.5 million. Capital expenditures for the second quarter were $124.2 million, primarily related to our continued investment in increasing aligner capacity and facilities.Free cash flow, defined as cash flow from operations less capital expenditures, amounted to $193.3 million. We also have $300 million available under our revolving line of credit. Under our $1 Billion repurchase program announced in May 2021, we have $900 million remaining available for repurchase of our common stock.Now let me turn to our outlook and the factors that inform our view for the remainder of the year. Overall, we are very pleased with our second quarter results and our continued strong performance across regions, customer channels and products.While there continues to be uncertainty around the pandemic and increasing restrictions related to COVID-19 in certain geographies, we are continuing to invest in our strategic growth initiatives, including sales, marketing, innovation and manufacturing capacity, to drive demand and conversion globally and are confident in our competitive position and ability to execute.At the same time, we are also anticipating more pronounced summer seasonality across all regions than we have experienced in recent years, as doctors, their staff and patients take long overdue vacations.Notwithstanding seasonality, given our strong performance and continued confidence in the huge market opportunity, our industry leadership and our ability to execute, we are increasing our 2021 revenue guidance provided in April on the Q1 '21 earnings call to a range of $3.85 billion to $3.95 billion.Additionally, we now expect our second half year-over-year revenue growth rate to be above the midpoint of our long-term operating model target of 20% to 30%. On a GAAP basis, we now anticipate our 2021 operation margin to be better than our prior guidance, in the range of 24% to 25%.On a non-GAAP basis, we expect the 2021 operating margin to be approximately 3 points higher than our GAAP operating margin, after excluding stock-based compensation and intangible amortization.In addition, during Q3 '21, we expect to repurchase up to $75 million of our common stock through either a combination of open market repurchases or an accelerated stock repurchase agreement.For 2021, we expect our investments in capital expenditures to be approximately $500 million. Capital expenditures primarily relate to building construction and improvements as well as additional manufacturing capacity to support our international expansion. This includes our planned investment in a new manufacturing facility in Poland, our first one in the EMEA region.With that, I'll turn it back over to Joe for final comments. Joe?Joseph Hogan -- President & Chief Executive OfficerThanks, John. Q2 was a terrific quarter and we're very pleased with the improvements we're seeing in recovery in doctor's practices. We truly value their increasing adoption of digital treatment approaches, their confidence in the unique Align Digital Platform that spans from iTero to the world's most sophisticated treatment planning, the world's largest 3D printing business on the globe to a patient app with over 1 million consumers along with the world's most recognized orthodontic brand has driven strong performance across the business.Our performance over the last year confirms the incredible size of our target market and demonstrates that our strategy and investments in recent years have helped further solidify our competitive position. We have numerous growth drivers in a vastly underpenetrated market. And while we continue to see some lasting impact and continued uncertainty due to COVID, we remain confident in both the enormous opportunity we have to lead the evolution of digital orthodontics and comprehensive dentistry with our doctor customers, and in our ability to execute our strategy to increase adoption of Invisalign treatment globally.We're also confident in and excited about the benefits of digital treatment that more and more doctors are experiencing by transforming their practices with Invisalign digital orthodontics and iTero scanners for chairside treatment planning and visualization. In fact, Invisalign treatment requires on an average 30% fewer doctor visits than fixed appliances, creating efficiency gains for the doctors and a better patient experience. And 85% of orthodontists surveyed agree that adopting the Align Digital Platform has made a huge difference in their practices. It provides ways to improve their efficiency and productivity.I look forward to updating you at the GP Summit and Investor Day in October in Las Vegas and sharing more examples of how Align is helping doctors transform their practices and their approach to treatment.Now I'll turn the call over to the operator for questions. Operator?