  OperatorGreetings. Welcome to Valero Energy Corporation's first quarter 2022 earnings call. [Operator instructions] Please note, this conference is being recorded. At this time, I'll now turn the conference over to Homer Bhullar, vice president, investments and finance. Mr. Bhullar, you may now begin.Homer Bhullar -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



 Good morning, everyone, and welcome to Valero Energy Corporation's first quarter 2022 earnings conference call. With me today are Joe Gorder, our chairman and CEO; Lane Riggs, our president and COO; Jason Fraser, our executive vice president and CFO; Gary Simmons, our executive president and chief commercial officer; and several other members of Valero's senior management team. If you have not received the earnings release and would like a copy, you can find one on our website at investorvalero.com. Also attached to the earnings release are tables that provide additional financial information on our business segments and reconciliations and disclosures for adjusted metrics mentioned on this call. If you have any questions after reviewing these tables, please feel free to contact our investor relations team after the call. I would now like to direct your attention to the forward-looking statement disclaimer contained in the press release. In summary, it says that statements in the press release and on this conference call that state the company's or management's expertise or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions under federal securities laws. There are many factors that could cause actual results to differ from our expectations, including those we've described in our filings with the SEC.Now, I'll turn the call over to Joe for opening remarks. Joe Gorder -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thanks, Homer, and good morning, everyone. I'm pleased to report that today, we delivered solid financial results for the first quarter, led by a continued recovery in our refining segment. Refining margins were supported by strong product demand, coupled with very low product inventories globally. Refinery capacity rationalizations that have taken place in the last couple of years continue to contribute to the supply tightness. In addition, high natural gas prices in Europe are supporting product cracks to compensate for the higher operating costs. This, in turn, provides a structural margin advantage for U.S. refineries particularly those located in the Gulf Coast, where natural gas costs are significantly lower than in Europe. Turning to our low carbon segments. The ethanol business generated positive operating income despite a weak margin environment and our growing renewable diesel business continues to generate good results with high demand for renewable diesel. We expect low carbon fuel policies to continue to expand globally and drive demand for low carbon fuels. And with that view, we're leveraging our operational and technical expertise to steadily expand our competitive advantage. The DGD 3 renewable diesel project located next to our Port Arthur refinery is now expected to be operational in the fourth quarter of 2022. With the completion of this 470 million-gallon per year plant, total annual capacity is expected to be approximately 1.2 billion gallons of renewable diesel and 50 million gallons of renewable naphtha. BlackRock and Navigators large-scale carbon sequestration project is progressing on schedule and is expected to begin start-up activities in late 2024. Valero is expected to be the anchor shipper, with eight ethanol plants connected to this system, which should provide a lower carbon intensity ethanol product and result in higher product margins. We continue to evaluate other low carbon opportunities such as sustainable aviation fuel, renewable hydrogen and additional renewable naphtha and carbon sequestration projects.

 



 And in refining, the Port Arthur coker project, which is expected to increase the refinery's utilization rate and improved turnaround efficiency, is still expected to be completed in the first half of 2023. On the financial side, we remain committed to our capital allocation framework, which prioritizes a strong balance sheet and an investment-grade credit rating. We further reduced our long-term debt by $750 million in February through debt reduction and refinancing transactions, bringing our total long-term debt reduction to $2 billion in six months. And we continue to honor our commitment to stockholder returns with an annual target payout ratio of 40% to 50%. We restarted stock buybacks in the first quarter which, combined with our dividend, returned $545 million to our stockholders. Looking ahead, the fundamentals that drove strong results in the first quarter, particularly in March, continue to provide a positive backdrop for the refining segment. We expect product demand to remain healthy with light products demand near pre-pandemic levels and the pent-up desire to travel and take vacations should drive incremental demand for transportation fuels as we head into the summer. Global product inventories remain low, particularly for diesel and there's less refining capacity available to replenish inventories. In addition, natural gas price disparity between the U.S. and Europe should provide a structural margin advantage for U.S. refiners especially for assets located in the Gulf Coast. In closing, we're encouraged by the refining outlook, which, coupled with our growth strategy and low carbon fuels, should further strengthen our long-term competitive advantage and drive long-term stockholder returns. So with that, Homer, I'll hand the call back to you.Homer Bhullar -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thanks, Joe. For the first quarter of 2022, net income attributable to Valero stockholders was $905 million or $2.21 per share compared to a net loss of $704 million or $1.73 per share for the first quarter of 2021. First quarter 2022 adjusted net income attributable to Valero stockholders was $944 million or $2.31 per share compared to an adjusted net loss of $666 million or $1.64 per share for the first quarter of 2021. For reconciliations to adjusted amounts, please refer to the financial tables that accompany the earnings release. The refining segment reported $1.45 billion of operating income for the first quarter of 2022 compared to $592 million operating loss of the first quarter of 2021. First quarter 2022 adjusted operating income was $1.47 billion compared to an adjusted operating loss of $506 million for the first quarter of 2021. Refining throughput volumes in the first quarter of 2022 averaged 2.8 million barrels per day, which was 390,000 barrels per day higher than the first quarter of 2021. Throughput capacity utilization was 89% in the first quarter of 2022 compared to 77% in the first quarter of 2021. Refining cash operating expenses of $4.73 per barrel in the first quarter of 2022 were $2.05 per barrel lower than the first quarter of 2021, which were impacted by excess energy costs related to Winter Storm, Uri. The renewable diesel segment operating income was $149 million for the first quarter of 2022 compared to $203 million for the first quarter of 2021. renewable diesel sales volumes averaged 1.7 million gallons per day in the first quarter of 2022, which was 871,000 gallons per day higher than the first quarter of 2021. The higher sales volumes were attributed to the fourth quarter 2021 start-up of the Diamond Green Diesel expansion project or DGD 2. The ethanol segment reported $1 million of operating income for the first quarter of 2022 compared to a $56 million operating loss for the first quarter of 2021. Ethanol production volumes averaged 4 million gallons per day in the first quarter of 2022, which was 483,000 gallons per day higher than the first quarter of 2021. For the first quarter of 2022, G&A expenses were $205 million and net interest expense was $145 million. Depreciation and amortization expense was $606 million, and the income tax expense was $252 million for the first quarter of 2022. The effective tax rate was 21%. Net cash provided by operating activities was $588 million in the first quarter of 2022. Excluding the unfavorable impact from the change in working capital of $722 million and the other joint venture members, 50% share of Diamond Green Diesel's net cash provided by operating activities. Excluding changes in DGD's working capital, adjusted net cash provided by operating activities was $1.2 billion. With regard to investing activities. We made $843 million of capital investments in the first quarter of 2022 of which $536 million was for sustaining the business, including costs for turnarounds, catalysts and regulatory compliance and $307 million was for growing the business. Excluding capital investments attributable to the other joint venture members, 50% share of Diamond Green Diesel and those related to other variable interest entities, capital investments attributable to Valero were $718 million in the first quarter of 2022. Moving to financing activities. We returned $545 million to our stockholders in the first quarter of 2022, with $401 million paid as dividends and $144 million of stock buybacks, resulting in a payout ratio of 44% of adjusted net cash provided by operating activities for the quarter. With respect to our balance sheet. We completed debt reduction and refinancing transactions in the first quarter that reduced Valero's long-term debt by $750 million. As Joe already noted, these debt reduction and refinancing transactions, combined with the debt reduction and refinancing transactions completed in the third and fourth quarters of 2021, have reduced Valero's long-term debt by $2 billion. At quarter end, total debt and finance lease obligations were $13.2 billion and cash and cash equivalents were $2.6 billion. The debt-to-capitalization ratio, net of cash and cash equivalents was 34%. And we ended the quarter well-capitalized with $4.9 billion of available liquidity, excluding cash. Turning to guidance. We still expect capital investments attributable to Valero for 2022 to be approximately $2 billion, which includes expenditures for turnarounds, catalysts and joint venture investments. About 60% of that amount is allocated to sustaining the business and 40% to growth. About half of the growth capital in 2022 is allocated to expanding our low carbon businesses. For modeling our second quarter operations, we expect refining throughput volumes to fall within the following ranges. Gulf Coast at 1.64 million to 1.69 million barrels per day. Mid-Continent at 395,000 to 415,000 barrels per day. West Coast at 225,000 to 245,000 barrels per day, and North Atlantic at 445,000 to 465,000 barrels per day. We expect refining cash operating expenses in the second quarter to be approximately $5.15 per barrel, which are higher than last quarter primarily due to higher natural gas prices. With respect to the renewable diesel segment. We now expect sales volumes to be approximately 750 million gallons in 2022 with the anticipated start-up of DGD 3 in the fourth quarter. Operating expenses in 2022 should still be $0.45 per gallon, which includes $0.15 per gallon for noncash costs such as depreciation and amortization. Our ethanol segment is expected to produce 4 million gallons per day in the second quarter. Operating expenses should average $0.48 per gallon, which includes $0.05 per gallon for noncash costs such as depreciation and amortization. For the second quarter, net interest expense should be about $140 million and total depreciation and amortization expense should be approximately $630 million. For 2022, we expect G&A expenses, excluding corporate depreciation, to be approximately $870 million. That concludes our opening remarks. Before we open the call to questions, we again respectfully request that callers adhere to our protocol of Limiting each turn in the Q&A to two questions. If you have more than two questions, please rejoin the queue as time permits. Please respect this request to ensure other callers have time to ask their questions. 