  OperatorAnd ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the American Express Q3 2021 earnings call. [Operator instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to our host, head of investor relations, Ms. Vivian Zhou. Please go ahead.Vivian Zhou -- Head of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Brad and thank you all for joining today's call. As a reminder, before we begin, today's discussion contains forward-looking statements about the company's future business and financial performance. These are based on management's expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these statements are included in today's presentation slides and our reports on file with the SEC. The discussion today also contains non-GAAP financial measures. The comparable GAAP financial measures are included in this quarter's earnings as well as the earnings materials for the prior periods we discussed. All of these are posted on our website at ir.americanexpress.com. We'll begin today with Steve Squeri, chairman and CEO, to start with some remarks about the company's progress and results.And then Jeff Campbell, chief financial officer, will provide a more detailed review of our financial performance. After that, we will move to a Q&A session on the results with both Steve and Jeff. With that, let me turn it over to Steve. Steve Squeri -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thanks, Vivian, and hello, everyone. Welcome to our third-quarter earnings call. Earlier today, we reported third-quarter revenues of $10.9 billion, up 25% over last year's third quarter and earnings per share of $2.27. These strong results once again reflect accelerating momentum in our core business as billings on our network reached record highs for the third quarter driven by goods and services spending. In my remarks this morning, I want to put into context the decisions that we've made pre-pandemic, when the pandemic hit and during the pandemic to drive the growth we are now seeing and the increased confidence we now have in our business model. In 2018, we introduced a new financial growth algorithm, which call for high single-digit revenue growth and double-digit EPS growth. Prior to the pandemic, we achieved those objectives for 10 straight quarters through focused and increased investment levels in our business. We executed strategies for profitably growing the business, which were based on initiatives to attract new customers and deepen relationships with existing customers in both our consumer and commercial businesses. And while our differentiated business model gave us confidence in our ability to capitalize on the opportunities we saw, we also knew that the favorable economic conditions we had at the time could change. So we also developed a plan for winning through the down cycle that focused on protecting our customers and our colleagues in maintaining our capital strength, while investing strategically and at the right time to rebuild momentum, so we could win during the recovery. Through it all, the driving force behind everything we do from product innovations to our investments decisions is to continue to make the American Express brand special and back our customers. Over the last several years, we focused our strategies on broadening the appeal of core products to attract new customers, particularly millennial, and Gen Z customers, as well as expanding our leadership position with SME customers by providing more ways to help them manage and grow their businesses. To accomplish those objectives, we made a series of investments and I'll highlight a few. We put in place a strategy for consistently refreshing our core premium products, adding value with expanded and relevant new benefits targeted at key consumer and small business customers and we charge for that added value. We added a host of new digital capabilities for consumers and small businesses and expanded and enhanced our mobile app to appeal to the digital lifestyles of our target customers. We're an early mover in launching our buy now pay later capability, Pay It Plan It, which we introduced to address the evolving borrowing preferences of our customers.

 



 We increased our focus on working with strategic partners to help us enrich our value propositions, expand our network and broaden our digital capabilities and offerings. For example, we negotiated wide-ranging long-term agreements with key co-brand partners such as Delta, Hilton and Amazon. We also expanded partnerships with digital giants such as PayPal and added a variety of new partners to our ecosystem, including fintechs, such as Bill.com and Better and lifestyle brands such as Equinox. We achieved virtual parity coverage in the U.S. and we increased coverage internationally through a more targeted approach, while increasing the number of compelling offers and benefits that our merchants deliver to our card members. When the pandemic hit unexpectedly in early 2020, we responded by activating our plan for winning through the cycle using the same customer-focused approach to concentrate on retaining our customers and addressing their immediate needs. We moved quickly to enhance and expand our financial relief programs to assist our customers who suddenly face financial hardships. Our frontline servicing team stepped up to ensure we continue to provide the world-class service our customers have come to expect from American Express. We pivoted the value propositions of several of our premium products, adding temporary benefits on categories that were relevant to how customer spending behaviors have changed, such as wireless, streaming, food delivery and others. This has produced lasting behavioral changes, as spending in a number of these categories, including wireless and streaming, has proven to be sustainable. Soon after, we turned our attention to small businesses who needed help by launching the largest global small business campaign in the company's history, creating the Stand for Small coalition and supporting minority-owned small businesses in the United States. As last year progressed, we learned from our customers what resonated with them in this unprecedented environment and we grew more confident to seize the growth opportunities we saw emerging. So we revved up our investments in Card Member acquisitions and value proposition innovations to capitalize on those opportunities and start rebuilding of our growth momentum. We also saw an opportunity to accelerate our strategy to bring new digital beyond the card capabilities to our small business customers and acquired Kabbage, one of the leading providers of digital cash management platforms. Importantly, the increasing demand we are seeing for our products and what we learn from the early value proposition enhancements encouraged us to restart our product refresh strategy last year. And in July, we launched our new consumer platinum card in the U.S. We're repeating this customer-led product innovation strategy with the refresh of the U.S. Business platinum card, which we launched last week. As with the consumer card refresh, the new benefits we added to our Business platinum and key spend categories such as electronics, software, shipping, wireless and others were informed by our card member desires. Coming into 2021, we were emboldened by the strong results we were seeing toward the end of 2020 from our customer retention and acquisition efforts and we decided to double down our investments in marketing, product innovations, technology and people to accelerate our growth momentum. All these decisions, those that we made before the pandemic. when the pandemic hit and through this year as conditions begin to improve, are driving the results we're seeing today. For example, customer acquisitions have gained momentum over the last five quarters, with 2.6 million new cards in force in the third quarter. Demand for our premium fee-based products has been particularly robust, with acquisitions of our U.S. consumer and small business platinum and gold cards reaching all-time highs in the quarter. In consumer, millennial and Gen Z customers have driven this growth with 75% of new U.S. gold and platinum consumer cards coming from these customers. In commercial, we had one of the best quarters ever, the U.S. small business Cards acquisitions. Our focus on meeting the needs of SMEs and millennial and Gen Z consumer customers has resulted in these groups being the most resilient throughout the pandemic, leading to growth in spending. In fact, spending from these groups continued to accelerate in the third quarter, with goods and services spending from SMEs growing 21% above 2019 levels. And overall spending for millennial and Gen Z customers, particularly strong, up 38% over 2019 levels. Our initiatives to protect our customers at the beginning of the pandemic has driven retention and satisfaction metrics higher than pre-pandemic levels and the digital capabilities we've introduced have driven steady increases in digital engagement. For example, approximately 85% of active card members are digitally engaged with us and we had the highest ever daily active user engagement across the web and mobile in August with a nearly 17% increase year over year. As these examples show the strategies we implemented to profitably grow our business before the pandemic began, coupled with the decisions we made in executing our strategy to manage through the pandemic and to win during a recovery, have generated strong, consistent momentum as the environment continues to improve. And what we've learned through this past year is informing our strategy for investing to profitably grow our business moving forward. Looking ahead, we're operating from a position of strength and we see even more opportunities to build on the momentum we've created. So we will continue to invest strategically in seeking to drive even higher levels of sustainable long-term revenue and EPS growth. With that, I'll turn it over to Jeff to discuss our third-quarter results in detail and then we'll take your questions. Thank you.Jeff Campbell -- Chief Financial Officer Well, thanks, Steve and good morning, everyone. It's good to be here today to talk about our third-quarter results, which reflect strong momentum in our core business driven by the investment strategy that Steve just spoke about. You see this momentum in our summary financials on Slide 2, with third-quarter revenues of $10.9 billion up 24% year over year on an FX-adjusted basis, third-quarter net income of $1.8 billion and earnings per share of $2.27. To get right into a more detailed look at our results, let's talk about how the strategies that Steve just discussed have helped to drive our volumes back above pre-pandemic levels, as you can see on Slide 3. You will notice in the several views of volumes that begin on Slide 3 that we continue to show third-quarter volume trends on both a year-over-year basis and relative to 2019, as we find this provides a clearer picture of the progress we are making in building growth momentum. We did see continued momentum in spending volumes in the third quarter, with total network volumes and billed business volumes both up around 30% year over year and up 4% relative to 2019 on an FX-adjusted basis. This growth in billed business is being driven by continued momentum in spending on goods and services, which you can see on Slide 4 represents 79% of our overall business and was up 19% versus 2019 and strengthened sequentially versus Q2. We are very pleased with this continued strength in goods and services spending given the investments we've made in premium card member engagement, prospect acquisition, growing our coverage and expanding relationships with key partners. Focusing in first on our consumer business on Slide 5. Overall spending was 9% above 2019 levels as growth in goods and services volumes accelerated to 20% above 2019 in the third quarter. For many years, we've been focused on attracting and engaging younger cohorts of card members through expanding our value propositions and digital capabilities. Aided by these efforts, you see that millennials and Gen Z customers are leading the growth in spending, reaching 38% above 2019 levels for the quarter, while older age cohorts have shown continued steady though smaller improvement as well. Turning to our commercial business. As you know, we've been very focused on helping our small and medium-sized enterprise clients run their business by expanding the range of products and capabilities that meet their B2B payments and working capital needs. This strategic focus on SMEs has been key in driving the performance you see on Slide 6. Global SME spending, which represents the bulk of our commercial billed business, remains the most resilient across all of our customer types, with spending up 11% versus 2019 driven by strong growth in B2B spending on goods and services, which grew 21% above 2019 levels in Q3. In contrast, large and global corporate card spending, which historically has been primarily for travel and entertainment, continued to show fewer signs of recovery. We've said all along that we expect this will be the last customer type to see travel recover. Digging into goods and services spending trends on Slide 7. We continue to see strong growth in online and card not present spending, which was up 27% versus 2019, even as offline spending fully recovered in the third quarter, demonstrating the lasting effect of the behavioral changes we've seen during the pandemic. We also saw growth across all categories of goods and services spending, with both consumer and SMEs driving the strong growth in retail and wholesale spending and SMEs leading the growth in advertising and media spending. Turning now to T&E spending on Slide 8. You continue to see a recovery that is on track with our expectation that we'll reach 80% of 2019 levels in the fourth quarter. T&E spending improved sequentially versus Q2 and we're pleased to see restaurant spending, our most resilient and now largest T&E category, back above pre-pandemic levels in the quarter. We did see some modest impacts from the Delta variant in the airline category, where the pace of recovery slowed a bit in August, but it has strengthened again in September and into early October. The trends we have seen reinforce our view. The travel and entertainment spending will eventually fully recover, but at varying paces across customer types and geographies. And we remain focused on maintaining our leadership position in offering differentiated travel and lifestyle benefits to our consumer and commercial customers as they return to travel. Turning to our last look at volumes on Slide 9. You do see that the overall billed business volume recovery continues to be led by the U.S., which first surpassed 2019 levels in Q2 and was up 9% in the third quarter. Importantly, though, growth in goods and services spending has been strong both in the U.S. and outside of the U.S. Overall spending is only weaker outside the U.S. because, historically, we have more travel-related spending in our international regions and international T&E is recovering more slowly than in the U.S. given cross-border travel restrictions. Looking ahead, based on current trends, we still assume that overall T&E spending globally will recover to around 80% of 2019 levels in the fourth quarter of 2021. And even more importantly, we expect continued strong growth momentum in goods and services spending. So all in all, a really good story on spending volumes. Moving on then to the receivable and loan balances on Slide 10. Loan balances continued to slowly recover in the third quarter and were up 9% year over year and 2% sequentially. Relative to 2019 though, loan balances remain down 10% as we continue to see the liquidity and strength among our customer base leading to higher paydown rates, which is also driving the very strong credit performance I'll talk about in a moment. I would point out that we have hit an inflection point on revolving loan balances. We know it will take time for those balances to rebuild as paydown rates are likely to remain elevated in the near term. We believe, over the long term, we can get back to growing our loan volumes faster than the industry. For the next few quarters, though, I continue to expect the recovery in loan balances to lag the recovery in spending volumes. Turning next to credit and provision on Slides 11 through 13. As you flip through these slides, there are a few key points I'd like you to take away. Most importantly, we continue to see extremely strong credit performance, with Card Member loans and receivables, write-off and delinquency rates remaining around historical lows. As loan balances begin to rebuild more meaningfully, we do expect delinquency and loss rates to slowly move up over time. However, given how low delinquency rates are today, we don't expect to see a material increase in write-off rates in the next few quarters. This strong credit performance, combined with further improvement in the macroeconomic outlook, drove $191 million provision expense benefit in the third quarter, as the low write-offs were fully offset by the reserve release as shown on Slide 12. That said, we are mindful that the last of the government stimulus and industry forbearance programs have yet to roll off and that there are remaining uncertainties in the medical and macroeconomic environment. In addition, we are closely monitoring how the card members exiting our financial relief programs are performing, though the early performance of the card members that have exited these programs has looked quite strong. As you see on Slide 13, we ended the quarter -- third quarter with $3.6 billion of reserves, representing 4.5% of our loan balances and 0.1% of our Card Member receivable balances, respectively, which is only slightly below the reserve levels we had pre-pandemic. So given that our credit metrics are still around historical lows, I would say that we continue to hold an appropriately significant amount of reserves driven by the remaining uncertainties I just spoke about. Moving next to revenues on Slide 14. Total revenues were up 25% year over year in the third quarter. We had double-digit growth in all of our noninterest revenue lines and we are starting to see growth in net interest income as well. Before I get into more details about our largest revenue drivers in the next few slides, I would note that other fees and commissions and other revenue were both up sharply year over year in the third quarter primarily driven by the uptick in travel-related revenues we are beginning to see, though they still remain well below 2019 levels. Turning to our largest revenue line discount revenue on Slide 15. You see it grew 33% year over year on an FX-adjusted basis and is now comfortably above 2019 levels. This growth is primarily driven by the steady momentum in goods and services spending that we've seen over the past few quarters. Net card fee revenues continued to grow as consistently as they have throughout the entire pandemic, up 27% year over year in the third quarter. These card fee revenues are now 27% higher than they were back in the third quarter of 2019, as you can see on Slide 16. The resiliency of these subscription-like revenues demonstrates the impact of the continued attractiveness of our premium value propositions to both prospects and existing customers. Turning to net interest income on Slide 17. You can see that it was up 6% year over year. Though still growing slower relative to the other revenue lines, we have clearly hit an inflection point. This growth is slower than the growth in lending AR due to the strong liquidity demonstrated by our customers, which is leading to both our historically low credit costs into higher paydown rates that are driving lower net interest yields and a slower recovery in revolving loan balances. We did see a modest sequential improvement in revolving loan balances in the third quarter. But looking ahead, I continue to expect the recovery in net interest income to lag the recovery in loan volumes. So to sum up on revenues, the momentum of our revenue recovery strengthened in Q3, as you can see on Slide 18, with revenue up 24% year over year on an FX-adjusted basis. Looking forward, with the strength in goods and services spend growth we've seen in the first three quarters of the year, we now assume that full-year revenue growth could be around 15% if current trends continue. The revenue momentum we've seen this year has clearly been accelerated as a result of the investments we've been making in marketing, value propositions, technology and people and those investments show up across the expense lines you see on Slide 19. Let me start at the bottom with operating expenses, which were up 3% year over year in the third quarter. Looking forward, I still expect our full-year opex to be below the $11.5 billion we originally expected, as we continue to keep tight control over our operating expenses, while also investing in technology and our people to drive long-term growth in our business. Moving on to variable customer engagement expenses at the top of Slide 19. There are a few things to think about. Most importantly, in 2020, we added some incremental benefits to many of our premium products in an effort we refer to as value injection because our customers were not able to take advantage of many of the travel-related aspects of our value propositions. The cost of this value injection effort generally showed up in the marketing investment line and are now winding down. We are able to wind them down because our customers are again engaging more with the travel aspects of our value propositions, which is a good thing in terms of longer-term customer retention and growth prospects. It does however mean you see more year-over-year growth in these variable customer engagement costs. As one example of the financial implications of customers again engaging in travel-related aspects of our membership rewards program, in the rewards line, we made a roughly $200 million adjustment this quarter to our membership rewards liability to reflect a higher mix of redemptions in travel-related categories. Looking forward, as I've said the past few quarters, I'd expect these variable customer engagement costs overall to run at around 40% of total revenues. Turning next to the marketing investments we're making to build growth momentum. You can see on Slide 20 that we invested $1.4 billion in marketing in the third quarter, as we continued to ramp up new card acquisition, while winding down our value injection efforts. We acquired 2.6 million new cards, up 87% year over year and 6% sequentially in the third quarter. Much more importantly though than just the total number of cards, we focus internally on the overall level of spend and fee revenue growth we bring on from new acquisitions and revenues from this quarter's acquisitions are trending stronger than what we saw pre-pandemic. One key driver of this performance is the great demand for our premium fee-based products, with new accounts acquired on these products more than doubling year over year and representing 65% of the new accounts acquired in the quarter. In particular, acquisitions of new U.S. consumer and small business platinum and global card members were at all-time highs this quarter and this was again one of the best quarters for small business new account acquisitions in the U.S. Based on the opportunities we've seen in the first three quarters of 2021, we now expect to invest over $5 billion in marketing for the year. We feel really good about the results we've seen from our strategic investments and see an opportunity to continue to invest during the recovery to maximize sustainable long-term growth. Turning next to capital on Slide 21. Our CET1 ratio was 12.6% at the end of the third quarter, which declined from the prior quarter, but remained above our target ratio of 10% to 11%. In the quarter, we returned $3.6 billion of capital to our shareholders, including common stock purchases of $3.3 billion and $337 million in common stock dividends on the back of a starting excess capital position and strong earnings generation. Looking forward, we expect our CET1 ratio to migrate to our target range over the next few quarters, as we continue to return to shareholders the excess capital we hold and generate, while supporting balance sheet growth. So let's close by talking about what the signs and momentum we saw in the first three quarters of this year might mean for the future. As a reminder, we started the year with a wide range of scenarios of potential outcomes for 2021, as we did not know how the medical and economic environment would evolve during the year and the impact it would have, most importantly on our credit reserves. Now, three quarters into the year, the macro outlook has steadily improved and our actual credit performance has remained incredibly strong. We've already released $2.3 billion of reserves, accounting for over $2 of EPS year to date. That still leaves us however with a lot of reserves due to the remaining uncertainties I spoke about earlier. So our updated scenario one on Slide 22 assumes that this uncertainty persists, that the medical environment and economic outlook does not improve further and that we therefore don't release any additional credit reserves this year. That could lead to an EPS outcome as low as around $8.90 per share. Our updated scenario two in contrast assumes that we continue to see strong credit performance, as the remaining stimulus and forbearance programs roll off and that we also see continued improvement in the economic outlook leading to less uncertainty and in all likelihood a lower level of credit reserves. In this scenario, our 2021 EPS could be as high as around $9.50. In closing, we feel really good about the progress we've made this year as a result of our investments in marketing, value propositions, technology and our people. And as the year has gone on, we've gotten even more confident in our ability to deploy significant resources toward building sustainable long-term growth momentum. Based on all these current trends, we are confident in our ability to be within the high end of the range of EPS expectations we originally had for 2020 in 2022 and to continue to drive toward higher levels of sustainable growth over the long term. And with that, I'll turn the call back over to Vivian.Vivian Zhou -- Head of Investor Relations Thank you, Jeff. Before we open up the line for Q&A, I will ask those in the queue to just limit yourself to just one question. Thank you for your cooperation. And with that, the operator will now open up the line for questions. Brad? 