  OperatorGood day, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the General Electric second-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants have no listen only mode. My name is Brandon, and I'll be your conference coordinator today. [Operator instructions] I would now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference, Steve Winoker, vice president of investor relations. Please proceed.Steve Winoker -- Vice President of Investor Relations

 



 Thanks, Brandon. Welcome to GE's second-quarter 2021 Earnings Call. I'm joined by chairman and CEO, Larry Culp; and CFO, Carolina Dybeck Happe. Note that some of the statements we're making are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today. As described in our SEC filings and on our website, those elements can change as the world changes. With that, I'll hand the call over to Larry.Larry Culp -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Steve, thanks and good morning, everyone. Overall, we delivered a strong second quarter and first-half performance, and we're encouraged by the early signs of the recovery. Looking at the numbers on Slide 2. Recall that the second quarter of 2020 was challenging as we navigated the full negative effects of the pandemic.

 



 While we recognize that many are still facing continued challenges with new COVID spikes and variants, we're seeing our businesses return to growth this quarter. Orders were up 30% organically with growth across all segments. In services, we're up 50%. Industrial revenue grew in three of our four segments. We saw strength in healthcare and in services overall. In healthcare and renewables in total as well as in Power Services, revenue was back to levels similar or better to 2019. Notably, aviation and commercial services were up substantially as we're beginning to benefit from the market recovery. Our adjusted Industrial margin expanded 1,000 basis points organically, with year-over-year expansion across all segments and sequential expansion in all segments except aviation where we took a noncash charge largely related to one customer contract. We expect aviation margins to expand for the rest of '21. Carolina will cover this in more detail later. Adjusted EPS was up significantly with all segments contributing. Industrial free cash flow was up $2 billion, ex discontinued factoring programs, primarily driven by improved earnings and working capital. We're encouraged by our second-quarter cash performance. And we're raising our full-year industrial free cash flow outlook to $3.5 billion to $5 billion while our outlook for organic revenue growth, margin expansion and adjusted EPS remains unchanged. I'll take a moment here to speak to the dynamics at aviation. Market fundamentals are improving.

 



 There was a sizable uptick in departures this quarter, with even greater momentum in June and July. Unsurprisingly, departure trends continue to vary by region. North America continues to improve, with Canada now picking up the pace. Europe has accelerated with departures now 40% below '19 levels. China dipped down to 6% below '19 levels due to increased COVID cases and government restrictions, while Asia Pacific ex China has been more tepid due to border closures and the spreading COVID variant. Importantly though, about two-thirds of our CFM departures are concentrated in regions with improved trends. We're seeing a stronger recovery in narrowbody fleets versus widebodies, and freight continues to outperform passenger traffic. While green time utilization continues to impact us, we expect this to lessen in the second half. Shop visit volume and scope improved slightly sequentially. We anticipate continuing sequential volume growth and scope expansion through the year. Looking ahead, we're still expecting '21 departures to be up about 20% year over year and down 30% versus 2019, with customer behavior driving departure and shop visit trends. I'm confident in our path to recovery in aviation. We're using lean to improve our operations and our cost structure. And no business is better positioned than GE aviation to support our customers through the upcycle, with the largest and youngest engine platform, with more than 37,000 commercial engines and more than 60% of our fleet not yet having a second shop visit, our platform will generate value for decades to come. Overall, we're building momentum across GE, evidenced by the significant margin expansion and positive free cash flow this quarter. And importantly, we continue to believe the improvements underway are built on stronger fundamentals and, thus, are sustainable. Turning to Slide 3. We're making tremendous progress in our journey to become a more focused, simpler, stronger high-tech industrial. This quarter, the GECAS and AerCap combination achieved some key milestones: AerCap shareholders approved the transaction, the U.S. Department of Justice concluded its review and yesterday, the European Commission cleared the transaction. We expect to close by year-end. Broadly speaking, this combination serves as a significant catalyst, enabling us to focus more time, talent and capital on our four core industrial franchises: aviation, healthcare, renewables and power. It also allows us to accelerate our deleveraging plan. With our actions post closing, our gross debt reduction will be more than $70 billion since the end of 2018. At the same time, we've been strengthening our operational foundation. This starts, of course, with the team. We've implemented new learning and development programs, such as leadership and action in our business and frontline leadership courses to equip GE leaders at all levels to drive our lean transformation. This quarter, we also made some leadership changes that complement our existing bench of GE talent. First is the retirement of Kieran Murphy, who will be stepping down as president and CEO of GE healthcare at the end of the year. Over his high-impact 30-plus year career, Kieran has embodied candor and transparency and consistently delivered for our customers. I'm excited to welcome Pete Arduini, who will join us from Integra LifeSciences, where he served as CEO for almost a decade. Earlier in his career, Pete, in fact, worked at GE healthcare for nearly 15 years. Pete's proven track record of driving growth across complex businesses, combined with his respected leadership style, makes him well suited to lead the important work at GE healthcare. Second is the retirement of offshore wind CEO, John Lavelle, after a 40-year career with GE. John has positioned the business for success, leading the GE team that will help install the first large-scale U.S. offshore wind farm. We're excited to appoint Jan Kjaersgaard as the new CEO. With Jan's prior industry experience, he's well prepared to lead our offshore business to $3 billion in revenue by 2024. We also promoted Scott Strazik from gas power CEO to CEO of all of GE Power. Scott and his team, which now includes Valerie Marjollet, who was recently appointed as Steam Power CEO, will continue to run power as four discrete business units, managing from the bottom up. Our GE team has been at the heart of driving our transformation forward, building momentum through lean and embracing a more decentralized business model. This quarter, it was good. It was really good to spend more time with our teams where I saw and heard countless Kaizen examples, and more broadly, how lean is being used to improve safety, quality, delivery and cost across GE. One example that stood out was from offshore wind where we have a global presence across 35 countries. In the first half of '21, through good lean problem-solving and daily management, we realized about $150 million of year-over-year savings in sourcing and logistics as well as through better execution on installation and commissioning cycle times. Now decentralization goes hand in hand with lean. This means managing not only the four industrial segments we report with the nearly 30 business units under them. In our operating reviews, I continue to see how our teams are managing our operating P&Ls at a more granular level. We're having more meaningful operating reviews and, in turn, driving actions across high-impact and high-priority opportunities. The stronger foundation is enabling us to play more offense. The first priority, of course, is organic growth. We're improving our team's abilities to market, sell and service the products we have today. There are many recent wins across GE, but let me highlight two. At aviation, CFM secured a new agreement with IndiGo to provide 620 of our fuel-efficient LEAP-1A engines with a multiyear service contract. This is one of the largest deals in CFM's history. In Renewables, we finalized the contracts for the world's largest offshore wind farm, Dogger Bank. In the third installment, we'll supply 87 Haliade-X turbines, the most powerful offshore wind turbine built today. We're also bolstering our offerings with new product introductions and future tech innovation to serve our customers and lead our industries into the future. In healthcare, for example, we launched Xeleris V, an AI-enabled virtual radiology solution that provides simplified workflows, better data access and more time with patients. At Power, we're supporting Australia's energy transition with plans to supply a 9F.05 gas turbine capable of operating with a blend of hydrogen and natural gas at the Tallawarra B Power Station. This adds to our experience on more than 75 gas turbines worldwide using hydrogen and associated fuels for power generation. From time to time, we'll augment our organic efforts with inorganic investments. Take Zionexa, a recent healthcare acquisition, whose molecular imaging agent aims to provide more targeted treatment for metastatic breast cancer patients. Zionexa further demonstrates our commitment to precision health, enabling more personalized diagnosis, improved treatment and decision-making and ultimately, better clinical outcomes. All in all, our transformation is accelerating. We're fortifying our competitive positions globally and unlocking further upside potential and profitable growth and cash generation. With that, Carolina will provide further insights on the quarter.Carolina Dybeck Happe -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Larry. Our quarterly performance reflects continued progress in our transformation. During our recent operating reviews, we're gaining traction with increased granularity across our financials. Our finance teams are providing more insightful, faster analysis, which is driving better outcomes. Looking forward, we're focused on building even deeper visibility and accountability, partnering cross-functionally to unlock margin expansion and improving working capital management to generate more cash flow. Now, looking at Slide 4, I'll cover our highlights on an organic basis. In the quarter, we returned to growth on the top line. Healthcare and services overall were strong. In particular, services continue to keep us close to our customers and represent more than half of our orders and revenue. Total orders were up 7% sequentially. And aviation and power were up more than 40% year over year. Services orders were up 50%, where renewables and aviation doubled and gas power and healthcare grew double digits. Revenue was up across aviation, healthcare and renewables. Power was flat as expected. We continued to reduce turnkey scope in gas power and exit new unit coal at Steam. We're also seeing our mix shift toward higher-margin services, with total services revenue growing 15%. Notably, aviation commercial services grew 50%, reflecting a recovering market, but we're still well below '19 levels. Healthcare in total and gas power services remain bright spots with growth above 2019. Next, adjusted industrial margins improved sequentially in all segments except aviation where margins declined. I'll speak to this shortly. Year over year, margins expanded 1,000 basis points with all segments expanding. About half of this improvement was driven by nonrepeat of COVID charges, and the other half was driven by our lean efforts, cost productivity and mix shift to services. Regarding inflation, we're seeing pressure. However, it's a mixed story by business. Our shorter-cycle businesses feel the impact earliest, while our longer-cycle businesses are more protected given extended purchasing and production cycles. Our services business fall in between. Across the board, we're driving cost countermeasures and utilizing price increases and escalation features in our contracts to help mitigate this pressure. In our longer-cycle project businesses, we manage cost performance versus our original as-sold margins. We utilize lean to reduce cost and cycle time to execute delivery. In the second quarter, our countermeasures actually drove a slight net deflation impact on margins. Looking forward to the second half of '21 and into '22, although inflation pressure is likely to increase, particularly in aviation and Renewables, we expect the net inflation impact to be limited. Finally, adjusted EPS was up $0.19 year over year. About three-quarters of this improvement came from our industrial segment. As we walk from continuing to adjusted EPS, we need to exclude the positive data mark, the negative impact of significant higher-cost restructuring program, nonoperating expenses, primarily pension, and debt tender costs. Worth noting for EPS, our reverse stock split takes effect as of market open August 2. This will better align GE's number of shares outstanding with companies of our size. Overall, we're encouraged by our broader earnings performance, especially the underlying margin improvement, and we're well positioned to achieve our '21 outlook for margin expansion and EPS. Moving to cash. In the second quarter, industrial free cash flow was positive $388 million, up $2.5 billion year over year on a reported basis or up $2 billion excluding discontinued factoring programs in both years. The majority of this improvement was driven by cash earnings with all segments growing earnings. Underpinning our solid quarterly performance versus our earlier expectations was higher aviation orders and, in turn, higher progress collections and lower AD&A as well as strength at healthcare and power. We've made good progress exiting the majority of our factoring programs in the second quarter. This was a big step forward to becoming more operational and getting back to basics on billings and collections. For context, currently, about half of our billings occur in the final month of the quarter, driven in part by the timing of deliveries, far too back-end loaded and inconsistent with the lean principles of flow and level loading. Our turns across commercial, operations and finance are working to deliver earlier to our customers and, in turn, bill and collect cash earlier in the quarter. Over time, this will help us generate more linear cash flow. The discontinuation of factoring was a $2.7 billion impact, which was adjusted out of free cash flow. For the remainder of '21, the impact will be roughly $1 billion, split between the third and the fourth quarters. Going deeper on working capital. This was a source of cash at $260 million this quarter. Despite increased volume, we saw a significant year-over-year improvement, largely due to operational enhancements. Looking at the flows in the quarter. I'll speak to a couple. Receivables were a source of cash, driven by DSO improvement across all segments. Take our Imaging and life care solutions business in the U.S. and Canada, for example. Our turns are using lean and automation to better manage contract deliverables, build customers more accurately and faster and thereby generate cash quicker. This effort already improved DSO by seven days. Inventory was a use of cash, largely driven by onshore wind inventory build for the second half deliveries as well as fulfillment and execution challenges. Overall, inventory turns improved from 2.4 to 2.6 sequentially with higher volume, but there's much more to do. We continue to manage our capital investments with focus on profitable growth. When the second-quarter capex spend was down sequentially, our investments in new product programs increased. Overall, in the first half, on a reported basis, cash flow was negative $457 million, a $3.8 billion improvement year over year. After rebaselining for discontinued factoring programs and the BioPharma sale, we saw a $3.2 billion improvement. So while there's more to do, our near-term working capital improvements are taking hold even as we grow. Together with higher earnings, this is beginning to drive more sustainable and linear free cash flow. And based on our 2Q performance, we're now confident that we can deliver free cash flow in the range of $3.5 billion to $5 billion for the year versus our prior outlook of $2.5 billion to $4.5 billion. Turning to liquidity and leverage on Slide 6. We ended the quarter with $22 billion of cash and recently refinanced our backup credit facility. Due to our improved financial position and cash linearity with lower peak quarterly needs, we reduced the facility size from $15 billion to $10 billion and extended the maturity date to 2026 at attractive pricing. We also continue to take meaningful actions on our deleveraging plan, completing a $7 billion debt tender. This brings our gross debt, which currently includes pension, to a reduction of $53 billion since the end of 2018. Additionally, we continue to derisk the pension. In the U.K., as of January 2022, we implement the proposed pension freeze. As mentioned previously, we don't expect any further funding requirements for the GE pension plan at least through the end of the decade. Stepping back, we have a clear path to achieving less than 2.5x net debt-to-EBITDA over the next few years. Moving to our business results, which I'll speak to on an organic basis. First, on aviation. As Larry shared, we're starting to see improving fundamentals associated with the commercial market recovery across services and OE production. The market's sequential improvement met our expectations, with GE CFM departures currently down about 27% versus '19. While departure trends continue to vary by region, we still expect the global recovery to accelerate in the second half. Orders were up year over year. Both Commercial engines and services were up substantially year over year. Key commercial wins this quarter include IndiGo, Southwest and United driving momentum. In fact, since the beginning of '20, new wins have now outpaced canceled orders. Military orders were down, largely due to timing of new orders and a tough comp versus last year. And you'll recall, we received a large military advance. Revenue was up 10%. commercial services was up 50% with operational improvement. Shop visit volume trended better than our expectations, up over 30%. And overall scope was up slightly sequentially. Broadly, we're seeing higher concentration of narrowbody visits, which typically have lower revenue. Our spare part rate was up double digits year over year and sequentially. This was partially offset by unfavorable CSA contract margin reviews, or CMRs, where revenue is adjusted to reflect latest margins based on cost incurred to date. Military continues to be impacted by internal and external supply chain issues, with output expectations falling short this quarter. We're seeing some improvement as we use visual management and standard work and also other tools to solve problems in real time, and we're working to fully resolve these issues. We're now targeting mid-single-digit revenue growth for the year, but our high single-digit target remains in place through '25. Segment margin expanded significantly Year over year, yet down sequentially. Margin was impacted by the noncash contract margin review charges of approximately $400 million. About two-thirds of this was related to one contract in a loss position. In this contract, continued COVID-driven utilization, contract-specific dynamics and operating behavior increased our estimated shop visit costs. While rare across our service portfolio, the loss contract designation resulted in the accelerated recognition of all future forecasted losses into 2Q. Excluding this, aviation margins would have been low double digits. Quarterly CMRs are part of our normal process and will continue in the second half. For Q2 -- for Q3, we expect margins to expand sequentially. Our team continues to align fixed costs and our organizational profile to market realities. We're, maintaining our low double-digit margin guide for '21, supported by a second half recovery. However, based on the CMR and military dynamics, we now expect full-year revenue growth to be about flat versus '20. These are temporary issues, and we remain encouraged by the underlying fundamentals of our business. Moving to healthcare. Market fundamentals are improving and the team delivered another impressive quarter. Starting with the market. Global procedures volume grew mid-single digits for the fourth consecutive quarter. Europe, China and Japan were solid markets due to government spending, a sign of increasing expectations for better quality of care and patient outcomes. Private markets also grew in the U.S. across key customers as recovery momentum continues. Demand remains robust amid that backdrop. Orders were up double digits year over year and versus second-quarter '19 and up 20%, excluding the Ford ventilator partnership last year. Healthcare system orders were up 7% with double-digit growth in imaging and ultrasound. This offsets a decline in life care solutions, lapping higher demand for COVID-19-related equipment. However, LCS was up double digits versus second-quarter '19. PDx orders were up almost 50% Year over year, following a depressed second-quarter '20 and also up versus second-quarter '19. Revenue was also up double digits, with HCS up 6% and PDx up almost 50%. All Asia regions delivered double-digit growth, with China up high teens. The teams worked across the supply chain to help mitigate industrywide supply shortages related to electronics and resins, which impacted growth this quarter. Segment margin expanded 460 basis points year over year and significantly versus second-quarter '19 ex BioPharma. Margin continues to be driven by profitable growth, cost productivity through lean and prior period restructuring. At the same time, we're accelerating our growth investment, particularly in digital and AI-enabled applications with increased spend planned for the second half. And we'll continue to evaluate inorganic investments to complement this, such as Zionexa. Based on our first half, we now expect organic margins to expand more than 100 basis points for the year. This will be influenced by how quickly we can ramp certain growth investment. However, our medium-term expectations remain 25 to 75 basis points expansion. Our investment ramp will support continued innovation and help us drive higher revenue growth over time. Turning to renewables. We're continuing to lead the energy transition, growing new generation, lowering the cost of electricity and modernizing the grid with a focus on new product platforms and technologies that enables profitable growth and cash generation over time. Looking at the market. In onshore wind, we still expect the U.S. market to decline in the near term before stabilizing. We're watching the potential U.S. production tax credit extension closely. A blanket long-term extension likely result in near-term uncertainty because it pushes out investment decisions for what could be years. This may impact our second half orders profile and positive free cash flow outlook for the year. In offshore wind, global momentum should continue through the decade. The recent U.S. federal approval of the Vineyard Wind project supported by our Haliade-X represents meaningful progress for the U.S. market. And as the global energy transition accelerates and government stimulus increases, the grid will need to be upgraded and more actively managed. Orders grew mid-single digits, where onshore services more than doubled as repower orders increased, which will convert to second half deliveries. This was partially offset by lower onshore equipment orders due to PTC dynamics. While both onshore and offshore equipment orders are lumpy, we expect them to increase significantly in the second half versus first half. Revenue was up 9%, driven by higher equipment revenue, offset by lower services. And reported equipment was up 12% on a two year view versus '19. In onshore, equipment was up year over year on higher international unit deliveries while services were down on fewer repower upgrades, though up sequentially. And services ex repower grew double digits again. Segment margin, while still negative, improved more than 500 basis points as we drive toward segment profitability over time. Onshore was profitable in the quarter and year-to-date. This was driven by continued cost out and volume leverage that more than offset mix and other headwinds, such as lower margin on new products, which typically improves our product life cycle. In grid, cost productivity was offset by elevated restructuring. Looking ahead, we're focused on our operational priorities, including cost reduction to help offset increased medium-term headwinds from the market inflation and new technology and platform transitions. Moving to power. The team performed very well with operational improvements across the business, particularly at Gas Power. Looking at the market. Global gas generation grew low single digits while GE gas turbine utilization continued to be resilient, with megawatt hours growing high single digits. Encouragingly, outage starts were up 50% year over year and up mid-single digits versus 2Q '19. For the year, we expect the gas market to remain stable with gas generation growing low single digits. The dispatch of our fleet is well positioned with upgraded missions and a growing HA backlog. Outside of gas, markets remain mixed. Power orders were up significantly, driven by gas power equipment. This quarter, we booked 12 heavy-duty gas turbines and 35 aeroderivative orders, primarily LM, that will complement variable renewable power by providing distributed fast-response power to help deliver grid stability. Orders were also up in gas power services, steel, power conversion and nuclear. Power revenue was flat, with gas power declined while power conversion grew. gas power was down slightly, largely driven by equipment were similar to last quarter, we had lower turnkey scope projects. We also shipped six fewer heavy-duty gas turbines. gas power services was up significantly across both CSAs and transactional portfolios, primarily due to higher outages. And services growth is trending better than our initial outlook. Power conversion was up with its highest quarterly sales level since third-quarter '18. And while steel was down slightly, services returned to pre-COVID level. Total Power margins expanded roughly 900 basis points and improved sequentially. gas power has stabilized through rightsizing the cost structure, improving underwriting and operating better with lean. Margins were positive, largely driven by service equipment mix and lower costs. Now, Q3 is typically our toughest service quarter with lower activity compared to the spring and the fall outages season, which are in the second and the fourth quarter, respectively. But we're confident in our high single-digit margin outlook for the year. Steel was negatively impacted by COVID in India, which drove work stoppages and delayed project execution. But we're on track with the planned exit of newbuild coal. Just over half of the planned $600 million to $700 million cash actions from restructuring, legal and project closeout were realized in the first half. Once the exit is completed, steel will be two-thirds services. Overall, power is on track to deliver the outlook target and high single-digit operating margins over time. Moving to GE Capital on Slide 8. Continuing adjusted earnings were positive $28 million, a significant improvement year over year. This was primarily driven by lower marks and impairments as well as higher gains at EFS, better performance at insurance and the discontinuation of preferred dividend payment, which are now a GE Industrial obligation. At insurance, we saw positive investment results and lower claims continue. However, favorable claims trends due to COVID are slowing in certain parts of the portfolio. And EFS enabled $1.1 billion of orders, supporting customers at renewables and gas, including third-party financing. Based on our first half, we expect to reach the better end of our earnings outlook of negative $700 million to negative $500 million. Within discontinued operations, Capital reported a loss of approximately $600 million, primarily due to the recent decline of AerCap stock price, which is updated quarterly. Moving to corporate. Costs were up slightly given the variable nature of EHS and other and the elimination activity. Importantly, functional cost and operations were better. In the first half, total costs were down more than 20% as we improved functions and operations and digital operations. Moving forward, our focus on decentralization and linear processes continues, which will drive cost and cash improvement. For the year, we're on track for the $1.2 billion to $1.3 billion of costs. In all, we delivered a strong quarter. I'm encouraged by the work underway at aviation, the ongoing strength in healthcare and our progress at renewables and power. Now Larry, back to you.Larry Culp -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Carolina, thanks. We turn to Slide 9. I'm incredibly proud of the GE team performance in the second quarter. As you've seen, orders and revenue returned to growth, operating margin expanded across all segments and we generated positive free cash flow. Importantly, aviation is showing the early signs of a recovery. And we're clearly building momentum across our businesses. Combined, this gives us the conviction to raise our free cash flow outlook to $3.5 billion to $5 billion for the full year. So I hope you see what I see, a transformation that is accelerating. GE is becoming a more focused, simpler, stronger, high-tech industrial. And our efforts and impact extend beyond GE. We've always felt a heightened sense of responsibility when it comes to creating a more sustainable future. We recently released our annual sustainability report this month, which shares how we're tackling the world's biggest challenges through innovative solutions, developing the future of flight, advancing precision health and leading the energy transition. For example, the CFM RISE program that we've announced with Safran demonstrates our shared vision for the future of flight as we target reducing fuel consumption and carbon emissions by more than 20% versus today's most efficient engines. So as we rise to the challenge of building a world that works, serving customers in vital global markets, we'll stay focused on profitable growth and cash generation, which I'm confident will lead to high single-digit free cash flow margins over the next few years. Steve, with that, let's go to questions.Steve Winoker -- Vice President of Investor Relations Before we open the line, I'd ask everyone in the queue to consider your fellow analysts again and ask one question so we can get to as many people as possible. Brandon, can you please open the line? 