
OperatorGood day everyone and welcome to the FedEx Corporation Fourth Quarter Fiscal Year 2021 Earnings Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded.At this time, I will turn the call over to Mickey Foster, Vice President of Investor Relations for FedEx Corporation. Please go ahead.Mickey Foster -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



Good afternoon and welcome to FedEx Corporation's fourth quarter earnings conference call. The fourth quarter earnings release and stat book are on our website at fedex.com. This call is being streamed from our website where the replay will be available for about one year.Joining us on the call today are members of the media. During our question-and-answer session, callers will be limited to one question, in order to allow us to accommodate all those who would like to participate.I want to remind all listeners that FedEx Corporation desires to take advantage of the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. Certain statements in this conference call such as projections regarding future performance may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Act. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. For additional information on these factors, please refer to our press releases and filings with the SEC.Please refer to the Investor Relations portion of our website at fedex.com for a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures discussed on this call to the most directly comparable GAAP measures.

 



Joining us on the call today are Fred Smith, Chairman and CEO; Raj Subramaniam, President and COO; Mike Lenz, Executive Vice President and CFO; Mark Allen, Executive VP, General Counsel and Secretary; Rob Carter, Executive VP, FedEx Information Services and CIO; Brie Carere, Executive Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer and Communications Officer; Jill Brannon, Executive VP and Chief Sales Officer; Don Colleran, President and CEO of FedEx Express; John Smith, President and CEO of FedEx Ground; Henry Maier former President and CEO of FedEx Ground; and Lance Moll, President and CEO of FedEx Freight.And now, Fred Smith will share his views on the quarter and year.Frederick W. Smith -- Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Mickey. Fiscal '21 was truly unprecedented and we are enormously proud of our 570,000 team members who performed magnificently to keep global healthcare, industrial and at-homes, supply chains open and more recently allowed significant additional commerce to flow. The FedEx teams were involved in moving PPE, vaccines and international shipments has been perhaps this company's finest hour. Our financial results speak for themselves. Raj and Mike will have more to say about the numbers of course. Our priortity in the FedEx team and our performance for shareholders has greatly tempered however, but our continuing grief over the 15th April senseless murder at FedEx Ground facility in Indianapolis of eight FedEx team members. The lingering sorrow among their families, friends and colleagues throughout FedEx can never be erased. Raj will also comment on this tragedy in a moment.

 



The strategies, we've executed over the last several years were carefully developed and have been executed to the high level with great success overall. As we mentioned previously the pandemic simply brought many of the market trends which informed our strategies forward. Brie will be more specific about these trends in a moment. As reported FedEx revenues for FY '21 were $84 billion and we project FY '22 revenues over $90 billion. We believe FedEx margins will continue to improve this fiscal year. However, as Raj will cover momentarily, the labor market in the US over the last several months has been quite challenging adversely affecting hiring and leading to significant reengineering of parts of our networks to deal with the lack of these resources. And while the situation has begun to abate, delivering a successful peak season, when we anticipate significant year-over-year volume increases will require additional flexibility and creativity on the part of our management, staff and frontline team members while maintaining our safety above all culture.To handle future ground volumes, we are significantly increasing capacity to deliver both great service and improve financial results. This summer, we are intently focused on improving network and delivery operations prior to the volume surge in the fall. There is great focus on revenue and quality at FedEx, however our focus solely on yields does not give a complete picture of our profit upside. As Brie will explain our alliances with retailer partners generate significant amounts of short-haul traffic, much of which is now shipped from stores. Our innovate digitally initiatives are gaining steam particularly surround and sensor wear.Let me thank Henry Maier, for more than 34 years of loyal and dedicated service to FedEx and RPS, which we acquired in 1998. At the conclusion of this call, I'll have additional comments about Henry's remarkable career and countless contributions to FedEx's growth and success. I'll further note the bad administration has recognized an exceptional talent in our Board member John Chris Inglis who was confirmed by the Senate last week, to serve as the National Cyber Director. We benefited from Chris' cyber security and information technology expertise since he joined our Board in 2015 and we wish him well in the hugely important role for which he has been tapped.Now Raj, Brie and Mike will give their remarks, after which we will answer your questions. Raj?Rajesh Subramaniam -- President and Chief Operating OfficerThank you, Fred, and good afternoon everyone. As Fred stated, we continue to mourn the tragic loss of eight team members killed at FedEx Ground facilities in Indianapolis on April 15. Let me take a moment to remember each team member we lost that day. Matthew R. Alexander, Samaria Blackwell, Amarjeet Johal, Jasvinder Kaur, Amarjit Sekon, Jaswinder Singh, Karli Smith and John Weisert. Our most heartful sympathies and condolences remain with the families, team members and friends of these individuals. They will forever be members of the FedEx family.Now turning to our results. Fiscal year '21 was a pivotal year for FedEx as we delivered incredible financial performance, including record revenue and profit in Q4 and for the full fiscal year. This is a no short measure due to the outstanding work by our global team members. Let me take this opportunity to say, thank you for the FedEx team, especially those on the front lines who are going above and beyond the call of duty in these difficult times. When I look back at fiscal year '21, I'm proud of the role FedEx played in saving lives, helping small and medium businesses get back on their feet and keeping the globe connected.The exceptional financial performance was driven by a robust growth strategy and focused execution on three key areas. E-commerce, operational excellence and digital innovation. Let me take a moment to highlight each strategic focus area and the progress made in Q4. Firstly, e-commerce. The acceleration of trends experienced in fiscal year '21 highlight the importance of our ongoing strategic initiatives to win globally in e-commerce. This includes FedEx Ground seven day operations, investing in technology to optimize last mile deliveries, expanding capabilities to better handle large items, offering the first FedEx branded through the door service at FedEx Freight Direct and accelerating the expansion of our retail convenience network.Ground's full seven day operations, including weekend residential delivery coverage now reaches 98% of the US population on Saturdays and 95% on Sundays, give us a distinct competitive advantage. We are working very closely with customers to leverage the full flexibility of weekend operations, so they can meet the demands of e-commerce every day of the week. This is evident in the growth we saw in Ground Sunday deliveries with 56% more packages delivered on Sunday in Q4 than last year. We are also winning in e-commerce outside the United States by leveraging the strength of our global networks and the expansion of our portfolio. Brie will cover additional details in this regard shortly.The second strategic focus area is operational excellence. Our competitive advantage in the marketplace is fueled by a relentless focus on operational excellence and customer service. While service is a hallmark of FedEx like many businesses, we are facing challenges with labor availability, which have contributed to recent service levels that do not meet our own high expectations of the quality we expect to deliver to our customers. The inability to hire team members particularly package handlers has driven wage rates higher and creates inefficiency in our networks as we use over time to cover open shifts and route volume around known constraints, just as a few examples. As such, we're taking bold actions across the business to address service issues and prepare for sustained volume increases, including continued investments in people, capacity and technology to optimize our networks.FedEx Ground's strategic focus on efficiency continue to reap benefits in Q4 as seen in our ongoing improvements in density. These improvements are driven in part by both B2B and B2C volume growth as well as enhancements in the route optimization technology, which drove up the average number of stops the service providers made per hour by 3.6% versus Q4 of the previous fiscal year. Along with the revised service provider e-commerce rate structure, these efficiencies contributed to a 3% reduction in cost per stop compared to the same quarter last year. Further collaboration to improve efficiency continued across our businesses as we expanded our last mile optimization program. In addition, FedEx Freight provided approximately 70 million linehaul miles and delivered 1.75 million packages for Ground in fiscal year '21.Another significant opportunity in further enhancing our operational excellence is the improvement in the profitability of our international operations, which starts in Europe, with the completion of the physical integration of TNT. While the TNT integration has seen its share of setbacks, including a 2017 cyber attack and the delays due to the pandemic, we are certain of the value this combination creates for the FedEx of the future. The European restructuring announced in January 2021 is set to deliver 275 million to 350 million in benefits on an annual basis starting in fiscal 2024. The cost of the severance benefits under this program, which will be incurred through fiscal 2023 will be in the range from $300 million to $575 million in cash expenditures.In Q4, we introduced overnight service from Europe connecting 90% of European businesses to major US markets. It's an unparalleled next day connectivity that nobody in the marketplace matches. As you can see, we continue to enhance value for our customers, while restructuring our European business. Said simply, the upside in the profitability of our international business is tremendous.Finally, our third strategic focus area, digital innovation. We are reimagining our digital capabilities and infrastructure in a manner that will deliver market-leading customer experiences that are simple, personal and proactive. We made great strides in fiscal 2021 as we continue to drive new value through strategic technologies, including increasing capabilities and products through Sensor based technologies like FedEx Sensor where ID and FedEx Surround which provide unmatched visibility and predictive capabilities, most notably seen during the transportation of lifesaving COVID-19 vaccines. Building of sharp runner integration and Adobe Magento extensive to enable a more open e-commerce ecosystem. And furthering development of our portfolio of services in the autonomous vehicle space as illustrated with ongoing Roxo testing in this month's announcement of testing with Nuro.In fiscal 2022, we will continue to deliver on our strategy on e-commerce, operational excellence and digital innovation as we execute on the following key initiatives. First, we expect to substantially increase capacity for this peak by investing in FedEx Ground's infrastructure with the addition of 16 new automated facilities and the implementation of nearly 100 expansion projects at existing operations and key technological enhancements. Second, we will completed the air network integration in early calendar year 2022 which will bring the physical TNT network integration to a close and provides the inflection point for long-term profit improvement in Europe. Next, we are exercising existing options to purchase 20 additional 767Fs, 10 for delivery in fiscal year '24 and 10 for delivery in fiscal year '25, as we continue to modernize our fleet and improve service to our customers. And we finally continue to identify areas to adapt, collaborate and utilize different elements of our global network to increase efficiency and reduce cost to serve. Our networks and capabiliites reflect decades of investment, innovation and expertise that are differentiated from our competition. It's incredibly difficult to replicate and provides a significant advantage over others in our industry.When we knit it all back together, despite some of the cyclical factors, we remain very confident for fiscal year '22 and beyond. The e-commerce market will continue to be a growth engine globally and if anything has become clear over the past year, it's the contribution of our industry provides to the e-commerce value chain. We remain focused on differentiation, building customer solutions and improving revenue quality as critical long-term levers of profitable growth. In addition, the transformation efforts in Europe and US domestic will generate margin improvement opportunities. And finally, we're just getting started on unlocking value with digital innovation. Our robust growth strategy positions FedEx to deliver superior sustainable financial returns and drive shareholder value for years to come.With that I will turn it over to Brie.Brie Carere -- Executive Vice President, Chief Marketing and Communications OfficerThank you, Raj. Good afternoon, everyone. In a year of extraordinary challenges and change for our business, I continue to be immensely proud of the team's ability to execute our commercial strategy, while developing solutions to help our customers grow their businesses. Before I move into fiscal year '22, I wanted to reflect on our truly exceptional results of '21. Fiscal year '21 parcel volume was very strong across our portfolio of e-commerce solutions. Average daily volume grew across all our customer segments with US small and medium leading the way at 32% year-over-year growth. E-commerce also drove 28% year-over-year growth in our returns business through April, as more consumers shopped online, enrolled FedEx Delivery Manager users grew by 43% year-over-year. With this backdrop in the momentum from fiscal '21, our fiscal '22 outlook calls for robust growth. Enterprise growth in fiscal year '22 will be primarily driven by US domestic e-commerce growth followed by strength in B2B and International and a focus on revenue quality.In the United States the flourishing US domestic parcel market will continue to provide opportunity in the coming years. The US domestic parcel market is expected to surpass 107 million packages a day in calendar year '22, with e-commerce contributing 88% of the total US market growth. Excluding Amazon volume, the US domestic parcel market is expected to be 72 million packages a day in calendar year '22. As we look beyond calendar year '22, we forecast that the US domestic parcel market will reach 172 million packages a day in calendar year 2026.In fiscal year '21 FedEx total US domestic residential package volume mix was 67% versus 62% a year ago. As we look beyond this fiscal year, we expect residential volume -- volumes to grow significantly faster than commercial volumes. However, with retail inventories relative to sales at historic lows, we expect solid B2B volume growth this fiscal year. In fiscal year '22 we will continue to execute against our revenue quality strategy. In fiscal year '21 Q4, we increased FedEx Ground economy yield by 28% and overall US domestic residential yields by 16% year-over-year. It is important to note, when reviewing composite US domestic yields that weights and zone will decrease, putting pressure on yields as we grow in e-commerce. We are managing total network profitability. Short zone e-commerce and our FedEx Ground economies service will enable us to sweat our assets and maximize sortation capacity.Within our pricing strategy, we continue to prioritize capacity for commercial and small and medium customer segments. To support the network of ongoing capacity constraints, we have increased our peak surcharges as of June 21 and we'll monitor and adjust our strategy as capacity and demand warrants. We will continue to confidently renegotiate our large customer segment contracts to increase profitability. This means balancing product, day of week and lane mix at the customer level, while ensuring appropriate surcharges and rate increases cover rising labor costs. Most large customer contracts in the US are three years. Almost half of our total large segment volume had pricing agreement implementations in the past 12 months, leaving upside for fiscal year '22.Now turning to International. Global trade volume has surpassed pre-pandemic levels and is on course for its fastest year of growth in over a decade. Global air cargo capacity remained down 10% year-over-year as of April, mainly due to the reduction in passenger capacity. We expect air cargo capacity to remain constrained through at least the first half of calendar year '22. Recovery will be slow, potentially episodic and a full recovery is not anticipated until 2024. We believe a favorable pricing internationally should continue through fiscal year 2022. We will continue to manage demand internationally even yield management and continuation of peak surcharges especially on TransPacific and TransAtlantic lanes. We are seeing a very good capture rate on these surcharges.While peak surcharges played a significant role in our international performance in fiscal year '21, it was not the majority of our revenue growth. In fiscal '21, we improved parcel and priority mix versus freight economy, grew our small and medium customer base while penetrating e-commerce. In fact we grew e-commerce parcel volume by more than $1 billion year-over-year out of Asia and Europe. To a large extent due to its lightweight nature and limited relative linehaul capacity requirements, we were able to price e-commerce very competitively. I believe that e-commerce volume as a result is quite sticky. That being said, we continue to refine our commercial and network strategies to be prepared for when commercial capacity does come back.Overall demand for exports from Asia have recovered to pre-COVID levels. In fiscal year '22, our network plans include six InterContinental daily frequencies from Asia to provide more consistent, predictable capacity based on our demand forecast. This will eliminate some of the adhoc nature of our flights in fiscal year '21. Enter European B2B volumes have recovered to pre-COVID levels, while our growth has further accelerated by significant B2C volumes on our intercontinental lanes, with reduced pandemic related uncertainty and industrial activity on the rise, we expect the overall European economy to be back to pre-pandemic levels in late calendar year '21.Raj covered our new European value proposition. Customers are very interested in both our New Europe to US overnight service and e-commerce product expansion. On the Europe to US lane, we have strong demand with a healthy mix of small and large businesses. We have deployed incremental capacity to serve this high yielding segment. Our e-commerce value proposition anchored by our new FedEx International Connect Plus product is very compelling. We continue to gain new customers and have a very robust sales pipeline. In summary, we had a stellar fiscal year '21 and the strategies we have in place will help us to win what's next in '22 and well beyond.With that, I'll turn it over to Mike for his remarks.Mike Lenz -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Brie, and good afternoon everyone. Our fourth quarter and fiscal 2021 results reflect the tremendous momentum in our business and reinforce our growth strategy and investments across our network to grow our capabilities, improve collaboration and drive efficiency. Our full year results include over $1 billion in variable incentive compensation expense as we reward our team members for their invaluable contributions.In the fourth quarter, FedEx continued to drive higher profitability with increased margins across the board. Consolidated revenue grew 30% year-over-year in the quarter, while adjusted operating income was up 117%, even with higher cost to support increased demand, increased variable compensation expense of $380 million and our previously announced $100 million contribution to Yale University to support our carbon neutrality goals.Drilling down into those numbers, the rise in US parcel volume was the greatest driver of our revenue growth and through the incredibly hard work and ingenuity of our team members we took a significant portion of that revenue growth to the bottom line. Ground revenue grew 27% in the fourth quarter with operating margin increasing 310 basis points to 13.6%. Ground substantially improved margins and earned the most operating profit in their history. As our International business and e-commerce in the US continued to grow Express revenue grew 32% over Q4 last year, with adjusted operating margin up 340 basis points. Freight grew out this quarter with 38% revenue growth and their highest quarterly operating margin ever at 16.1%. They also topped $1 billion in operating income for the full year for the first time. With our overall profit growth, we generated a record $4.6 billion in adjusted free cash flow while balancing continued investment in the business, funding our pension plans by $300 million and strengthening our balance sheet.During the fourth quarter, we executed a debt refinancing and extinguishment transaction underscoring our focus on reducing our financial leverage. In the fourth quarter, we reduced our outstanding debt by $2.6 billion or 11% of the total outstanding liability, eliminating all debt maturities through FY '25 and one in FY '27. This transaction resulted in $393 million charge in Q4, however, it will lower our interest cost over the next three years with a positive payback on the transaction.In FY '22, we will continue to drive a robust growth strategy capitalizing on global economic recovery and e-commerce. This focus will flex all levers of our business, including volume growth, yield management, operational efficiency and network optimization. The FY '22 adjusted EPS range we provided corresponds 13% to 18% year-over-year growth on top of record FY '21 earnings. I'd make the following highlights behind that. We expect margins in all our transportation segments on an adjusted basis to exceed FY '21 levels driven by several key areas. We expect e-commerce to continue to drive higher profitability and we will continue to invest in our FedEx Ground network to improve efficiency and utilization through expanded in new facilities as well as technology enhancements.We also look forward to incremental benefit from the completion of our physical integration of TNT, which will enable us to offer more and better services to our customers internationally. This key milestone will continue to drive momentum and provide a launch point for even better profitability down the road. Integration expenses will be lower FY '22 than in FY '21 and total integration spending is expected to be $1.8 billion, slightly higher than our previous estimate due to additional opportunities identified to further optimize legal entity structures and improve back office automation.We expect continued improvement at FedEx Freight through our ongoing revenue quality and profitable growth strategies. Our outlook includes substantial funding of our incentive compensation program for our team members. That said variable compensation expense is not expected to be a headwind for fiscal '22. While we have clear growth opportunities, the widespread labor shortages impacting many companies and industries across the US is also impacting us through higher wage rates and lower productivity, particularly in the first quarter and this is reflected in our overall outlook for the year.Earlier Raj talked about our innovate digitally initiative. The spending related to these important projects is included in our outlook and will largely be recorded in the corporate eliminations and other section of our P&L. Further, we estimate a higher effective tax rate for fiscal '22 of approximately 24% prior to the mark-to-market retirement plan accounting adjustments.Finally, address -- I will address our capital allocation, starting with capital expenditures, which is expected to be $7.2 billion in FY '22. This projects to 8% or less of revenue which is the target level for the capex to revenue component of our FY '22 to '24 long-term incentive plan and remains below our historical capital intensity. Approximately half of our expected capital spending this year will be for growth, but the remainder for important projects like replacement of our aging FedEx Express aircraft, which not only is expected to have a high financial return but is an important part of our strategy to reduce our carbon footprint. We will also continue to invest in the modernization of our key Express hubs and upgrades to other facilities in all our transfer net -- patient networks to drive efficiency. We will increase replacement of vehicles across the enterprise, which we largely deferred in FY '21. We will add safer, more energy efficient equipment, all of these projects will yield benefits in the near term and long term.We ended fiscal 2021 with $7.1 billion in cash and as such our leadership team is laser-focused on enhanced capital allocation opportunities, including our 15% dividend increase for fiscal '22, which raised the dividend to $3.00 per share as we announced on June 14. Next, our plan to restart our stock buyback program during the first quarter, which we can do without having to increase leverage and our focus primarily to offset dilutive effects of our equity compensation program. And our plan to voluntarily contribute $500 million in FY '22 to our pension plan, which was funded at 95% on May 31.In closing, we are adding shareholder value by driving profitable revenue growth, expanding margins, generating strong free cash flow, focusing capital spending into the greatest areas return, strengthening our balance sheet and improving cash return to shareholders. Based on record fourth quarter results we just covered and the future ready strategies we have in place, I can say with confidence that we fully expect FedEx to continue delivering sustainable and superior financial returns in the future.Next, we will be happy to address your questions.