
OperatorGood day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Lam Research Corporation September Quarter Earnings Call.At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Ms. Tina Correia, Corporate Vice President, Corporate Finance and Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Tina Correia -- Corporate Vice President, Investor Relations and Corporate Finance

 



Thank you, and good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to the Lam Research Quarterly Earnings Conference Call. With me today are Tim Archer, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Doug Bettinger, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. During today's call, we will share our overview on the business environment and we'll review our financial results for the September 2021 quarter and our outlook for the December 2021 quarter. The press release detailing our financial results was distributed a little after 1:00 PM Pacific Time this afternoon.The release can also be found on the Investor Relations section of the company's website, along with the presentation slides that accompany today's call. Today's presentation and Q&A includes forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties reflected in the risk factors disclosed in our SEC public filing. Please see accompanying slides in the presentation for additional information. Today's discussion of our financial results will be presented on a non-GAAP financial basis, unless otherwise specified. A detailed reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results can be found in today's earnings press release. This call is scheduled to last until 3:00 PM Pacific Time. A replay of this call will be made available later this afternoon on our website.And with that, I'll hand the call over to Tim.Tim Archer -- President and Chief Executive Officer

 



Thanks, Tina, and welcome, everyone. Lam delivered a solid September quarter with revenues in line and earnings per share above the midpoint of our guided ranges. These results represent our sixth consecutive quarter of revenue and earnings-per-share growth for the company. Over this time period we have scaled our operations to support rapidly growing demand for our products and services, and as we look forward, we see continued strengthening across both leading-edge device segments and specialty technology markets.In response, we have expanded our manufacturing capacity at existing facilities in the United States, Korea and Taiwan. In the September quarter we celebrated the grand opening of our new Malaysia facility which when fully ramped will be the largest factory in our global network. And just last month we announced a new factory in Oregon primarily designed to meet increased demand for Lam tools and Foundry/Logic and advanced packaging applications. With these investments, we are building a solid foundation for delivering on our long-term growth objectives.In the near term, however, we are not immune to the widely reported supply chain constraints and elevated costs that continue to create new challenges for Lam and others across our industry. Our employees and supply chain partners are working tirelessly to meet the needs of our customers and I would like to sincerely thank them for their efforts. From a wafer fab equipment spending perspective, we now see calendar 2021 ending in the mid-$80 billion range. Overall WFE is higher in the second half versus the first half of the year with both DRAM and Foundry/Logic up in the second half while NAND is more balanced.Demand remains strong. And while it's a bit early to give a specific forecast for calendar year 2022, indications are that it will be another year of WFE growth. We believe sustained strength in WFE spending is due to several factors we have previously highlighted. First, drivers of semiconductor demand continue to broaden in sectors such as automotive, healthcare and security are increasingly dependent on semiconductor content to deliver the performance requirements of end-users. As a result, we are seeing a strong uptick in trailing edge technology nodes served by our Reliant business.

 



Our Reliant business has now posted 11 consecutive quarters of record revenues and in calendar year 2021 we expect Reliant to outgrow the WFE investments in the segment. Furthermore, high utilization rates across our installed base are driving strength in all subsegments of our CSBG business and in the September quarter CSBG revenues increased year-over-year by more than 30%. At the leading edge, semiconductor content growth, larger die and rising capital intensity are fueling increased wafer starts and strong WFE spending. In Foundry/Logic, for instance, the next generation processor chip for a top smartphone maker is more than 20% larger than its prior iteration.In DRAM higher capital intensity is being driven by the increasing need to correct single bit errors with the addition of an extra on bit chip, on-chip bit. In 3D NAND increasing device layer counts and the resulting higher degree of manufacturing difficulty is requiring the addition of new deposition and etch processes to address stress management, defect control and multi stack integration challenges. As a result, we see the WFE investment required to achieve the same bit growth percentage over the next five years to be notably higher than the five-year period just completed.However, as the leading equipment supplier to the 3D NAND market we are investing in new and differentiated capabilities to ensure scaling remains cost-effective. As one example Lam has developed a new high productivity Kiyo etch solution which increases etch rates in high aspect ratio features required for NAND devices with greater than 200 layers. We have installed this new capability at every major 3D NAND manufacturer for qualification with additional shipments -- systems now shipping to support planned ramps to high-volume production next year.While initially developed to meet the demanding requirements of high aspect ratio of etch in 3D NAND, we believe the technology may also have benefits for Foundry/Logic and DRAM at the leading-edge where we are presently engaged with customers in critical applications. Looking in more detail at the Foundry/Logic segment, we see spending at record levels. Lam's Foundry/Logic revenues are likewise set to grow significantly in 2021 and we expect this expansion to continue in 2022 as well. Foundry/Logic performance in the sub-5-nanometer era is being driven by both device architecture innovation and traditional area scaling.We are prioritizing technology development in three areas where we see the fastest growth and the greatest need, namely deposition and etch processes to support the efficient adoption of EUV patterning, new etch capabilities to enable the formation of critical transistor features and new materials and deposition technique to assist in RC management. In patterning we're using the learning we've acquired over many years of multi-patterning etch leadership to win new applications as the industry adoption of EUV progresses. EUV requires use of special photoresist materials which given the material composition can amplify existing challenges with pattern roughness and defectivity.Unaddressed these will lead to performance and yield loss especially at smaller device dimensions. Lam has developed critical etch and deposition technologies to help solve these EUV implementation issues. In etch we introduced earlier this year a new pulse plasma etch capability that has demonstrated an order of magnitude reduction in EUV related pattern defectivity. This innovative etch solution is currently shipping to leading foundry and logic customers. In deposition hard masks and transfer films require enhanced mechanical properties in order to maintain fidelity of extremely small features and minimize line roughness.Utilizing a combination of proprietary hardware design and RF power technology we are depositing high quality films that have replaced incumbent technologies such as PVD and spin-on materials at multiple Foundry/Logic customers. Related to the formation of critical transistor features including gates, pins and source string we saw significant etch wins in the September quarter. These wins continue to confirm the benefits of our unique plasma pulsing capabilities in conductor etch for gate all-around and FinFET applications. For advanced device architectures, we also see ultrahigh selectivity isotropic etch increasingly required.Lam's growing selective etch portfolio delivers superior results through a combination of process technologies and reactor innovations that include new chemistries and plasma sources. This has helped us win a greater number of applications in recent quarters. And finally, RC management continues to be limiter on performance scaling, and we are seeing demand for our atomic layer deposition technologies as a result. Our Striker ALD system deposits thin low k films that can withstand harsh integration steps encountered later in the process flow. These films have demonstrated the ability to reduce capacitance by 20% to 30%, and Striker is now the tool of record at leading Foundry/Logic customers.This technology is also extendable to gate all-around devices where there is an additional requirement of conformal coverage and recessed cavities which can then be selectively etched back. In advanced packaging, momentum remains strong with orders received in the September quarter from multiple Foundry/Logic customers for through-silicon via etch and deposition systems. Our experience in high-aspect-ratio etching has allowed us to deliver a production-proven process with fast etch rates and smooth profiles, helping to minimize the cost of integrating TSVs in the overall flow.Similarly, for copper metallization, our SABRE 3D solution enables void-free fill by employing an innovative advanced pretreatment, and our high throughput electroplating process reduces cost of ownership. So to wrap up, we delivered a solid September quarter in an environment of ongoing supply chain challenges. We are seeing robust semiconductor demand across all segments, broadening of semiconductor applications across industries and rising capital intensity. We are excited about the healthy outlook for WFE spending and believe our innovative product portfolio is poised to capture new opportunities as semiconductor technology continues to advance. Thanks again for joining.Now here's Doug to cover the quarter in more detail.Doug Bettinger -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerGreat. Thank you, Tim. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us on our call today. Lam's delivered another quarter of strong results with revenue, operating income dollars and earnings per share coming in at record levels in the September quarter. All financial metrics came in at or above the midpoint of our guidance, demonstrating our continued focus on operational execution. We've achieved this performance while also navigating significant supply chain challenges. We're pleased with Lam's ability to scale the company in this demanding environment. September quarter revenue was $4.3 billion, an increase of 4% from the June quarter and more than 35% growth from a year ago.Looking at the breakout of the Systems revenue, the Memory segment represented 64% of Systems revenue in the September quarter, which was up from the prior quarter level at 59%. Memory growth was driven by investments in DRAM, primarily in the 1z and 1-alpha nodes. DRAM Systems revenue nearly doubled in dollar terms and grew from 10% in the June quarter to 19% in the September quarter. NAND segment concentration came in at 45% of our Systems revenue versus 49% in the June quarter and was flattish in dollar terms.Our NAND customers are investing in both capacity additions and conversions with equipment investments focused toward 128-layer through 192-layer devices. The Foundry segment spending represented 25% of our Systems revenue compared with 35% in the June quarter. We're seeing investments in equipment from both leading-edge and mature device nodes from multiple sources of end-use demand such as AI, IoT, cloud and 5G. Logic and analog device companies are driving capacity additions at the foundries.There is notable growth in the Logic and Other segment, which hit a record level of Systems revenue for Lam in the September quarter. Logic and Other contributed 11% of Systems revenue in the September quarter which was up from 6% in the June quarter, and it was driven by leading edge and mature nodes ramping from microprocessors, image sensors, core management and 5G demand. Let me turn now to the regional composition of our total revenue. The China region came in at 37% of total revenues which was flat with the prior quarter percentage level.The revenue from China domestic customers and multinational customers with fabs located in China was again fairly balanced in the September quarter. Korea and Taiwan regional spending represented 21% and 15% of revenues respectively in the September quarter. I do expect that the December quarter revenue will have a lower China concentration. The customer support business group revenue was nearly $1.4 billion, 34% higher than the September quarter in calendar 2020 and flat with the prior-quarter level.As Tim noted, the Reliant product line that serves the specialty market delivered record results and we also had solid results in the spares, service and upgrades side with the focus on maximizing the productivity and value of the installed base tools while supporting the high fab utilization levels in the industry. I continue to have confidence that CSBG will grow revenues consistently on an annual basis. Let me now hit the margins performance. Our September quarter gross margin was 46% right at the midpoint of our guided range. I just remind you that our gross margin can fluctuate quarter-to-quarter due to overall business levels along with customer and product mix.The supply chain constraints discussed earlier have resulted in elevated costs broadly with freight and logistics costs continuing to be one of the biggest headwinds. Additionally, we currently have margin dilution from our new factory in Malaysia which is not yet operating at full capacity. We've included these costs in our December quarter guidance as we expect they will remain in the near future. Operating expenses for September were $586 million, a slight increase from the prior quarter.We've continued to manage our expenses as we scale the company, with a strong focus on operational efficiencies while prioritizing R&D spending to deliver differentiated product portfolio that supports our customers technology roadmaps. September operating margin exceeded the midpoint of our guidance range at 32.4% or approximately $1.4 billion. Our non-GAAP tax rate for the quarter was 12.2%, generally in line with our expectations. And as we've noted in previous quarter calls, our tax rate may fluctuate from quarter to quarter, and you should expect the ongoing tax rate to be in the low teens level for the 2021 calendar year.We continue to monitor potential tax changes under consideration in the United States, but we've not reflected the impact of any potential changes in our financial models at this point. Other income and expense came in for the quarter at $36 million in expense. This amount is higher than prior quarter due to an unrealized gain we had in June for one of our private equity investments partially offset by lower interest expense in the September quarter as a result of the payoffs of our 2021 notes last quarter. And just to note, OI&E is subject to market-related volatility that could cause a difference from our typical run rate.We were active in our buybacks during the September quarter allocating over $1.2 billion toward share repurchases. We deployed this cash and a combination of open market repurchases as well as an accelerated share repurchase program. This ASR will continue to execute in the December quarter. In addition, we paid $185 million in dividends in the quarter. I'd also like to highlight that in August we announced a 15% increase in our quarterly dividend, growing it from $1.30 to $1.50 per share which was paid in October. We're tracking very well to our capital return plans with returns of over 100% of our free cash flow year-to-date in calendar year 2021.Diluted earnings per share for the September quarter was $8.36, above the midpoint of the guidance range. The diluted share count balance was down slightly from the June quarter level coming in at 143 million shares, generally in line with our expectations. Let me now shift to the balance sheet. Cash and short-term investments including restricted cash totaled $4.9 billion, which was down from the prior quarter. The decrease in cash is attributed to the capital return activities that I described earlier. Additionally, the timing of shipments and resulting impact on accounts receivable as well as an increase in our inventory balance consumed cash in the quarter.Days sales outstanding was up to 72 days from 66 days in the June quarter. Inventory turns were down slightly from the prior quarter level, coming in at 3.2 times, which was planned as we've increased inventory levels to meet the increasing investments from our customers as well as to help mitigate the challenges that we've seen in our supply chain. Non-cash expenses for the September quarter included approximately $58 million for equity compensation, $61 million for depreciation and $19 million for amortization. Capital expenditures for the September quarter were up versus the June level coming in at $136 million.The increase in our expenditures is associated with capacity expansion in the network, in particular at our critical spare parts facility in Ohio, as well as spending for our Korea Technology Center that will be formally opening in 2022. We expect to see elevated levels of capital expenditures in the remainder of calendar year 2021 and into 2022 as we support the growth that we see in the business. We ended the September quarter with approximately 15,400 regular full-time employees, which is an increase of approximately 1,300 people, to meet the increased output levels and to support customers with their technology and production requirements.Let's now take a look at our non-GAAP guidance for the December 2021 quarter. We're expecting revenue of $4.4 billion plus or minus $250 million. We continue to maintain a widened revenue range given the supply chain uncertainties that we mentioned. Gross margin of 46% plus or minus 1 percentage point, operating margins of 32% plus or minus 1 percentage point, and finally earnings per share of $8.45, plus or minus $0.50, based on a share count of approximately 142 million shares. And just an additional note, our guidance does not include an estimated gain related to one of our private equity investments that recently raised capital in a public offering. The gain as of today is in the $50 million range and is subject to market volatility.The amount recognized in our financials as of the end of December 2021 quarter may fluctuate and I'll obviously give you an update at our next earnings release. So then in closing, we're experiencing ongoing output challenges in our global supply chain that are continuing to negatively impact both our revenue and gross margin. We're improving known items while new items continue to emerge that we need to further work through.Lead times remain stretched, and we continue to have unmet demand. Despite these constraints, we're operating at record levels in terms of revenue and earnings while delivering the technology solutions our customers require. Industry demand remains strong as we look forward to growth in 2022. I remain very excited about the multitude of opportunities for the company, and I'd obviously like to thank the dedicated Lam Research employees for their tireless support in this environment.Operator, that concludes my prepared remarks. Tim and I would now like to open up the call for questions.