
OperatorGood morning, and welcome to the Pool Corporation First Quarter 2021 Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Please note, this event is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to Mark Joslin, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Go ahead, Mark..Mark W. Joslin -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to our first quarter 2021 earnings call. I'd like to remind our listeners that our discussion, comments and responses to questions today may include forward-looking statements, including management's outlook for the remainder of the year and future periods. Actual results may differ materially from those discussed today. Information regarding the factors and variables that could cause actual results to differ materially from projected results is discussed in our 10-K. In addition, we may make references to non-GAAP financial measures in our comments. A description and reconciliation of our non-GAAP financial measures is included in our press release and posted to our corporate website in our Investor Relations section. I'll turn the call over now to our President and CEO, Peter Arvan. Pete?

 



Peter D. Arvan -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Mark, and good morning to everyone on the call. I simply could not be prouder of our team or more energized by these results. As you saw this morning, we announced that our first quarter sales came in at $1.1 billion, which is the first time in our history that we have crossed the $1 billion mark in the first quarter. This represents a 57% increase over the same period last year and was the result of strong demand and strong execution in virtually all our markets in North America, both blue and green, and even stronger market conditions and execution in Europe. Our dedicated and talented teams have worked very hard to ensure we provide the very best service to our customers, allowing them to help families enjoy the healthy outdoor living lifestyle that we support. From a geographic perspective, our four largest North American markets were strong. California saw a very robust 30% gain in the quarter.In Florida, we saw sales grow by 33%. In Arizona, sales grew by 29%, while Texas grew by 68% in the quarter. The February storm in Texas positively impacted our total sales by approximately 1% to 2% or $15 million to $20 million. Overall, these year-round markets are experiencing the same elevated demand and saw a 40% increase for the quarter, while seasonal markets, sales increased by 66%, highlighting the strength and depth of the industry order backlog. Turning to product sales. No surprises here with equipment sales posting gains of 61%, driven by strong demand for heaters, lighting, pumps, filters, all used in the maintenance and construction and remodel of swimming pools. This is following the fourth quarter gains of 51%. Chemical sales were up 18% in the quarter, including the effects of the increased dichlor and trichlor product pricing resulting from the previously discussed industry supply shortages for these products.We are encouraged by this growth given that the installed base grew by approximately 2% overall, which highlights greater pool usage by homeowners. Building material sales increased 34% in the quarter, reflecting a very healthy demand for construction and remodeling products. Retail-related product sales were up 43% in the quarter, reflecting strong confidence by our dealers and increased early buy activity compared to last year. We believe that new pool construction was approximately 96,000 units in 2020. And with very strong permit data from our major markets, we are anticipating that 2021 new pool construction will exceed 110,000 units for the first time since the Great Recession, but still well below historical peak levels. Commercial pool category sales growth turned positive for the first time since the onset of the pandemic, posting 3% growth after declining for the past three quarters.

 



This is an encouraging sign. With people beginning to travel more, we expect this market to continue to strengthen. For perspective, this is a relatively small part of our business, making up only 4% of our total sales. Our 2020 acquisitions are performing well and as expected, contributed significantly to overall growth, adding approximately $45 million in sales or about 4% of total net sales for the quarter. Now let me provide some commentary on our European operations. Our team in Europe posted some astonishing results in the first quarter with sales up 115%, with the month of March being the largest month ever for the POOLCORP team in Europe. Like in North America, consumers are investing in their backyards and keeping our dealer base extremely busy. Our team in Europe has done a tremendous job focusing on the customer experience and operating execution, which has enabled share gains in a competitive market.All countries in our Europe business are experiencing record growth, highlighted by particularly strong growth in France, Spain and Germany, the three largest markets. I would now like to provide some commentary on Horizon. We could not be happier with the trajectory that this business is on. Building on a strong fourth quarter, Horizon posted 24% base business growth in the first quarter and is poised to gain momentum throughout the year. We are confident that this platform will continue to excel, with strong execution, our team's intense focus on the customer and a robust housing market fueling demand. The team is assimilating the TWC Distributors acquisition that we closed in December, expanding our Florida market presence with nine additional sales centers. Horizon is also expanding its footprint with two new greenfield locations opening soon in key markets in Florida and California.We will continue to strategically invest in this business. Turning to gross margins. We are pleased to see a 40 basis point gain for the quarter, including a 70 basis point growth in the base business. Higher volume-based purchasing incentives, a favorable sales mix and some inflation benefit combined to provide a slight lift year-over-year. Switching our discussion to operating expenses. We have a very good story to share. In total, operating expenses were up 17% net of the impairment expense in Q1 of 2020 and including the impact from our four acquisitions that we closed in 2020. Excluding the impairment last year, our base business operating expense increased only 10% on revenue growth of 51%. This led to a reduction of our overall opex of 650 basis points as a percentage of sales for the quarter. Driving this operating leverage improvements are the benefits from our capacity creation leverage, improvements are the benefit from our -- driving this operating leverage improvement are the benefits from our capacity creation activities, and the tremendous effort and dedication of our teams.Of note, our POOL360 sales accounted for 11% of our total sales. We saw an incredible 90% increase in revenue through the tool compared to the same period last year and a 45% increase in line volume process. Wrapping up the P&L brings us to the operating income line. For the quarter, we reported operating income of $129 million. This is a 263% increase over last year and brought our first quarter operating margin to 12.2% compared to 5.3% last year at the same time. This is truly an amazing performance and one that we are all quite proud of. Once again, I would be remiss if I did not acknowledge the incredible execution and tireless effort that our team displayed to accomplish these amazing results. Now with the first quarter behind us, let me try and provide some context for how we see the remaining portion of the year shaping up.

 



First, as noted in our previous call, our builders ended the year with a considerable backlog. This has continued to grow as homeowners' desire for a family friendly outdoor living environment is increasing. Contractors continue reporting strong leads and contracts deep into the 2021 season with many quoting 2022 completions. The flexibility of the new work-from-home norm that many professionals have switched to has proven to be a catalyst for investing in home improvements, with the backyard being near the top of the list. This, along with the continuation of the de-urbanization trends, strengthening of the southern migration and more active participation of the millennial population in the housing market should be great for our industry. Second, we previously said that inflation would be in the 2% to 3% range, but now believe it will be in the 4% to 5% range with some products into double digits.We don't anticipate any of this getting hung up in the channel, so that will provide a tailwind for the year. Considering that most of our -- most of the cost of constructing a new pool or remodeling an existing pool is tied up in labor, we don't anticipate this inflation having a meaningful effect on demand. As it relates to nondiscretionary products such as chemicals, inflation is simply passed through again with no real effect on demand. Third, with demand being so strong and some manufacturers struggling to keep up, we have experienced some product shortages that, up to this point, have been manageable by utilizing the strength of our network to keep critical product flowing to our dealers and providing alternative options when certain products are in short supply.Our back orders have certainly increased in most markets, but our team has done a remarkable job taking care of our customers in a very challenging environment. Fourth, labor is in very high demand across all construction segments. And this continues to pressurize the industry, keeping demand greater than supply, which we have seen for many years. Crews are working longer, and the fair weather has helped expand capacity for the industry, but the labor market tightness is something that we continue to watch. Finally, we just announced that we have acquired Pool Source, a single source -- a single location pool distributor in the strategic Nashville, Tennessee market.We have a robust M&A pipeline that we continue to develop. Greenfield activity has picked up as well as we expect to open seven or more new locations on the blue side this year in addition to the Horizon locations I mentioned earlier. Considering all of this and the amazing first quarter, our confidence in growth for the season and the rest of the year has improved considerably. As a result, we are raising our guidance for the year to $11.85 to $12.60 earnings per share from the previous guidance of $9.12 to $9.62. I will now turn the call over to Mark Joslin, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, for his commentary and perspective. Mark?Mark W. Joslin -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Pete. I'm going to start by commenting on the change in our guidance range for the year, which at the midpoint is up 30% from the guidance we gave on our year-end call just over two months ago. So what changed in that relatively short period of time? The answer is there are a number of reasons for a more optimistic outlook, which I'll describe in order of magnitude. First is our very strong Q1 results and our short-term expectations as we move into the second quarter. Despite relatively average U.S. weather, Q1 market conditions built on the exceptionally strong 2020 end of year, and we're able to capitalize on that to deliver phenomenal results.This momentum has continued into the second quarter, and taken together, is meaningfully better than what we expected in February. Second, we've seen an acceleration in inflationary price increases announced by our vendors over the last couple of months, roughly doubling the inflationary impact we expect to see for the year from our earlier guidance of 2% to 3% on average across our product portfolio to 4% to 5% now. As vender price increases are primarily pass-throughs in the pool industry, these increases should add to our sales and gross profit opportunity for the year. Third, we have more clarity on positive external factors impacting our business throughout the remainder of the year. These factors include our increased confidence that new normal will be many more people working from home in the future than in the past, with greater focus on home improvement spending.This spending will be fueled in the short term by favorable homeowner dynamics, including rising home valuations, low interest rates, a healthy job market, government stimulus and greater millennial participation in the housing market. As our first quarter demonstrated, we generate significant operating leverage by effectively managing expense growth in vibrant market conditions. While I expect our operating leverage to decline as we progress through the year, it should be better for the year overall than our typical annual target. Finally, adding to our opportunity since February are slightly larger contributions from 2020 acquisitions and our just completed Pool Source acquisition in the Nashville market. Tempering our enthusiasm, to some degree, are the strains on our supply chain as many suppliers struggle to maintain product flow in the midst of this vigorous market environment and constraints on customer labor that could impact their ability to fulfill demand.Our suppliers' ability to maintain adequate product flow, particularly as we head into and through the season, will be a challenge but we believe we've adequately factored this into our projections. With that color on the conditions that resulted in our guidance change, I will comment briefly on our Q1 results before summarizing our expectations for the rest of the year. As I mentioned on our year-end call, a present-day Michael Angelo painting a picture of a perfect quarter might have painted our fourth quarter results. With our first quarter now behind us, it's clear that our fourth quarter was just a warmup for a true masterpiece. Every aspect of our first quarter performance was exceptional, top to bottom, on the P&L with excellent working capital management and cash generation. Compared to a strong Q1 last year, sales were up 57%.Operating income was more than 3.5 times greater. Operating margin was more than two times better and return on invested capital was 44% on a trailing four-quarter basis, all record levels of performance. Obviously, our teams in the field stay focused on their customers' needs in the face of the many significant challenges facing them each and every day, took advantage of the resources available to them to create capacity, and in general, were just phenomenal. Now rather than doing my usual line-by-line results commentary, I believe it would be more helpful to discuss our expectations for the remainder of the year, starting with sales. As mentioned, the demand environment is very strong, and we don't see any letup here as we head into the heart of the season with acquisitions and inflation adding to our growth opportunity.These positives are tempered by potential vendor contractor labor constraints as well as our own increasingly difficult sales comps as the year progresses. As a reminder, our base business sales growth by quarter last year was 13%, 14%, 27% and 39%. Capacity and supply constraints potentially become more of an issue mid-season, but our year-over-year sales gains should be highest in Q2, with diminished growth as the year progresses. As usual, weather will have an important but as yet unknown impact. For the full year, we now expect the year-over-year total sales growth to be in the range of 20% plus, assuming supply constraints don't accelerate significantly. Along with the additional sales volume, our gross margin expectations for the year have also improved. On our year-end call, I forecast 20 to 40 basis points of margin decline for 2021. I would temper that now with a more modest flat to 20 basis points decline in gross margin, with the biggest challenges here coming later in the year.Very modest operating expense growth in relation to our sales and gross profit growth has characterized our results for the last year. While that should be the case for the year overall, our operating margin improvement should decline sequentially throughout the year as we lap favorable comps and ramp up in some discretionary expense categories that benefited our results over the last year. For the full year, I expect our operating margin will improve in excess of 100 basis points, which would be far more than our typical annual target of 20, 40 basis points -- 20 to 40 basis points. We obviously have a good start on that based on our Q1 results.Our tax line is an area of continued focus, so I have a couple of comments here. First, we continue to see -- continue to expect our tax rate, excluding the ASU impact, to be around 25%, as has been the case for the last several years, with a lower effective rate as we book ASU-related tax gains on the exercise of stock options and divesting of restricted stock. As we mentioned in our release, our guidance range doesn't include additional ASU benefit beyond the $0.10 we realized in the first quarter. Of note, there's obviously been a lot of discussion about raising corporate federal taxes, both by the administration and in Congress, with varying proposals ranging up to a 7% tax rate increase which most likely would be effective in 2022. Given the high proportion of our profit earned in the U.S., any rate increase would likely have a direct and proportional increase in our taxes paid and a corresponding reduction in earnings.The good news, if you can call it that, is that investors seem to have anticipated this and already priced it into our stock. Looking at our share count, you'll note that we were able to complete $66 million in share repurchases in the quarter, which resulted in 198,000 shares being repurchased at an average price of $332 a share. As has been the case historically, we believe share repurchases remain our best use for excess cash, balanced with our desire to keep a relatively conservative balance sheet, so expect more of this to come in the year ahead. For share count forecasting purposes, I laid out a detailed forecast on our last call, which I would now reduce by 300,000 shares for each remaining quarter and year-to-date period based on the Q1 repurchases completed. Finally, as we announced previously, I plan to retire later this year with no specific departure date set at this point. Melanie Hart, who is our current Chief Accounting Officer, has been named as my successor and is preparing to assume our CFO responsibilities.With that, I'll turn the call back to our operator to begin our question-and-answer session.