  OperatorGood afternoon, and welcome to Skyworks Solutions second-quarter fiscal year 2022 earnings call. This call is being recorded. At this time, I will turn the call over to Mitch Haws, investor relations for Skyworks. Mr. Haws, please go ahead.Mitch Haws -- Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Rachel. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to Skyworks' second-fiscal quarter 2020 conference call. With me today are Liam Griffin, our chairman, chief executive officer, and president; and Kris Sennesael, our chief financial officer. Before we begin, I would like to remind everyone that our discussion will include statements relating to future results and expectations that are or may be considered forward-looking statements. Please refer to our earnings press release and recent SEC filings, including our annual report on Form 10-K, for information on certain risks that could cause actual outcomes to differ materially and adversely from any forward-looking statements made today. Additionally, the results and guidance we will discuss include non-GAAP financial measures consistent with our past practice. Please refer to our press release within the Investor Relations section of our company website for a complete reconciliation to GAAP. With that, I'll turn the call to Liam.Liam Griffin -- Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and President Thanks, Mitch, and welcome, everyone. Despite a challenging macro backdrop, I am pleased to report that Skyworks delivered record second quarter results, with double-digit year-over-year growth both revenue and earnings per share. We continue to benefit from a broad and diverse product portfolio. And with an expanding set of customers in high-growth markets, we are well positioned to outperform in the current environment.

 



 Looking at the quarter in more detail. We delivered record Q2 revenue of $1.34 billion, above consensus and up 14% compared to last year, highlighting both our growing content within Tier 1 mobile and the increasing diversification of our customer base and technology reach. In fact, our broad market revenue rose to a record $523 million in the quarter, up 10% sequentially and 36% year over year. In addition, we continue to drive solid profit margins, exceptional cash flow and consistent cash returns. We achieved gross margin of 51.2% and operating margin of 36.8%. We posted earnings per share of $2.63, up 11% year over year. We generated operating cash flow of $393 million, and we returned $509 million to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. Our strong results this quarter were driven by a vast expansion of use cases from content-rich smartphones to complex IoT devices, to innovative solutions for the automotive markets, industrial and infrastructure. Specifically in mobile, we supported the top five OEMs with our Sky5 architectures, including flagship models from Google, Samsung and other Tier 1s. In parallel, we leverage our in-house temperature compensated SAW, BAW and gallium arsenide technologies, to extend the reach across further content opportunities in 5G. In enterprise and IoT, we powered Comcast's latest WiFi 6 residential gateways, partnered with T-Mobile for their integrated 5G fixed wireless access service. We debuted the industry's first WiFi 6E gaming router featuring ultrafast quad-band performance. And we embedded Sky5 technology in rugged mobile computing devices for industrial-grade factory automation. In automotive, we are executing on our vision to lead the global transition while accelerating the shift to electrification trends that pave the way for cleaner and more efficient autonomous transport. Over the past quarter, we enabled next-generation wireless technologies across multiple leading OEMs. Further, our power isolation portfolio continue to gain momentum, with the global EV market leaders.

 



 And finally, in infrastructure and in Industrial. We captured milestone design wins at Tier 1 equipment and service providers for 5G macro and small cell deployments. We ramped high-performance clock solutions at used network systems, supporting LEO satellite networking, and we extended the reach of our cutting-edge timing portfolio across the leading fiber backhaul and data center equipment providers. Moving forward, ubiquitous connectivity, cloud computing and the massive shift to EV are fundamentally reshaping the way we live. As complexity intensifies, with billions of intelligent edge compute nodes that demand for high-speed ultra-reliable, low-latency solutions is accelerating. Skyworks is uniquely positioned to engineer and seamlessly integrate these advancements to increasingly smaller, more efficient form factors, purpose-built and customized for specific end markets and applications. Lastly, our business aperture and market reach have never been broader as we scale investments in core and new technologies. We are pioneering the breakthroughs in RF, signal processing, power isolation, timing, audio, among others, propelling our diversification and growth into the future. With that, I'll turn the call over to Kris.Kris Sennesael -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Liam. During the second fiscal quarter of 2022, Skyworks delivered record Q2 revenue of $1.34 billion, an increase of 14% year over year. Broad market revenue was a record $523 million, representing 39% of total Skyworks revenue in the quarter. Gross profit in the second quarter was $683 million, resulting in a gross margin of 51.2%, up 40 basis points compared to Q2 of last year. Operating expenses were $192 million or 14.4% of revenue, reflecting our investments in support of future growth. We generated $491 million of operating income, translating into an operating margin of 36.8%. We incurred $13 million of other expense and our effective tax rate was 9.6%, driving net income of $432 million. And based on a further reduction of our weighted average share count to 164.4 million shares, we achieved earnings per share of $2.63, up 11% year over year. Turning to our balance sheet and cash flow. Second fiscal quarter cash flow from operations was $393 million and capital expenditures were $127 million. In terms of capital allocation during the quarter, we returned $509 million to shareholders, paying $91 million in dividends and repurchasing 3 million shares of our common stock for a total of $418 million. During the first half of the fiscal year, Skyworks returned $871 million to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. In summary, the Skyworks team delivered another solid quarter with Q2 record revenue and earnings per share, while continuing to make the investments in our technology and product road maps to support future growth in mobile and broad markets. Now let's move on to our outlook for Q4 of fiscal 2022. We expect to deliver double-digit year-over-year revenue and earnings-per-share growth in the June quarter. Specifically, we anticipate revenue between $1.2 billion and $1.26 billion. At the midpoint of $1.23 billion, revenue for the quarter is expected to increase 10% year over year. This outlook takes into account our current view of recent pandemic-related supply chain disruptions, which are impacting the ability of our customers to fulfill end market demand. Gross margin is projected to be in the range of 50.75% to 51.25%. We expect operating expenses of approximately $190 million to $192 million. Below the line, we anticipate roughly $10 million in other expense and a tax rate of approximately 9.5%. We expect our diluted share count to be approximately 163.5 million shares. Accordingly, at the midpoint of the revenue range, we intend to deliver diluted earnings per share of $2.36, an increase of 10% over Q3 of last year. And finally, given our consistently strong cash flow and confidence in our outlook, we are investing for diversified growth while returning cash to shareholders through both share repurchases and dividends. And with that, I'll turn the call back over to Liam.Liam Griffin -- Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and President Thanks, Kris. Despite macro headwinds and supply chain disruptions, Skyworks remains squarely focused on delivering above-market growth across a diversified set of applications and end markets. Capitalizing on in-house technologies, scale and strategic customer relationships, we look forward to generating continued increases in revenue, earnings, profitability and free cash flow. Finally, our efficient balance sheet and consistent cash generation provide a formidable platform for long-term growth as we invest for the future and deliver premium returns to our shareholders. Operator, that concludes our prepared remarks. Open the lines for questions. 