
OperatorGreetings and welcome to UDR's First Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions]It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Director of Investor Relations, Trent Trujillo. Thank you, Mr. Trujillo. You may begin.Trent Trujillo -- Director of Investor Relations

 



Welcome to UDR's quarterly financial results conference call. Our press release and supplemental disclosure package were distributed yesterday afternoon and posted to the Investor Relations section of our website, ir.udr.com. In the supplement, we have reconciled all non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measure in accordance with Reg G requirements. Statements made during this call, which are not historical, may constitute forward-looking statements. Although we believe the expectations reflected in any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance that our expectations will be met.A discussion of risks and risk factors are detailed in our press release and included in our filings with the SEC. We do not undertake a duty to update any forward-looking statements. When we get to the question-and-answer portion, we ask that you be respectful of everyone's time and limit your questions to one plus a follow-up. Management will be available after the call for your questions that did not get answered during the Q&A session today. I will now turn over the call to UDR's Chairman and CEO, Tom Toomey.Tom Toomey -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Trent, and welcome to UDR's First Quarter 2021 Conference Call. On the call with me today are Mike Lacy, Senior Vice President of Operations; and Joe Fisher, Chief Financial Officer, who will discuss our results. Senior officers, Harry Alcock, Matt Cozad and Chris Van Ens, will also be available during the Q&A portion of the call. To begin, first quarter results met our guidance expectations, and we anticipate same-store growth and FFOA per share will improve from here. As evidenced by our guidance increase and the demand trends, which we will speak to during the balance of our prepared remarks. We are often asked the reason for optimism on the recovery of the multi-family sector and the magnitude of the potential upside UDR can capture.

 



Our response is twofold. First, on the macro front, we expect to see the typical demand and growth cycle witnessed in the past recoveries. The U.S. economy appears prime to accelerate as additional fiscal stimulus kicks in. Vaccination rates continue to improve and the return to office plans crystallize. Business conditions across most of our markets returning to more normalized levels. These factors should have a positive impact on job growth and wage growth, which drives demand for multifamily housing. It is difficult to put a range on the potential economic benefit from this unfolding, but recent operating trends put us in great position to realize this upside as we enter peak leasing season.Second, this recovery will have an additional tailwind that no past recovery has had, the potential relaxation of regulatory restrictions. These COVID-related regulations cost UDR an estimated $8 million to $10 million of NOI during the first quarter alone. Mike will further detail this opportunity in his remarks. But we are optimistic in our ability to recapture the income as restriction sunset and the recovery ensues. Collectively, our macro views the acceptance of our Next Generation Operating Platform by our residents and our ongoing ability to accretively source and deploy capital drove the full year 2021 guidance increases provided in our release. Joe will discuss this further in his remarks.Let me take a step back and look at our business over the intermediate time horizons of 2019, '20 and '21 and into the future. I firmly believe we have the correct strategy in place to outperform. Our business model is somewhat unique in the multifamily space as we are widespread diversification, innovative culture and a focus on operations makes UDR a full cycle investment, capable of performing well across a variety of macro backdrops. This proved true in 2019 when we accretively acquired nearly $2 billion of properties with attractively priced capital.In 2020 amid a pandemic, we made tremendous strides implementing our next-generation operating platform, which represents an entirely new way of conducting business in the multifamily industry, that has and should continue to drop more dollars to the bottom line. For 2021, we believe we are well positioned to take advantage of the accelerating economic recovery and eventual relaxation of regulatory restrictions in many of our larger markets. All in, UDR has generated better-than-average FFOA per share growth in seven of the last nine years, a track record I'm immensely proud of.

 



In closing, I remain highly confident in the strategic direction of our company and our team's ability to execute on an opportunity set that's in front of us. The ongoing commitment of our team has delivered increasingly higher levels of service and satisfaction to our residents as we progress toward the full rollout of our platform while also making more efficient. For this, a heartfelt thank you goes out to all our associates for skillfully adapting to a new way of conducting business and executing our strategy.With that, I'll turn the call over to Mike.Michael D. Lacy -- Senior Vice President of Property OperationsThanks, Tom. A little over 60 days ago, when we provided initial 2021 guidance, we believed the reopening cadence of markets, and therefore, the pace of recovery in multifamily demand indicators that we track would be largely tied to how rapidly vaccinations proceeded and how quickly regulatory restrictions were subsequently relaxed. Our best guess was that meaningful positive inflection would most likely occur in the second quarter for our portfolio in total and the second or third quarters for assorted markets more negatively impacted by COVID.While the regulatory backdrop has yet to exhibit material improvement, I'm pleased to say that we are seeing core operating trends improving a bit earlier than expected. This quarter, we added a new page to our supplement that illustrates these key operating trends. Let me take you through our first quarter results and positioning ahead of peak leasing season, using those charts on Page two of our supplement. First quarter results were solid, as evidenced by occupancy continuing to tick higher, blended effective lease rate growth turning positive and revenue growth improving sequentially. These trends have continued into April and give us confidence that results can further improve as we reprice 60% of our portfolio in the second and third quarters.In terms of demand, traffic was 35% higher year-over-year during the first quarter. Positively, we witnessed residents migrate back to harder-hit urban areas in greater numbers. While residents leaving these markets declined. This has resulted in physical occupancy of 96.8% in April, our highest reading since April 2020. Higher occupancy is usually a precursor to future pricing power and our effective blended lease rate growth has improved following occupancy gains.Strategically, we continue to improve occupancies in our harder-hit markets, but are also actively driving rents across numerous markets and communities that held up better during the pandemic. Regarding blended lease rate growth, the transition from vacancy to occupancy in some harder-hit urban areas of coastal markets has had a near-term anchoring effect on our blended rate growth. However, I expect our blended growth to trend higher during the second and third quarters as market rents across our portfolio continue to rise.As of today, we have a weighted average loss to lease of 2%, a significant improvement versus October 2020 when our gain-to-lease topped out at 6%. We have priced our May and June renewals at 100 to 150 basis point average premium to 2.7% growth we achieved in the first quarter. And we are forecasting effective new lease rate growth to turn positive portfoliowide during the summer as markets reopen and return to office is full swing. A material positive development we saw during the first quarter and in April thus far is the continued downward trend in concessions.As a reminder, our strategy through the endemic has been to maintain gross rents and offer concessions to not diminish our future rent roll in anticipation of a rebound. As demand has improved across our markets, so as pricing power, and we have been able to reduce the amount of concessions granted on new leases from a peak of 3.5 to four weeks on average in November 2020 to 2.7 weeks today. Each week of concession equates to approximately 2% effective rate growth, and we should see this benefit more clearly in our results as we reprice a large portion of our portfolio over the next two quarters. These factors have contributed to higher sequential billed revenue, which we anticipate will improve further in the coming months.Importantly, cash collection rates rose by 50 basis points between February and March with further improvement in April as we benefited from reopenings, job growth, stimulus programs and $2.5 million in rental assistance received from a variety of programs. We expect these trends to support revenue collection rates in the high 90% range going forward. Taken together, our same-store cash revenue growth turned positive on a sequential basis. Based on the most recent trends, I expect our year-over-year same-store revenue growth to be less negative in the second quarter and turn positive in the third quarter.In addition to these core trends, our future same-store and earnings growth prospects are bolstered by the potential to recover lost income opportunities directly tied to the pandemic. As Tom mentioned in his remarks, we estimate reduced collection levels and regulatory restrictions accounted for approximately $8 million to $10 million in lower NOI during the first quarter or $0.03 per share. Breaking this out further, despite recent sequential improvement, only rent collections have trended around 2% lower versus pre COVID, resulting in $6 million to $7 million in quarterly run rate bad debt reserves and write-offs.Another $1.50 to $2 million can be attributed to the other regulatory restrictions that have limited our ability to monetize our real estate through initiatives such as short-term rentals, amenity rentals and late fees. The balance of lost potential income comes from mandated flat renewal pricing across 15% to 20% of our portfolio. As markets continue to reopen and regulations are eased, we anticipate recapturing these revenue streams over time. While these big picture trends demonstrate our strong execution and the opportunity ahead, it's always helpful to provide some color at the market level. Briefly, New York and San Francisco are collectively 14% of our same-store NOI.During the quarter, we observed higher levels of demand from favorable migration patterns into and out of these markets. This dynamic and its positive impact on market rents and concessions helped to drive occupancy higher and therefore, sequential revenue and NOI growth. Washington, D.C. and Seattle are collectively 24% of our same-store NOI. These markets experienced relatively high levels of competitive new supply during the first quarter, which resulted in a near-term reduction of pricing power. We anticipate sequential NOI growth improving in these two markets as concessions decrease over the coming quarters.Our Sun Belt markets are collectively 25% of same-store NOI. These markets continue to exhibit strength with occupancy above 97%, and we are actively increasing rents to maximize our rent roll. Moving on, our Next Generation Operating Platform, version 1.0, has now been fully rolled out to 16 of our 21 markets. Our residents have embraced our move to a self-service model as evidenced by 96.5% of our tours conducted during the first quarter being self-guided or touchless. With the widespread introduction of automated self-touring and easy to use resident interfaces across our communities, we've remained on target to achieve headcount reductions, averaging 35% of our communities by year-end 2021, primarily through natural attrition.When coupled with other platform initiatives that also mitigate controllable operating expense growth, we remain confident in our forecast that the platform can increase our annual run rate NOI by $15 million to $20 million by the end of 2022. Finally, I want to thank my colleagues in the field and at corporate for their continued hard work to make the platform a reality. Every UDR associates should take pride that we have created a new way of doing business in the multifamily industry, that improves resident satisfaction, increases engagement and career mobility for top talent and deliver strong bottom line results. Although we have been working on the platform for three years, we are just scratching the surface of what is possible.And now I'd like to turn the call over to Joe.Joseph Fisher -- Chief Financial Officer, Senior Vice President and Principal Financial OfficerThank you, Mike. The topics I will cover today include our first quarter results and our improved outlook for the full year 2021, a summary of recent transactions and capital markets activity and a balance sheet and liquidity update. Our first quarter FFO is adjusted per share of $0.47 and at the midpoint of our previously provided guidance range and was supported by same-store revenue and NOI growth in line with our internal expectations. For the second quarter, our FFOA per share guidance range is $0.47 to $0.49. The $0.01 per share sequential increase is driven by our expectation for improving sequential same-store NOI growth, and accretion from recent capital allocation activities.Our year-to-date results, when combined with our expectation for continued sequential improvement throughout the year, drove the increases in our full year 2021 FFOA and same-store guidance ranges provided with our release. We now anticipate full year FFOA per share of $1.91 to $2, with the midpoint representing an approximate 1% increase from prior guidance. This increase is driven by $0.005 from a 25 basis point midpoint improvement in same-store revenue growth, $0.005 from a 50 basis point midpoint improvement in same-store expense growth and a $0.01 accretion from accretive financing activity and transactional activity, offset by $0.005 from increased G&A expense.Our same store guidance, we are now forecasting full year 2021 revenue growth of negative 2% to positive 0.5% with concessions on a cash basis and negative 4% to negative 1.5% with concessions on a straight-line basis. This difference is due primarily to the residual impact of concessions amortizing during 2021 that were granted in 2020. Additional guidance details including sources and uses expectations are available on Attachment 15 and 16E of our supplement. The low end of our full year 2021 FFOA guidance range suggests we achieved the midpoint of second quarter FFOA guidance of $0.48 per share and experienced flat sequential growth for the balance of the year. As Mike discussed, we are encouraged by the trajectory of several forward-looking operating trends and believe we are well positioned to drive rate growth as we enter the peak leasing season.We are optimistic that these dynamics when combined with the accelerating economic recovery and eventual easing of regulations will provide a growth tailwind as we progress throughout the year. As such, we plan to revisit guidance on our second quarter call once we have further evidence of the sustainability of recent positive operating trends are deeper into the leasing season and have a clear view of the regulatory environment. Next, a transactions update. A primary objective when we undertake transactions is to remain diversified by market mix, price point and location with end markets. While our portfoliowide urban suburban and AB quality exposures will oscillate over time as we pursue higher return deals, the 21 markets we operate in provide ample flexibility to utilize our value creation drivers to enhance earnings and NAV growth.We believe these tools allow us to pivot to the right capital allocation decision and consistently generate outsized yield expansion over time on investments, which provides a repeatable, enduring and compounding set of advantage versus private operators and public peers. These drivers include: one, our ability to improve core operations. Examples include implementing revenue management software, charging view or location premiums and using our scale in markets to secure lower vendor cost.Number two, implementing legacy operating initiatives such as parking optimization, short-term furnished rental programs and renting out common areas. Number three, overlaying our Next Generation Operating Platform, which reduces headcount needs, improves resident experience, adds smart home capabilities and brings data science into the mix. Number four, renovating apartments in common areas as well as increasing curb appeal where appropriate. And number five, utilizing predictive analytics and qualitative assessments to provide a better jumping off point for our investments in markets that are likely to produce better rent growth over the coming years.We have found that the greatest opportunities for outsized accretion come from acquired communities that are mismanaged, located proximate to other UDR communities, those with renovation upside, or a combination of the 3. Pairing this with premium-priced equity, like what we did in 2019 and during the first quarter of 2021 only serves to further enhance returns. This form of value creation is repeatable in any environment, given our ability to pivot sources of capital between dispositions, free cash flow and equity. Proof of the accretive nature of our transactional value creation strategy is evident on the $1 billion of third-party acquisitions completed in 2019. Thus far, the weighted average yield on these properties has expanded by approximately 35 basis points or 7% in terms of NOI growth to a 5.1% yield. This is a stunning result.Let me say again, this is a stunning result given this upside was realized during COVID, a period during which NOI generally declined. On the first quarter transaction activity, during the quarter, we sold two communities, one each in Orange County and Los Angeles, for total proceeds of approximately $187 million at share at a low 4% weighted average cap rate. We acquired or are under contract to acquire three communities, one in suburban Boston and two in suburban Dallas for a combined $360 million. All three communities are expected to generate outsized returns once fully integrated under our platform, with the weighted average initial yield projected to increase from mid-4% in year one to mid-5% by year 3.This equates to an approximate 20% uplift in NOI. And lastly, we committed to fund two DCP investments totaling $50 million. Each investment yields 9% and includes profit participation upon a liquidity event, which we expect to occur in approximately five years. Please refer to yesterday's release for additional details on recent transactions. Moving on, our investment-grade balance sheet remains liquid and fully capable of funding our capital needs. Some highlights include: first, during the quarter, we entered into forward sales agreements for approximately 9.3 million shares of common stock for a combined $405 million of future expected proceeds.We anticipate using these funds on accretive acquisition, DCP and development opportunities, some of which we have completed and others we expect to close in the coming quarters. We plan to overequitize these investments, which should improve our leverage as measured by debt to EBITDAre by 0.1 to 0.2 times. Second, after using the proceeds from our $300 million, 2.14% unsecured bond issuance in the first quarter to redeem higher cost, 4% debt originally scheduled to mature in 2025, we have only $640 million of consolidated debt or approximately 3% of enterprise value scheduled to mature through 2025 after excluding amounts on our credit facilities.Our proactive balance sheet management puts us in a position of relative strength with the best three-year liquidity outlook in the sector and a weighted average interest rate of 2.8%, the lowest among the multifamily peer group. Third, we recently announced a 1% increase to our dividend. Based on our 2021 AFFO per share midpoint of approximately $1.78 per share, our dividend payout ratio is forecasted to be 82%. Resulting in approximately $100 million of annualized free cash flow after accounting for dividend payments. And last, as is evident on attachment 4C of our supplement, we continue to have substantial capacity under our line of credit and unsecured bond covenants.As of quarter end, our consolidated financial leverage was 35% on undepreciated book value, and 28% on enterprise value, inclusive of joint ventures. Net debt-to-EBITDAre was 7.0 times on a consolidated basis, but would be 6.5 times if outstanding forward equity agreements were settled during the quarter. As of March 31, our liquidity as measured by cash and credit facility capacity net of our commercial paper balance and including the future expected proceeds from the potential settlement of our forward sale agreements was $1.35 billion. Taken together, our balance sheet remains healthy, our liquidity position is strong, our forward sources and uses remain balanced, and we continue to utilize a variety of capital allocation options to create value.Finally, subsequent to quarter end, SmartRent, which is one of the investments held by RETV one and two, of which we are one of the lead investors, entered into a definitive merger agreement with a special purpose acquisition company. Confirmation of the merger is subject to regulatory approval, stockholder approval and other customary conditions. As many of you know, UDR was an early adopter of SmartRent, SmartHome technology across our portfolio, as part of the foundation for our Next Generation Operating Platform. We are pleased to see the rest of the industry following our lead in its utilization and the benefits SmartRent has provided to our investors through tangible bottom line results to our operations, and yet to be realized appreciation within our RET investments.At this time, there are still many conditions to be satisfied, including those mentioned moments ago, before the merger is closed and SmartRent becomes a public company. Related to implications to UDR, the approximate $25 million valuation of our RETV interest presented on 12A of our supplement will continue to be presented in accordance with GAAP. Utilizing fair market value accounting and the valuations provided to us by RETV. Based on information provided to us by RETV, the valuation presented on 12A of our supplemental could increase to approximately $75 million on a pre-tax basis at a publicly disclosed transaction price, but depends on a number of factors. We do not intend to provide any additional commentary on this topic until it is appropriate.With that, I will open it up for Q&A. Operator?