  OperatorGood morning, and welcome to the American Airlines Group first-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. Today's conference call is being recorded. [Operator instructions] And I would now like to turn the conference over to your moderator, managing director of investor relations, Mr. Dan Cravens.Dan Cravens -- Moderator, Managing Director of Investor Relations Thanks, Crystal. And good morning, everyone, and welcome to the American Airlines Group first-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. Joining us on the call this morning, we have Doug Parker, chairman and CEO; Robert Isom, president; and Derek Kerr, chief financial officer. Also on the call for our question-and-answer session are several of our senior executives, including Maya Leibman, Steve Johnson, Vasu Raja, Alison Taylor and Devon May.

 



 Like we normally do, Doug will start the call with an overview of our quarter and the actions we've taken during this pandemic. Robert will then follow with some remarks about our commercial and other strategic initiatives. After Robert's remarks, Derek will follow with the details on the quarter and our operating plans going forward. After Derek's comments, we'll open the call for analyst questions, and lastly, questions from the media.[Operator instructions]. Before we begin, we must state that today's call does contain forward-looking statements, including statements concerning future revenues, costs, forecast, capacity, fleet plans and liquidity. These statements represent our predictions and expectations as to future events, but numerous risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ from those projected. Information about some of these risks and uncertainties can be found in our earnings press release issued this morning and our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2021. In addition, we will be discussing certain non-GAAP financial measures this morning, which exclude the impact of unusual items. A reconciliation to those numbers to the GAAP financials is included in the earnings release, and that can be found on the investor relations section of our website. A webcast of this call will also be archived on our website, and the information that we're giving you on the call is as of today's date, and we undertake no obligation to update the information subsequently. So thanks again for joining us. At this point, I'd like to turn the call over to our chairman and CEO, Doug Parker. 

 



Doug Parker -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Dan, and good morning, everybody. This morning, we reported a first-quarter pre-tax loss, excluding net special items of $3.5 billion. The loss was driven, of course, by the extreme drop in demand for air travel due to the global pandemic. Our revenues in the quarter were down 62% from the same period in 2019. In the midst of this difficult environment, the American Airlines team produced remarkable results. We flew more customers than any other U.S. airline. We did so reliably and safe. We produce the highest passenger unit revenue of any global U.S. carrier while having more available seats for sale. We completed the largest financing in airline history, a $10 billion transaction, secured by the most valuable loyalty program in the world, the AAdvantage frequent flyer program. And excluding that principle, we were cash positive in the month of March, our first such month since the beginning of the pandemic.

 



 These results and more were made possible by our incredible team. Without their resiliency, creativity and compassion, we'd be facing a very difficult future. Instead, thanks to their hard work and determination, we're starting to see light at the end of this very long tunnel -- this very dark tunnel, and we're on a path that has us well positioned as demand for air travel returns. That path forward is guided by what we're calling our green flag plan. For our industry, this pandemic has been much like a yellow flag during an auto race, where everyone slows down, takes a pit stop and get their cars ready for when the race resumes at full speed. We've used this period to improve and prepare, so that when the green flag does drop, it appears to be on the horizon. American will be ready. That plan is centered on four initiatives. I'll take a minute to walk through those at a high level, and then Robert and Derek will expand on what we've achieved to date and what we see on the horizon. First, we're doubling down on our commitment to operational excellence. We had a great operation in the first quarter, carrying more than 24 million passengers on nearly 340,000 flights. During our business day of the quarter, we had more than 430,000 customers flying on our aircraft. That's the highest we've had since March 2020. Our goal is to run the most reliable operation at American Airlines history once everyone is back to a full schedule. And the steps we put in place, including more reliable, profitable scheduling, new tools and technology to assist our team and customers during irregular operations and our claim commitment, will ensure we achieve that goal. Second, we're taking this opportunity to reconnect with our customers. Robert will talk more about what we're doing. As customers return to the skies, they will see an even better American Airlines. One with the broadest and best global network has now been enhanced by new partnerships. And one with innovative technologies and procedures that make travel more convenient for our customers and ensures they feel safe and comfortable as they return to fly. Third, we're planning to build on the positive momentum we've established with our team. This past year has tested our team in ways we could have imagined, but it also brought us much closer. We worked hand-in-hand with our union leaders to ensure that team members felt cared for, even as we experienced by far the most difficult financial circumstances in our industry's history. We're committed to building on that progress and continue to work together to ensure our team feels cared for every day. On that note, we are very happy to tell 13,000 team members they could tear up their warn notices, following the passage of the COVID-19 Relief Act that included an extension of the payroll support program. We will continue to welcome team members back to the operations as we increase our schedule. In fact, earlier this week, we announced we will begin hiring pilots later this year to prepare for 2022 and beyond. Finally and importantly, we are committed to passionately driving efficiencies across the organization. Derek will elaborate on this. But we are really proud of the aggressive and innovative ways the team has worked to position us to be more efficient on the other side of this pandemic. The efficiencies we've built into the business over the past year will drive more than $1.3 billion of permanent non-volume-related savings in 2021 and beyond. So before I turn it over to Robert, I'll close with this. We are a long way from where we need to be. This crisis is far from over, and we have to continue fighting to give our customers, shareholders and team the company they deserve. But there is no doubt, the pace of the recovery is accelerating. And thanks to our team, in a thoughtful and proactive plan as the green flag drops, American Airlines is ready.Robert Isom -- President Thanks, Doug, and good morning, everyone. I also want to thank our entire team for everything that they've done for our airline throughout the pandemic. This phenomenal group continues to rise to the occasion and deliver for our customers every day, and we're incredibly grateful. Our first-quarter revenue of $4 billion was effectively flat on a sequential basis versus the fourth quarter of 2020. However, our demand and revenue trends accelerated significantly as the quarter progressed. In January, our total revenue was 34% of what it was in 2019. And by March, it was 46% in 2019. This trend was driven by strong leisure demand in the U.S., Mexico, the Caribbean and Latin America. This momentum has continued as our seven-day rolling average of system daily net bookings has reached 2019 levels this week. And this is in spite of business and long-haul international demand remaining weak, with net bookings of roughly 20% of their level -- of their 2019 levels. That said, there are early signs of recovery for business. Small business demand, which was roughly 17% of our system revenue has been improving steadily as vaccination rates have increased and as markets reopen. An increasing number of our largest corporate accounts are coming back to the office and indicating that they'll be traveling in the third quarter and confirming in-person board meetings, conferences and events for this year. Importantly, we're focused on turning improved bookings and load factors into a leading unit revenue performance. We have continued to shape our network and our customer experience as nimbly and thoughtfully as possible, and we're seeing the results. The first quarter of 2021 was the third consecutive quarter in which our passenger unit revenue materially outperformed each of our network competitors. Thanks to our team, our likelihood to recommend scores have improved for the last three quarters as well. Based on our results in the first quarter, we're on track to have our best LTR year since the merger. We have used the pandemic to reset our airlines that it consistently outperforms for our customers, our team and investors. The first sign of this is in our summer schedule and second-quarter capacity plan. We expect to fly approximately 80% of our 2019 system seat capacity in the second quarter, and this increases to 90% this summer. We'll continue to do on a larger share of our assets to market where we can create unique value for our customers, and therefore, generate passenger unit revenue premium relative to our competition. When compared to 2019, we expect to find 90% of our domestic seat capacity during the summer peak and 100% in DFW and Charlotte. Our domestic network will constitute 85% of our system seat capacity in the summer peak. We expect to operate 80% of our international seat capacity compared to 2019 in our peak. Our organic network in the Americas creates more unique choices for customers and more profitability for the airline. As such, in our summer peak, our Latin American network is expected to be the same size as it was in 2019. Our short long-haul Latin America network will constitute approximately 12% of our system seat capacity in the summer peak. By contrast, our operation has been much more challenged in the Atlantic and Pacific as those markets have yet to fully reopen. And as a result, in our peak schedule, seat capacity in those parts of our network will only be 40% of what it was during the same period in 2019. Our Atlantic and Pacific networks will constitute just 3% of our system seat capacity in the summer peak. We expect to bring these markets back slowly and only when demand conditions warrant. It's important to note there is significant pent-up demand for international travel, and we're seeing it most in markets like Tel Aviv and Athens where market reopenings are leading to steady increases in demand. As borders continue to open throughout the world, we'll be ready because of the changes that we made to our fleet and network and the strength of our partnerships around the world. Overall, we will deliver any increase in capacity in a more efficient and reliable fashion than we did in 2019. We've accelerated the retirement of over 150 older aircraft in our fleet, leaving American with by far the youngest fleet of our global U.S. competitors. We intend to have all of our remaining aircraft active this summer and no longer sitting along tarmacs around the country. As Derek will share in a few minutes, we'll soon complete the harmonization of our Boeing 737 and Airbus A321 fleet, driving superior cost efficiency, a simpler operation and a better customer experience. Just as we is the past year to adapt our fleet network, we have also developed partnerships to offer our customers a seamless network in markets where we have structurally underperformed. This has been most true on the West Coast and in the Northeast. We have been unable to grow these markets organically due to infrastructure constraints. However, through our recently announced partnerships with Alaska and JetBlue, we can now offer customers the largest network in these two regions and bring a level of competition and choice that has long been lacking. Of course, to make these partnerships work, the experience must be seamless for our customers. As we like to say, an elite customer anywhere should be treated as an elite customer everywhere. We have several initiatives under way to make that a reality, including our announcement just yesterday to deliver on the next phase of our partnership with JetBlue. As we look toward the recovery, reconnecting with our customers will be centered on being the easiest airline to do business with. Our goal has always been to remove as many friction points as possible, and in the first quarter, we took a number of steps to help simplify the travel experience for customers as they return to flying. We've enhanced our travel planning tool to help customers make informed decisions on where they travel and what to expect when they get there, add a new pre-flight COVID-19 testing options, expanded acceptance of VeriFLY, the mobile health wallet that simplifies and verify travel requirements. VeriFLY is now accepted for all of our international flights in the U.S. to the U.S. and our flights from the U.S. to 11 countries. Our partners, Aer Lingus, British Airways, Iberia, Japan Airlines, now also accept VeriFLY. Building a curb to get contactless journey will be an ongoing effort as we reimagine safe and convenient travel in a post-COVID era. At DFW, we have expanded our touch technology trial to allow customers to use biometric scanners to check their bag's prior to departure, and we'll utilize that same technology to allow customers to gain entrance to an Admirals Club lounge later this year. And today, as we celebrate Earth Day, I want to highlight some important strides we've made to run a more sustainable airline. The most important thing any airline can do is retire older aircraft and replace them with new, more fuel-efficient aircraft. And we've done that at American, with $24 billion of investment over the past seven years and a retirement of more than 650 older aircraft. But we need to do more to reach our goal of net-zero carbon emissions by 2050, and we have our eye on sustainable aviation fuel. SAF is the most promising advancement available to us in the near to mid-term. We've been taking delivery of SAF for almost a year, and in the first quarter, we reached innovative offsetting agreements with two of our customers, Deloitte and Kuehne+Nagel. We appreciate that the Biden administration and many in Congress have engaged with our industry on climate issues or encouraged by the fact that we have common goals, especially when it comes to SAF. So in summary, over the past year, we've greatly simplified and modernized our fleet, rationalized our network and made many changes to our business and operations to ensure customers have flexibility and peace of mind when they return to travel. We're encouraged by the trends in demand for air travel across all sectors and believe American is well-positioned for the recovery in the months and years ahead. And with that, I'll turn it over to Derek.Derek Kerr -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Robert, and good morning, everyone. Before I begin my remarks, I too want to take the opportunity to thank our team. Their leadership and hard work truly embodies what American Airlines team members are known for. This morning, we reported a first-quarter GAAP net loss of 1.3 billion or $1.97 per share. Excluding net special credits, we reported a net loss of 2.7 billion or $4.32 per share. Robert talked about many of the commercial activities we're working on and the trends we're seeing in the demand environment, so I'll focus my remarks on the cost side of our P&L and our balance sheet as we look to the future. Throughout the entire pandemic, we have remained focused on keeping our capacity aligned with demand while preserving the maximum amount of flexibility to respond as demand returns. We took aggressive actions to reduce our cost structure, and we have reduced our first-quarter total operating expense, excluding net special items, by 26% versus 2020 on a 39% reduction in total capacity. Nonfuel operating expenses, excluding net special credits, were up 6% sequentially from the fourth quarter as we gradually added back capacity. We ended the first quarter with 17.3 billion in total available liquidity, including approximately 3.1 billion of PSP2 funds we received from the Treasury Department during the quarter. We were recently notified that this amount will be increased by approximately $463 million to be received in the second quarter. In addition, we expect to receive 3.3 billion of PSP3 funds by the end of the second quarter. We saw positive trends in our daily cash burn rate throughout the quarter. Our average daily cash burn was approximately 27 million per day, which came in better than our guidance of 30 million per day. This happened despite the drop-off in demand we saw in January and February and a significant increase in fuel prices at the beginning of the quarter. As a reminder, our definition of cash burn includes approximately 9 million per day of regular debt principal and cash severance payments. For the month of March, our estimated average daily cash burn rate was approximately 4 million per day. And excluding approximately 8 million per day of regular debt principal and cash severance payments made in March. As Doug noted, the company's cash burn rate turned positive for the month. During the quarter, our Treasury team did a phenomenal job of continuing to strengthen our liquidity through a series of capital market transactions. Notably, we completed our 10 billion financing transaction that was backed by the AAdvantage program at a blended rate of 5.6%, less than half of what we would have been able to do last summer, and use those proceeds to repay in full the 550 million secured loan we had with the Treasury Department. We also had 530 million of aircraft amortization payments, including the maturity of our 2011-1WTC, which, together with mortgage maturities, resulted in 35 mainline aircraft and nine regional aircraft becoming unencumbered. During the quarter, we also repaid in full our 2.8 billion of revolving credit facilities. This was a liquidity-neutral transaction that reduced the company's outstanding debt by 2.8 billion. Importantly, we still retain the flexibility to either draw upon these revolving commitments again as needed or leave them undrawn until October 2024. During the quarter, we took delivery of seven Boeing 737 MAX aircraft, and we expect to take one more delivery later this year. As a reminder, these aircraft were built while the MAX was grounded and were efficiently financed through leasing transactions. In addition, we recently exercised our remaining deferral rights on 18 Boeing 737 MAX aircraft that were previously scheduled to be delivered in 2021 and 2022. These deliveries are now expected to occur in 2023 and 2024. Lastly, we reached an agreement with Boeing related to our remaining 787-8 deliveries. Under the revised terms of the agreement, we have elected to defer and convert five 787-8 aircraft to 787-9 aircraft. These deliveries are now expected to occur in 2023. The remaining 14 deliveries of 787-8 aircraft have been rescheduled to occur by the end of the first quarter of 2022, and all of these aircraft will retain their existing financings. In January, the company made 241 million in contributions to its pension plans and marks the new COVID-19 relief bill, included, among other things, funding relief for single employer pension plans. These new funding rules reduced the company's remaining required cash contribution for 2021 to zero, while lowering our projected required contributions over the next five years by over 2 billion. Under these new provisions for funding purposes, the combined plans are expected to be funded in excess of 90% for plan year 2021. As Doug and Robert mentioned, we are starting to see signs of what appears to be a strong economic recovery. This fantastic news makes our 1.3 billion of efficiency measures even more important as we repair our business for the return to a more normal environment. On the fleet side, we have talked a lot about our fleet simplification efforts and the elimination of smaller sub-fleets, which resulted in the removal of more than 150 older and inefficient aircraft. Many of these aircraft -- retired aircraft have already been sold. And by May, we will have completed disposal of all of our 730 -- 767 aircraft and Embraer 190 aircraft, generating more than 300 million in proceeds. Our fleet changes are expected to drive significant operational and cost savings in 2021 and beyond. With only four mainline aircraft types remaining, we will see improved aircraft utilization and operational efficiencies in the back half of 2021 through the increase in gauge and reduction in inactive aircraft, including spares and maintenance allocations. Additionally, our fleet harmonization project is picking up steam, and we expect to have our entire 737 fleet completed in the second quarter of this year. These aircraft have 172 seats and come with larger overhead bins and in-seat power. We expect to have the A321 fleet completed by the end of this year. Aside from a better customer experience, these projects will provide significant opportunities to improve revenue production and lower our unit cost now and well into the future. So when demand returns to more normalized levels, we'll be able to fly -- efficiently fly 2019 levels of capacity with approximately 10% fewer aircraft. In terms of our balance sheet following our transactions in the first quarter, 32% of our outstanding debt is prepayable without penalty. After all the COVID-related financings we have completed to date, our average cost of debt is approximately 4.5%. As we have said in the past, we will naturally reduce our debt from where we are today by 8 to 10 billion over the next five years through regularly scheduled debt amortization. We know going forward that since we are now starting at a higher debt level on account of pandemic-related debt, we will need to delever even more. In the near term, we plan to maintain higher liquidity levels until we are generating sustained positive cash flow. Once this occurs, when combined with our efficiency measures and a lower capex profile, we plan to use any excess cash flow to more strategically delever our balance sheet by proactively retiring prepayable debt and concurrently increasing our unencumbered assets. As part of our plan, we also anticipate resetting our target minimum liquidity level. Overall, we expect second-quarter total capacity to be down approximately 20 to 25% versus second quarter of 2019. With these capacity and demand assumptions, we expect to see a significant increase in our revenue versus the first quarter with our total revenue to be down approximately 40% versus the second quarter of 2019. These inputs lead to an estimated second-quarter pre-tax margin, excluding net special items of between negative 27 and 30%. We presently expect to end the second quarter with approximately 19.5 billion in total available liquidity, which includes the additional PSP2 and PSP3 funds I mentioned earlier. That would be the highest liquidity position in company history and our fifth consecutive quarter of increased liquidity despite the demand-driven operating losses we have incurred over that period. Given these projected liquidity levels and the positive cash and demand trends, we are no longer looking to raise liquidity at American for the first time since the pandemic struck. For the full-year 2021, our debt principal payments will be 2.8 billion, excluding the prepayment of our revolving credit facilities. In the second quarter, we expect to pay down 595 million of aircraft and engine debt in addition to the 250 million PDP facility we paid off earlier this month. Our full-year capex is still expected to remain minimal. Non-aircraft capex will be 900 million. And due to our negotiated settlements with Boeing attractive aircraft financing and our already modernized fleet, our net aircraft capex, including PDPs, will be an inflow of 1 billion. While we feel great about how much we have accomplished, we recognize that we still have a long way to go to get our business back to normal. Our team has done an amazing job of bolstering our liquidity, conserving cash and driving efficiencies throughout the organization, and we are very well positioned for the future. And with that, I'll open up the line for analyst questions. 