
Debra Wasser -- Vice President of Investor RelationsHi, everyone, and welcome to Etsy's First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. I'm Deb Wasser, Vice President of Investor Relations and ESG Engagement. Joining me today are Josh Silverman, CEO; Rachel Glaser, CFO; and Gabe Ratcliff, our Director of Investor Relations. Today's prepared remarks have been prerecorded. The slide deck has also been posted to our website for your reference. Once we are finished with Josh and Rachel's presentations, we will transition to a live video webcast Q&A session. Question can be submitted by the Q&A window chat displayed on your screen. Feel free to use it at any time, as it will remain open throughout the entire conference call. I'll be reading your questions, and Gabe will help me try to get to as many as we can.Please keep in mind, that our remarks today include forward-looking statements related to our financial guidance and key drivers thereof, the impact of COVID-19 or its abatement may have on our communities, business, strategy or operating results. The potential benefits of our marketing and product initiatives and the anticipated return on our investments and their ability to drive growth. Our actual results may differ materially. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, which are described in today's earnings release and our 10-K filed with the SEC on February 26, 2021, and which will be updated in any future periodic reports we file with the SEC. Any forward-looking statements that we make on this call are based on our beliefs and assumptions today, and we disclaim any obligation to update them. Also during the call, we'll present GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP measures is included in today's earnings press release, which you can find on our Investor Relations website, along with a replay of this call.With that, I'll turn it over to Josh.

 



Joshua Silverman -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Deb, and good evening, everyone. Q1 was another really strong quarter for Etsy in terms of its financial results and also in terms of its corporate citizenship. I'd like to start this evening by talking a little bit about some of those citizenship efforts. Etsy continues to speak out against racism and harassment. For example, in the first quarter, we donated $500,000 to support the AAPI community, and we continue to invest in highlighting the wonderful work of many different underrepresented sellers within our buyer community. For example, our partnership with the Gee's Bend Quilters from Alabama. I am delighted to report that many of the Gee's Bend shops sold-out within the first 24 hours of the launch of that initiative.Etsy also launched Donate to Change where buyers can round up to support the Uplift Fund, which provides a path to entrepreneurship for many different communities. And we had over 1 million buyers round up to support the Uplift Fund in just the last six weeks of the quarter. Third, Etsy continues to deepen its commitment to environmental sustainability, announcing our goal to be Net Zero by 2030. This continues to pave our pathway as a trail-breaker with one of the most ambitious targets of any of our peer group.As I said, our Q1 results were excellent. Consolidated GMS was $3.1 billion, up 128% year-over-year. And that's really the result of strength in the core and continued positive momentum in frequency. You'll also notice that we came in above the top of guidance, guidance that we gave in late February. Most of that overshoot relative to guidance was due to the impact of stimulus and Rachel is going to talk about that more in her section.

 



The core business did great in Q1. Our customer cohorts continue to show that we are driving increased frequency and engagement from all of our different buyer segments. Etsy added 16 million new or reactivated buyers in the quarter for a total of 90 million active buyers up 91% year-over-year. And I am particularly pleased that our fastest growing segment yet again, was habitual buyers, our most loyal and engaged buyers. We now have 8 million habitual buyers, and that was up 200% year-over-year.Building on this expanded base. We are laser focused on driving frequency and of course, frequency can be driven in part by your marketing initiatives, things to make you more front-of-mind for customers. But it's also critical that we have a customer experience that in and of itself is engaging and drives activity. And so we've been launching efforts across the spectrum and depict just a few quizzes [Phonetic] are something we launched recently and that allows a buyer to come and tell us more about their particular tastes and their particular interests in a light and fun way that not only makes that visit more engaging in session, but it gives us important information to help bring that buyer back more often to have more satisfying experiences in the future.We've been working a lot on buyer triggers as well, things to notify people through app pushes, through emails and other things, that there is something new or interesting that's happening. For example, that an item you've favored it in the past has gone on sale. And when they come back to the site, we've been investing in an updates tab in the app. Think of that as your daily feed for what's changed since you've last been here. Maybe an item you've left in your cart has gone on sale or here is some new favorites that you might be interested in to add to your list. It's very encouraging to see that now 13% of app visits include a visit to the updates tab and 27% of those visits have buyers clicking on one or more of the listings that we include in updates.And the fourth pillar is strategic discounting where we've launched a tool that allows our team to rapidly test and then automate and scale different types of discounts to very finely tuned customer segments. So $5 off, for example, on your next purchase. I've never been more excited about our product roadmap. We continue to make investments that we believe are driving the long-term value, making the customer experience better.

 



I know we show you this slide a lot, but it really is how we drive focus and prioritization within our product organization focused on each of these four pillars. We start within each pillar by saying what customer experiences do we want to focus on to truly uplift? We then ask what are the fewest initiatives that could have the most impact in those customer experiences. And then we assign very specific goals. So it's clear what success looks like, and here is what your constraints are to squads who are owned-who own the success of those different initiatives.So, let me take a second now to show you the priorities within each of these four pillars for 2021. Within search, we have four focus areas. Personalization is about making Etsy feel more like it's made just for you. Buyer pathways is about making it easier to find the things you want, whether or not you would actually put a search query into the search engine and making sure that we have few, and hopefully no dead ends. Closing the semantic gap is about taking what you happen to enter into a search engine and interpreting that for what you actually meant you wanted. And of course, all of this relies upon an infrastructure that is fast and reliable and scalable.Double clicking on personalization, just to show you an example of that pillar, we launched the ability to personalize the search results recently, and we are seeing really encouraging gains from that, but we are still very much in the early innings, consuming more data to understand more about what that customer wants and then delivering through more sophisticated models, ever more personalized search results. But it doesn't end with just the search results themselves. We actually believe that over time, we can customize the entire experience. So here you see an example of how the layout itself might be different for two different customer segments. And our ambition over time is to create evermore finely tuned customer segments that are built through multivariate models powered by machine learning, so that Etsy truly feels made just for you.I'd also highlight on this slide a couple of the infrastructure improvements that have led to material gains in the past quarter. For example, the search infra team made the search results faster, which resulted in increases in click and conversion rate and we are able to expand the search results for long-tail queries, leading to more satisfying buying experiences there as well. What makes the Etsy marketplace truly special is that every item and every seller has a story and a story you'd actually be interested to hear. And there is nothing more powerful than video to help to tell that story.We also encourage conversations directly between the buyer and seller, something you'll see in few of any other marketplaces because those Convos help the buyer and seller to co-create, personalize or customize, or even just to form community. That's one of the things most different and special about Etsy, and we think investing in this pillar is critically important. One example of where we are leading in is in video itself. Sellers have now uploaded about 5 million videos to the Etsy site. That's up 36% quarter-over-quarter. And we are seeing very encouraging progress when a listing includes a video that buyers engage with it more click and even convert more. But the listing page is only the beginning of where we can be using video to tell the story of Etsy, tell the story of the item and to help people to engage even more often throughout the site. So expect to see more video in more places making the Etsy experience even more dynamic.The third pillar is trust and we have four focus areas within trust. First is speed expectation. That's making it very clear when you can expect the item to arrive. Second is delivery predictability. Where is this item in the fulfillment process being made or currently being shipped to you? Third is issue resolution, making it even easier to access support and know that we have you back on the rare instance that something goes wrong.And fourth is seller reputation. This is around giving sellers even more visibility into how they are performing versus key customer satisfaction metrics, as well as setting the bar for what good looks like, so that we create more of a sense of agency among the sellers for how they can drive success in their business and create a race to the top where the buyer experience improves as a result for all of our buyers. Taking seller reputation as an example and showing how we can apply that to fulfillment.On the left, you see a new dashboard we've launched within the seller dashboard. And here it shows the seller very clearly, which items are expected to ship today, which one ship tomorrow, which one ship next week. So they know exactly where they should be focusing their time and energy. We've also been focusing on dashboards that show how they are doing versus fulfillment expectations relative to our expectations of what good looks like. So that again, they focus their energy and we've set the standard together on how we can deliver a consistently great customer experience to our buyers. That feels predictable for all of our sellers.The foundation of Etsy's right to win is our sellers' collection of unique items. I know I've told you in the past that 90% of buyers report that they come to Etsy for items that they can't find anywhere else. And in fact, one of the most special parts of Etsy is that most things on Etsy can be personalized and customized. And in fact, we find that buyers are 20% more likely to make a purchase when they are looking for customized or personalized items. So a focus for this year is going to be even more specifically highlighting and showcasing items that can be personalized and customized as well as streamlining that process of co-creation between the buyer and the seller. But of course, what good is this great collection of unique items if we don't tell the world about it. In fact, we launched a brand new campaign called Bye-Bye Boring, and I'd like to pause now to show you one of the spots in that new campaign. Given the performance that we've seen in the U.S. from our television campaigns, we are interested to see whether investments in television can actually accelerate our flywheel in some international markets and get us to scale even faster. So we are going to be experimenting, leaning in more in the UK and in Germany to see how above the line marketing can drive brand awareness and more visitation and get us spinning faster.I'd like to show you now an example of a campaign we are going to run in Germany. Germany is a market that's different than the U.S. and the UK. And then awareness there is substantially lower, although we are seeing very positive momentum. So there's more work that needs to be done to introduce Etsy to the German market. This campaign is called [indecipherable] which translates to Etsy Has It.Etsy also has the advantage of being beloved by many influencers. So we've created a scalable experience where influencers can curate or co-create their own set of items, and then market those items to their own communities that reinforces the desirability, the quality, the diversity, and the scarcity of items on Etsy, and allows Etsy to reach out to diverse communities in ways that feel highly personal, curated and crave-worthy. All in all, I couldn't be more excited about what's ahead for the Etsy marketplace. But speaking of couldn't be more excited. I'd like to take a moment also to give you an update on how things are going with Reverb. Reverb also had an outstanding Q1. GMS grew about 50% or about 5x faster than the musical instrument industry and Reverb continues to deepen its moat, serving as the primary marketplace for many musicians.Reverb's four key focus areas for 2021 are going to be around personalization, around partnerships with brands like Fender to market new gear, deepening its investments in growth in international, and continuing to improve the customer experience. It's now been about 18 months since Etsy acquired Reverb, and we couldn't be happier with how that partnership has evolved.As you'll see on the left, Etsy has helped Reverb to expand its gross margins from 33% to about 53% and the purchasing power and scale of Etsy has played an important role in that. We've taken many of those gains and we've reinvested in marketing, and that investment in marketing has also helped to accelerate the growth of Reverb. But we are not just investing more, we are investing more efficiently, so you'll see on the right that each dollar of marketing is driving more GMS through the incorporation of Etsy's tools and techniques to help make the marketing funnel within Reverb even more efficient.In closing, Q1 was another great quarter for Etsy. I couldn't be prouder of the team or more grateful to the whole community.And with that, I'll turn it over to Rachel.Rachel Glaser -- Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Josh, and thank you, everyone for joining us for our call. My commentary today will cover consolidated results, key drivers of performance and Etsy's stand-alone results where appropriate. We saw continued momentum in Q1 as we delivered another strong quarter across the board, delivering higher than expected GMS and revenue and healthy adjusted EBITDA.On a consolidated basis, Etsy's first quarter GMS grew 132% to $3.1 billion. Revenue grew 141% to $551 million and adjusted EBITDA was $184 million with margins of about 33%. On a consolidated basis, international GMS expanded 200 basis points sequentially to 42% of overall GMS. International GMS grew faster than our overall growth, accelerating to 169%.Our fastest-growing trade route in Q1 was once again, our domestic sales between buyers and sellers within the same non-U.S. country. International domestic delivered its highest ever growth in Q1 and grew more than 2x faster than our overall growth rate. While we continue to benefit from significant macro tailwinds in several core international markets, success can also be attributed to our focus strategy to build local marketplaces by supplementing global product launches with locally relevant optimizations that expand domestic vibrancy. In addition, we've been careful and measured in our marketing approach by efficiently using performance marketing dollars and now adding brand spend in the UK and Germany.When we provided our outlook for Q1 in late February, we mentioned that unpredictable macro events beyond our control could create volatility in performance. And as you can see from the monthly cadence, January was up 130%, February was up 107% impacted by weather events as we had previously noted, and March was up 161% as we lapped the onset of the pandemic and saw positive impact from government stimulus checks.U.S. government stimulus was only a very small part of our guidance for the quarter, but the timing and impact turned out to be much larger than we had anticipated, and we believe made up the majority of our guidance beat. In estimating the impact of stimulus checks, we bifurcated GMS growth trends between ZIP codes with household income higher and lower than $50,000. And as you can see from this slide after the distribution of stimulus checks, GMS growth from ZIP codes with income lower than $50,000 outpaced those at more than $50,000.On an Etsy stand-alone basis, our category mix remained fairly stable with our top six categories representing over 80% of our GMS and growing 115% year-over-year. Weddings, a shopping occasion that was a headwind to our overall growth in 2020 was up 43% in Q1 and remains an opportunity as geographies reopened. As mobility restrictions ease and consumers shift their purchasing habits, reflected more social lifestyle, Etsy's category mix could reflect that dynamic. For example, just recently in March, GMS growth was driven in part by gifting related to Easter and UK Mother's Day, which were celebrated with more in-person family and outdoor events than in the prior year.A great signal of the health of our core business can be seen on this chart. Non-mask GMS growth accelerated 20 percentage points quarter-over-quarter to 138%, the second consecutive quarter of sequential acceleration. As anticipated, mask sales continued to contract as a percentage of overall GMS to 2.5% down from 4% in Q4. Consolidated Q1 revenue was again driven by growth in both marketplace and services revenue with key drivers being GMS volume, Etsy Payments, Etsy Ads and Offsite Ads revenue.Transaction revenue grew 144% year-over-year driven by higher GMS from visit growth and an expansion in conversion rate. Payments revenue was up 156% and we processed 92% of our Etsy stand-alone GMS through Etsy Payments in Q1 up from 89% in Q1 of 2020. Consolidated advertising revenue was up 93% year-over-year. You recall that in the first quarter of 2020, our Etsy Ads revenue model included a portion related to Google Shopping of about $11 million. Excluding this Google Shopping revenue from Q1 2020, consolidated on-site advertising growth was up 138% in Q1 2021. For Offsite Ads, Q1 was our final, fully incremental quarter of revenue for this service as we began to build sellers in early May of 2020.We recently expanded our distribution channels for Offsite Ads to the Google Display Network, which provides access to over 1 million affiliate sites. While spend on this channel is relatively small today, sellers can now reach buyers on major publishing sites, such as Buzzfeed, Martha Stewart and Better Homes & Gardens. As a reminder of how the model works, Etsy places ads on behalf of our sellers, leveraging our marketing expertise in budget while only charging sellers if ads lead directly to sales within a 30-day attribution window. We continue to make strides in bolstering our advertising products and initiatives to help sellers drive velocity in the marketplace and take control of their success.Etsy Payments, Etsy Ads, and Offsite Ads, all were drivers of the take rate expanding to 17.5% up 60 basis points compared to Q1 of last year and 40 basis points sequentially. Gross margin was 74% expanding 10 percentage points compared to last year and continuing to benefit from our shift to Offsite Ads, which delivers incremental revenue without an equal offset in the cost of revenue. Gross margins were also positively impacted by the leverage gain of the highly variable nature of our revenue base and Reverb's higher transaction fee versus prior year.We continue to leverage marketing and product investments to drive incremental growth on the platform. Prior to making an investment or launching a new initiative, we rigorously test and iterate to ensure we are delivering a positive ROI. In Q1, we launched a new TV campaign, expanded our performance marketing channels and continue to drive efficiencies. Q1 consolidated marketing spend was $151 million, up 212% year-over-year. There is never been a better time for us to lean into advertising and gain share.There are three factors that help explain how marketing is generating momentum and driving profitable growth. First, we continue to benefit from buyer frequency as our cohorts are engaging with us more often, leading to material gains in lifetime value. For example, GMS per buyer is up 20% year-over-year and as we achieved growth in LTV, it enables us to spend more marketing dollars and a healthy ROI.Second, as part of our Offsite Ads initiative, we generated an additional seller fee when we successfully place an ad that leads to a sale. This incremental revenue recoups approximately 30% of our performance marketing spend and increases lifetime value, and consequently allows us to reinvest to drive more growth for our sellers, a beautiful virtuous flywheel. And third, because we have continued to heighten awareness of the significant breadth of merchandise on the Etsy platform, there is higher demand for our long-tail of keywords, creating more ad inventory for us to bid on that meets our ROI hurdles.Brand marketing spend, which includes television and digital video was 13% of our consolidated marketing spend in Q1. We intend to increase brand marketing as a percentage of total spend, which will continue to shift the LTV curve a bit further out and late in the payback period of the marketing portfolio overall. Our product development investments continue to deliver strong returns, driving higher conversion rates and frequency. This investment is reflected in our pace of hiring and has led to GMS growth.We accelerated hiring in Q1, adding nearly 100 employees. We ended Q1 with 1,508 employees, an increase of 18% compared to Q1 of last year and at an accelerated pace versus the 14% increase we had in all of 2020. In addition to growth investments, we allocated a meaningful portion of our portfolio to foundational spend or infrastructure to serve the platform. For example, we invested in areas such as data infrastructure, member services and our developer experience to make our platform faster, more efficient and reliable.Moving to our operating metrics for the Etsy stand-alone marketplace. We delivered the highest growth rates since we became a public company for active buyers, repeat buyers and habitual buyers in the first quarter. In Q1, active buyers grew 91% year-over-year to approximately $90 million and growth in new buyers grew 114%. Habitual buyers, our most loyal buyers grew over 205% for the quarter to $7.9 million, the fourth quarter of sequential acceleration.Despite only accounting for 9% of active buyers, this segment contributes on average about 40% of GMS. So as we develop the product and marketing strategies that Josh discussed, we pay a lot of attention to these buyers, as well as those that could eventually become habitual in the future. In addition to our habitual buyers, repeat buyers, those who made purchases on two or more days in a 12-month period grew 114% to $36 million.GMS per active buyer on a trailing 12-month basis grew 20% year-over-year, driven by repeat purchases and frequency. Our cohorts continue to show stable underlying trends as we invest to drive further stickiness and habit-forming behavior. Active sellers grew 70% year-over-year to 4.5 million for the Etsy marketplace, and we are focused on growing the pie for all our sellers. Trailing 12-month GMS per active seller was up 34% and listings on our marketplace grew to over 90 million items.Moving to the balance sheet. As of 3/31, we had $1.7 billion in cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments in addition to a $200 million revolver that is currently undrawn. Our business model is capital light and our cost structure is highly variable to revenue, and we've continued to take measures to optimize and scale our marketplace.Turning to our outlook. Given volatile global macroeconomic conditions that impact consumer spending broadly and external e-commerce forecasts, which continue to be in flux, we are only providing guidance for Q2 at this time. We currently estimate Q2 consolidated GMS to be approximately $2.8 billion to $3.1 billion of about 5% to 15% compared to Q2 of last year, revenue of $493 million to $536 million, up 15% to 25% versus last year, and adjusted EBITDA of $129 million to $144 million with a margin in the range of 25% to 28%.Here are a few reminders as you update your models and think about the cadence of growth. In Q2 of 2020, we saw the beginnings of significant growth in face masks, which delivered $346 million of GMS in the quarter and 14% of Etsy's stand-alone GMS. As we showed you in Q1 of 2021, face masks have declined to less than 3% of Etsy's stand-alone GMS and have been declining sequentially each quarter since Q2 of last year. We are forecasting continued sequential decline in the remainder of 2021.Leading macroeconomic indicators, such as TSA flight information, mall traffic and Google mobility data suggests that as states and countries reopened, activity and consumption in non-retail categories is picking up and this could imply increasing headwinds in the balance of the year. For example, we have started to see what we believe are some reopening headwinds in select core markets. We monitor third-party forecast, as do you, and data suggests that 2021 e-commerce growth will have been the highest in Q1.Our estimate is that government stimulus drove approximately 8 percentage points of GMS growth in Q1 2021. We have already seen this benefit wane in April and early May and do not expect government stimulus to similarly impact our business in the second half of this year. Coupled with the continued decline in mask sales, we also currently expect new buyers to decelerate in 2021, given the record number of new buyers we acquired in 2020. That said, we are encouraged by the progress and frequency and are hyper-focused on delivering a better user experience for all of our buyers.We expanded GMS substantially through 2020 with the highest GMS in Q4 2020. This means that year-over-year comps in 2021 are expected to get steeper as we go through the year. That fact combined with the other factors I just outlined, possible deceleration in e-commerce growth, absence of stimulus tailwinds and potential future impact from business reopenings implies that year-over-year growth rates may decelerate as we progressed from here.Wrapping up guidance, you may also want to think about Q2 performance by modeling a two-year stack. Looking at 2021 versus 2019, which implies 170% growth for Q2 at the midpoint of the guidance range, a mild deceleration compared to 207% in Q1. To put a finer point on it, that is $3 billion of GMS in Q2 2021 compared with $1 billion two years ago, that's an incremental $2 billion. Even if you forecast more deceleration in the second half, you'll still see very strong full-year results on a two-year stack basis.We believe this is a better representation of the stability and sustained momentum that we have seen in our growth trends. We remain very excited about the opportunity ahead and believe that now is the right time for us to invest for growth. These investments primarily are in the form of people and marketing dollars. Our growth has vastly outpaced our hiring and we are leaving far too many great ideas on the cutting room floor. We've already added 100 employees in Q1 and intend to keep hiring throughout the year. So we have ample resources in time to impact the holiday season and beyond.We are establishing a new product development center in Mexico City, a great location for tech talent, and you will see us begin to hire there in addition to our existing locations. In addition, we continue to make important investments in infrastructure, marketplace safety, compliance and customer support, critical functions that support our growth.And finally, we see great opportunities in marketing, especially internationally, where we are less penetrated in key channels relative to the U.S., and we are testing whether brand investments can further accelerate growth. In Q2, we intend to invest an incremental $15 million in brand marketing versus Q1, including more spend in Germany and the UK contracting our margins in the short-term. We believe these investments will be ROI positive and expect they will deliver a return over many quarters in the future.In closing, I want to reiterate that as we navigate unprecedented times, we remain highly confident and encouraged about our long-term opportunities. We also believe that our brand is more relevant than ever before as we build top-of-mind awareness in the hearts and minds of consumers. Thank you all for your time today.I'll now turn the call over to Deb, so we can take your questions.