  OperatorWelcome to the Datadog first quarter 2022 financial results conference call. [Operator instructions] Please also note, this event is being recorded. And I would now like to turn the conference over to Yuka Broderick, head of investor relations. Please go ahead.Yuka Broderick -- Head of Investor Relations Thank you, Tom. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us to review Datadog's first quarter 2022 financial results, which we announced in our press release issued this morning. Joining me on the call today are Olivier Pomel, Datadog's co-founder and CEO; and David Obstler, Datadog's CFO. During this call, we will make forward-looking statements, including statements related to our future financial performance, our outlook for the second quarter and the fiscal year 2022, our gross margins and operating margins including from the impact of R&D, go-to-market, capex and increased office activity and marketing, our strategy, our product capabilities, our ability to capitalize on market opportunities and the closing of acquisitions.

 



 The words anticipate, believe, continue, estimate, expect, intend, will and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements or similar indications of future expectations. These statements reflect our views only as of today and are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. For a discussion of the material risks and other important factors that could affect our actual results, please refer to our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021. Additional information will be made available in our upcoming Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2022, and other filings and reports that we may file with the SEC.These filings are available on the Investor Relations section of our website along with a replay of this call. We will also discuss non-GAAP financial measures, which are reconciled to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in the tables in our earnings release, which is available at investors.datadoghq.com. With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Olivier. Olivier Pomel -- Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Yuka, and thank you all for joining us this morning. I'll start by saying that we are pleased with our execution in Q1 as we continue to drive high revenue growth, along with strong profitability and strong cash generation. To quickly summarize our Q1 financial performance, revenue was $363 million an increase of 83% year over year and above the high end of our guidance range. We had about 19,800 customers, up from about 15,200 in the year-ago quarter.

 



 We ended the quarter with about 2,250 customers with ARR of $100,000 or more, up from 1,406 in the year-ago quarter. These customers generated about 85% of our ARR. We are seeing strong efficiencies in our business model with free cash flow of $130 million and free cash flow margin of 36%. And our dollar-based net retention rate continued to be over 130% as customers increased their usage and adopted our newer products. At a high level, we saw positive business trends in Q1. Usage growth from existing customers was strong and consistent with historical trends as customers continued on their cloud migration and digital transformation journeys, and the Datadog platform continue to expand and deliver more value. New logo ARR was very robust and churn remained low and in line with historical rates. All these factors together led to another strong quarter of ARR added. It was, in fact, our second best quarter of ARR added aside from Q4 of 2021. Next, our platform strategy continues to resonate in the market. As of the end of Q1, 81% of customers were using two or more products, up from 75% a year ago. 35% of customers were using four or more products, up from 25% a year ago. And 12% of our customers were using six or more products, up from 4% last year. We saw strong growth across the products in our platform in Q1. For example, infrastructure monitoring continues to grow at a rapid click and exceeded 3/4 of a billion dollars in ARR in Q1. Our APM suite and log management products had a strong quarter and are in hyper growth mode.

 



 As a reminder, our APM suite includes core APM, synthetic studies on monitoring and continues on hire. We're also very pleased with the growth of our user experience product, which are Synthetics and Real User Monitoring more specifically. These products together exceeded $100 million in ARR in Q1. And in security, we are seeing very rapid growth. It's still early days, and we're growing off a smaller base, but we continue to see strong adoption with thousands of customers getting security coverage through the Datadog platform. Now let's move on to products and R&D, where our teams delivered another strong quarter of innovation. Just 12 months after we acquired Sqreen, we are pleased to announce the general availability of application security monitoring last week. Some applications and APIs are some of the most common sources of data breaching, yet companies typically have no ways to effectively detect attacks, so they could be less than code for days or weeks. Some other approaches to application security aim to find vulnerabilities before code reaches production. But these solutions offer and slow down development cycles and overwhelm teams with force positives with no easy way to prioritize these issues. The Datadog Application security monitoring product leverages the full execution context of applications running e-production. This all those teams to focus on attacks that actually matter and provides an immediately actionable remediation path. Application security monitoring is the 14th product in the Datadog platform, and this is the fourth product within our cloud security platform alongside Cloud Team, Cloud Workload Security and Cloud Security Posture Management. With this, Datadog now provides security insights across metrics, traces and logs, and we consider these altogether as version one of our Cloud Security platform. Remember that we are still in early stages with our security efforts and have much to do to further build out this product, but we are pleased with our progress so far and the usage we are getting from our customers. Last month, we also announced that we expanded our Watchdog AI capabilities to include Root Cause Analysis and Log Anomaly Detection. Root Cause Analysis automatically identifies causal relationships between different systems across infrastructure and services -- sorry, across infrastructure and services, and pinpoints their root causes. Watchdog also automatically identifies the business impact of any given issue, is in data from a release of data management products. This means not only identifying which mobile applications are impacted, but also the exact users that are affected. This new capability often sold in minutes, the problem that would otherwise take hours [Inaudible] by specialists in customers' organizations. Log Anomaly Detection on the other hand automatically understands and baselines novel patterns in logs and proactively discovers anomalies such as new patterns, meaningful changes in negative patterns and other error outliers. By surfacing these unusual log patterns, Log Anomaly Detection have seem fine and fix issues faster. In addition to this Watchdog announcement, our engineers released dozens of features and expanded product capabilities in Q1. To give a couple of examples, in Real User Monitoring, we announced the general availability of iOS crash reports and error tracking, as well as a number of improvements to help customers analyze and understand the users performance. In Cloud Security Posture Management, we added support for the Azure platform, enabling customers to understand their compliance both across AWS and Azure in one place. In continuous profile, we now support all commonly used languages, including C, C++, RASP, PHP and .NET. And across Datadog, numerous addition of rules, data sources and integrations are enabling our customers to solve their problems from end to end without leaving the Datadog platform. Finally, this morning, we announced that we signed an agreement to acquire Hdiv. Hdiv is an application security product, which provides a highly accurate vulnerability detection at run-time. It offers interactive application security testing capabilities, which tie vulnerabilities to exact file in line numbers in the code. And unlike other solutions in this area, Hdiv's rate of false positive is very low, enabling customers to focus on vulnerabilities that actually matter. We believe Hdiv's capabilities and strong team will be an excellent part of our Cloud Security platform, and we're looking forward to integrating the capability into Datadog as soon as this acquisition closes when regulatory requirements are met. Access to our product update this quarter. I want to thank our engineering and product teams for their continued hard work. There are so many new features coming up, and I can only highlight a few of them in this call. Now moving on to sales and marketing, our sales team continued to execute and have delivered a strong quarter. Let's discuss some of our wins in Q1. First, we signed an eight-figure upsell with a next-gen fintech company which was our largest ever deal on an ARR basis. This customer is experiencing explosive growth in demand for its products, and availability and performance of their system is critical to avoid loss of revenue. These customers started with us three years ago with just Infrastructure Monitoring, and its expansion now includes 6 of our products. Next, we had a high six-figure upsell with a global shipping company. This customer is expanding with Datadog to help them move forward with their Azure migration. In addition to using five Datadog products, they are now working with our new services team to help implement best practices on a number of business initiatives that involve increased Datadog adoption. This customer expects to consolidate 10 [Inaudible] monitoring tools as they expand their use of Datadog. Next, we had a seven-figure upsell with a U.S. Federal entity. We were able to deepen our relationship with this customer after we achieve federal moderate status. Before Datadog, this customer had siloed infrastructures, applications, networks, database and customer experience monitoring this caused blind spots and long time to resolution. With this expansion, they are replacing both homegrown and commercial observability tools and are enabling DevSecOps cultures with a visibility across the full stack and a single source of truth. Next, we signed a seven-figure upsell with a leading payment company. Earlier this year, these customers open source logging tool went down making them blind, but they were able to regain visibility by getting Datadog log management up and running within a few hours of that crash. Not only did this customer regain log visibility very quickly. They were also able to use the Datadog platform to scrub personally identifiable information to meet security and compliance requirements. And as they have expanded with Datadog, they have been able to cut the number of engineers who maintain homegrown and print solutions in half and reassign engineers to other products to work in the organization. With this renewal, this customer now uses 13 products from Datadog. Next, we had a six-figure land with a major U.S. hotel company. This company lost half of its engineering team during COVID and needed to use its staff more efficiently. At the same time, it was embarking on an AWS migration and its existing tools were not providing the visibility it needed. By consolidating Datadog, this customer expects to future-proof its cloud strategy and move toward unified end-to-end management across their on-prem and AWS environment. And finally, we had a seven-figure land with a major European car manufacturer. This customer was frustrated with its existing monitoring tools, which left them with limited visibility into incidents sometimes impacting millions of users globally. As they were trialing Datadog, they were able to solve within minutes issue that used to take them days. With Datadog, this customer expects to consolidate multiple commercial and open source tools across AWS and on-prem stacks. That's it for this quarter's highlights. I want to thank our go-to-market teams for their hard work in delivering a strong start to 2022 after a very busy end of the year. I also want to give a special shout out to our tech solutions and support teams for making our customers successful and enabling them to expand with our own platform. Moving on, we feel very good about the demand environment. And as we look over the medium- and long-term, our outlook hasn't changed. We remain confident that cloud migration and digital transformation are drivers of our long-term opportunities and our multiyear trends that are still early in their life cycles. We believe it is increasingly critical for companies to embark on these journeys in order to move faster create competitive differentiation, enable strategic change and serve their customers. And we believe we can help customers manage the complexity as it comes with this transformation. And that Datadog unified platform is more than ever critical to understand, improve and secure their modern stacks in businesses. With that, I will turn the call over to our CFO, for a review of our financial performance and guidance. David?David Obstler -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Olivier, and good morning to everyone. To summarize, we delivered strong financial performance in Q1. Revenue was $363 million, up 83% year over year and up 11% quarter over quarter. Usage growth with our existing customers was strong once again in this quarter. And new logo ARR growth was healthy, particularly given the typical slowness that we see in Q1. Let's go into some more detail. First, growth of existing customers was strong in Q1, and our dollar-based net retention remained above 130% for the 19th consecutive quarter. Usage growth was strong across the Datadog platform and in line with historical trends. We also saw strong ARR growth in each geographical region, and growth was similar across geographies including EMEA. In early Q2, we began shutting off service to customers in Russia and Belarus. We have about 200 customers in these two countries and their contributions to revenue is immaterial. Our go-to-market teams delivered another strong quarter. Total customers grew 30% year over year and customers with $100,000 or more of ARR grew 60% year over year. In addition, we saw strong growth in million-dollar customers. We are pleased to be serving more customers and believe we are still early -- in the early stages of our opportunity in worldwide customer acquisition. New logo ARR was very robust, particularly given that our sales teams participate in sales kickoff and other planning processes at the beginning of Q1. Remember that given our usage-based revenue model, new logo wins generally do not immediately transfer into meaningful revenue. Our platform strategy continues to resonate with customers, with 81% of our customers now using 2 or more products, 35% using four or more products, and 12% using 6 or more products at the end of Q1. Finally, churn has remained low. Our dollar-based gross retention rate continues to be in the mid- to high 90s and was stable quarter to quarter. And it's similar across our customer segments and major products. Billings were $444 million -- $445 million, up 103% year over year. Billings duration in Q1 was similar to the year-ago quarter and within the range we've seen historically. We closed several large deals in Q1, including the largest deal by ARR that Olivier discussed earlier, which led to billings growth being higher than revenue growth in Q1. Remaining performance obligations, or RPO, was $858 million, up 85% year over year, and contract duration was similar to the year-ago quarter. Current RPO growth was in the mid-80s year over year. We continue to believe revenue is a better indicator of our business trends than billings or RPO as those can fluctuate relative to revenue based on the timing of invoicing and the duration of customer contracts. Now let's review some key income statement results. Unless otherwise noted, all metrics are non-GAAP. We have provided a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financials in our earnings release. Gross profit in the quarter was $292 million, representing a gross margin of 80%. This compares to a gross margin of 80% in the last quarter and 77% in the year-ago quarter. We continue to experience efficiencies in cloud costs reflected in our cost of goods sold this quarter. In the mid- to long-term, we continue to expect gross margin to be in the high 70s range. Operating income was $84 million or a 23% operating margin compared to operating income of $20 million or a 10% margin in the year-ago quarter. We are experiencing significant business efficiencies on strong revenue growth. And in Q1, we had not yet returned fully to in-person meetings, events or are fully back in the office. Turning to the balance sheet and cash flow statements, we ended the quarter with $1.7 billion in cash, cash equivalents restricted cash and marketable securities. Cash flow from operations was $147 million in the quarter. After taking into consideration capital expenditures and capitalized software, free cash flow was $130 million with a free cash flow margin of 36%. Now for our outlook for the second quarter in the fiscal year 2022. We remain optimistic about our long-term growth opportunities. We continue to see cloud migration and digital transformation as trends that are still in relatively early stages, and we are investing aggressively and are successfully executing against these long-term opportunities. With the usual conservatism applied, our outlook is as follows: For the second quarter, we expect revenue to be in the range of $376 million to $380 million which represents 62% growth year over year at the midpoint. Non-GAAP operating income is expected to be in the range of $49 million to $53 million, and non-GAAP net income per share is expected to be in the range of $0.13 to $0.15 per share on an approximately 347 million weighted average diluted shares outstanding. For the full fiscal year 2022, we expect revenue to be in the range of $1.6 billion to $1.62 billion, which represents 56% year-over-year growth at the midpoint. Non-GAAP operating income is expected to be in the range of $240 million to $260 million and non-GAAP net income per share is expected to be in the range of $0.70 to $0.77 per share on an approximate 349 million weighted average diluted shares. Now some notes on our guidance. First, when providing guidance, as usual, we use more conservative assumptions than historical performance. Second, our strategic focus remains to invest aggressively in R&D and go-to-market to optimize for long-term growth. In Q1, we are pleased to have had our best-ever quarter of hiring, and we plan to continue hiring aggressively throughout 2022. Our North America and EMEA employees returned to the office at the end of Q1, and our APAC employees are returning to office during Q2. In addition, trade shows and other events are picking up in Q2, as is employee travel. In the past, we have framed the benefit of stopping in-person T&E and marketing events during COVID as 300 to 400 basis points of margin impact. We expect our return to office and increased in-person marketing events, as well as our headcount growth to more fully impact margins in Q2 relative to Q1. And even as we embark on these investments and our return from COVID, we remain solidly profitable, as indicated by our guidance. Next, regarding income tax expenses in Q2, we will have a provision of about $3 million related to the Sqreen acquisition as well as our typical provision, mainly related to our international entities. Finally, as we discussed last quarter, we are catching up on office build-outs in 2022 and expect capex as a percent of sales to roughly double compared to 2021. In conclusion, we are very pleased with our results in Q1. We continue to attract more customers to the Datadog platform. We are broadening our platform's capabilities and observability and we launched application security monitoring in Q1. We are working very hard to execute against our opportunities, and I want to conclude by thanking Datadog's worldwide for their efforts. With that, we'll open the call for questions. Operator, let's begin the Q&A. 