  OperatorGreetings and welcome to the Huntington Bancshares fourth quarter earnings call. [Operator instructions] I'd now like to turn the conference over to your host, Tim Sedabres, director of investor relations.Tim Sedabres -- Director of Investor Relations Thank you, operator. Welcome, everyone and good morning. Copies of the slides we will be reviewing today can be found on the investor relations section of our website, www.huntington.com. As a reminder, this call is being recorded and a replay will be available starting about one hour from the close of the call.

 



 Our presenters today are Steve Steinour, chairman, president and CEO; and Zach Wasserman, chief financial officer. Rich Pohle, chief credit officer, will join us for the Q&A. As noted on Slide 2, today's discussion, including the Q&A period, will contain forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on information and assumptions available at this time and are subject to changes, risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ materially.We assume no obligation to update such statements. For a complete discussion of risks and uncertainties, please refer to this slide and material filed with the SEC, including our most recent forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K filings. Let me now turn it over to Steve. Steve Steinour -- Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Tim. Good morning, everyone and thank you for joining the call today. Let me begin on Slide 3. 2021 was a transformational year for Huntington.

 



 We continue to deliver our purpose and remain focused on our vision to become the country's leading people first, digitally powered bank. We executed on our organic growth initiatives, along with the timely closing of the TCF acquisition. In the fourth quarter, we began by successfully completing conversion activities. And by the time we exited the quarter, we'd refocused our teams on driving growth. We delivered record new loan production and continued to build on revenue initiatives. We entered '22 with added scale, density, new markets and specialty businesses. We are intently focused on driving growth and delivering top-tier financial performance. On Slide 4, we're pleased to report our excellent fourth quarter results centered on four key areas. First, we finished '21 with record full year revenue growth and broad-based loan production. We delivered strong performance across the board in our commercial businesses. Second, our targeted cost savings are on track for full realization. This includes both the synergies resulting from TCF as well as the additional expense actions we announced last quarter. Third, we are executing on key initiatives to deliver sustainable growth. Pipelines are robust entering '22 and our teams are focused on driving revenue growth, including the revenue synergy initiatives related to our new markets and capabilities. Finally, we are very confident in our outlook for 2022 and beyond. Slide 5 recaps our year-end review.

 



 Our financial results reflect the hard work of our teams over the course of '21. Return on tangible common equity came in at 19%, excluding notable items. Credit performed very well and we returned significant capital to our shareholders. We delivered robust organic growth in both consumer and business checking households with year-over-year growth of four and a half and 7%, respectively. We continue to invest in revenue-producing colleagues and initiatives, including new and expanded commercial banking verticals, capital markets cards and payments and wealth management. In the commercial bank, we launched EDGE, an innovative analytics tool that supports our bankers' deepening efforts incorporating advanced data and insights tailored to each customer. In consumer banking, we built upon our fair play approach and launched new and compelling products and services such as Standby Cash and Early Pay. We expanded our leading SBA lending program to new states as well as added to our practice finance capabilities. We were honored to be recognized for our expertise, evidenced by being ranked number one by J.D. Power for both customer satisfaction within our region as well as the top consumer mobile app among regional banks for the third consecutive year. Impressively, this was all achieved while our team successfully completed the closing and conversion of TCF. On the capital front, we were pleased to accelerate our share repurchase program as well as increase the common stock dividend. In closing, our teams accomplished a tremendous amount of work over the course of the year and I want to thank all of our colleagues and our management team who supported these efforts. I am increasingly bullish on the year ahead. The level of excitement is building across the organization and our colleagues are energized and focused. We look forward to sharing our successes with all of you as we move throughout the year. Zach, over to you to provide more detail on our financial performance.Zach Wasserman -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Steve and good morning, everyone. Slide 6 provides highlights of our fourth quarter results. We reported GAAP earnings per common share of $0.26. Adjusted for notable items, earnings per common share were $0.36. Return on tangible common equity, or ROTCE, came in at 13.2% for the quarter. Adjusted for notable items, ROTCE was 18.2%. We were pleased to see loan balances rebound substantially during the quarter driven by robust new production activity as total loans increased by $1.4 billion and including PPP runoff, loans increased by $2.4 million. Consistent with our plan, we reduced core expenses, excluding notable items, by $21 million from last quarter, driven by the realization of cost synergies and ongoing highly disciplined expense management. We managed absolute core expense dollars lower while continuing to grow investments in strategic areas across the bank, such as digital capabilities, marketing to drive new customer acquisition and relationship-deepening and select new personnel additions to support our revenue growth initiatives. Within fee income categories, we saw continued momentum in our capital markets as well as wealth and investment businesses. Strong credit performance continued to be a hallmark with net charge-offs of 12 basis points and nonperforming assets declining by 16% from the prior quarter. We actively managed our capital base, repurchasing $150 million of common stock in the fourth quarter. To date, we have completed $650 million of our $800 million share repurchase program. Turning to Slide 7. Period-end loan balances increased by 1.2% quarter over quarter totaling $111.9 billion. Total loan balances, excluding PPP, increased $2.4 billion or 2.2% during the quarter driven by commercial loans. Within commercial, excluding PPP, loans increased by $2.5 billion or 4.4% compared to the prior quarter. This growth was broad-based across all major portfolios and was driven by record new commercial loan production. Growth was led by middle market, corporate and specialty banking, which increased by $1 billion and represented 40% of total commercial loan growth this quarter. Inventory finance increased by $597 million. Auto dealer floor plan increased by $276 million. Asset finance increased by $160 million and commercial real estate increased by $267 million. Within corporate and specialty banking, each of our commercial verticals contributed to growth this quarter, including corporate banking, tech and telecom, healthcare and franchise. Inventory finance growth was driven by a combination of seasonally higher balances due to inventory shipments in the quarter as well as expansion of existing customer programs. Higher utilization levels drove approximately two-thirds of the increased balances. In auto floor plan, we are continuing to add new dealer relationships and growing our overall commitment levels. In addition, balances benefited from improved utilization rates, which increased from the mid-20s to approximately 30% in the quarter. Even as we delivered record loan production, calling activities across the business continued at a rapid pace. We ended the quarter with commercial loan pipelines 34% higher versus the prior quarter and 49% higher than prior year, supporting our outlook for continued loan growth ex PPP throughout 2022. On the consumer side, residential mortgage increased by $334 million and auto increased by $129 million. This was offset by home equity, which declined by $369 million. Turning to Slide 8. Deposit balances increased by $1.4 billion as we continue to experience elevated customer liquidity and optimize our funding, reducing CD balances by over $700 million. Consumer deposit balances increased by $1.6 billion from the prior quarter. Commercial balances increased by $300 million from the prior quarter. On Slide 9, Reported net interest income declined modestly from the prior quarter as a result of lower PPP revenue. Core net interest income excluding PPP and purchase accounting accretion, was stable at $1.085 billion. With ending loan balances well above average balances for the quarter, we entered the first quarter of 2022 with a solid launch point from which to grow core net interest income going forward. Additionally, we continue to manage excess liquidity by funding loan growth and adding to the securities portfolio, reducing excess cash at the fed to $3.7 billion from $8.1 million at prior quarter end. On an average basis for the quarter, excess liquidity represented a drag on margin of approximately 14 basis points. Turning to Slide 10, we are dynamically managing the balance sheet to increase asset sensitivity and provide downside protection. During the fourth quarter, we added $2.8 billion of securities and we continue to optimize our hedging program. We terminated $3.9 billion of received fixed swaps and floors and we entered into new pay-fixed swaps in order to bolster our asset sensitivity. As rates move higher, we opportunistically added $5 billion of received fixed swaps in order to manage downside risks. At year-end, our modeled net interest income asset sensitivity in an up 100-basis-point scenario was 4.6%. We have steadily increased this metric over the past 18 months, supporting our ability to continue to capture upside opportunity as interest rates increase. Moving to Slide 11. non-interest income was $515 million, up $106 million year over year and down $20 million from last quarter. Lower fee revenues in the fourth quarter were driven by a decline in mortgage banking primarily as a result of lower saleable spreads. Our targeted focus on growing strategic fee revenue streams continue to bear fruit with capital market fees up $7 million or 18% from the prior quarter. Wealth and investments and insurance also performed quite well. Card and payments revenues, which are typically seasonally flat from Q3 to Q4, declined slightly from the prior quarter impacted at the margin by ATM volumes and the debit card conversion for TCF customers during the month of October. The underlying core business activity in cards and payments continues to be very solid and we saw a restoration of ongoing growth in that business as the quarter progressed after conversion. Deposit service charges declined $13 million compared to the prior quarter as a result of TCF customers transitioning onto the Huntington fair play product set. Moving on to Slide 12. Non-interest expense declined $68 million from the prior quarter. and excluding notable items, core expenses declined by $21 million to $1.034 billion as we captured cost savings from the acquisition and exercise disciplined expense management. As we shared previously, we expect our core expenses to trend down in the first and second quarters, fairly ratably over that period to approximately $1 billion by the second quarter. Even as we work to bring down expense levels, we're continuing to invest in initiatives that will drive sustainable revenue growth while being disciplined in managing our overall expense base. As you saw last quarter, we took additional actions in order to free up capacity to support these investments while remaining committed to the absolute core expense declines in the near term. Over the longer term, we expect expense growth to be a function of revenue growth as we manage within our commitment to positive operating leverage. Slide 13 highlights our capital position. Common equity Tier 1 ended the quarter at 9.3% consistent with our prior guidance to operate within the lower half of our 9% to 10% operating guideline. We have $150 million remaining of our current share repurchase program. As you can see on Slide 14, credit quality continues to perform well. Net charge-offs declined for the fourth consecutive quarter. Our nonperforming assets declined 16% from the previous quarter. Our ending allowance for credit losses represented 1.88% of total loans down from 1.99% at prior-quarter end. The improving economic outlook and our stable credit quality resulted in a reserve release of $98 million in the fourth quarter. Slide 15 covers our medium-term financial goals. We are focused on driving sustained revenue growth while managing expenses within our long-term commitment to positive operating leverage and achieving a 17%-plus return on tangible common equity. We expect to begin seeing this performance in the second half of 2022. Finally, turning to Slide 16. Let me share a couple of thoughts on our expectations for 2022. Our outlook is based on the starting point of our most recent quarterly results with expectations for year-over-year comparisons for the fourth quarter of 2022. It also assumes continued economic expansion aligned to market consensus as well as interest rate yield curve expectations as of early January. We expect average loan growth ex PPP to be up high single digits based on our starting point of $107.9 billion. As a result of loan growth and modestly higher net interest margin, we expect core net interest income on a dollar basis, excluding PPP and purchase accounting accretion, to grow in the high single digit to low double digits range. Fee revenues are expected to be up low single digits driven by robust growth in key categories aligned to our strategies, including capital markets, our card and treasury management payments businesses and wealth and advisory with offsetting impact from lower year-over-year revenues in mortgage banking and the continued evolution of our fair play products. As mentioned, we expect to continue to drive sequential reduction in core expenses for the next several quarters as we fully realize the TCF cost synergies and benefit from broader expense management. At the same time, we are continuing to invest in our strategic growth initiatives and new revenue synergy opportunities. We expect the quarterly run rate of core expenses to be approximately $1 billion by the second quarter and then remaining relatively stable over the second half of the year from that level. In closing, we're keenly focused on the revenue opportunities ahead of us. We have the teams directed toward these key initiatives and we're confident in our 2022 outlook to deliver on this plan. We believe these drivers of our outlook are aligned with our goals for sustained revenue growth, a 17%-plus return on tangible common equity and our commitment to annual positive operating leverage. Now, let me pass it back to Steve for a couple of closing comments before we open up for Q&A.Steve Steinour -- Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Zach. Slide 17 summarizes what we believe is a compelling opportunity. Huntington stands as a powerful top 10 regional bank with scale and leading market density as well as a compelling set of capabilities, both in footprint and nationally. We are focused on driving sustainable revenue growth, which is bolstered by new markets and new businesses. This growth opportunity augments our underlying businesses, in many cases where we have top 10 market positions. As a result of these factors, we've demonstrated robust financial performance that we expect to further improve as we move throughout '22. We believe our return on capital will be in the top tier versus peers, which results in substantial value creation for shareholders. Tim, let's open up the call for Q&A.Tim Sedabres -- Director of Investor Relations Thanks, Steve. Operator, we'll now take questions. We asked that as a courtesy to your peers, each person ask only one question and one related follow up. And then if that person has additional questions, he or she can add themselves back into the queue. Thank you. 