
OperatorGreetings and welcome to the Regency Centers Corporation Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] Please note this conference is being recorded. I will now turn the conference over to your host, Christy McElroy, Senior Vice President, Capital Markets. You may begin.Christy McElroy -- Senior Vice President of Capital MarketsGood morning and welcome to Regency Centers' third quarter 2021 earnings conference call. Joining me today are Lisa Palmer, President and Chief Executive Officer; Mike Mas, Chief Financial Officer; Jim Thompson, Chief Operating Officer; and Chris Leavitt, SVP and Treasurer. As a reminder, today's discussion may contain forward-looking statements about the company's views of future business and financial performance, including forward earnings guidance and future market conditions. These are based on management's current beliefs and expectations and are subject to various risks and uncertainties. It's possible that actual results may differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements we may make. Factors and risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from these statements may be included in our presentation today and are described in more detail in our filings with the SEC, specifically in our most recent Form 10-K and 10-Q filings.In our discussion today, we will also reference certain non-GAAP financial measures. The comparable GAAP financial measures are included in this quarter's earnings materials, which are posted on our Investor Relations website. Please note that we have also posted a presentation on our website with additional information, including disclosures related to the forward earnings guidance and the impact of COVID-19 on the company's business. Our caution on forward-looking statements also applies to these presentation materials. Lisa?Lisa Palmer -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you. Christy, and good morning everyone. Thank you so much for joining us. We feel really good about the progress that we've made toward recovery and also with the improvement we're seeing in our operating trends. Our third quarter results are reflective of a healthy environment for open-air grocery-anchored shopping centers and not only are we feeling closer to normal, but we're excited about what the future holds. I'm also really pleased to report that despite the recent concern about potential impacts from the delta variant, we've continued to make meaningful progress on rent collections, narrowing the gap further as nearly all of our tenants are in a position to pay us full current rent.Steady retailer demand is driving strong leasing activity, which combined with reduced tenant move-outs, has moved the needle on occupancy. We've also had success maintaining leverage in our lease negotiations, driving contractual rent growth and remaining prudent on capex, while further improving our rent spreads. Our team has been working really hard to drive deals that will lead to long-term growth in the value of our assets. As a result of these positive trends and an increased pace of improvement, we're again raising full-year guidance for 2021.In recent quarters, we've discussed that we believe the recovery of NOI back to 2019 levels would likely occur in the second half of 2022 on an annualized basis. But given the rate of progress we've seen in recent months, we are now pulling that forward to the first half of 2022. We've also increased our dividend by 5%, a reflection of our confidence in a return to sustained growth over the long term.You'll recall and I know you're probably sick of this, but I can't possibly remind you enough that we never cut our dividend during the pandemic. We are committed to growing our dividend, while also accretively investing our sector-leading free cash flow to drive solid total returns for our shareholders. And that's a good segue into our investment and capital allocation strategy, where we remain on our front foot.The private transaction markets are competitive, they remain competitive and we've continued to see downward pressure on cap rates as more buyers have emerged for high-quality well-located grocery-anchored centers. But our strong balance sheet and access to low cost capital provide a competitive advantage that allows us to be opportunistic and we do have a long track record of investing with discipline on a leverage neutral and earnings accretive basis. Our pipeline is active and we continue to see good opportunities.With that, we just announced that we're under contract to acquire Blakeney Shopping Center, a dominant grocery-anchored, Community Town Center in South Charlotte. This is a high-quality well-leased center with strong demographics and a tenant mix that fits well with our strategy. Our southeast team is excited to bring this exceptional asset into the Regency portfolio and we expect the transaction to close this month. The addition of high-quality centers like Blakeney, along with our development and redevelopment program, are important to portfolio enhancement.At the same time, we remain committed to selling centers that are lower growth or non-strategic or when it's clear to us that maximizing the value of a property involve the predominantly non-retail use. For example, our recent sale of the former Sears box, adjacent to our Hancock Center in Austin, was in that last bucket where we determined that its highest and best use was medical office. The addition of this office component and the traffic that it will generate to our site, will enhance the value of this well-leased center where A2B is currently expanding its highly productive store, but our best risk reward proposition is to invest capital into strong grocery-anchored neighborhood and community retail, which is the bread and butter of Regency strategy. This commitment to portfolio enhancement has proven to and will continue to fortify our future NOI growth.In closing, our shopping centers are well positioned to benefit from long-term migration and flexible work trends that favor suburban trade areas and we are actively positioning our portfolio to drive today and into the future. If the industry has learned anything over the last 18 months, during which we saw hyper-accelerated digital commerce and fulfillment and distribution challenges, it's that having brick and mortar locations close to where consumers live, is critical to retailer's success. Jim?Jim Thompson -- Executive Vice President and Chief Operating OfficerThanks, Lisa, and good morning everyone. We remain encouraged by the continued improvement in our portfolio, operating trends, accelerated by the reopening of the West Coast this summer. Our tenants are generally fully open and operating in all markets, with the lifting of restrictions translating into higher rent collections and continued strong leasing activity. Portfolio foot traffic rebounded back to 100% of 2019 foot traffic levels as of late October despite the slight dip in September related to the delta variant.Many of our tenants are experiencing positive sales trends in 2021, with grocers holding their gains from 2020 and many restaurants reporting record high productivity. We continue to see further sequential improvement in rent collections with Q3 collections at 98%. Notably, our collection rate for deferrals remains high at over 95% year-to-date. Translation, tenants are honoring their commitments. Our leased occupancy rate is up 50 basis points over the second quarter after adjusting for the sale of the vacant former Sears building at the Hancock Center Lisa just mentioned.These gains were driven by strong leasing activity and fewer tenant move-outs. Most importantly, our net effective rent paying occupancy also rose this quarter and is now over 90%. As we've noted previously, this metric is the best indicator of our recovery progress. As noted, leasing activity continues to be robust and we remain encouraged by the strength of our pipelines. Q3 total leasing volumes were 125% of 2019 quarterly averages. Shop renewal rates were 80% elevated over historical trends. Rent spreads continue to improve to a blended rate of over 5%, while our GAAP rent spreads also continue to get closer to pre-COVID levels at over 12%. We are maintaining contractual rent growth on leasing activity in line with recent years with embedded rent steps on more than 80% of our leases executed this quarter. Additionally, our weighted average lease term for deals has risen back above pre-COVID levels.So to summarize, our leasing trends are moving in the right direction, enabling us to maximize NOI growth for the long term. All of that said, we are fully aware and acknowledge that retailers today are facing challenges related to labor shortages, cost inflation, supply chain disruptions and permitting backlogs. While these issues are impacting build-out cost and tenant rent commencement timing, so far, this has only been on the margin for Regency. That said, we will continue to monitor these issues and will work closely with our tenants to help them manage through them where we can.Moving to development activity. We continue to make good progress on our in-process, ground up and redevelopment projects and we completed a $21 million Bloomingdale Square redevelopment in Tampa this quarter. We reimagined and modernized the center by repurposing a former Walmart box to accommodate an expansion and relocation of a highly productive existing Publix and backfilled the former grocer box with a new LA Fitness. We added more visible and functional shop space and made enhancements and renovations to the remaining portions of the center.This successful project helped to submit this centers relevancy and dominance in its trade area, while generating a return of over 8%. Construction cost inflation and labor shortages are real and are creating some pressures, but are not materially impacting the current yields and cost in our in-process projects. We are keeping our finger on the pulse on these trends and are being very thoughtful in our cost projections and delivery timing when underwriting new and potential pipeline projects.In summary, we are very pleased with the positive momentum that we continue to experience in our operating portfolio and in our value creation pipeline, driving us closer to full recovery and supporting our future growth. Mike?Mike Mas -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Jim. Good morning, everyone. I'll provide some color around third quarter results, walk through the changes to full year 2021 guidance and offer some helpful reminders when thinking about next year. Third quarter Nareit FFO of $1.12 per share was helped by several items. Uncollectible lease income was a positive $10 million in the quarter, the details of which we've broken out on Page 33 of our supplemental. We reserved over $4 million on third quarter billings, which is down from over $10 million a quarter ago, associated with uncollected revenues from cash basis tenants. This was more than offset by the collection of nearly $6 million of amounts reserved during the first half of 2021, as well as the collection of close to $9 million of revenues that were originally reserved in 2020.Our full year '21 guidance calls for a $46 million positive impact from the collection of 2020 reserves, of which we have recognized $41 million through the third quarter. We also recognized close to $14 million of one-time promote income in the third quarter related to the USAA JV transaction, which positively impacted Nareit FFO, but is not included in our core operating earnings metric. Finally, straight-line rent in the third quarter benefited from the reversal of reserves triggered by the conversion of some cash basis tenants back to accrual accounting. As reflected in uncollectible straight-line rent at a positive $4 million. This is a non-cash accounting impact that contributes to Nareit FFO, but again, did not impact our core operating earnings.Following these conversions, which represent about 5% of ABR, we now have 22% of our ABR remaining on a cash basis of accounting. For the smaller pool, our cash basis collection rate was 91% in the third quarter, a 700 basis point increase from a quarter ago. The collection rate on the old pool before the conversion was 93% in the third quarter up from the 86% in the second quarter that we disclosed on the last call. As Jim mentioned, our net effective rent paying occupancy now exceeds 90% as we've continued to narrow the spread between rent paying and our commenced occupancy rate due to the progress we've made increasing collections on cash basis tenants.We remain in a great position from a balance sheet perspective as cash flows continue to recover and leverage even after excluding prior year reserve collections, has returned to pre-pandemic levels. We ended the quarter with full capacity on our revolver and we have no unsecured debt maturities until 2024. You'll recall that we issued about $150 million of equity in Q2 through our ATM program on a forward basis. We settled a portion of that during the third quarter to fund the USAA transaction generating $83 million of net proceeds. The remainder is unsettled, which we view as capacity for future investment opportunities. And we have until June of 2022 to issue the shares. We did not raise any additional equity capital during the third quarter.Turning to guidance, we point you to the detail on our business update slide deck posted to our website. A big driver of the $0.12 increase in the midpoint of our core operating earnings range comes from a higher same-property NOI growth forecast as we increased the range by a 150 basis points at the midpoint. This increase was driven almost entirely by core improvement, including a higher cash basis collection rate on current year billings and lower move-out activity. As I mentioned, our forecast for the collection of prior year 2020 reserves is up only slightly at $46 million.Other drivers of the increase to full year core operating earnings expectations include higher lease termination fees and lower G&A. Our Nareit FFO range has increased by an additional $0.05 at the midpoint on top of the change I just described, primarily driven by the increase in straight-line rent associated with the conversion of tenants back to accrual from cash basis during the third quarter. While it's possible that we may convert additional tenants back to accrual during the fourth quarter, our guidance does not assume any additional reversal of straight-line rent reserves.I'd like to point out that these non-cash accounting impacts are a big reason why we provide and guide to core operating earnings in addition to Nareit FFO. This metric excludes non-cash amounts such as straight-line rent and mark-to-market adjustments and can provide a much cleaner picture of our earnings trajectory. We will provide 2022 guidance with Q4 results in February as we normally do, but we wanted to remind everyone that some of the bigger nonrecurring moving pieces that have been disclosed and discussed throughout the year when thinking about modeling for next year.First, our $46 million guidance for collection of 2022 reserves is a prior period adjustment, not associated with 2021 billings. Second, we recognize that normally high expense recoveries of about $3.5 million net of reserves in the second quarter related to the 2020 expense reconciliation process. Third, G&A during the first quarter benefited by about $2 million from the forfeiture of previously expense share grant related to the departure of our CIO earlier this year. And lastly, although not impacting core operating earnings, we recognized close to $14 million of promote income in the third quarter.We look forward to discussing our 2022 outlook in more detail together with next quarter's results. As Lisa mentioned, given the pace of improvement we have experienced to this point of the year, we now expect the recovery of our NOI back to 2019 levels, will occur on an annualized basis at some point during the first half of next year. That's about six months earlier than we had previously expected.With that, we look forward to taking your questions.