
OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Q3 2021 Pentair Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Jim Lucas. Thank you. Please go ahead.Jim Lucas -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relation and Treasurer

 



Thank you, Stephanie, and welcome to Pentair's Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. We're glad you could join us. I'm Jim Lucas, Senior Vice President, Treasurer, FP&A and Investor Relations. And with me today is John Stauch, our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Fishman, our Chief Financial Officer. On today's call, we will provide details on our third quarter performance as outlined in this morning's press release. Before we begin, let me remind you that during our presentation today, we will make forward-looking statements. Listeners are cautioned that these statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to protect and generally beyond the control of Pentair. These risks and uncertainties can cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations. We advise listeners to carefully review the risk factors in our most recent Form 10-Q and Form 10-K and today's release. We will also reference certain non-GAAP measures. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures can be found in the Investor Relations section of Pentair's website. We will be sure to have time for questions and answers after our prepared remarks. [Operator Instructions]I will now turn the call over to John.John L. Stauch -- Pentair President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Jim, and good morning, everyone. Please turn to slide four, titled Executive Summary. I'd like to thank -- start by thanking our Pentair teams for delivering an outstanding third quarter in the face of unprecedented material shortages and inflation. We were pleased to once again deliver strong double-digit sales and EPS gains. While it's easy to focus on the supply chain and inflation challenges that we all currently face, it is also important to appreciate how strong 2021 has been for Pentair. year-to-date, we have delivered 25% sales growth, nearly 40% segment income growth, we've expanded margins 170 basis points and growing EPS 40%. We have said that we view our businesses as more seasonal than cyclical, and our robust backlogs give us further confidence in our ability to continue our strong momentum in Q4 and into 2022. In addition to the strong sales and earnings growth, we have generated over $500 million of free cash flow this year, and our balance sheet is strong. We ended the quarter under one-time levered, and I am especially proud of our 19% ROIC.

 



We have completed two acquisitions this year that further advanced our strategy. We acquired KBI earlier this year that added commercial services capabilities to our growing water treatment business. We recently completed the Pleatco acquisition that brings strong aftermarket filtration products, not only to our flagship pool business, but also to our industrial filtration business. Given the strong third quarter performance, we are tightening our full year guidance range, which Bob will give additional color on shortly. There remains a lot of uncertainty as we end the year given the ongoing material shortages, logistical challenges and inflation. In fact, we experienced more inflation in the third quarter of 2021 than we did in the full year of 2020. We have gone out with multiple price increases across most of our businesses this year. There is a lag from when price increases are announced and when we recognize them, particularly given our strong sales and backlog growth this year. The good news, however, is we shift strong pricing tailwind entering next year. This has been a great year, and we believe we have a lot more runway ahead to become an even stronger company. Please turn to slide five, labeled Building a Track Record of Consistent Growth. We believe our strong performance over the past several quarters reinforces that we are in the right spaces for the future. Our portfolio of industry-leading products and now services help consumers move, improve and enjoy their water in addition to a growing industrial filtration business focused on faster-growing niches such as sustainable gas.We are building a track record of consistent growth. Our residential businesses have enjoyed robust growth, and we believe there's more to come. Our commercial and industrial businesses have been recovering back to 2019 levels, and backlogs have been building in these longer-cycle businesses. We are making great progress in building out our strategic growth initiatives. As I mentioned previously, we have completed two acquisitions this year that furthered our pool and our water treatment strategies. We are also driving transformation to both unlock value and to fund growth. While some of our businesses are further along the journey, we have identified a strong funnel of opportunities to help us become more productive, better serve our customers and drive growth and margin expansion. Our balance sheet is another lever available that offers great flexibility to invest in our core, return cash to shareowners and to fund strategic acquisitions. 2021 has been a great year for Pentair and we believe there's a lot more yet to come. I would now like to turn the call over to Bob to discuss our performance and our financial results in more detail, after which I will provide an update on our overall strategic position.Bob?BOB P. FISHMAN -- Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer

 



Thank you, John. Please turn to slide six labeled Q3 2021 Pentair Performance. Third quarter sales grew 21%, with core sales increasing 18%. Consumer Solutions grew core sales 26%, and Industrial & Flow Technologies delivered core sales growth of 8%. Segment income was up 28% and return on sales expanded 90 basis points to 18.5%. Adjusted EPS increased 27% to $0.89. Inflation continues to be a significant headwind, but we saw price nearly offset it in the third quarter. Corporate expense was $17 million in the quarter, and our tax rate was 16% in the quarter. Overall, the third quarter was another solid performance across the enterprise as our teams continue to deliver in the face of material shortages, logistical challenges and inflation. Please turn to slide seven labeled Q3 2021 Consumer Solutions Performance. Consumer Solutions sales growth was 30% as both businesses continue to perform at record levels. Segment income increased 27%, while return on sales contracted as price did not fully keep up with the significant inflation headwind. While we have implemented additional price increases, our record backlogs and strong double-digit growth create a lag from when the price -- new prices read out.We believe this creates a tailwind on price entering next year, but inflation does not appear to be moderating. Pool experienced sales growth of 32% in the quarter and was up 5% sequentially. Demand in the industry remains strong even as the full fiscal year ends and activity begins to moderate. In fact, dealers are booked well into the third quarter of next year, which we anticipate will result in another strong pool season next year. Favorable mortgage rates, continued increases in home equity and the ongoing trend of suburban migration are all contributing to robust demand for the industry. We continue to see strong demand for our variable speed pumps as new efficiency regulations drive transition from single-speed pumps. The majority of our mix has shifted to variable speed. 2021 has been a good year for new products, including our IntelliBrite HD light and higher energy-efficient tiers. We expect next year to be another strong year, including advancements in filtration and continued expansion of connected products. Demand for new pools remain strong with many builders reporting backlogs into the latter half of next year. Our record backlog and favorable demographic trends give us increased confidence and momentum as we look to next year. Water treatment delivered 28% sales growth as residential demand remained robust and commercial showed strong signs of post-pandemic recovery.We saw our direct-to-consumer business improving leads and closings in several new markets, and we continue to evolve our business model. We've made great progress in rebranding the business and are also building out our service capabilities. The commercial recovery continued and the integration of KBI is going well. We had a total water management win in the quarter, that was a great example of taking a product sale and adding installation and services with an existing KBI customer. While restaurant foot traffic is still not back to 2019 levels, average ticket prices are up and the result is continued improvement in orders and backlog for what has historically been a shorter cycle business. While Consumer Solutions has felt the biggest impact from inflation and material shortages in the short-term, we have successfully implemented multiple price increases that are yet to fully read out and strong backlog levels point to anticipated continued growth for the segment. Please turn to slide eight, labeled Q3 2021 Industrial & Flow Technologies Performance. Industrial & Flow Technologies increased sales 8% in the quarter, while segment income grew 23% and return on sales expanded 180 basis points to 14.8%. Residential flow grew at a double-digit rate for the fourth consecutive quarter. This growth was accomplished even in the face of supply chain constraints that are not showing signs of mitigating.Our customers have continued to experience strong sell-through, which gives us confidence that we will continue to grow. Price is also beginning to read out further and should be a tailwind entering next year. Commercial flow increased sales 6% in the quarter. The focus in commercial flow continues to be on complexity reduction, better price realization and building out the aftermarket business, given the large installed base. Industrial filtration delivered 8% sales growth, led once again by recovery in the shorter cycle business of food and beverage. We continue to see strong orders, and our sustainable gas business had strong backlog growth and a growing order funnel where we experienced an improvement in our win rate. IFT is building momentum on return on sales expansion and our transformation initiatives, coupled with price realization improving, we believe, should drive more improvement going forward. Please turn to slide nine, labeled Balance Sheet and Cash Flow. Free cash flow continued to be a great story as we have generated over $500 million year-to-date. We have returned $200 million to shareholders through dividends and share repurchase during 2021. The balance sheet ended the quarter exceptionally strong with leverage remaining under 1 times. Return on invested capital ended the quarter at 19%, a number we are particularly proud of.We had a higher-than-average amount of cash on hand at the end of the quarter as we awaited the completion of the Pleatco acquisition, which occurred last week. Our balance sheet gives us a great deal of flexibility to invest in our strategic growth initiatives, both organically and through strategic acquisitions like KBI and Pleatco. Please turn to slide 10 labeled Q4 and Full Year 2021 Pentair Outlook. We are initiating fourth quarter and updating our full year 2021 guidance. For the fourth quarter, we expect sales to grow 15% to 19%; segment income to grow 16% to 24%; and adjusted EPS to grow 16% to 24% to a range of $0.81 to $0.87. Our forecast reflects ongoing material availability headwinds and higher inflation. For the full year, we expect sales to grow 22% to 23%; segment income to increase 32% to 34%; and adjusted EPS to grow 34% to 36% to a range of $3.34 to $3.40. In addition to supply chain and logistics challenges, we would also remind investors that the fourth quarter historically incurs a seasonal slowdown for many of our residential businesses as the weather turns less favorable for outdoor activity in addition to fewer workdays around the holidays. Below the operating line, we continue to expect corporate expense to be around $80 million. We now expect net interest to be around $15 million, and our tax rate assumption remains around 16%. We anticipate the share count to be around 167.5 million, both for the quarter and the full year. Capital expenditures are expected to be around $60 million, while depreciation and amortization is anticipated to be about $80 million. We continue to target free cash flow to be greater than net income.I would now like to turn the call over to Stephanie for Q&A, after which John will have a few closing remarks. Stephanie, please open the line for questions.