  OperatorGood morning, and welcome to General Motors third-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded, Wednesday, October 27, 2021. I would now like to turn the conference over to Rocky Gupta, treasurer and vice president of investor relations.Rocky Gupta -- Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations Thanks, Tammy. Good morning and thank you for joining us as we review GM's financial results for the third quarter of 2021. Our conference call materials were issued this morning and are available on the GM investor relations website. We're also broadcasting this call via webcast.

 



 I'm joined today by Mary Barra, GM's chairman and CEO; Paul Jacobson, GM's CFO; and Dan Berce, president of GM financial. Before we begin, I would like to direct your attention to the forward-looking statements on the first page of the chart set. The content of our call will be governed by this language. I will now turn the call over to Mary Barra.Mary Barra -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Rocky, and hello, everyone. It's great to have an opportunity to talk with you all again today. Before Paul and I discuss our third-quarter results, I want to thank all of you who participated in person or remotely in our recent investor day. Our team really appreciated the opportunity to deep dive our growth strategy and to hear your perspectives. After spending time with our leaders and subject matter experts, I hope it's clear to you that we have assembled the right technology to have the right platforms, and we have the right talent to achieve our long-term goals, including doubling our annual revenue and expanding our margins. Our confidence comes from the fact that we are already making significant progress in transforming GM from a traditional automaker to really a platform innovator. You can see it in the conversion of the Orion Assembly and Factory Zero plants as they've gone from building gas-powered cars to EVs, the construction of our Ultium Cell JV plant, the rapid expansion of Super Cruise, the development of level two plus autonomy with Ultra Cruise, the lead cruise has in level four autonomous driving, and our portfolio of 20 start-up businesses. You can also experience it in the software and services that will enhance our customers' lives and drive growth.

 



 And you can see it in our talent and expertise. This includes the new digital business team that we formed to establish digital market leadership for GM and our expanded board of directors who have deep experience in IT, e-commerce, software development, venture capital, cybersecurity and more. As one of you observed, the real magic happens in our vehicles at the intersection of the Ultium and Ultifi platforms. Ultium enables us to efficiently deliver the industry's broadest portfolio of EVs, including a diverse portfolio of truck entries. And the beauty of Ultifi is the way it will allow us to deploy new software and services rapidly and securely across our entire fleet. This includes Super Cruise upgrades and services we'll create in the future. And seeing is believing. I have to tell you; I will never forget the overwhelmingly positive reaction that people had after they experienced Super Cruise or had an opportunity to ride in the GMC HUMMER EV and experienced Watts to Freedom for the very first time. The same can be said for the Cadillac LYRIQ that we'll begin delivering to customers next spring. They were spoken for in just about 10 minutes after we opened the reservation site, so I think that starts to show the strong demand that we will see for the LYRIQ. Our next EV reveal will be the Chevrolet Silverado EV, and I can tell you the truck is amazing. Our dealers love it, and so you won't want to miss it when we take the cover off at CES in early January. It will evoke passion and enthusiasm through great design and engineering, and we believe it will drive mass adoption of electric vehicles, specifically trucks. And I promise you that the capabilities of Ultium and Ultifi will be just as evident in mass market vehicles like the $30,000 Chevrolet EV crossover, which we showed. And as Mark shared, we're also working on another EV that's even more affordable than that. So to be clear, we will also continue to improve the successful ICE vehicles that are funding our future, and we'll do that while improving them to reduce emissions and also offer new technologies.

 



 Our plan provides resources to main leadership in key segments like trucks and SUVs during and after the transition to electric vehicles. And although it's only been about three weeks since investor day, the strategies and initiatives we talked about have advanced even further. Let's talk first about our work to build a strong and secure battery supply chain in North America. We've established and announced four major supply chain initiatives recently, and we expect to add more soon to support our growth, our performance and our cost reduction plans. And our goal is to eliminate supply chain risk that -- and control our own destiny as we rapidly scale our EV volume. A common thread that runs through these and our recent announcement is a clear commitment to U.S. leadership in EVs. For example, we will add two more battery plants in the US by mid-decade. We also have plans to build EV motors and another EV truck facility here in the US. We look forward to sharing the details very soon, but keep in mind this is just the beginning. As Gerald said at investor day, we forecast that North American EV assembly capacity will reach 20% by 2025 and climb to 50% by 2030. We're also bringing Ultium to China, starting with the LYRIQ, which is launching in early 2022. And GM China also recently announced it's doubling the size of its advanced design center to support EV development. Cruise is the second opportunity that I want to highlight. As you know, we have always gated the progress of cruise by safety. As we speak, Cruise is just one state level approval away from full regulatory approval to charge customers for rides in San Francisco. And it is still the only company with a permit to provide full driverless ride-hail service in the city. As cruise CEO Dan Ammann said, the complementary skills of GM and cruise have brought it to the cusp of commercialization. This includes the launch of the Cruise Origin that will be produced at Factory Zero, and we have already built dozens of engineering development vehicles like the ones you saw during investor day. All of this is why joining cruise is so high among experts in artificial intelligence, machine learning and robotics, and why cruise is hosting another 'series of virtual recruiting events called Under the Hood on November 4. If you'd like to participate, please contact GM investor relations. Now, let's turn to earnings. As we have shared before, we are taking advantage of GM's strong cash flow to fund our investments in growth. Our third-quarter results, which while reflecting the near-term challenges of the global semiconductor supply chain issues, clearly shows the strength of our underlying business. We reported EBIT-adjusted of $2.9 billion, which includes another strong performance by GM financial and our joint ventures in China, as well as a recall cost settlement with LG. LG has been and continues to be a very valued and respected partner, and we are working closely with them to deliver replacement battery modules for our customers. In fact, we began scheduling and completing repairs this month. While the semiconductor situation improves, I believe our full-year performance will be strong from an earnings perspective and far ahead of where we expected to be at the beginning of the year. And most importantly, as we manage this dynamic environment, our clear focus is on transforming GM. Now, I'm going to turn the call over to Paul, who will share more about the quarter and our outlook.Paul Jacobson -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Mary, and good morning, everyone. We appreciate you taking the time to join us. We outlined our long-term strategy earlier this month, including the opportunity to double our revenues and expand margins by 2030. We believe that the strength of our underlying business today is a crucial element to delivering on that growth, and I'm proud of the execution by our team during the quarter in the face of continued challenges. So let's get into the results of the quarter in more detail. In Q3, we generated $26.8 billion in net revenue, $2.9 billion in EBIT-adjusted, 10.9% EBIT-adjusted margin, and $1.52 in EPS diluted adjusted. Adjusted automotive free cash flow was negative $4.4 billion during the quarter due to higher work-in-process inventory related to vehicles produced without certain modules and working capital impacts from plant downtime and lower production levels as a result of the ongoing semiconductor shortage. We expect the impact on working capital to unwind, contributing to positive cash flow as production increases and vehicles build without the modules are completed and wholesaled. We realized strong price and mix performance in North America again through our production prioritization actions and our go-to-market strategies. Additionally, used vehicle prices drove continued excellent results at GM financial. In the quarter, we also reached an agreement with LG to substantially recover the cost of the recall. The pre-tax impact to the quarter of this recovery agreement and associated recall was $700 million. So let's take a closer look at North America. In Q3, North America delivered EBIT-adjusted of $2.1 billion with continued strong pricing on our full-size pickups and SUVs and the recovery agreement with LG. We generated a 10.3% EBIT-adjusted margin in the region. From a pricing standpoint, we're continuing to see high customer demand for our products and limited dealer inventory, which is driving strong transaction prices and lower incentive spend. In the quarter, our incentive spend as a percentage of ATP fell to 4.6%, 7.4 percentage points below Q3 2020. And even with these ATPs, we are growing or maintaining share in key segments. For example, almost seven out of every 10 customers in the full-size SUV segment purchased a Tahoe, Suburban or Yukon. The Escalade remains the best-selling large luxury SUV by a significant margin. That said, our overall volume and inventories remain low, which is impacting total market share in the region. We ended the quarter with approximately 129,000 units in US dealer inventory. We foresee low inventories and strong pricing continuing well into next year even as production volumes are expected to increase. Let's move to GM International. GMI EBIT-adjusted was $200 million, up $200 million year over year as we experienced positive price and mix benefits across the segment. China equity income was $300 million in the quarter despite the semiconductor impacts due to continued strong mix, stabilization in pricing and material cost performance. GMI, excluding China equity income, has made substantial progress toward breakeven despite the impact of semiconductors, reinforcing the structural progress on our path to sustainable profitability and cash flow. A few comments on GM financial, cruise and corporate segments. GM financial has continued its record-setting pace with Q3 EBT-adjusted of $1.1 billion as used vehicle prices and favorable consumer credit trends continue. We've received $1.8 billion in dividends from GM financial year to date, and we anticipate additional dividends to be paid in the fourth quarter. Cruise losses in the quarter were $300 million and corp EBIT was a loss of $200 million, in line with our run rate estimates of general and administrative costs, including investments in growth and our new businesses. Let's turn to the outlook for the rest of the year. Despite some ongoing volatility in the supply chain, which our teams continue to work to mitigate, we expect sequentially higher volumes in Q4. We also expect costs from commodities and logistics to increase along with investments in our growth initiatives. I want to make sure that we clearly articulate how we are performing relative to the guidance we have in the market. As you recall, we began the year with a guided range of $10 billion to $11 billion of EBIT-adjusted and provided updated full-year EBIT-adjusted guidance at Q2 earnings of $11.5 billion to $13.5 billion. We now expect to achieve EBIT-adjusted approaching the high end of that range. Our EPS diluted-adjusted range will increase to $5.70 to $6.70, driven by a revised full-year effective tax rate due to favorable tax determinations and a mix of global earnings. We also expect to achieve EPS diluted adjusted approaching the high end of that range. Now, I will provide an update on our capital spending, including investments in our Ultium JVs. We now expect spend to be in the $8 billion to $9 billion range this year, slightly below the $9 billion to $10 billion range we previously provided. This decrease is a result of both innovative work by our team to reduce required capital investment while maintaining the schedule on our upcoming product programs, as well as certain timing of invoices that will shift into early '22. Adjusted automotive free cash flow for the year is expected to be approximately $1 billion. Note that this guidance now includes the impact of remaining work-in-process inventory related to vehicles produced without certain modules at the end of the year. Through the fourth quarter, we expect to clear the majority of our work-in-process inventory but anticipate some inventory will remain at year end. As we've indicated, these units will provide additional cash flow in the first half of 2022 as we wholesale the vehicles. To close, we're at an inflection point for GM and we're focused on new metrics and KPIs as we progress on this journey. We plan to begin to provide some interim milestones and KPIs that we will use to benchmark our performance relative to the growth plan that we laid out at our investor event. We look forward to sharing that with you in the coming months. As we execute on our growth plan, we will maintain the strong business we have today, and these results demonstrate that. This concludes our opening comments, and we'll now move to the Q&A portion of the call. 