
OperatorWelcome to Signature Bank's 2021 First Quarter Results Conference Call. Hosting the call today from Signature Bank are Joseph DePaolo, President and Chief Executive Officer and Eric Howell, Senior Executive Vice President, Corporate and Business Development. Today's call is being recorded.At this time, all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode [Operator Instructions]It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to Joseph DePaolo, President and Chief Executive Officer.

 



You may begin.Joseph J. DePaolo -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you Erica. Good morning and thank you for joining us today for the Signature Bank 2021 First Quarter Results Conference Call. Before I begin my formal remarks. Please go ahead, Susan.Susan Turkell Lewis -- Investor Relations

 



Thank you Joe. This conference call and oral statements made from time to time by our representatives contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that are subject to risks and uncertainties. You should not place undue reliance on those statements because they are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties relating to our operations and business environment, all of which are difficult to predict and may be beyond our control.Forward-looking statements include information concerning our future results, interest rates and the interest rate environment, loan and deposit growth, loan performance, operations, new private client team hires, new office openings, business strategy and the impact of COVID-19 pandemic on each of the foregoing and on our business overall. As you consider forward-looking statements, you should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. They involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. These factors include those described in our quarterly and annual reports filed with the FDIC, which you should review carefully for further information.You should keep in mind that any forward-looking statements made by Signature Bank speak only as of the date on which they were made.Now, I'd like to turn the call back to Joe.

 



Joseph J. DePaolo -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you Susan. I will provide some overview with some quarterly and annual results and then Eric Howell, our Senior Executive Vice President of Corporate and Business Development will review the bank's financial performance in greater detail. Eric and I will address your questions at the end of our remarks. We started 2021 at an astonishing manner with another quarter of record deposit growth of $10.7 billion emanating from our core client relationships. Coming off the heels of 2020 where we grew record deposits by nearly $23 billion. It's clear that the bank is firing on all cylinders, including our newer business lines where again many contributed to this quarter's phenomenal growth.When looking at earnings, we had another quarter of record net interest income, driven by record deposit growth, strong loan growth and record securities purchases. Additionally, we had record fee income and contained expense growth which culminated in record net income. Bottom line, we are delivering strong results for our shareholders even with significant excess liquidity. This liquidity bodes well for future earnings as the unlocking of excess cash, especially for higher-yielding loan growth has a far greater impact than any Fed or political action.In retrospect, it's truly not that astonishing to see, we delivered another quarter of record earnings and growth as we have done for the past 20 years. In fact, our 20 year anniversary is less than 2-weeks away on May 1. We remain true to our founding principles of a team-based single point of contact model that caters the privately owned businesses and their owners and managers. This focused model has allowed us to distinguish ourselves from the pack and deliver outstanding performance consistently throughout Signature Bank's existence.It's hard to believe that the Bank started with nearly $50 million in assets and grew organically without ever making an acquisition to an $85 billion bank. Separately, I would be remiss not to mention how proud we are of the recently issued 2020 Annual Report, highlighting essential frontline health-care workers that are closely associated with our colleagues. We wanted to showcase the unrelenting dedication and sacrifice of these frontline heroes including our own and thank them for their service.Now, let's take a look at earnings. Pre-tax, pre-provision earnings for the 2021 first quarter were a record $272.8 million, an increase of $54 million or 25% compared with $218.5 million through the 2020 first quarter. Net income for the 2021 first quarter was a record $191 million or $3.24 diluted earnings per share, net with $99.6 million or $1.88 diluted earnings per share reported in the same period last year. The increase in income was predominantly driven by substantial asset growth of $32.3 billion over the last 12 months as well as the decrease in the provision for credit losses, which were substantially impacted by COVID-19 in the first quarter of 2020.Looking at deposits, deposits increased a record $10.7 billion or 17%, $74 billion this quarter, while average deposits grew $6.8 billion. This quarter's growth, which was across the board, was driven by the digital asset banking team which grew deposits by $4.4 billion. The specialized mortgage banking solutions team, which grew $2.3 billion. The Fund Banking team, which was up nearly $700 million, our Venture Banking Group, which increased over $300 million and nine private client banking teams across the spectrum in Metro New York, which grew over $100 million each, including five of the teams that exceeded $200 million.Since the end of the 2020 first quarter deposits increased a remarkable $31.7 billion or 75% and average deposits increased nearly $28 billion. Non-interest bearing deposits increased $3.8 billion to $22.5 billion, which represent a high of 30.5% of total deposits. Our deposit growth plus capital raises as well as earnings retention led to an increase of $32.3 billion or 61% in total assets, since the first quarter of last year. Now, let's take a look at our lending businesses. Core loans or loans excluding PPP during the 2021 first quarter increased $1.3 billion or 2.8% to $48 billion.For the prior 12 months, core loans grew $7.3 billion or 17.8%. Increase in loans this quarter was again driven primarily by new fund banking capital core facilities. This is the 10th quarter or 10th consecutive quarter where C&I outpaced CRE growth, furthering the rapid transformation of the balance sheet to include more floating rate assets as we continue to diversify our portfolio. We are well positioned in all our lending businesses to capitalize on opportunities based on our pipeline and a recovering economy.Turning to credit quality, the portfolio continues to perform well. Non-accrual loans were $134 million or 26 basis points of total loans and with $120 million with 25 basis points for the 2020 fourth quarter. Our past due loans returned to the pre-COVID-19 levels with 30 to 89 past due loans decreasing to $39 million and the 90 day plus past due loans remained very low at $4.9 million. Net charge-offs for the 2021 first quarter was $17.9 million or 15 basis points of average loans compared with $11.4 million to the 2020 fourth quarter.Provision for credit losses for the 2021 is $30.9 million compared with $35.6 million from 2020 fourth quarter despite the bank's allowance for credit losses to 1.02% and the coverage ratio stands at a healthy 390%. I would like to point out that excluding very well secured fund banking loans and government guaranteed PPP loan, the allowance for credit loss ratio would be much higher at 1.43%.Turning to modifications as of April 15, the bank's COVID-19 related non-payment modifications reduced by $329 million -- to $983 million or 1.9% of loans when compared with the balance at the end of 2020 fourth quarter. Now, on to the expanding team front, where we continue to have success. In the 2021 first quarter the bank on-boarded three private client banking teams, including two in the West Coast. Additionally, the bank added four private client banking group directors, to existing California teams and Signature Financial added seven executive sales offices throughout its national footprint.At this point, I'll turn the call over to Eric, and he will review the quarter's financial results in greater detail.Eric R. Howell -- Executive Vice President-Corporate & Business DevelopmentThank you Joe, and good morning everyone. I'll start by reviewing net interest income and margin. Net interest income for the first quarter reached $407 million, an increase of $11.5 million from the 2020 fourth quarter. Net interest margin declined 13 basis points to 2.1% compared with 2.23% for the 2020 fourth quarter. The entire decrease and then some was due to massive excess cash balances from significant deposit flows, which impacted margin by 58 basis points. Now, let's look at asset yields and funding costs for a moment.Interest earning asset yields for the 2021 first quarter decreased 21 basis points from the linked-quarter to 2.54%. The decrease in overall asset yields was again driven by the massive excess average cash balances which grew from $12.5 billion to $17.1 billion during the quarter. Additionally asset yields, continue to be affected by lower reinvestment rates in all of our asset classes. Yields on the securities portfolio decreased 25 basis points linked quarter to 1.88% due to lower reinvestment rates as well as the bank investing in floating rate securities, and our portfolio duration increased to 3.25 years which was due to a steeper yield curve.Given the better rate environment, we aggressively grew the securities portfolio by a record $2.1 billion and we anticipate similar growth in future quarters. Turning to our loan portfolio, yields on average commercial loans and commercial mortgages decreased 6 basis points to 3.5% compared with the 2020 fourth quarter. This was mostly due to lower origination yields, excluding prepayment penalties from both quarters, yields decreased by 9 basis points. And now, looking at liabilities, our overall deposit cost this quarter decreased 8 basis points to 34 basis points due to the low interest rate environment as we gradually lower our relationship-based deposit rates. We anticipate this downward trend to continue in the coming quarters.During the quarter, average borrowing balances decreased by $7 million and the cost of borrowings increased by 1 basis point to 2.41%. The overall cost of funds for the quarter decreased 10 basis points to 47 basis points, driven by the reduction in deposit costs. And now on to non-interest income expense. We continue to emphasize fee income; and non-interest income for the 2021 first quarter was $32.7 million, an increase of $18.5 million or 131% when compared with the 2020 first quarter. The increase is mostly due to a rise in fees and service charges, net gains on sales of loans and trading income.Non-interest expense for the 2021 first quarter is $166.4 million versus $144 million for the same period a year ago. The $22.4 million or 15.6% increase was principally due to the addition of new private client banking teams and operational support to meet the bank's growing needs. Despite our significant team hirings and margin compression from substantial cash balances, the Bank continues to gain operating leverage and as a result, our efficiency ratio improved to 37.9% for the 2021 first quarter versus 39.7% for the comparable period last year.And turning to capital, during the quarter, the Bank successfully issued $708 million of common stock. All capital ratios remain well in excess of regulatory requirements and augment the relatively low risk profile of the balance sheet, as evidenced by common equity Tier 1 risk-based ratio of 10.92%. In total, risk-based ratio of 14.41% as of the 2021 first quarter. And given our robust total risk-based ratio, we redeemed 260 million of subordinated debt at a rate of 5.3% on April 19, which will further reduce our interest expense in coming quarters.And now, I'll turn the call back to Joe. Thank you.Joseph J. DePaolo -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks Eric. I'd like to thank my colleagues who have demonstrated their dedication to our clients and their needs during this pandemic. Times like these, our clients truly value the level of care and advice that we provide, and our performance once again this quarter reflects their extraordinary efforts as we continue to execute on many fronts. We look forward to a healthier 2021 as recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic continues. The collective strength of our franchise led to an unbelievable quarter of record deposit growth record pre-tax, pre-provision earnings and record net income. Bottom line, we delivered another strong quarter and we are well positioned for the future.Now, we are happy to answer any questions you might have. Erica, we'll turn it over to you.