
OperatorGood morning, and welcome to the Analog Devices Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2021 Earnings Conference Call, which is being audio webcast via telephone and over the web.I'd like to now introduce your host for today's call, Mr. Michael Lucarelli, Vice President of Investor Relations. Sir, the floor is yours.Michael Lucarelli -- Vice President of Investor Relations

 



Thank you, Stephanie, and good morning everybody. Thanks for joining our fourth quarter and fiscal 2021 conference call. With me on the call today are ADI's CEO, Vincent Roche; and ADI's CFO, Prashanth Mahendra-Rajah. For anyone who missed the release, you can find it and relating financial schedules at investor.analog.com.Now on to the disclosures. The information we're about to discuss includes forward-looking statements, which are subject to certain risks and uncertainties as further described in our earnings release, ADI and Maxim's periodic reports and other materials filed with the SEC. Actual results could differ materially from the forward-looking information as these statements reflect our expectations only as of the date of this call. We undertake no obligation to update these statements, except as required by law.Our comments today will also include non-GAAP financial measures, which exclude special items. When comparing our results to our historical performance, special items are also excluded from prior periods. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to their most directly comparable GAAP measures and additional information about our non-GAAP measures are included in today's earnings release.Please note, we published a table on our Investor webpage of historical pro forma combined end market revenue aligned to ADI fiscal quarters. As part of this exercise, we also mapped sub-segments to match ADI's groupings. As a result of this reclassification about $150 million of annual revenue moved from industrial and communications to consumer for the Maxim business.

 



And with that, I'll turn it over to ADI's CEO, Vincent Roche. Vince?Vincent Roche -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you very much, Mike; and a very good morning to you all. Once again, we delivered record revenue and profits in our fourth quarter, closing out what was a milestone year for ADI. Our success was driven by our industry-leading high performance portfolio and our team's strong operational execution, enabling us to better meet the insatiable demand for our products.Now stepping back a little, 2021 truly demonstrated the vital importance of semiconductors to the modern digital age. We invested ahead of this inflection, building a comprehensive portfolio to better solve our customers' most complex problems in this ubiquitously sensed and connected world. As we enter 2022, our backlog and bookings remain robust, and we continue to invest in manufacturing capacity, positioning us well for another successful year ahead.

 



Now moving on to our results. Our fourth quarter revenue was $2.34 billion and EPS was $1.73, both exceeding the midpoint of guidance. And for 2021, our revenue was $7.32 billion and EPS was $6.46. Looking at organic ADI, we delivered new high watermarks on revenue and profits. Industrial and automotive achieved record revenue this year, while consumer returned to annual growth for the first time since 2017. And communications revenue declined as continued strength in wired was offset by weakness in wireless-related to the China market.In 2021, we generated a record $2.4 billion of free cash flow, equating to a free cash flow margin of approximately 33%. This maintains our position in the top 10% of the S&P 500. In line with our revised capital allocation strategy to return 100% of free cash flow, we returned $3.7 billion to shareholders in 2021 through dividends and share buybacks. It was not only a record year for performance and shareholder returns, but also for investments that positioned us to better capture market opportunities presented by secular growth drivers in our business.First, we took decisive action to add capacity throughout the year. With more than $340 million in capital expenditures, this is enabling us to better navigate the near-term supply demand imbalance, while achieving our long-term growth objectives. And in 2022, we're planning to expand our internal manufacturing capacity at our factories in the U.S. and Europe. These additional investments will create more profitable, flexible and resilient manufacturing capabilities at ADI. At our core, we are an innovation-driven enterprise. And together with Maxim, we will invest more than $1.6 billion in R&D annually, to ensure we continue developing solutions that define the edge of possible.As you know, to complement our organic efforts, we selectively used M&A to expand both our scale and our scope. In 2017, the acquisition of LTC reflected a strategy. Since acquiring the franchise, we delivered on our goal to double its historical growth rate. Equally impressive was our ability to improve on Linear's industry-leading gross margins. More recently, we completed the acquisition of Maxim Integrated. Similar to previous acquisitions, we're combining the best from ADI and Maxim to develop a new operating system that enhances customer engagement and drive long-term profitable growth. And I'm very pleased with the progress that we've made already.On the customer engagement side, the integration of our field teams has brought a tremendous degree of excitement. The team is already beginning to identify cross-selling opportunities and building out our opportunity pipeline. From an engineering and operations perspective, our teams are coming together at a remarkable speed and we're aligning product and technology roadmaps to help accelerate growth in the years ahead. This combination also strengthens the diversity of our portfolio and enriches our resilient business model. To that end, we now have approximately 75,000 product SKUs and 80% of these products individually account for less than 0.1% of our total revenue.And the addition of Maxim and provides us with a more comprehensive power portfolio, Maxim's primarily application focused power offerings are highly complementary with ADI's more general purpose or catalog power portfolio. This adds new SAM in all our markets and enhances cross-selling opportunities, accelerating revenue growth in our $2 billion plus power portfolio. Given these investments, we enter 2022 with an unparalleled portfolio of technology and talent, aimed at capitalizing on the secular growth trends across all our markets.And now, I'd like to share a few examples of how our business is at the heart of these emerging trends. Starting with industrial. 2021 was a better year for our highly diversified and profitable industrial business. With all applications achieving all time highs, our unrivaled high-performance portfolio continues to benefit from the mass digitalization movement across industries. Our largest industrial segments, instrumentation and test, is comprised of automated test equipment, electronic test and measurement and scientific instruments. These applications must combat increasing test times, a system complexity and metrology requirements rise exponentially. For example, processors and memory in data centers are leveraging final no geometries with higher levels of integration, which can double the test time, this challenge is our opportunity. Our innovative purpose-built solutions are bringing test time back to parity, while increasing our content by more than 50%.Factory automation is one of our largest industrial segments. I believe, we're at a tipping point in the Industry 4.0, as customers are looking to add sensing, edge processing and connectivity to make their supply chains more robust, efficient, and of course, flexible. ADI precision signal chain and power franchises, sensing technologies and robust wired and wireless connectivity are critical to enabling these efforts. Looking ahead, we have an enormous opportunity to connect Maxim's rich power portfolio, which is under-represented in the industrial sector today, with ADI's strong position.Shifting now to Automotive. In a year dominated by chip shortage headlines, we achieved record revenue as consumers and manufacturers are embracing electric vehicles and an enhanced in-vehicle experience. These two areas need additional semiconductor content and align very well with the strengths of both ADI and Maxim. In electric vehicles, our market-leading wired and wireless battery management systems or BMS offer customers the highest levels of accuracy, reliability and safety, as well as flexibility to scale across all battery chemistries, including the more environmentally friendly zero-Cobalt LFP. Our BMS position is further strengthened with Maxim, we now sell to seven of the top 10 EV manufacturers, and our increased technology and product scale enables us to address new SAM. Our efficiency is also critical in electric vehicles to better optimize performance and range. Here Maxim's strong and growing power management capabilities complement our portfolio.Now inside the vehicle automakers are enhancing the in-cabin experience. ADI's market leading audio systems with signal processing, A2B connectivity and active road noise cancellation continues to gain traction. In 2021, our A2B franchise was designed in at five major OEMs. And since its launch in 2016, we've shipped over 50 million A2B nodes, and we expect this to double within the next three years. With Maxim, our in-cabin connectivity offerings, expand to include their industry-leading GMSL franchise, which is critical in architecting advanced driver assistance systems.Turning to communications. 2021 was an uneven year, as strength in wired was offset by weakness in the China wireless market. Encouragingly as we look to 2022, the proliferation of 5G is gaining momentum globally, especially in North America. In the wireless markets, ADI is the leader with more than double the market share of our closest competitor. This year, we introduced the industry's first software defined radio transceiver, that includes a fully integrated digital front-end. This next generation transceiver platform, enables us to defend and extend our position in traditional 5G and emerging O-RAN networks. Additionally Maxim's power portfolio will support our goal to increase our power attach rate in the wireless market.In our wired business, we grew again this year as data centers and networking became increasingly vital to accelerating digitalization. Maxim more than doubles our exposure to data centers and adds new growth vectors with its power management solutions for cloud processors and accelerators. And momentum is building with a strong pipeline across traditional customers, as well as hyperscalers.Finally, moving on to consumer. Our business delivered double-digit growth this year, as we executed on our strategy to diversify our customers, products and applications. Maxim further builds on these efforts, bringing additional power, audio and sensing capabilities and adding new applications like fast charging and gaming. Given the strong pipeline and design wins for our signal processing solutions, across hearables, wearables and professional audio, video, combined with our power management capabilities, I'm confident that we're on the path for continued growth.Now I'd like to focus on ESG just a little, which is now an integral part of our business strategy. Broadly speaking, I believe semiconductors can play a major role in improving our standard of living, while also protecting our planetary health. For example, ADI's technology is critical to optimizing global energy efficiency, from EVs and charging stations to sustainable energy and smart grids. We're not only investing in these applications, but they represent a meaningful and growing portion of ADI's revenue today. So we've made substantial progress on our ESG initiatives in 2021, including a commitment to increase the use of sustainable energy for 100% of our organic ADI manufacturing activities by 2025, up from 50% today. Actions like these will help us achieve our goal of Carbon Neutrality by 2030 and Net Zero Emissions by 2050. We launched the Ocean and Climate Innovation Accelerator consortium focused on the critical role of oceans in combating climate change. And we've enhanced our disclosure and transparency on ESG topics, especially around diversity, equity and inclusion. In the year ahead, we look to extend our ESG initiatives across the combined company, and of course, make further progress toward our goals.So in closing, I'd like to thank our employees and partners who worked tirelessly throughout this past year, helping ADI achieve these historic results. We're off to a strong start in 2022, with continued robust demand and line of sight to capacity additions. And I've never been more optimistic about ADI's future. Our industry-leading position is stronger with Maxim, as we expand our capabilities to capitalize on emerging secular drivers, positioning us for faster growth in the years ahead.And with that, I'll hand you over to Prashanth.Prashanth Mahendra-Rajah -- Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Vince. Let me add my welcome to our year-end earnings call. Except for revenue, my comments on the P&L and our outlook will be on a non-GAAP or adjusted basis, which excludes special items outlined in today's press release. Also the acquisition of Maxim closed on August 26th, as such, I will discuss results inclusive of Maxim's contributions for approximately 9.5 weeks.I'll begin with a brief review of 2021. We delivered sequential revenue growth every quarter, leading to a new all-time high of $7.32 billion. Gross margins of 70.9% increased 180 basis points, due to favorable product mix, stronger utilization and the savings from a legacy LTC plant optimization. Operating margins of 42.4%, increased 250 basis points, reflecting gross margin fall-through and disciplined discretionary spending. All told, adjusted EPS increased more than 30% to a record $6.46.Turning to the fourth quarter. Revenue of $2.34 billion, exceeded the midpoint of our updated guidance. Maxim's contribution to revenue was $559 million. Looking at the end market results and to give a better view into the underlying trends, I'll focus my remarks on organic ADI results, but this will be the last earnings call, where we provide ADI organic commentary. Industrial represented 57% of revenue and increased slightly sequentially, and 25% year-over-year with growth across every sub-segment. For the full year, Industrial increased 28%. This strong performance once again is a testament to our sustained relative outperformance in the industrial market.Communications represented 16% of revenue and was flat sequentially while decreasing year-over-year. For the year, we delivered record wired sales, while total comps declined due to the weakness in China wireless, largely related to geopolitical tensions. Excluding this region, total comps grew more than 20% in 2021. And overall, our comps geographic mix shifted with North America, Europe and Korea, now representing our largest sources of revenue. Automotive represented 15% of revenue and was down 9% sequentially, as the third quarter included revenue from an IP licensing agreement, excluding this, auto was flat sequentially. On a year-over-year basis, auto increased 15% with BMS more than doubling, reflecting our leadership position in the electrification ecosystem. For the year, auto exhibited robust broad-based growth finishing up 36%.Consumer represented 12% of revenue and increased more than 20% sequentially and year-over-year, marking the fourth consecutive quarter of annual growth. Over a year ago, we said consumer would grow in 2021, and the team delivered on this commitment with consumer increasing 12% for the year.Moving on to the rest of the fourth quarter P&L, I'm going to speak to the results inclusive of the partial quarter of Maxim. Gross margins were 70.9%, up 90 bps year-over-year. Operating margins finished at 43.1%, up 140 basis points year-over-year. Non-op expense was $44 million and the tax rate was 12.7%. All-in adjusted EPS was $1.73 above the midpoint of guide and up more than 20% year-over-year.If we look at the balance sheet, we ended the quarter with approximately $2 billion of cash and equivalents and on a trailing 12-month pro forma basis, our net leverage ratio was 1.1 turns. Building on our ESG efforts, we continued to strategically leverage sustainable financing. We're proud to be the first U.S. tech company to deploy three sustainable finance instruments, with our inaugural green bond issuance, a sustainability-linked revolving credit facility, and a sustainability-linked bond offering. Specifically, this bond offering was part of our $4 billion refinancing efforts during the quarter. And as a result, we lowered our weighted average coupon to 2.7%, while extending the average duration of our total debt by nearly 10 years. Inventory dollars increased slightly sequentially, after adjusting for the partial quarter of Maxim activity and the fair value step up of inventory related to the acquisition, while inventory days were down slightly. Channel inventory declined and remains below the low-end of our seven week to eight week target.Moving to the cash flow statement. For the year, cash flow from operations increased 36% to more than $2.7 billion. We generated a record free cash flow of $2.4 billion or approximately 33% of revenue, despite capex more than doubling to $344 million or 4.7% of revenue. We also returned a record $3.7 billion or more than 150% of free cash flow to shareholders this year, via dividends and buybacks, including 80% of our $2.5 billion ASR program. As a reminder, we plan to return 100% of free cash flow to shareholders. This was accomplished by growing our dividend annually with a 40% to 60% dividend payout target and by using residual cash flow for buybacks.We enter 2022 as a much larger enterprise with an attractive long-term outlook. As Vince mentioned, we plan to increase our capacity investments to support revenue growth and reinforce the resiliency and efficiency of our hybrid manufacturing model. As such, we anticipate capex being 6% to 8% of revenue for 2022, above our long-term model of 4%. This step-up in capex will not impact the commitment we made in September to buyback $5 billion of shares by the end of calendar '22.So now on to the first quarter outlook. Revenue is expected to be $2.6 billion plus or minus $100 million. Based on the midpoint, we expect operating margin to be 43.3%, plus or minus 70 bps. We expect non-op expenses of approximately $50 million, a 12.5% tax rate and a share count of approximately 530 million. Based on these inputs, adjusted EPS is expected to be $1.78 plus or minus $0.10. For additional context, using the fourth quarter pro forma combined revenue as a base, our guide at the midpoint implies low single-digit growth quarter-on-quarter for -- in Q1, for what is normally a seasonally weaker quarter. This growth is driven by an increase in B2B quarter-over-quarter, while consumer is down sequentially.So before closing, I want to give a brief update on our Maxim integration progress. Phase 1 of shareholder value creation is well underway, building conviction in our cost synergy timeline. We anticipate realizing over 40% of the initial $275 million opex and COGS synergy target in fiscal '22, with the remaining coming in fiscal '23. I'm proud of the team's effort and confident this pace of execution will continue. At our Analyst Day next spring, we'll update investors on our progress, as well as provide more details on Phases 2 and 3, which relate to additional savings from infrastructure optimization and revenue synergies respectively.Before turning to Q&A, I'd like to congratulate Mike Lucarelli, on his promotion to Vice President of Investor Relations and Financial Planning and Analysis. Look forward to working with you Mike in this continued partnership. Let me hand it over to you to take Q&A.Michael Lucarelli -- Vice President of Investor RelationsThanks, Prashanth. All right, with that, let's get to our Q&A session. We ask that you limit yourself to one question in order to allow for additional participants on the call. If you have follow-up question, please requeue, and we'll take your question if time allows. With that, can we have our first question, please.