  OperatorHello, and welcome to Citi's third-quarter 2021 earnings review with Chief Executive Officer Jane Fraser and Chief Financial Officer Mark Mason. Today's call will be hosted by Jen Landis, head of Citi Investor relations. [Operator instructions] Also as a reminder, this conference is being recorded today. If you have any objections, please disconnect at this time. Mrs. Landis, you may begin.Jen Landis -- Head of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, operator. Good morning, and thank you all for joining us. I'd like to remind you that today's presentation, which is available for download on our website, citigroup.com, may contain forward-looking statements, which are based on management's current expectation and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may differ materially from these statements due to a variety of factors, including those described in our SEC filings. Before we get started, I'd like to thank Liz Lynn for being such an incredible partner during these last few months. I've really enjoyed getting to know the entire Citi team. And I'm honored to be the next head of investor relations, and I look forward to working with you all. With that, I will turn it over to Jane.Jane Fraser -- Chief Executive Officer So thank you, Jen, and good morning, everyone. I'm delighted to join you today. So let's kick off the call with what we're seeing from a macro perspective and the tremendous engagement we continue to experience with clients before I give you an update on our results and priorities. Certainly, the recovery from the pandemic continues to drive corporate and consumer confidence.

 



 I particularly like the robust pipelines we see through the rest of the year and beyond. Corporate client sentiment remains very positive, with healthy cash flows and liquidity driving M&A activity and deleveraging. And consumer balance sheets remain unusually strong on the back of the increasing consumer net worth during the pandemic. Now all that said, growth has come off the boil a tad. We are watching three things very closely: the slowdown in China and its impact on global growth; inflation and supply constraints in labor, materials and energy; and finally, what happens next with the U.S. debt ceiling negotiations. These are also the issues which repeatedly surface in our conversations with clients. So turning to the quarter. We reported net income of $4.6 billion and EPS of $2.15. Embedded in these results is a pre-tax loss related to the sale of our Australia consumer business, which Mark is going to provide the details on. Excluding this transaction, our third-quarter revenues would have been up 3% over last year, and our EPS would have been $2.44. In the Institutional Clients Group, we grew revenues by 4% year over year as we continue to see strong client engagement with momentum in Investment Banking, Equity Markets and Securities Services more than offsetting the 16% decline in Fixed Income Markets. I'm very proud to tell you that it was Citi's best M&A quarter and the second best investment banking quarter in a decade, and lending in the ICG grew again this quarter, albeit modestly. We also had a very strong quarter in Equity Markets, with revenues up 40% year over year. So despite that normalization in Fixed Income versus the pretty extraordinary performance of 2020, overall Markets revenues were only down 5%, and they were up 11% versus the third quarter of 2019. We continue to successfully execute on our strategy to grow fee revenue across the ICG businesses.

 



 For example, while TTS continues to be impacted by interest rate headwinds, our fees this quarter were the highest in a decade. You can also see how our global network uniquely positions us to help our clients navigate the supply chain challenges so many of them are facing, a dynamic that we expect to persist for the near future. Similarly, we drove double-digit fee revenue growth in Securities Services in the Private Bank as client assets under custody and assets under management continued their vigorous growth trajectory. In Global Consumer Banking, healthy consumer balance sheets and persistently elevated payment rates did mean that loan growth remained under pressure. The other key drivers are a bit more encouraging, however, U.S. Branded Cards purchase sales are well above 2019 levels. And acquisitions across Branded Cards Mexico and the Asia hub are also all now at or above pre-COVID levels. Similarly, we continue to benefit from double-digit growth in deposits and assets under management across the franchise. Let me briefly touch on our U.S. retail strategy. Now our digital strategy and investments are starting to pay dividends. Digital deposits stand at $19 billion, having grown 26% in the last year. And we see more than two-thirds of our digital deposit balances coming from customers outside of our branch footprint. With about half of those deposits from our card holders who did not previously have a retail relationship with us. Now obviously, we were disappointed by Google's decision to discontinue Google Plex, but we learned a lot through the effort, and the vast majority of the investments will be leveraged for our proprietary efforts and future partnerships. So all in all, we ended the quarter with a common equity tier 1 capital ratio of 11.7% on a standardized basis. And our tangible book value per share increased to $79.07, up over 10% from a year ago. So far this year, we've returned close to $11 billion to shareholders through a healthy dividend and share repurchases. We remain committed to returning excess capital over and above the amount necessary to invest in our franchise and to maintain our safety and soundness. So overall, I'm quite pleased with these results given the environment we're operating in. And while we have much work ahead, we're seeing the results of the previous investments that we have made. Now I'd like to update you on our strategic priorities. Turning to Slide 3. We've included a page that clearly lays out our top priorities and some of the actions we've taken to date against them. And we're going to share this page with you each quarter to ensure you're up-to-date on where we are and the milestones and progress along the way. And as you can see, we've been hard at work, acting against the priorities that I've laid out: the transformation, the strategy refresh, and our culture and talent. Now clearly, the transformation is our No. 1 priority right now, and key to that transformation is our safety and soundness in addressing the Consent Orders by modernizing our risk and control environment. During the quarter, we submitted our plans to our regulators and continue to have a constructive dialogue with them as we pivot now firmly toward execution. We're already well underway in the investment in our risk and control environment, and we're really bringing a culture of excellence to this effort, and we are moving with urgency. We also continue to make progress refreshing our strategy. In addition to announcing the sale of our consumer business in Australia, we're deep in the second round for of bids for the remaining exit markets. We've begun the work on how these exits will enable us to simplify our operations in Asia and eliminate stranded costs. And we're really looking forward to bringing all the strategy work together for you on Investor Day and presenting our vision for the firm. And as Mark is going to touch on, we've begun executing on many of the decisions that we've already made, including in TTS, wealth and commercial banking with investments in front office hires, as well as enhanced digital product and service offerings. And we're already starting to see the impact of these investments emerge through key drivers across these businesses. And finally, turning to culture and talent. We continue to attract high-caliber external talent while driving toward our diversity goals, ensuring clear accountability and breaking down the silos that have historically impeded our progress as a company. It's a new Citi. And all of this work has one overarching goal: to responsibly narrow the returns gap with our peers. We will update you with the metrics and milestones that we'll use to hold ourselves accountable, so you can hold us accountable to them as well. And with that, let me turn it over to Mark to go through our performance in more detail. And then we will both be delighted to take your questions.Mark Mason -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Jane, and good morning, everyone. Starting on Slide 4. As Jane mentioned, Citigroup reported third-quarter net income of $4.6 billion, EPS of $2.15 and an RoTCE of 11% on $17.2 billion of revenues. Embedded in these results is a pre-tax loss of $680 million related to the sale of our Australia consumer business. Excluding this item, EPS would have been $2.44 with an RoTCE of 12.5%. As a reminder, while we received a premium to book on the sale of the business, we did incur a pre-tax loss primarily related to the currency translation adjustment that is built up over time and is already included in our capital. Upon closing, the capital impact of this loss will be largely neutralized, and we will release approximately $800 million of capital allocated to the business. Revenues declined 1% from the prior year. Excluding the loss on sale, revenues would have been up 3%, largely driven by investment banking fees, as well as strong growth in Equity Markets and Securities Services. Expenses were up 5% year over year. In constant dollars, expenses were up 4% in the quarter. On a year-to-date basis, our expenses have grown by 5% with two main drivers: investments in the transformation including the six programs to address the consent orders, which drove about 3% of the growth so far this year; and business-led investments, which focus on our front office expansion in the investment bank, wealth and securities services; and investments to improve our client experience and digitize our network. So far this year, we added over 500 bankers, advisors and other front office support in wealth, including the private bank and the consumer wealth businesses; and 200 corporate and investment bankers globally in high-growth areas, including senior hires across tech, healthcare, fintech and private equity coverage. In our services businesses, TTS and Securities Services, we continue to improve client experience and digital capabilities, which is enabling us to capture significant new mandates. In consumer, these investments include development and marketing for new offerings like the Custom Cash Card and installment lending, as well as investments in our mobile and digital user experience. In addition, there were also increases in volume and revenue-related expenses, as well as business as usual expenses, which were largely offset by efficiency savings. As a reminder, we will continue to analyze our expenses to look for opportunities to self-fund investments. And now turning to credit. Credit performance remained strong with net credit losses of just under $1 billion more than offset by an ACL release of $1.2 billion, largely reflecting continued improvement in portfolio quality. In constant dollars, end-of-period loans were down 1% year over year, reflecting the impact of the Australia exit. Excluding this impact, loans would have been up 1% year over year, driven by active client engagement in TTS, Private Bank and Markets. End-of-period deposits were up 6% year over year, reflecting continued engagement with our consumer and corporate clients, as well as continued momentum in client acquisition and deepening across both corporate clients and consumers. Finally, as Jane noted earlier, we returned roughly $11 billion in capital so far this year. And while we remain committed to continuing to invest in our franchise, we will continue to return excess capital to shareholders. Turning now to each business. Slide 5 shows the results for the Institutional Clients Group. Revenues increased 4% year over year and sequentially, mainly driven by Investment Banking, Equity Markets and Securities Services. Expenses increased 9%, with about half of the increase driven by transformation and the other half driven by business-led investments and higher revenue-related costs, partially offset by efficiency savings. Credit costs were largely benign in the quarter as minimal net credit losses were more than offset by an ACL reserve release. This resulted in net income of $3.4 billion, which grew 21% in the quarter and 60% on a year-to-date basis. And ICG delivered an RoTCE of 14.5% for the quarter and 18.8% year to date. Slide 6 shows revenues for the Institutional Clients Group in more detail. On the banking side, revenues were up 11%. In Treasury and Trade Solutions, continued growth in fee revenues of 20% year over year, the highest quarter for fees in a decade reflected solid client engagement and client acquisition, as well as a recovery in commercial card revenues. However, all of this was more than offset by the impact of lower deposit spreads, driving total revenues down 4%. We're continuing to see momentum across our payment business with 15% growth in cross-border flows and 10% growth in clearing transactions over the past year. As of quarter end, TTS loans grew 15%, mainly in trade loans where our technology investments in supply chain and deep local knowledge are enabling us to meet our clients' needs across the globe. Investment banking revenues were up 39% year over year, largely driven by M&A as we continue to see the benefits from our front office investments, which positioned us well to take advantage of increased deal activity. As Jane mentioned, this was the second best quarter for investment banking revenues and the best quarter for M&A in a decade. Private Bank revenues grew 4% driven by growth in assets under management, loans and deposits, reflecting momentum with new and existing clients. This quarter, we added almost 200 bankers, investment counselors and other front office support and onboarded over 200 new clients. Our investments in talent continue to drive growth which bodes well for our overall strategy in wealth. Corporate Lending revenues were up 17%, primarily driven by lower cost of funds and a modest gain on sale, partially offset by lower loan volumes. Total Markets & Securities Services revenues decreased 4% from last year. Fixed Income revenues decreased 16%, reflecting the continued normalization in market activity across rates and spread products. However, we saw strong activity with our corporate clients, engaging with them in foreign exchange products to support their global operations and hedging solutions to assist with their risk mitigation efforts. Equity Markets revenues were up 40%, our second best quarter in a decade, driven by cash equities, derivatives and prime finance, reflecting solid client activity and favorable market conditions. This is another business where we see our investments in talent and technology paying off. In Securities Services, revenues were up 10%. Here, we saw strong growth in fee revenues as the investments that we've been making in our platform and product capabilities enabled us to grow revenue with both new and existing clients, partially offset by lower deposit spreads. Finally, looking at year-to-date results in ICG, we've seen a strong contribution from Investment Banking and Equity Markets, as well as solid results in the Private Bank and Securities Services, which helped to offset the expected normalization in Fixed Income Markets. Turning now to the results for Global Consumer Banking in constant dollars on Slide 7. Revenues declined 14%, and 5% excluding the loss on sale, as solid deposit growth and momentum in investment management were more than offset by lower card balances and lower deposit spreads. Expenses increased 5% with about half driven by transformation and the remainder driven by business-led investments and volume-related expenses, partially offset by efficiency savings. Cost of credit was a modest benefit this quarter as a roughly $1 billion ACL reserve release more than offset net credit losses. This resulted in net income of $1.3 billion, which grew 44%. And GCB delivered a 15% RoTCE and a 21.5% ROTCE excluding the loss on sale. Finally, looking at year-to-date results, we've seen steady improvement in our drivers over the course of the year, with purchase sales up 5% relative to 2019 and acquisitions nearing pre-COVID levels globally. And the business delivered 22.4% ROTCE, excluding the loss on sale. Slide 8 shows the results for North America consumer in more detail. Total third-quarter revenues were down 4% from last year as we continue to see headwinds from higher payment rates and deposit spreads. That said, we are encouraged by the trends we are seeing in both cards and Retail Banking. In Branded Cards and Retail Services, purchase sales were up versus the prior year by 24% and 14% respectively, with both above 2019 levels. And in Retail Banking, average deposits and within that, checking deposits, were both up 14%. AUMs were up 16%, and Citigold households were up 13% this quarter. We're also making progress on our U.S. digital strategy. U.S. digital deposits grew 26% compared to the prior year and installment loan balances, including our Flex Loan and Flex Pay products, have also grown substantially, up 22% compared to the prior year. And over 80% of these loans are originated digitally. On Slide 9, we show results for our International Consumer Banking in constant dollars. Revenues declined 30% year over year in the third quarter. Excluding the loss on sale, revenues declined 5% with a 7% decline in Latin America and a 4% decline in Asia. Looking at international consumer overall, we are seeing good momentum in investment management, with 10% growth in assets under management, primarily driven by Asia. And the growth is meaningfully higher if you look specifically at the four international wealth hubs. Purchase sales grew 8% versus the prior year. And average deposits grew 3%, albeit at lower deposit spreads. Slide 10 provides additional detail on global consumer credit trends. Credit remained favorable again this quarter across all regions. And given the delinquency trends we're seeing today, we do not expect credit deterioration in the U.S. portfolio in 2021. Slide 11 shows the results for Corporate/Other. Revenues increased by over $300 million, driven by higher net revenue from the investment portfolio. Expenses declined by $300 million due to the absence of the civil money penalty which we incurred in the third quarter of last year, offset by an increase in expenses related to the transformation. Credit costs were still a benefit in the quarter, but reflect a lower ACL release in the legacy portfolio relative to last year. Finally, EBIT was a loss of $330 million. Slide 12 shows our net interest revenue and margin trends, as well as noninterest revenues on a reported basis. In the third quarter, net interest revenue of $10.4 billion declined roughly $100 million year over year, reflecting lower loan balances and the impact of lower rates. On a year-to-date basis, net interest revenue declined by roughly $2.3 billion. Turning to noninterest revenues on the bottom of the slide. In the third quarter, non-NIR declined by approximately $50 million year over year driven by the impact from the loss on the sale of the Australia consumer business. Excluding the loss, noninterest revenues would have grown by over $600 million or 9%, driven by strong growth in fees in ICG. On Slide 13, we show our key capital metrics. Our CET1 capital ratio ticked down to 11.7%. During the quarter, Citi returned a total of $4 billion to common shareholders in the form of $1 billion in dividends and share repurchases of $3 billion. Our supplementary leverage ratio was largely unchanged at 5.8%. And our tangible book value per share grew by 10% year over year to $79.07, driven by net income. Before we move to Q&A, let me touch briefly on our outlook for 2021. On the top line for total Citigroup, we still expect revenues to be down in the mid-single-digit range on a reported basis, excluding any divestiture-related impacts. On the expense side, we continue to expect full-year expenses to be up in the mid-single-digit range, excluding any divestiture-related impacts, as we continue to transform our risk and control environment and invest in our businesses. And we will continue to look for ways to partially self-fund these investments over time. With that, Jane and I would be happy to take your questions. 