  OperatorWelcome to the DexCom fourth quarter 2021 earnings release conference call. My name is Adrian, and I'll be your operator for today's call. [Operator instructions] Please note, this conference call is being recorded. I'll now turn the call over to Sean Christensen. Sean, you may begin.Sean Christensen -- Investor Relations and Corporate FP&A

 



 Thank you, operator, and welcome to DexCom's fourth quarter and full year 2021 earnings call. Our agenda begins with Kevin Sayer, DexCom's chairman, president, and CEO, who will provide a summary of our fourth quarter and full-year highlights and ongoing strategic initiatives, followed by a financial review and outlook from Jereme Sylvain, our chief financial officer. Following our prepared remarks, we will open the call up for your questions. [Operator instructions] Please note that there are also slides available related to our fourth-quarter performance on the DexCom Investor Relations website on the Events and Presentations page. With that, let's review our safe harbor statement. Some of the statements we will make in today's call may constitute forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's intentions, beliefs, expectations, and assumptions about future events, strategies, competition, product, operating plans, and performance. All forward-looking statements included in this presentation are made as of the date hereof based on information currently available to DexCom, are subject to various risks and uncertainties and actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements.The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by any of these forward-looking statements are detailed in DexCom's annual report on Form 10-K, most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q, and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements after the date of this presentation or to conform these forward-looking statements to actual results. Additionally, during the call, we will discuss certain financial measures that have not been prepared in accordance with GAAP with respect to our non-GAAP and cash-based results. Unless otherwise noted, all references to financial metrics are presented on a non-GAAP basis. The presentation of this additional information should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results or superior to results prepared in accordance with GAAP. Please refer to the tables in our earnings release and the slides accompanying our fourth quarter and full-year earnings presentation for a reconciliation of these measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. Now I will turn it over to Kevin. 

 



Kevin Sayer -- Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Sean, and thank you, everyone, for joining us. I want to take time at the start to highlight some of DexCom's key accomplishments in 2021 that reflect our progress relative to the priorities that we established at the start of the year and our long-term goals. Total revenue grew 26% on an organic basis over the prior year, with rising CGM awareness and DexCom brand loyalty, leading to another year of record new patient additions. This translates to nearly $500 million of organic growth for the year, leading us to exceed the midpoint of our original guidance for the year by more than $160 million. We laid the foundation for the significant expansion of our addressable markets in the future with differentiated product solutions and clinical evidence. In June, we presented results from the MOBILE randomized controlled trial for people with type two diabetes being managed with basal insulin. The results were clear. DexCom CGM can do significantly more to help these people manage diabetes. And with this conclusion being validated in the Journal of the American Medical Association as well as in the recently updated ADA standards of care, we are hopeful that we can bring access to our technology for the estimated 3 million people on basal insulin therapy in the U.S. and many more outside the U.S. Alongside the MOBILE clinical evidence, we drove several updates to our product portfolio to broaden the ways that customers can engage with our technology. We've consistently spoken about our investments in software and data infrastructure as a significant competitive advantage.

 



 In the third quarter, we received two key FDA clearances for DexCom software tools that reflect this commitment and strength. Our real-time API allows us to directly integrate Dexcom CGM data in real time to the displays of approved third-party apps. And our app in-app solution creates an FDA-cleared DexCom app experience that can be integrated directly with the app of a DexCom partner. Both of these creative solutions have already been rolled out with DexCom Partners, and we believe they position us well to provide extensive options for our customers, partners, and potential partners as CGM use continues to expand into new populations. We again strengthened our product portfolio through differentiated software with the CE Mark and the launch of our Dexcom ONE product in the fourth quarter of 2021. In a relatively short period since launch, we've already seen strong adoption in both type one and type two customers, and the health systems in two of our four launch countries established reimbursement. With the focus on ease of use and affordable price point, we believe Dexcom ONE will be a significant part of our story as we look to extend CGM access globally. Perhaps most importantly, in 2021, we completed the pivotal trials in support of our next-generation G7 system and submitted the results for both CE Mark and FDA clearance. As many of you recently saw in our January presentation and will soon see in a publication, the performance of the G7 system is outstanding, achieving performance levels relative to the FDA's iCGM special controls. Even with customers on our G6 system expressing record Net Promoter Scores at the end of 2021, we are incredibly excited for them to experience G7. We believe that we are very close to receiving CE Mark and navigating the final stages of that review. In the meantime, our teams continue to work to prepare the manufacturing scale-up and commercial efforts in anticipation of G7 launches throughout the year as well as launches with some of our partners on their upcoming connected insulin delivery devices. On that front, we were excited to see the news of the FDA's recent clearance of Insulet's Omnipod 5, the first tubeless automated insulin delivery pump. With this clearance for Insulet and the ongoing success of Control-IQ for tandem Diabetes, we believe that we are enabling automated insulin delivery for the best tubeless pump on the market and the best-tethered pump. The outcomes that customers are seeing with these DexCom integrated systems are outstanding, and we are proud that our commitment to connectivity is helping advance the market and enhance the quality of life for our customers. These accomplishments align with the strategic priorities that we established at the start of last year, showing the resilience and execution of the DexCom teams in a challenging environment. And these accomplishments are not merely 2021 events, but they are the foundation that we will continue to build on as we press forward in 2022 and beyond. Many of you likely saw the recent update to the IDF estimates for global diabetes prevalence and cost. There are now greater than 500 million adults with diabetes globally, and cost to treat the disease alone are estimated to be approximately $1 trillion per year. In addition, the CDC now estimate that 38% of adults in America or 96 million people have prediabetes. There is a real opportunity here for DexCom to do something great to address this epidemic and power diabetes management and down the road even work toward diabetes prevention and better health outcomes broadly. The future for DexCom is bright. With that, I will turn it over to Jereme for a review of the fourth quarter financials and discussion of the 2022 outlook. Jereme?Jereme Sylvain -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Kevin. As a reminder, unless otherwise noted, the financial metrics presented today will be discussed on a non-GAAP basis. Reconciliations to GAAP can be found in today's earnings release as well as on our IR website. In line with our January pre-announcement, we reported worldwide revenue of $698 million for the fourth quarter, compared to $569 million for the fourth quarter of 2020, representing growth of 23% on both a reported and constant currency basis and 20% on an organic basis. The organic revenue excludes non-CGM revenue that we generated in the fourth quarter following our acquisition of our distributor in Australia and New Zealand. U.S. revenue totaled $517 million in the fourth quarter, compared to $451 million in the fourth quarter of 2020, representing growth of 15%. Unit volume growth, which is a general representation for the growth of our user base, remained in the high 30% range compared to the fourth quarter of 2020, and we continue to see the strength in our strategic shift to the pharmacy channel. Our teams continue to work very hard to broaden our prescriber base and take advantage of the significant reimbursement access that we have driven in the past two years in both the U.S. and international markets. The uptick in COVID cases has created some challenges for us in the fourth quarter and into the early first quarter, but it is a credit to the resilience of our field team and the strength of the category that global new customers remain near record levels in the fourth quarter. Our international business executed very well in the fourth quarter, with revenue growing 54%, totaling $181 million. Excluding non-CGM revenue that resulted from our 2021 distributor acquisition, international growth was 41% in the fourth quarter. The international result reflected broad-based strength, including record results in all of our direct markets. This growth continues to validate the strategic moves that we made over the course of 2021, most notably the progress that we made to broaden access to our technology through advocacy, flexibility gained from operating efficiencies, and a differentiated product portfolio. We look forward to extending this momentum now as we progress into 2022. Our fourth-quarter gross profit was $472.6 million or 67.7% of revenue, compared to 70.2% of revenue in the fourth quarter of 2020. The fourth-quarter gross margin was slightly above our expectations as certain costs related to the G7 scale-up and commercial preparation remain in our R&D costs until we receive CE Mark. We made excellent progress to drive efficiencies across our product design, procurement, manufacturing, and logistics functions leading to a full year 2021 gross margin that finished 360 basis points above our original 2021 guidance. Operating expenses were $373.6 million for Q4 2021, compared to $294.7 million in Q4 2020. The increase in operating expenses as a percentage of revenue relative to the fourth quarter of 2020 was primarily a result of development and operational costs incurred in preparation for the launch of G7 as well as investments to support our global commercialization efforts. Operating income was $99 million in the fourth quarter of 2021, compared to $104.4 million in the same quarter of 2020. As a reminder, when we provided the outlook for 2021, we determined it was in the best interest to make investments in the business continue to fuel CGM growth and awareness. As we wrap the year, we are proud to report that we outpaced our initial 2021 operating margin guidance by more than 200 basis points, all of which came despite significant investments to solidify our software advantages, advance the G7 clinical, regulatory, and manufacturing programs, significantly expand our global sales force presence and significant efforts to build brand awareness. And we are committed to driving further leverage in the years to come as we strike the right balance between investing to maximize our growth opportunity and turning that opportunity into cash flow generation for the business and our stakeholders. Adjusted EBITDA was $154.5 million or 22.1% of revenue for the fourth quarter, compared to $159.2 million or 28% of revenue for the fourth quarter of 2020. Net income for the fourth quarter was $69 million or $0.68 per share. As many of you also saw in our press release and our GAAP reconciliations, we also recognized an $87 million expense associated with contingent milestone under the 2018 collaboration and license agreement with Verily Life Sciences. Terms of our amended contract with Verily are available in the SEC filings that were originally published in November 2018 and updated in November 2021. We closed the quarter with greater than $2.7 billion in cash and cash equivalents. We have demonstrated the ability to generate positive cash flow. And going forward, we remain in a very flexible position to continue to advance strategic initiatives and opportunities. Most notably, we will continue our development of our manufacturing facility in Malaysia as we expect to have that facility validated for production by the end of 2022. Turning to 2022 guidance. As we stated last month, we anticipate full-year total revenues of $2.82 billion to $2.94 billion, representing growth of 15% to 20%. Given the success of our strategic transition to the pharmacy channel over the past three years, we anticipate that 2022 will be the final year where we see a significant shift of our existing base from the durable medical equipment channel to pharmacy. With this ongoing shift as well as the majority of our new customers now coming through the pharmacy channel in the U.S., our expectations for customer growth in 2022 are again higher than our revenue growth rate, continuing to reflect the large end markets we serve and the growing demand for DexCom CGM worldwide. We have several scenarios built in conjunction with our plan G7 launches. And factoring in the respective regulatory approvals and competitive environment, we will provide updates as the year progresses. Turning to margins. We are establishing the following guidance for 2022. We expect gross profit margins of approximately 65% for the year, in line with the expectation that we established for our 2025 long-range plan. The slight step back relative to our 2021 results is primarily related to the launch of our G7 system during the year as we begin production at lower volumes and gradually scale in conjunction with our launches. Despite that step back in gross margin, we expect to offset that impact completely with approximately 400 basis points of operating expense leverage. We anticipate our operating margins of 2022 of approximately 16%. This factors in the ongoing investments that are driving significant returns for DexCom and setting us up for sustainable growth, including our DTC marketing efforts and investments in our product portfolio pipeline. We are making these investments with the discipline throughout the organization, driving toward the margin expansion that we've established in our long-range plan. Finally, we expect adjusted EBITDA margins of approximately 25% in 2022. With that, I will turn the call back to Kevin.Kevin Sayer -- Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Jereme. To summarize, we set out in 2021 with a few key goals in mind: to complete the clinical and regulatory process for G7 and prepare for significant launches, to validate health and economic outcomes for DexCom CGM beyond the intent of insulin using population, to broaden access to DexCom CGM globally through evidence, advocacy and leveraging our growing scale and efficiency and to strengthen our product portfolio for future growth through differentiated software capabilities. Our progress on all these initiatives contributed to a great 2021 and have us looking forward to a big year ahead in 2022. I would now like to open up the call for Q&A. Sean?Sean Christensen -- Investor Relations and Corporate FP&A Thank you, Kevin. [Operator instructions] Operator, please provide the Q&A instructions. 