
OperatorGood day and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Marriott International's First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to hand today's conference over to your speaker today, Jackie Burka McConagha, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Jackie Burka McConagha -- Senior Vice President, Investor Relations

 



Thank you. Good morning everyone and welcome to Marriott's first quarter 2021 earnings call. On the call with me today are Tony Capuano, our Chief Executive Officer; Leeny Oberg, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Betsy Dahm, our Vice President of Investor Relations.I will remind everyone that many of our comments today are not historical facts and are considered forward-looking statements under federal securities laws. These statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties as described in our SEC filings, which could cause future results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by our comments. Statements in our comments and the press release we issued earlier today are effective only today and will not be updated as actual events unfold.Please also note that unless otherwise stated, our RevPAR, occupancy and ADR comments reflect systemwide constant currency results for comparable hotels and include hotels temporarily closed due to COVID-19. RevPAR, occupancy and ADR comparisons between 2021 and 2019 reflect properties that are defined as comparable as of March 31, 2021, even if they were not open and operating for the full year 2019 or they did not meet all the other criteria for comparable in 2019. You can find our earnings release and reconciliations of all non-GAAP financial measures referred to in our remarks today on our Investor Relations website.And now I will turn the call over to Tony.

 



Anthony Capuano -- Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Jackie. As I enter my 26th year with Marriott, I'm honored and humbled to be here this morning for my first earnings call as CEO. The senior leadership team and I have worked together for many years. We are all committed to building on Arne's legacy and advancing the strategy we've put in place to navigate the pandemic, drive toward recovery and grow our business.Global RevPAR is currently still substantially below pre-pandemic levels and certain countries continue to experience concerning levels of COVID cases. Yet, more and more people are getting vaccinated every day and demand is rebounding rapidly in some of our largest regions. Over 95% of our hotels are open globally, and we've seen overall worldwide occupancy improve every month this year.In March, we saw the largest month-over-month sequential increase in global occupancy since the beginning of the pandemic. Occupancy reached over 45%, up 9 percentage points from occupancy in February. March global RevPAR was down 53% compared to March of 2019, 8 percentage points better than February's decline.

 



Global occupancy in April rose again to around 48%. RevPAR for April declined roughly 50% compared to the same month in 2019. We remain very encouraged by the strong recovery in Mainland China. While several markets were impacted by strict government-mandated lockdowns in January and February of this year, demand recovered quickly once COVID cases were under control and restrictions were relaxed. Occupancy in March was 66%, almost flat to the same time in 2019.Importantly, despite limited international travel into Mainland China, we saw robust demand from both leisure and business guests in March. Leisure transient room nights were above pre-pandemic levels for the third quarter in a row. Business transient room nights surpassed pre-pandemic levels in March, up 5% versus March 2019. While group room nights in March still trail the same month in 2019, demand in this segment stepped up significantly after restrictions on large gatherings were lifted mid month.Seeing these trends in Mainland China running near pre-pandemic levels gives us confidence in strong full recoveries across all customer segments in other regions as conditions improve. We've seen demand pick up quickly and meaningfully in countries with early and swift vaccine rollouts like the U.S., the UAE, and Qatar, and in places where airlift has improved or travel restrictions have been relaxed like Mexico, Macau and the U.S. Virgin Islands.While room nights, overall, are still heavily weighted to leisure, the resilience of demand is clear. And whether it's from conversations with business leaders, customers, friends or family, we know there is a significant amount of pent-up demand for all types of travel, given that so many trips had to be put on hold over the past year.For example, when the EU recently announced that they expect to be open to vaccinated U.S. travelers this summer, our reservation centers saw an immediate surge in call volume. In the U.S., occupancy has increased swiftly this year with the acceleration of vaccine rollouts. In March, the U.S. and Canada region had the second highest occupancy behind Greater China at 49%. The domestic rebound is still being primarily led by leisure transient demand.Special corporate and group bookings in the U.S. and Canada remain meaningfully below pre-pandemic levels, but are slowly recovering. In March, special corporate bookings for all future stays exceeded February's bookings by 25%; the largest sequential monthly increase in this customer segment since the pandemic began. And special corporate bookings took another nice leg up in April, improving 13% over March.Group bookings for the U.S. and Canada also continue to pick up as meeting planners are increasingly optimistic about the recovery and are feeling more confident that they can plan events, especially in 2022 and beyond. At the end of the first quarter, group revenue on the books for 2022 was down less than 15% compared to pre-pandemic levels as compared to group revenue on the books as of the end of the first quarter of 2019 for 2020. Perhaps more importantly, rates for group room nights booked in the first quarter for 2022 and 2023 are currently 6% and 10%, respectively, above pre-pandemic levels, demonstrating that we are not trading rate for occupancy.Turning to other regions. Demand continues to improve in the Middle East and Africa. March occupancy reached 45%, driven primarily by local leisure staycations, sporting events and room blocks for medical personnel related to vaccine rollouts. The recoveries across Asia Pacific, excluding China, or APAC, and the Caribbean and Latin America, or CALA, have been more uneven. In APAC, strong demand in Australia and the Maldives has been offset by rising COVID cases in other countries like India and Japan. In CALA, while many resort properties are enjoying strong demand, especially from U.S. leisure travelers, urban markets remain challenged. In Europe, given rising COVID cases and strict restrictions in many countries, 25% of the region's hotels are currently closed and the recovery has been much more muted.Our marketing teams are employing localized and personalized marketing strategies that utilize our direct channels to help capture more leisure, as well as bleisure travel as the lines between work and home blur. We are especially focused on leveraging our powerful Marriott Bonvoy loyalty program and on enhancing the platform through new expanded collaborations that help make the program even stickier for our 150 million members. Interacting with our members who are not yet ready to stay in a hotel has been a priority for us through the pandemic.Our co-branded credit card holders have been particularly engaged and new cardholder acquisitions are improving as well. Helped by popular spending incentives, first quarter global credit card spending was down just 5% versus the first quarter of 2019. We continue to grow our global co-brand portfolio with the recent introduction of new cards in South Korea and in Mexico, bringing the total number of countries with co-brand cards to seven. The early results from these recent launches have been excellent and are a strong testament to the power of our brands and the Bonvoy platform in markets around the world.Another way Bonvoy members have been engaging with us is through the whole home rental platform, Homes and Villas by Marriott International or HVMI. While HVMI does not have a material impact on our financials, it is complementary to our portfolio of hotel brands. With roughly 30,000 listings, it continues to grow and is a popular way for members to earn and redeem points.We also recently announced a new program with Uber, allowing members in the U.S. to earn loyalty points in high-frequency activities like ride hailing and food delivery. Early engagement for this program has been quite strong.The health and safety of our guests and associates is extremely important to us. We first rolled out our elevated cleanliness standards over a year ago. Since then, we've continued to evolve our contactless experience and leveraged technologies such as mobile and web check-in and mobile key to help meet the changing needs of our guests, while also driving productivity. We are currently testing contactless arrival kiosks and contactless grab-and-go marketplaces at several select service properties across the U.S. as part of our efforts to further streamline our operations and enhance the guest experience.Over the past year, we've ramped up engagement with our owner and franchisee community through multiple channels of communication. We've worked very hard to help owners lower their costs and maximize hotel operating margins in this low-occupancy environment. We continue to work closely to align on priorities as we navigate the recovery together.Turning to development, our pace of signings has picked up and is dramatically better than it was for much of last year. Our conversion activity was particularly strong in the quarter. As we talked about on our last call, in February we signed a conversion deal in CALA for approximately 7,000 all-inclusive rooms, positioning us to be a top 10 player in the popular and fast growing all-inclusive space. Given our impressive roster of conversion-friendly brands and the meaningful benefits associated with being part of the Marriott system, we expect our momentum around conversions will continue. We added over 23,500 rooms to our system in the first quarter, 60% more than the first quarter of last year. 31% of the rooms added were from conversions, the highest percent in any quarter over the last six years.Looking ahead to the full year, we still expect gross rooms growth could accelerate to approximately 6% and net rooms growth could be roughly 3% to 3.5%. While we and the industry are still seeing some delays in construction starts, 45% of our industry-leading product [Phonetic] pipeline of approximately 491,000 rooms is already under construction. Our net rooms growth expectation includes a one-time 100 basis points headwind from the 88 Service Properties Trust or SVC hotels that left our system in the first quarter. We look forward to replacing the mostly limited service, first generation SVC hotels with newer product and are already in active discussions for new deals in nearly three quarters of the portfolios markets.Before I turn the call over to Leeny to talk about our financials in more detail, I want to say that our hearts are with everyone who have lost colleagues, friends or family because of COVID-19. We have all witnessed the devastation caused by this pandemic and it's hard to see the alarmingly high number of COVID cases in too many countries today.I also want to recognize our amazing team of associates around the world who have worked tirelessly through these uncertain times. I couldn't be prouder of their dedication, determination and resilience during this crisis. They have redefined what it means to truly take care of each other and our guests. I do believe that Marriott will continue to see improving global trends and that we can all look ahead with real optimism. We are seeing wonderful signs that demand for travel is undeniably resilient. While some regions will recover faster than others, based on the progress we've seen to date, I am confident that it is not a question of if demand will return to pre-COVID levels, it is really only a question of when. Leeny?Leeny Oberg -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Tony. We were pleased with the pace of continued recovery in our business during the first quarter, particularly in the U.S. In the first quarter, global occupancy was 38% and RevPAR declined 59% compared to the first quarter of 2019, and 46% compared to the first quarter of 2020. Our gross fee revenues totaled $445 million for the quarter, down 29% compared to the year-ago quarter. Franchise fees of $306 million declined only 26% year-over-year with our non-RevPAR-related fees proving to be particularly steady. They totaled $141 million in the first quarter, up slightly over the year-ago quarter.Credit card branding fees were $81 million, down only 12% year-over-year and we are also seeing strong performance in our branded Residences business where fees were $11 million higher than a year ago. Incentive management fees or IMFs were $33 million in the quarter. Around 45% of our IMFs were earned in Asia Pacific, mostly from hotels in Greater China.In the first quarter, which has traditionally been the seasonally lowest quarter of the year, adjusted EBITDA was $296 million. G&A improved by 22% versus the first quarter of last year, primarily due to $50 million of lower bad debt expense and $14 million of lower guarantee reserves. Expenses in the 2021 first quarter included $14 million of additional non-recurring executive compensation related to leadership changes.As Tony mentioned, we've been working closely with our hotel owners to right-size costs at our hotels, given their low occupancy levels. We are pleased that we've been able to reduce hotel breakeven occupancy level significantly. Many of our initiatives to streamline operations and improve productivity, such as more efficient management staffing levels at many of our managed hotels, will remain in place after the pandemic and should help offset wage inflation. Additionally, we are currently assessing post-COVID renovation of brand standards with a view toward finding more ways to improve hotel profitability while preserving the quality and experiences guests expect of our brands when they stay with us.While the operating environment has been quite challenging for more than a year, we've been pleased that the vast majority of our hotels continue to pay their bills. We have even seen the number of hotels on payment plans come down meaningfully over the last several months as occupancy has improved.Turning to our cash flow. Even in this low RevPAR environment, cash provided by operating activities was $27 million in the quarter. That amount reflects, in part, the impact of roughly $90 million of reduced cash payments from the co-brand credit card companies. As you may remember, the company received $920 million of cash in May 2020 as part of amendments to our credit card agreements and we will therefore see lower cash payments for the remainder of '21 through '23. If you add back that roughly $90 million, and also deduct capital and technology expenditures, loan advances and other investing activities of $39 million in the quarter, the company generated positive cash flows of around $78 million.We've been very pleased with the strength of our cash generation throughout the pandemic. It's a clear reflection of our ability to quickly and effectively adapt our business and a real testament to the power of our asset-light business model. At the end of the first quarter, our net liquidity improved to approximately $4.7 billion, representing $600 million in available cash balances plus $4.1 billion of unused borrowing capacity on our revolver. During the quarter, we increased our weighted average debt maturity with a 10-year $1.1 billion bond issuance that has a 2.85% coupon and we also retired $750 million of senior notes.As we look ahead to the rest of 2021, assuming continued progress with vaccinations and an improving consumer and macroeconomic environment in many regions around the world, we believe that the pace of the global recovery will continue to accelerate. While trends will vary by region, we expect overall leisure demand will strengthen further into the summer months.In the U.S. and Canada, reservations at our resort hotels are particularly strong. Booked transient room nights for stays 30 days out or more are now over 60% above 2019 levels. And on top of that, rates are almost 20% higher than 2019 levels. Occupancy on the books for our resorts in the region is higher relative to the same time in 2019 for every month through the end of the year. We believe transient -- business transient and group will continue to slowly improve for now and then business demand could really accelerate in the fall as more businesses reopen with business transient returning faster than group, given the lead time that's generally required for booking group business.As we think about the cadence of RevPAR recovery, ADR is also a key factor. It's encouraging to see that where demand has rebounded swiftly, ADR has come back quickly as well. In March, Sanya, the popular resort market in China achieved occupancy of 79% driving ADR 40% above 2019 levels and resulting in March RevPAR over 1.5 times higher than 2019 levels.Here in the U.S., occupancy across our 34 Luxury Resorts rose to 59% in March, leading to ADR up 26% over March of 2019. Similarly, certain resort properties in Caribbean destinations, such as the Ritz-Carlton St. Thomas and the Ritz-Carlton Reserve Dorado Beach in Puerto Rico, saw record first quarter ADR as a result of sudden surges in occupancy.While we feel optimistic about the recovery trajectory ahead, there is still too much uncertainty about timing to be able to give specific RevPAR or earnings guidance. But I will again provide color on specific items where we do have some visibility. Starting with the top-line, at current RevPAR levels, for full year 2021, we expect the sensitivity of a 1 point change in RevPAR versus 2019 RevPAR on our fees could be between $35 million and $40 million per year. Please note that given the nominal level of RevPAR in 2020, the impact of a 1 percentage point change in '21 RevPAR compared to 2020 could be more like $15 million to $20 million. As we have seen the relationship is not linear, given the variability of IMFs and the inclusion of non-RevPAR-related franchise fees, for us to start earning meaningful levels of IMFs in the U.S. and other markets where IMFs stand aside to owner priorities, we still need to see significant improvement in RevPAR.We expect our non-RevPAR-related fees to continue to show the impact of improved credit card spending and strong fees from our branded Residences. We now expect full year G&A to be at the top end of the range we shared last quarter, roughly $800 million, primarily due to the additional non-recurring executive compensation associated with our recent changes in leadership and higher outside legal fees. This is significantly lower than G&A in 2019 and I'll also note that the cash component of G&A will be meaningfully below this range, given non-cash stock compensation.Interest expense is still anticipated to be roughly $430 million for the full year. Full year cash taxes are now expected to be $300 million to $325 million. Another element related to our company's cash flow is the loyalty program. As leisure demand has accelerated and been particularly strong for our resort properties, we've seen loyalty redemption pick up nicely. We expect this trend could continue as our Bonvoy members are excited to travel again. Even if redemptions do increase, given our focus on carefully controlling program administrative costs, we anticipate that full year cash flows from the loyalty program could be positive before factoring in the reduced payments we will receive from the credit card companies. After factoring in these reduced payments, which are expected to effectively repay around one-third of the total $920 million we received in 2020, cash flows from loyalty could be modestly negative.Our expectation for 2021 investment spending has not changed. Full year investment spending, excluding amount expected to be reimbursed over time, is anticipated to total $375 million to $450 million for the year. We anticipate another $200 million of investment spending that is expected to be reimbursed over time. This would lead to total investment spending of $575 million to $650 million as compared to $375 million in 2020. As a reminder, approximately $220 million of the total spending in 2021 is for maintenance capital in our new headquarters. Total investment spending includes capital and technology expenditures, loan advances, contract acquisition costs and other investing activities.In closing, we are pleased with our progress so far this year and are increasingly confident that the pace of recovery will improve significantly from here. We hear from so many people who are eager to get back on the road and we look forward to welcoming more and more guests at our hotels.We'll now open the line for questions.