
OperatorGood morning, and welcome to the Verizon First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time.It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host, Mr. Brady Connor, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations.Brady Connor -- Senior Vice President, Investor Relations

 



Thanks, Brad. Good morning, and welcome to our first quarter earnings conference call. This is Brady Connor, and I'm here with our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Hans Vestberg; and Matt Ellis, our Chief Financial Officer.As a reminder, our earnings release, financial and operating information, and the presentation slides are available on our Investor Relations website. A replay and transcript of this call will also be made available on our website.Before we get started, I'd like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement on Slide 2. Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties. Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Verizon's filings with the SEC, which are available on our website.This presentation contains certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included in the financial materials posted on our website. The quarterly growth rates discussed in our presentation slides and during our formal remarks are on a year-over-year basis, unless otherwise noted as sequential.

 



Now, let's take a look at consolidated earnings for the first quarter. In the first quarter, we've reported earnings of $1.27 per share on a GAAP basis. Reported first quarter earnings include a pre-tax loss from a special item of approximately $223 million related to the sale of certain wireless licenses. Excluding the effects of this special item, adjusted earnings per share was $1.31 in the first quarter.On April 8, we announced a recall process for approximately 2.5 million Jetpack units, which impacted some customers enrolled in our distance learning programs. The overall impact included within consolidated operating income was approximately $160 million during the quarter split between $100 million in the business segment and the remaining $60 million in consumer. The impact included within reported and adjusted earnings per share was $0.03 in the first quarter.With that, I'll now turn the call over to Hans to take us through a recap of the first quarter.Hans Vestberg -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

 



Thanks, Brady, and welcome to all for this first quarter earnings call. We marked more than one year since the devastating effects of COVID-19. While we see significant progress in vaccination, customer sentiment and recovery of economy, there is still a lot to go before we're back to normal. I'm proud how Verizon has responded during this period for all our stakeholders as we have executed on our balanced stakeholder-driven strategy. And, as I said, during the worst period of the pandemic, Verizon will come out stronger as a Company when this is over. During the last 12 months, we have progressed all our position with customers, employees and added great assets on already strong position. And today, we stand stronger than ever to compete in a market and serve our customers.Looking back on the quarter, we amplified and accelerated our strategy through our average 160 megahertz nationwide position in C-Band. And as we laid out in our Investor Day, the combination of C-Band and our millimeter wave place us in a unique position of strength to execute on all 5G opportunities; 5G Home, 5G Mobility and 5G Mobile Edge Compute. On top of that, we've all our five vectors of growth in play together with our network leadership and a strong Network-as-a-Service foundation.And the progress we've made in the quarter confirms that our strategy is working. We had growth in all our businesses for the first time since the launch of Verizon 2.0. We had growth in both EPS and cash flow. With all these work by our great team, we have a head start in the post-COVID era with a clear and differentiated strategy, diverse go-to-market models, network leadership, industry-leading partner ecosystem and a strong brand, all of which together provides a great platform and foundation to achieve our growth targets for 2021 and beyond.Let me talk you about some of the highlights from the first quarter. Our network team continues to do great things by leading their network performance in the market, as well as deploying more assets than ever before; millimeter wave, C-Band, 4G, 5G and fiber. I have a lot of confidence that this team will accelerate our network leadership.Our unique Mix & Match model continues to deliver with the migration to unlimited and unlimited premium in the quarter, as well as building on our exclusive offerings like Disney+ and the most recent discovery+ that was launched earlier in the quarter, and we are pleased with the discovery+ with the current enrollment rates we have seen so far.Our brand and responsible business framework, Citizen Verizon, continue to set standards in the industry. Verizon was recognized by Fast Company as the Sixth Most Innovative Company in the Corporate Social Responsibility earlier this quarter. Brand Finance recognized us as the Most Valuable Telecom Brand. Within ESG, we have ambitious goals, such as commitment to be net zero in the carbon emission by 2035. Our long-standing focus on diversity, equity and inclusion is evidenced by the fact that we have 100% pay equity by gender globally and by race, ethnicity in the United States. And earlier this week, we have also launched our 2020 ESG Report.We continue with a high level of deployment on millimeter wave and fiber in the quarter and we are on the track to deliver on our operational targets for the year. We brought 5G service to several additional cities. We currently have 30 5G Home and 67 5G Mobility cities live, and more to come. We've recently signed our first European private 5G deal with Associated British Ports. We also expanded our 5G Edge partnership with AWS with private 5G and Edge computing to our customers.We continue to scale our Network-as-a-Service strategy across new markets and verticals through a diverse set of partnerships. We have partnered with leading brands across diverse verticals, such as Honda to innovate, connected and autonomous driving, Deloitte and SAP to create a 5G and Edge Computing retail digital platform that will provide retailers with real-time operational data. And Dreamscape and Arizona State University to build and commercialize immersive learning and training.At our Investor Day, we shared with you our plans and commitments for C-Band and Ultra Wideband deployment, which continues to progress well. Our intent is to invest $10 billion of incremental C-Band capex to accelerate the integration on this capacity into our network. We've recently signed deals with Crown Castle and SBA to accelerate our C-Band deployment and look forward to providing further updates on the build status throughout the year. We have already ordered half of the total network equipment needed from our 5G suppliers to support C-Band deployments in 2021. And the satellite operators are on track to clear the spectrum between third and fourth quarter of 2021 for the first tranche of spectrum. In addition, we continue to expand our Ultra Wideband coverage in Q1. We deployed 3,600 new Ultra Wideband sites and to date we have close to 21,000 sites on air, and on track to reach 30,000 by end of this year.One Fiber form the strategic backbone of our Intelligent Edge Network and we continue to expand fiber deployment and to date we have deployed more than 42,000 route miles. We were also pleased with the low rates we achieved a long-term financing of this critical strategic investment. We view the record investor demand are supportive of our strategy and our financial discipline. Lastly, we were also very proud to offer prominent roles to nine diversity and inclusion financial firms as part of the $25 billion financing.As I outlined earlier, our investments in our network and customers are generating solid revenue growth across all three of our operating groups. Our success in Mix & Match continue to drive uptake of unlimited plans and higher ARPA, supporting year-over-year growth of 2.4% in wireless service revenue, up from 2.2% in the fourth quarter last year. Ronan and his team closed out Q1 with strong momentum, and I'm excited to see their Q2 performance now that almost all of our stores have reopened. In addition, we see solid growth in Fios and with Fios Internet reporting the best first quarter net adds in six years. Additionally, Verizon Media Group continue to contribute meaningful growth, including the second consecutive quarter of double-digit growth year-over-year on the top line.With that, let me ask Matt to provide some deeper insight to the financial of the first quarter.Matthew D. Ellis -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Hans, and good morning, everyone. As Hans mentioned in his prepared remarks, the first quarter has been a truly exciting and transformative period for our Company. I am pleased to report that we're off to an excellent start for the year based on our strong operational and financial performance. We are seeing continued strength in our core business with traction across all five of our growth vectors, driving higher revenues and increased demand for our products and services.With the positive momentum exiting the first quarter and the ongoing recovery of business activity, we are highly confident that our actions in the marketplace all delivered strong results throughout the year. In the first quarter, consolidated operating revenue was $32.9 billion, up year-over-year by 4%. High-quality sustainable wireless service revenue growth, a recovery in wireless equipment revenues, strong Fios momentum and excellent digital advertising trends resulted in revenue growth across consumer, business and media. Total wireless service revenues were up 2.4% year-over-year, an acceleration from the 2.2% year-over-year growth that we delivered in the fourth quarter. Additional details on total wireless performance are provided in the financial and operating information and the supplemental earnings release schedules on our website. Total Fios revenues were up 2.5% year-over-year, driven by the strong broadband volumes in recent quarters.Our portfolio of mobility and broadband products and services continues to lead the industry, delivering value to our customers, and we are well-positioned to maintain and expand our leadership position as we enter new markets and broaden our offerings and network capabilities. I'm extremely proud of the team's execution of our Business Excellence program over the past three years. At the end of the first quarter, we achieved our cumulative cash savings goal of $10 billion well ahead of our year-end 2021 target. We will realize additional benefits moving forward from the ways we've improved our operating systems and procedures. As we've said previously, we will create additional savings opportunities on a continuous basis beyond this program.The strong revenue performance across our three business segments for the quarter, combined with our best-in-class cost structure and disciplined focus on the business, delivered adjusted EBITDA of $12.2 billion, which represents growth of 2% over the prior year. The Jetpack recall had a 50 basis points impact to adjusted EBITDA margin during the quarter.Brady highlighted the adjusted EPS for the first quarter of $1.31. The growth of 4% reflects the strength in our core business and sets the stage for Verizon to fully capitalize on the opportunities in the marketplace, while giving us excellent momentum relative to our full-year adjusted EPS guidance.Now, let's review our operating segment results starting with Consumer on Slide 7. This quarter, we continue to see excitements around our unlimited offerings, 5G capabilities, Mix & Match value proposition, and our best-in-class Fios broadband services. All of this is part of our customer differentiation strategy, which drives deeper and broader relationships with our customers.Starting with Wireless. We had total postpaid activations of 6.4 million for the quarter, up approximately 14%, compared to the same period last year, made up of approximately 2.3 million gross adds and 4.1 million upgrades. First quarter seasonality drove phone net losses of 225,000, which included the last major cohort of disconnects of approximately 90,000 phones related to our Keep America Connected program.Early in the quarter, wireless in-store sales were again tempered by our COVID safety protocols as we saw elevated levels of store closures and limited foot traffic. Beginning in March, the improved COVID environment allow for almost all of our stores to be open. Not surprisingly, we saw our best volume of the quarter in March, producing positive phone net adds in the month. The strong March momentum combined with our new innovative promotional offers positions us well for the second quarter.We continue to be pleased with the quality of the additions we are attracting. Similar to last quarter, over 90% of new accounts came in on an unlimited plan and over 50% of these accounts opted for premium unlimited service. At quarter-end, over 65% of our base was on an unlimited plan with more than 23% of our base taking a premium plan. We have plenty of room to continue to expand these penetration rates and believe that they will grow alongside our 5G adoption rates, which currently resides at 14% of our consumer postpaid phone base. 5G adoption and the customer differentiation associated with our premium and unlimited plans will further benefit our retention efforts, which remained strong in Q1 with phone churn of 0.77% for the quarter. We continue to take a balanced and cost-effective approach to customer retention with strong NPS scores, best-in-class network performance and strong value proposition leading to our excellent levels of customer retention.Turning to Fios. We posted our third consecutive quarter of strong growth and high take rates for our best-in-class broadband products with consumer Fios Internet net adds of 98,000, well ahead of the first quarter 2020 performance of 59,000. Total Fios Internet net adds of 102,000 was the best first quarter performance in six years. This reflects both the quality of the product, as well as the positive sentiment around our Mix & Match home pricing structure, which provides our customers with unmatched simplicity and optionality.Now, let's move to Slide 8 to discuss the Consumer financial performance. The higher phone activations in the quarter were the major driver of the 4.7% increase in operating revenues to $22.8 billion. The continued adoption of our unlimited and premium unlimited plans drove a 1.5% increase in consumer wireless service revenue for the quarter of $13.7 billion. This growth comes even as TravelPass and our international roaming revenues remain at subdued levels. Strong Internet volumes drove the 2.2% increase in consumer Fios revenue to $2.9 billion. While we continue to experience revenue pressure associated with secular video trends, our broadband subscriber growth, combined with a shift up in speed tiers, more than offset that pressure and will continue to drive solid revenue performance for us.Consumer segment EBITDA grew 2.8% to $10.4 billion. The EBITDA margin was 45.5% in the quarter, down 90 basis points from the prior year due to higher volumes, which drove increased equipment revenues and associated costs, as well as the Jetpack recall, which had approximately 30 basis points of impact on EBITDA margin for the quarter.Now, let's move to our Business segment on Slide 9. Our Business team continues to lead the industry toward next-generation B2B applications. Hans referenced some of their accomplishments from the prior 90 days, including announcements on MEC and Private 5G. In addition, we launched Verizon Frontline, our branding for our advanced network and technology we deliver for first responders. Being the wireless market share leader for public safety, and in all of our other customer groups, puts us in an ideal position with our customers to be their digital transformation partner of choice. Business wireless trends continued their strong momentum in the first quarter of 2021.Postpaid activations with 2 million with total net adds of 156,000, including 47,000 phones. Remember that Q1 of last year benefited from the COVID-related bulk purchases providing much of the variance for the year-over-year change in gross and net adds.Public sector demand remains strong, even as distance learning program settle into a more normal pattern of buying activity. Small and medium business trends improved sequentially as the team continues to make progress in supporting local businesses as they position for an improving environment. As more stores reopened in early March, not only their consumer volume see a lift, SMB volumes benefited as well, an encouraging sign for the rebound. Our enterprise team continues to assist our customers in their digital transformation and unlock the potential of 5G.Segment postpaid phone churn was 1.01% in the quarter, an improvement of 1 basis point over the prior year. Our strong churn performance reflects the strength and reliability of our network combined with the full suite of services and solutions that we provide.Let's now move to Slide 10 to review the Business financial performance. The high demand for our services and our brand reputation for reliable connectivity have translated into healthy revenue growth with Verizon Business Group. Operating revenues for the Business segment was $7.8 billion, up 1.3% year-over-year, the highest rate of growth since the creation of the Business segment in the Verizon 2.0 structure. This growth highlights the success of our business transformation process as strong wireless service growth of 6.2% offset secular pressure in wireline.Business segment EBITDA margin was 24.6% in the quarter, down approximately 100 basis points year-over-year. The Jetpack recall mentioned earlier had a more pronounced impact on the Business segment, reducing EBITDA margins by about 130 basis points.Now, let's move on to Slide 11 to discuss Verizon Media Group. Verizon Media Group continues to deliver strong performance driven by high customer engagement with our brands and demand for our advertising platforms. Total revenue for the quarter was $1.9 billion, up approximately 10.4% from a year ago. The second consecutive quarter with double-digit year-over-year growth. Growth in the quarter was fueled by strong advertising trends growing 26%, including 45% growth in DSP revenues. Revenue from our owned and operated brands grew 13% compared to the same period last year. We saw continued high consumer engagement with strength in sports and finance as daily active users grew 22% and 8%, respectively, from the prior year.Let's now move to our cash flow results on Slide 12. Cash flow from operating activities for the quarter totaled $9.7 billion, up approximately $0.9 billion from the prior year driven by our continued operational discipline and net benefits from our liability management activities, which lowered borrowing rates from last year.Capital spending for the first quarter totaled $4.5 billion as we continue to support traffic growth on our 4G LTE network, while expanding the reach and capacity of our 5G Ultra Wideband network. This includes approximately $40 million for C-Band-related items. As a result, free cash flow for the quarter was $5.2 billion, up 46% year-over-year.We made payments of $45 billion in the first quarter to the FCC for C-Band spectrum, one of the recently completed Auction 107. To finance this purchase, we've raised over $31 billion in March in addition to the $12 billion raised in Q4. The weighted average maturity of these C-Band borrowings was 17 years and we achieved a very attractive average cost of funding of 2.5%, benefiting from record order books for our US dollar offerings. We are delighted with the credit rating agencies considered the spectrum asset purchases as strategic and critical to our business operations and held their rating levels unchanged. The success in the capital markets as a result of our disciplined capital allocation policy coupled with our consistent track record of delivering on our commitments made to our investors.We exited the quarter with net unsecured debt of $137.4 billion and our net unsecured debt-to-adjusted EBITDA ratio was approximately 2.9 times. Based on our current cash flow assumptions, we expect our net leverage ratio to be approximately 2.8 times by the end of the year. We will evaluate the level of our cash balance based on the recovery in the economy and developments with the pandemic.Now, let's review our annual guidance targets on Slide 13. As Hans mentioned in his opening remarks, we are on track to achieve our guidance for the year, which remains unchanged. Reaffirming our comments from the Investor Day last month, we expect no material impact to our adjusted earnings per share guidance from our C-Band program for this year. We do expect C-Band-related capital spending to be between $2 billion to $3 billion for 2021 and we will provide updates on the quarterly earnings calls.With that, I will now turn the call back over to Hans to discuss our expectations for the remainder of 2021.Hans Vestberg -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Matt. Let me sum this up in a couple of easy buckets. First of all, our strategy is unchanged. Our focus is clear. We are going to accelerate our multipurpose network strategy, including the C-Band that we have acquired. We're going to focus on amplifying accelerated the five vectors of growth, and we're going to see with that that we're going to deliver on our 2021 commitments, both operationally and financially. And, as I said earlier, I feel really good about our position and the team that I have that they will deliver on that.With that, I hand it over to Brady.Brady Connor -- Senior Vice President, Investor RelationsThanks, Hans. Brad, we're ready to take questions.