
OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call for Dentsply Sirona. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Kari Dixon. Thank you. Please go ahead.Kari Dixon -- Vice President, Financial Planning and Analysis

 



Thank you, Tamia, and good morning, everyone. Welcome to our first quarter 2021 earnings conference call. I'd like to remind you that an earnings call press release and slide presentation related to the call are available at our website at www.dentsplysirona.com. Before we begin, please take a moment to read the forward-looking statements in our earnings press release. During today's call, we make certain predictive statements that reflect our current views about future performance and financial results. We base these statements and certain assumptions and expectations on future events that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Our most recent Form 10-K lists some of the most important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ from our predictions. In today's conference call, our remarks will be based on non-GAAP financial results. We believe that non-GAAP financial measures provide investors with useful supplemental information about financial performance of our business, enable the comparison of financial results between periods where certain items may vary independently of business performance and allow for greater transparency with respect to key metrics used by management in operating our business. Please refer to our press release for the reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results.And with that, I'd like to now turn the call over to Don Casey, our Chief Executive Officer.Donald M. Casey Jr. -- Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Kari, and thank all of you for joining us this morning. I hope you're all safe and well. We are pleased with our performance this quarter. Dental market continues to show a gradual recovery, highlighting its underlying strength and attractiveness. Dentists have shown real resilience and a commitment to their patients during the pandemic and now in the recovery. And we are very proud of how our team has continued to support our customers as patient volumes have improved. I want to thank all the Dentsply Sirona employees around the globe. Their performance has been remarkable. They've kept our workplaces safe and operating. They've delivered for our customers, and have kept making progress on key company initiatives. It is a privilege to be part of this organization. On today's call, Jorge and I will focus on three things. The first is our results for the quarter. That will be followed by a revised guidance for 2021, and we will finish the call updating our operating priorities with a focus on our long-term growth plans. Now moving to slide six. We are pleased with our performance in the first quarter. Revenues reached $1.027 billion, up 12.1% on an organic basis. In the first quarter, we continued to be disciplined around expenses, resulting in an adjusted operating margin of 21.3%, up 630 basis points versus the prior year. Adjusted non-GAAP EPS in was $0.72, up 67% versus last year. Other actions taken by the team helped generate positive cash flow from operations of $49 million.

 



To provide details of our performance for the quarter, I will now turn the call over to Jorge.Jorge Gomez -- Executive Vice President, Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Don. Good morning, and thanks for joining us. As a reminder, my remarks this morning will be based on non-GAAP financial results. Let me start with a few overall comments. In the first quarter, we delivered strong results, reflecting growth on both Consumables and Technologies & Equipment. These results were ahead of our internal financial expectations, owing to a stronger-than-anticipated recovery in global dental demand. We expect the macro environment to remain uncertain, but our focus on execution and our ability to adapt ensure that we will be well positioned against multiple scenarios. We are seeing the global dental markets gain traction, and our teams are executing well, utilizing the strength of our portfolio for the benefit of our customers. Q1 performance confirms the momentum in our business and provides a solid starting point for the fiscal year. Let's look at Q1 in more detail. As Don mentioned, the business delivered strong organic revenue growth of 12.1% versus last year. Our reported growth was 17.5%. Consumables posted organic growth of 21.2% in the first quarter versus last year. As a reminder, our PPE business is immaterial. Sales across all product categories rebounded in the quarter. These results reinforce our view of dentistry as a necessity with resilient underlying growth trends. Technologies & Equipment organic sales grew 5.8% versus last year, led by Equipment, Imaging and implants. Gross profit was $611 million or 59.5% of sales. This strong outcome was primarily driven by favorable mix. While we saw higher shipping costs, our execution and supply chain initiatives largely offset the impact. It is likely that higher shipping costs and other inflationary items in the supply chain will persist for the next few quarters.Our teams will continue to address these challenges as effectively as possible. Before I start discussing the specific SG&A numbers, I would like to underline a presentation change that you will see going forward. As we continue to ramp up investments for innovation and growth, we will report R&D spend on our P&L separately from SG&A. You will see, in our quarterly results, we've made this change on the face of our financial statements. Spending on R&D was up 8.8% in the quarter to $37 million, and we would expect to see this trend continue as we progress through the year. As we invest more significantly in R&D, we are making sure we have the right mechanisms to maximize the benefit of the spend by ensuring alignment with the strategic priorities and a strong return on investment. We are focused on scale innovation that has the ability to drive a meaningful growth impact for the business and many opportunities remain. Regarding SG&A in Q1, our teams demonstrated a strong operating discipline across the enterprise. As a percent of sales, SG&A declined 350 basis points to 34.6% versus last year. On an absolute basis, SG&A increased by $22 million or 6.6% versus the prior year. The reduction in the Q1 SG&A ratio reflects benefits from volume-related operating leverage, improvement in productivity and benefits from our 3-year restructuring projects. Also, we were cautious on our investment spend approach in the first quarter. Going forward, we will accelerate the pace of those investments, which we will discuss later. While we have been measured on our spending in certain categories, we are ramping up investments in sales and marketing resources, R&D and digital infrastructure to support our medium- and long-term growth plans.

 



Operating profit grew over 67.2% compared to last year to $219 million. It represents a margin expansion of 630 basis points to 21.3%. As explained earlier, our margin rate benefited from the gross profit margin on sales mix, combined with operating leverage and investment spending increasing at a lower rate than our sales growth. Moving on, net interest and other expense increased $9 million, reflecting higher levels of debt versus last year. The non-GAAP tax rate in the first quarter was 22.9%, a decrease compared to 24.6% in the prior year quarter, which was a function of the changes in the U.S. versus non-U.S. pre-tax income mix. Non-GAAP EPS was $0.72, up 67.4% versus the prior year quarter. The Consumables business performed -- the Consumable business performance in the first quarter was strong. Sales were $430 million, an increase of 21.5% versus the prior year. Growth was the strongest in Rest of the World and grew double digits in both the U.S. and Europe. Sales grew in all categories, led by Endo and Restorative. The Consumables market has been resilient and is recovering well. These results also reflect the ongoing progress optimizing promotional strategies and improving demand creation tools. We are strengthening our relationships with dentists, delivering clinically relevant products with strong incentives for them. We are, of course, also seeing a rebound in dealer orders as they ramp up purchases to meet anticipated demand. Currency favorably impacted sales by 4.6%, offset by a reduction of 4.3% due to divestitures and discontinued products. Moving on to the Technologies & Equipment segment results. T&E sales grew 14.8% versus the prior year. The launch of our new Axeos imaging unit is going very well.As expected, digital dentistry was negatively impacted by the difficult CAD/CAM comp in Q1, resulting from the strong sales in early 2020. Our Clear Aligners franchise performed very well in the quarter, and the overall SureSmile and Byte teams are excited about the growth trajectory. Our estimates indicate that our clear aligners portfolio will deliver in excess of $300 million in annual run rate sales in the fourth quarter of 2021. Currency favorably impacted sales by 5.7% as well as the benefit from acquisitions of 8.6%, offset by a reduction of 5.3% due to divestitures and discontinued products. On slide 11, you can see our organic revenue performance by region during the first quarter. U.S. sales were $347 million, representing growth of 15.7% versus last year. Organic sales growth was 4.8%, with strong Consumables sales offsetting a decline in Technologies & Equipment. European sales were $418 million, a growth of 12.1% versus last year. Organic growth was 8.1% compared to the prior year, driven mostly by strong Endo sales. Rest of the World sales were $262 million, a growth of 30.3% versus last year. Organic sales growth was 30.8%, reflecting the recovery in demand. Next, I'd like to cover cash flows. In the first quarter of 2021, our operating cash flow was $49 million, a $59 million improvement versus last year. We returned a total of $112 million to shareholders through dividends and share buybacks and deployed $92 million to fund the acquisition of Datum. The company finished this first quarter with strong cash on hand of $318 million and committed credit facilities of another $1 billion.Approximately $350 million of short-term credit facilities expired in April and were not renewed. Our strong balance sheet and credit metrics provide a solid foundation for a balanced capital allocation. We will continue to return cash to shareholders while appropriately investing for growth in the business. Now let me provide an update on our financial expectations for 2021. We were pleased to see a faster-than-anticipated market recovery in the first quarter. We are seeing healthy demand continuing into the second quarter, driven by positive momentum in patient confidence and procedure volumes with the vaccine rollouts. These positive trends provide us with optimism for the rest of the year. At the same time, we remain cautious given the market conditions in certain geographies. While there may be near-term volatility, the long-term underlying growth dynamics of the dental market remain intact. Based on that, we are revising our outlook for fiscal 2021. We are now expecting fiscal 2021 reported sales to be in the $4.1 billion to $4.3 billion range. This range equates to a reported sales growth rate of approximately 23% to 30%. From an organic sales perspective, the range provided equates to an organic growth rate of approximately 18% to 25%. Our new non-GAAP EPS range for fiscal '21 is now $2.75 to $2.90 compared to our prior outlook of $2.60 to $2.80. This full year outlook includes the shift of investment spend of approximately $0.05 from Q1 into the remainder of the year. There are two risks to this outlook that are worth highlighting: COVID-19 and potential supply disruptions regarding shipping costs and availability of certain semiconductors.We are mindful of the lessons learned about this virus, especially considering that some countries are experiencing increases in cases, with governments intervening with restrictions. Before I turn the call back to Don, we would like to share a quick update on our efforts around ESG. We continue to believe a strong ESG program can facilitate top line growth and reduce costs. It can contribute to reducing legal and regulatory risks, while improving employee engagement. In close collaboration with our Board of Directors, I'm chairing an effort with members of a cross-functional team to ensure that our ESG objectives are aligned with our purpose and mission of improving access to oral healthcare globally. In April, we posted our first-ever sustainability flag sheet and environmental scorecard. They are available for review on the Sustainability section on our website. We are measuring and analyzing our ESG data. I'm excited to share more of our findings with you as we develop and track additional metrics. Finally, I want to thank our almost 15,000 associates around the globe for their great ongoing dedication and results.With that, I will now turn the call back to Don.Donald M. Casey Jr. -- Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Jorge. I would now like to provide some perspective around 2021 and beyond, by outlining our strategy and operating priorities. Let's move to slide 15. Our strategy and priorities have been consistent over the past three years. We believe that Dentsply Sirona will grow long term by delivering superior integrated workflows built on diagnostic excellence, easy-to-use treatment planning and essential products that improve outcomes for patients and dental professionals. Our priorities are driving revenue growth, improving margins and creating a simplified organization that takes advantage of scale. There's still a lot of work to be done, but our team is confident that the margin and cost-saving goals we have outlined in the past will be delivered. For us, the focus now really turns to accelerating growth. Our strategy has been refined to reflect the continued evolution of the dental space. There has been a strong growth in specific segments of the market, highlighted by aesthetic areas like clear aligners and implants. Many of these higher-growth areas have been enabled by digital dentistry, driving good growth there. Dentists and DSOs increasingly look to enhance their practices by participating in these higher-growth areas that involve more complex procedures. This leads to an increased willingness to invest in equipment and training both areas where Dentsply Sirona is a leader. Products like 2D and 3D imaging become essential to improving their diagnostic capabilities. More practices are also recognizing the utility of incorporating digital scanners as an essential part of their office workflow. These more sophisticated digital devices, when combined with increasingly easy-to-use treatment planning, lets dentists offer things like clear aligners, implants or complex restorations to their patients.This is better for the patient and better for the economics and efficiency of the practice. Dentsply Sirona is uniquely suited to thrive in this market. We have both Imaging and digital impression businesses that form the foundation of the digital ecosystem. When combined with our treatment center business, we have one of the largest installed bases of digital assets in all of dental, a critical cornerstone for our strategy going forward. The company has deep expertise in treatment planning and workflow management with well-recognized names like SureSmile, Sidexis, Atlantis, SIMPLANT and CEREC. And Dentsply Sirona has a full portfolio of essential consumable products that are critical components in many major procedures. The large installed digital base powered by a suite of treatment planning and other workflow tools, combined with these essential products, make us very optimistic that we can deliver real solutions to our customers. In addition to delivering against that strategy, we will measure our success by meeting or exceeding critical targets that we have set for ourselves. Our growth is now targeted at 4% to 5% plus going forward. We are committed to improving our margin to reach the '22 goal by the end of 2020. Our efforts around organization simplification and scale will allow us to hit the cost-saving target of $250 million through the end of the restructuring plan. Delivering on our growth, margin and organizational saving goals will allow us to target double-digit adjusted EPS growth and create sustainable value for our shareholders. Moving to slide 16. There are three components of our growth plans: organic innovation, acquisitions and improving our global commercial capabilities. We are investing increased time, financial resources and human capital to accelerate our organic innovation. Our innovation approach has been revamped to focus on procedures and workflows versus individual product.This allows us to better meet our customer needs. As Jorge said, R&D investment has been increased significantly in 2021, and we expect that trend to continue into the future. The increased resources will be directed to critical procedure workflows in faster-growing areas like clear aligners, implants, restorations and endodontics. To further demonstrate our commitment to innovation, I mentioned during our last call, a new consumables innovation center will be opened this year in Charlotte to complement our other centers of excellence around the world. Our portfolio work will also give Dentsply Sirona a greater exposure to faster-growing parts of the market while eliminating slower growth, less profitable areas. In the past 12 months, analog lab and the traditional orthodontic businesses were exited. We deployed capital and added Byte and Datum to boost our clear aligner and implant platforms, respectively, increasing our presence in higher growth categories. Our team also has a good pipeline of opportunities to continue enhancing our workflow solutions and digital technologies. Critical to innovation is the ability to rapidly scale and globalize it. Dentsply Sirona has an extensive network of over 5,000 commercial people in over 100 countries that will allow us to take full advantage of our innovation pipeline. There have been several investments made to enhance our commercial effectiveness. These investments include tools like salesforce.com globally. We have improved our training program to allow Dentsply Sirona to approach our customers as one company with comprehensive solutions. And our sales force excellence program is being rolled out globally over the remainder of this year. As Jorge mentioned, there's also been good progress made on shifting our promotional program to be more retail demand focused. In addition, all these efforts are supported by an extensive clinical education program that has engaged over one million dental professionals over the last year.The highlight of our clinical education efforts in 2021 will be DS World, a major event in the U.S. We have announced that this event will be a hybrid this year with a major live as well as online component. On slide 17, our major introductions over the past few years are displayed. We are seeing the benefits of those efforts in 2021 with products like SureFil one, Primemill, Axeos and a major SureSmile software upgrade. The team is also very excited about our back half of 2021, where we will see major launches in several critical areas, including implants and endodontics. Moving to slide 18. Strategic acquisitions are important to our overall growth plan. As we've now had Byte for about five months, we are very happy to report that the integration is on track. Byte is performing well, and we believe it has a very bright future. That business is expected to be accretive to our long-term financial targets and non-GAAP EPS in 2021. The acquisition has also given our clear aligner business important critical mass in areas like supply chain and R&D. We continue to expect our total clear aligner business to exceed a $300 million run rate by the end of 2021. We're also pleased with the integration of the Datum acquisition as well. This is helping improve our critical implant platform. Moving to slide 19. In closing, the dental market continues to demonstrate resilience and the strong underlying fundamentals that make it attractive. We are pleased with our performance this quarter. It should be noted that there remains some uncertainty around the continued impact of the pandemic and the recovery will not be uniform across the globe. Despite all this, though, we expect to see a continued gradual improvement in the overall dental market. As the recovery continues, the company expects to increase investment to support our growth initiatives throughout the year to drive growth rate. We believe that there are many lessons learned during the pandemic that will help us operate more efficiently going forward. And as we've seen this quarter, Dentsply Sirona is well positioned to capitalize on the continued recovery.And with that, I will turn the call back to Kari. Thank you.Kari Dixon -- Vice President, Financial Planning and AnalysisThank you, Don. And now we will open for Q&A.