
OperatorGood day, and welcome to the Zebra Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Results Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Please note, this event is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to Mike Steele, Vice President, Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Michael Steele -- Vice President of Investor RelationsGood morning, and welcome to Zebra second quarter conference call. This presentation is being simulcast on our website at investors.zebra.com and will be archived there for at least one year. Slide two conveys that the forward-looking statements we make today are based on current expectations and assumptions and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially due to factors discussed in our SEC filings. During this call, we will reference non-GAAP financial measures as we describe our business performance. You can find reconciliations at the end of the slide presentation and in today's earnings press release.Throughout this presentation, unless otherwise indicated, our references to sales growth are year-over-year on a constant currency basis and exclude results from recently acquired businesses for the 12 months following each acquisition. This presentation will include prepared remarks from Anders Gustafsson, our Chief Executive Officer; and Nathan Winters, our Chief Financial Officer. Anders will begin with our second quarter results. Then Nathan will provide additional detail on the financials and discuss our revised 2021 outlook. Anders will conclude with progress made on advancing our Enterprise Asset Intelligence vision. Following the prepared remarks, Joe Heel, our Chief Revenue Officer, will join us as we take your questions. Now let's turn to slide four as I hand it over to Anders.Anders Gustafsson -- Chief Executive Officer and DirectorThank you, Mike. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us. Our team delivered exceptional second quarter results with strong performance across the business, resulting in record sales and profits. For the quarter, we realized adjusted net sales growth of 44%, or 40% on an organic basis; an adjusted EBITDA margin of 23.6%, a 530 basis point year-over-year improvement. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $4.57, a nearly 90% increase from the prior year and strong free cash flow. Despite ongoing industrywide supply chain challenges, our teams successfully satisfied stronger-than-expected demand from customers, both direct and through our distribution channel.Similar to Q1, we realized robust broad-based demand with double-digit sales growth across all four regions, each major product and solutions category as well as in all of our vertical end markets. Our customers continue to digitize and automate their workflows with a sense of urgency in the increasingly on-demand global economy. We also significantly expanded profit margin across our business more than offsetting escalating global supply chain costs. We also continued our balanced approach to scaling operating expenses while investing in initiatives to drive sustainable profitable growth.With that, I will now turn the call over to Nathan to review our Q2 financial results in more detail and discuss our improved 2021 outlook.Nathan Andrew Winters -- Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Anders. Let's start with the P&L on slide six. In Q2, adjusted net sales increased 44.4%, including the impact of currency and acquisitions and 39.8% on an organic basis, reflecting broad-based demand for our solutions from customers of all sizes. We realized particularly high growth from our run rate business through the channel, partially driven by pent-up demand, while continuing to see strong growth in direct sales to large customers. Our Asset Intelligence and tracking segment, including printing and supplies, grew 51.2%, while enterprise visibility and mobility segment sales increased 35.1%, driven by exceptional growth across all major categories, including enterprise mobile computing and data capture.Note that we also realized double-digit growth in services and software, along with very strong growth in our RFID solutions, for which deployment activity has snapped back as customers recover from the pandemic. We recognized double-digit growth in all regions. In North America, sales increased 39% with all major categories growing double digits. In EMEA, sales increased 44% with solid growth across subregions and solutions offerings. APAC again realized strong growth with sales up 20%, led by strength in China, Australia, India and Japan. Latin America also continued its recovery with exceptionally strong growth in all subregions with sales increasing 79%. Adjusted gross margin expanded 390 basis points to 48%, primarily driven by favorable business mix, a $12 million recovery of Chinese import tariffs, higher support service margins and contribution from our recent high-margin acquisitions.These benefits were partially offset by higher premium freight charges, which we'll discuss further in a moment. Adjusted operating expenses as a percentage of sales improved 180 basis points. We continue to scale opex while prioritizing high-return investments in the business. Second quarter adjusted EBITDA margin was 23.6%, a 530 basis point improvement from the prior year period, reflecting higher gross margin and operating expense leverage. We drove non-GAAP earnings per diluted share of $4.57, a $2.16 or 89.6% year-over-year increase. EPS growth also benefited from lower interest expense, partially offset by a slightly higher tax rate.Turning now to the balance sheet and cash flow highlights on slide seven. We generated $514 million of free cash flow in the first half of 2021. This was $192 million higher than the prior year, primarily due to increased profitable growth. In Q2, we acquired Adaptive Vision for $18 million to advance our machine vision solutions and made $4 million of venture investments. In addition, we also repurchased $25 million of Zebra shares. Our balance sheet remains strong. From a debt leverage perspective, we ended Q2 at a modest 0.6 times net debt-to-adjusted EBITDA leverage ratio, which affords flexibility to invest in attractive business acquisitions.On slide eight, we show the multiyear impact of transitory costs, primarily related to expedited freight due to supply chain bottlenecks caused by the global pandemic as well as tariffs on China imports. For the second half of the year, we now expect the year-on-year unfavorable impact from these items to be approximately $85 million, which translates to a three percentage point negative gross margin impact. Our supply chain team has been taking extraordinary actions to satisfy customer demand in an exceptionally challenging global environment. Global freight costs for virtually all modalities of delivery across our supply chain continue to escalate.Impacts include higher global shipping cost per kilo, a shift in modality from ocean to airfreight as well as increased cost to expedite component parts to our Tier one manufacturers in order to meet customer commitments. We expect premium freight costs to abate once component supply and freight capacity improves. Let's now turn to our outlook. The pandemic has accelerated trends that have been driving our business, including omnichannel shopping adoption, the desire for track and trace across the supply chain and the need for more digital healthcare experience. We entered Q3 with a strong order backlog, and we continue to see broad-based robust demand across virtually every dimension of our business.This momentum, along with our sales pipeline, gives us the confidence to provide a strong Q3 guide and substantially raise our full year outlook. In Q3, we expect adjusted net sales to increase between 21% and 25% year-over-year. This outlook assumes a three percentage point additive impact from the acquisitions and foreign currency changes. We anticipate Q3 adjusted EBITDA margin to be between 20% and 21%, which assumes gross margin expansion and operating expense leverage from the prior year. It also assumes approximately $45 million of premium freight expense, which is $37 million higher than last year. We are also experiencing higher product component costs, which we expect to largely offset with recently announced price increases. Non-GAAP diluted EPS is expected to be in the range of $3.90 to $4.10.For the full year 2021, we are raising our guide for adjusted net sales growth to be between 23% and 25%, which reflects our increasing optimism for strong growth in the second half of the year despite significant industry supply chain constraints for certain product components as well as transportation bottlenecks. This outlook assumes an approximately three percentage point additive impact from acquisitions and foreign currency changes. Despite our significantly increased expectation for transitory premium freight charges that we just highlighted, we are maintaining our expectation of full year 2021 adjusted EBITDA margin to be between 22% and 23%, which assumes operating expense leverage and gross margin expansion from the prior year.We now expect our free cash flow to be at least $900 million for the year due to increased profitability. Please reference additional modeling assumptions shown on slide nine. Note that our outlook does not include any projected results from the pending acquisition of Fetch Robotics. Anders will discuss the strategic acquisition in a few moments. With that, I'll turn the call back to Anders to discuss how we're advancing our Enterprise Asset Intelligence vision in new and existing markets.Anders Gustafsson -- Chief Executive Officer and DirectorThank you, Nathan. I am encouraged by the strengthening demand across our business, which allows us to further increase our 2021 outlook. Slide 11 illustrates how we are working with our customers and partners to advance our Enterprise Asset Intelligence vision. By leveraging Zebra's industry-leading portfolio of products, solutions, software and services, our customers can overcome some of their most complex operational challenges and transform their frontline workflows to achieve higher levels of performance. We help businesses across industries implement tailored solutions that digitize and automate their operations, enabling them to compete more effectively.With our innovative solutions, our customers' associates can now anticipate and react in near real time, utilizing insights driven by advanced software capabilities such as artificial intelligence, machine learning, prescriptive analytics and machine vision. Now turning to slide 12. As a trusted strategic partner, businesses in a variety of end markets turn to Zebra to help optimize end-to-end workflows. I would like to highlight several recent wins across our end markets, which demonstrate how Zebra solutions are improving productivity, customer service and patient care. A large European postal service will be deploying approximately 80,000 TC57s to their carriers.Continuing a long-standing relationship, they are upgrading to the latest mobile computing solution, which will enable them to more effectively handle increased parcel volumes and a broad range of use cases. It's another proof point of successful collaboration with post and parcel services around the globe, including our current business with the United States Postal Service. We are also helping a large North American steel manufacturer to optimize and digitize its operations. This customer is adding more than 1,000 of our ET56 tablets to their operations, which will allow them to eliminate manual paper processes by implementing electronic proof of delivery to automate and expedite the invoicing process.This solution will also improve the customer experience by providing advanced notification of delivery. Large public sector hospital system in the U.K. is utilizing our mobile computers, printers and wrist bands to enable real-time visibility into the entire patient journey and ensure safe and efficient care. This customer is using our solutions for specimen tracking, patient monitoring and blood transfusions in emergency and operating rooms. Their employees also use our mobile computers for physical security access. A regional U.S. supermarket operator recently decided to implement our Reflexis workforce management tool for labor scheduling and employee self-service to more efficiently manage their resources across more than 100 locations.This solution also frees up their associates to focus more on customer service versus administrative tasks. More broadly in retail, the sharp increase in omnichannel and online shopping requires retailers to deliver goods in a timely manner and make them available for pickup when promised. To address this challenge, a wide range of retailers have been prioritizing investment in Zebra solutions that provide higher inventory accuracy and utilize their labor more effectively. Slide 13 highlights significant recent investments, we are making in advance -- to advance our Enterprise Asset Intelligence vision in the warehouse and in manufacturing.In May, we announced the launch of our fixed industrial scanning and machine vision solutions to increase efficiency and quality inspection in our customer's operations. We complemented this product launch with the acquisition of Adaptive Vision, whose software enables customers to easily build machine vision and deep learning applications. We are excited about our opportunity to penetrate this high-growth, fragmented market, and we are actively recruiting channel partners to scale the business. In July, we announced our intent to acquire Fetch Robotics, which has the broadest portfolio of autonomous mobile robots in the industry, powered by a cloud software platform that can be deployed stand-alone or integrated with warehouse management systems.Our vision is to orchestrate both robots and technology-equipped frontline workers through software in the cloud to optimize material transport and order fulfillment workflows. As a venture investment, Fetch has been a trusted partner to Zebra, and we are excited about the prospects for our combined businesses. In closing, we are confident in our growth prospects given the momentum we are experiencing in the business and our heightened pace of innovation. We are energized by our vibrant core markets as well as the emerging prospects, we see in newer markets to digitize and automate workflows. Now I'll hand the call back over to Mike.Michael Steele -- Vice President of Investor RelationsThanks, Anders. We'll now open the call to Q&A.