
OperatorGood afternoon. My name is Jamariya and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Cadence Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.I will now turn the call over to Alan Lindstrom, Senior Group Director of Investor Relations for Cadence. Please go ahead.Alan Lindstrom -- Senior Group Director, Investor Relations

 



Thank you, Jamariya [Phonetic]. I would like to welcome everyone to our second quarter 2021 earnings conference call. I am joined today by Lip-Bu Tan, Chief Executive Officer; Anirudh Devgan, President; and John Wall, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.The webcast of this call is available through our website cadence.com and will be archived through September 17, 2021. A copy of today's prepared remarks will also be available on our website at the conclusion of the call today. Please note that the discussion today will contain forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to statements about our business outlook, product development, business strategy and plans, industry and regulatory trends, market size, opportunities and positioning. Due to known and unknown risks and uncertainties actual results may differ materially from those projected or implied in today's discussion. For information on those factors that could cause a difference in our results, please refer to our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These include Cadence's most recent reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q, and the cautionary comments regarding forward-looking statements in today's earnings press release. And by the way our second quarter 10-Q was filed about 4:15 Eastern Time today. So it's out there. You should not rely on our forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. All such statements are based on estimates and information available to -- at this time and Cadence disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements except as required by law.In addition to financial results prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles or GAAP, we will also present certain non-GAAP financial measures today. Cadence management believes that in addition to using GAAP results in evaluating our business, it can also be useful to review results using certain non-GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from or as a substitute for GAAP results. These non-GAAP financial measures are not based on any standardized methodology prescribed by GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures from other companies. Investors and potential investors are encouraged to review the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures with their most direct comparable financial results -- GAAP financial results in today's earnings press release. Copies of today's press release dated July 26, 2021 for the quarter ended July 3, 2021, related financial tables and the CFO commentary are also available on our website.For the Q&A session today, we would ask that you observe a limit of one question and one follow-up and you may requeue if you would like to ask additional questions and time permits.

 



Now I will turn the call over to Lip-Bu.Lip-Bu Tan -- Chief Executive OfficerGood afternoon, everyone and thank you for joining us today. Cadence delivered outstanding financial results for the second quarter as broad-based customer demand for our innovative solutions drove stronger than expected revenue growth, profitability and cash flow. We are significantly raising our financial outlook for the year, highlighted by a $40 million increase in revenue guidance or 10% year-over-year revenue growth. John will provide the details in a moment of both our Q2 results and the updated outlook for the year.Before I get into more details of the quarter -- about the quarter, I would like to talk about CEO transition news that we announced earlier this afternoon. We announced Anirudh Devgan, our President, will take over as CEO on December 15, 2021 and I would transition to the role of Executive Chairman at that time. It has been a privilege to serve as the CEO of Cadence for the past 12-plus years. Over that period, I'm very pleased that we instilled a sustainable culture centered on leapfrog innovation and customer delight, watched very close partnerships with our customers and partners and built an extremely talented Cadence team of over 9,000 employees. Cadence is now firmly established not just as a top end-to-end EDA provider of choice but a company that is well on its way in expanding beyond EDA while executing our exciting ISD strategy that triple our TAM to $30 billion. The Board and I are very excited that Anirudh will become CEO in December and we cannot think of anyone more uniquely qualified to lead Cadence to even higher heights. He is a proven leader with bold strategic vision, a relentless focus on innovation and execution and passion for driving customer success.

 



Over the past four years since he became President, Anirudh and I have jointly led the Company and the Board and I think this is the right time to execute the next phase of our succession plan and hand over the baton to him. You can expect to see a lot of continuity going forward as we view this transition as more of a formalization of our current responsibilities. As Executive Chairman, I will focus more on new market opportunities, key strategic initiatives and deepening our relationship with customers and partners and on maximizing shareholder value.And now let me move on to the business highlights. Generation trends such as 5G, hyperscaler and autonomous vehicles underpinned by AI, machine learning and data analytics are accelerating the digital transformation across multiple industries. With semiconductors at their foundation, these trends are driving strong design activity across a growing spectrum of semi and system companies and we are very well positioned for these to be sustainable long-term growth drivers for us. Delighting customers and accelerating growth requires relentless commitment to innovation. With the launch of the four new products, we have now introduced eight significant innovative products so far this year across all the business groups and will contribute to future growth.We continue to expand our business with market shaping customers. And our differentiated solution led to a broad-based expansion of our partnership with Samsung, including proliferation of our digital full flow. It was an outstanding quarter for our digital and signoff business with revenue growing 16% year-over-year. Our digital full flow delivering industry-leading quality of results at the most advanced nodes, adding 13 new customers that included key competitive displacements while expanding significantly at several market shaping customers. Noteworthy among them were a large US data infrastructure company, further expansion of a marquee US aerospace and defense firm, a major Asia-Pacific hyperscaler and an exciting AI start-up. We have been steadily incorporating cutting-edge AI/ML technology into our solutions. And we significantly advanced that with last week's introduction of new Cerebrus Intelligent Chip Explorer. Cerebrus' unique reinforcement learning model increases effectiveness with each use and enables to 20% PPA improvement and 10 times productivity gain. Cerebrus was endorsed by Samsung and Renesas and several customers have realized meaningful benefits across multiple process nodes and end applications. It was also a great quarter for our verification business with 23% year-over-year revenue growth. Our verification suite comprising of best-in-class engines and delivering the best verification throughput saw continued strong customer adoption and expansion at several leading customers.Secular demand for our hardware continued unabated, leading to best Q2 ever for our Palladium and Protium platforms. There is a robust customer interest in the new Z2 and X2 systems with sales ramping nicely, while sales of Z1 and X1 remain strong. Our hardware family had 15 new orders and over 65 repeat orders in the quarter, with the three largest transactions being with hyperscalers, and included our largest Protium transaction to date, which was for new X2.Strong momentum continued for our System Design & Analysis segment, with 20% year-over-year revenue growth. We expanded our system footprint with multiple verticals including aerospace and defense, 5G wireless and communications. Growing system complexity for high frequency applications is driving the need for an integrated platform solution across system design, simulation and analysis. As we continue building out our systems portfolio, we are pleased to see earlier indication of customer increasingly choosing a broader set of our solution across these domains.For instance, in Q2 a large US data infrastructure company made a significant commitment to our PCB, IC packaging, RF and system analysis solutions. We introduced our next-generation PCB and IC packaging design platform, Allegro X that provides a unified engineering platform incorporating innovative machine learning techniques and delivering up to a four time improvement in overall design team productivity.AWR and Integrand had a record quarter and the integration of our recent NUMECA and Pointwise acquisitions is progressing well. We've added several hundred systems customers as we enhance our go-to-market and channel organization to help accelerate our business. Next I want to make a few macro-level comments. We continue to monitor the ongoing semiconductor supply chain situation. As I reported last quarter, so far we are not seeing any slowdown in design activity across our customer base. Unfortunately, the COVID-19 pandemic continues to evolve in an unpredictable manner, with overall progress being threatened by new variants. As always, the health and safety of our employees, customer and partners is paramount and we will continue doing what is in their best interests, while working closely with local regulatory agencies.Now, I will turn it over to Anirudh to say a few words.Anirudh Devgan -- PresidentThank you, Lip-Bu. I'm very honored and humbled to be appointed the next CEO of Cadence and I am deeply grateful to the Board and Lip-Bu for their confidence in me. I'm also very thankful to Lip-Bu for his mentorship and guidance over the years and I am excited to continuing partnering with him in our new roles.Generational industry drivers and rapidly unfolding digital transformation across several industries present an enormous opportunity for Cadence, and I strongly believe we couldn't be better positioned to seize this opportunity.Our intelligent system design strategy lays out a very exciting growth path as we enhance our portfolio to serve a growing set of customers. Our highly innovative solutions have led to a very strong foundation in core EDA and IP, and to our early successes in the systems and AI/ML segments of our strategy as we expand into large, fast-growing adjacencies.I enthusiastically look forward to working with our talented team to accelerate our growth strategy, while relentlessly driving to deliver strong business results and delight our customers with breakthrough innovation, execution and unparalleled support. I also look forward to furthering our collaborations with customers and ecosystem partners and deepening the engagements with you, our valued shareholders.Thank you, and I will now hand it to over to John to go over the financial highlights.John Wall -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Anirudh, and congratulations to you and Lip-Bu on your new roles. This is a great day for Cadence. Good afternoon, everyone. I am pleased to report that we exceeded all of our key financial metrics for the quarter, with broad based demand for our innovative solutions driving stronger than expected revenue growth, profitability and cash flow. As a result, we are raising our financial outlook for the year across all key metrics.Before getting into the numbers, I'd like to say a particular thank you to our India team. As we all know, India was particularly hard hit by the pandemic in Q2, and we are deeply grateful to our India leaders for going above and beyond the call of duty, to put people first. We commend them for their heroic work in helping the local relief efforts and it's reassuring to see the situation in India improve over the past few weeks.Now, let's go through the key results for the second quarter, beginning with the P&L. Total revenue was $728 million. Non-GAAP operating margin was 39.5%. GAAP EPS was $0.56 and non-GAAP EPS was $0.86. Next, turning to the balance sheet and cash flow. At quarter-end, cash totaling $847 million while the principal -- cash totaled $847 million while the principal value of debt outstanding was $350 million. Operating cash flow for Q2 was $380 million. DSOs were 49 days. And during Q2 we repurchased $220 million of Cadence shares.Before I provide our updated outlook for fiscal 2021, I'd like to take a moment to share the assumptions embedded in our outlook. We continue to expect that our NUMECA and Pointwise acquisitions will be slightly dilutive this year before becoming accretive next year. Our hiring plans in the first half were delayed by the COVID situation in India, but our outlook currently assumes we catch up on much of that delayed hiring activity in the second half. Our outlook for the second half includes the cost of salary and promotion increases for the broad employee base. Those salary increases and promotions were generally effective from July 1.And finally, our outlook assumes there will be no changes to the export limitations that exist today. Embedding these assumptions into our outlook for fiscal 2021, we expect, revenue in the range of $2.925 billion to $2.965 billion, non-GAAP operating margin in the range of 36% to 36.75%, GAAP EPS in the range of $2.15 to $2.21, non-GAAP EPS in the range of $3.14 to $3.20, operating cash flow in the range of $925 million to $975 million, and we expect to use at least 50% of our free cash flow to repurchase Cadence shares in 2021.For Q3 2021 we expect, revenue in the range of $730 million to $750 million, non-GAAP operating margin of approximately 34%, GAAP EPS in the range of $0.48 to $0.50, and non-GAAP EPS in the range of $0.74 to $0.76. Our CFO commentary, which is available on our website, includes our outlook for additional items as well as further analysis and GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations.In conclusion, Cadence delivered another quarter of strong revenue growth and expanding profitability, and we're pleased to raise our outlook for the year. I would like to close by thanking our customers, partners, and our hardworking employees for all that they do, and I'd like to remind them all, that their health and safety continues to be our first priority.And with that, operator, we'll now take questions.