  OperatorThank you for standing by and welcome to The Walt Disney Company third-quarter earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to your host, Lowell Singer, senior vice president of investor relations. Please go ahead.Lowell Singer -- Senior Vice President, Investor Relations Good afternoon and it's my pleasure to welcome everyone to The Walt Disney Company's third-quarter 2021 earnings call. Our press release was issued about 25 minutes ago and is available on our website at www.disney.com/investors. Today's call is also being webcast and we will post a transcript of this call to our website. Joining me remotely today are Bob Chapek, Disney's chief executive officer; and Christine McCarthy, senior executive vice president and chief financial officer. Following comments from Bob and Christine, we, of course, will be happy to take some of your questions. So with that, let me turn the call over to Bob to get started.Bob Chapek -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Lowell and hello, everyone. Today, I'd like to start off by talking about our company's priorities for the future. As has been the case for Disney's nearly 100-year history, it all begins with great storytelling, which is the foundation of our special connection to audiences and guests and our foremost priority will continue to be to tell the world's most original and enduring stories brought to life by the world's most talented creators. As home to some of the most beloved franchises, we will maximize the synergy of our unique ecosystem to further deepen consumers' connection to our characters and stories and we will use the power of our far-reaching platforms and emerging technologies to better anticipate what our consumers want and deliver them a more seamless and more personalized entertainment experience. We are executing against these priorities and the results clearly speak for themselves. Looking across the company over the past quarter, we are pleased with the trajectory we are on as we continue to grow our businesses despite the challenges presented by the ongoing, ever-changing COVID-19 pandemic. We ended the third fiscal quarter in a strong position with adjusted EPS up tenfold to $0.80 compared to $0.08 last year. At our parks, experiences and products business, we're encouraged by some of the positive trends we're seeing and new developments we have been hard at work on, including the brand-new Avengers Campus at Disney California Adventure, where guests can team up with their favorite superheroes in thrilling ways. At our international parks, Shanghai is celebrating its fifth anniversary this year with great fanfare and we welcomed the first guest to our reimagined Marvel themed hotel in Disneyland Paris. Meanwhile, work continues on a wide array of new experiences, including the one-of-a-kind, Star Wars themed Galactic Starcruiser at Walt Disney World. And as part of a multiyear transformation of Epcot, we'll soon introduce our extraordinary new nighttime spectacular, Harmonious. Last month, we completed our first cruise since the start of the pandemic with the Disney Magic, which is currently sailing short-term staycations for U.K. residents and as Disney Dream set sail on its first U.S.-based cruise this week. Future bookings for all of our ships remains strong, with bookings in the third quarter, in particular, having benefited from the announcement of our fall 2022 itineraries and the successful marketing launch of our fifth ship, the Disney Wish, which will set sail in summer of 2022. As our parks business continues its recovery and we see demand growth, we are now putting into action some of the amazing guest-centric services that we have been developing over the last few years. These include Magic Key, our recently announced new annual pass membership program, at Disneyland. It provides great value and a variety of options for our guests and will be available starting on August 25. The reaction to the news from fans has been extremely positive. Additionally, we've made significant investments in sophisticated technology and tools creating a revolutionary new multitiered service we're calling Disney Genie that will enable our guests to more easily and efficiently navigate everything our parks have to offer. We're very, very excited about this new service and we'll be providing additional details soon. The goal of Disney Genie, which will appear in a user-friendly app, is to create a better, more personalized and customized experience for guests, putting them in control and providing even greater flexibility and choice. They'll be able to spend less time waiting in line and figuring out what attractions or dining options are available and more time having fun. On the direct-to-consumer side, we are extremely pleased with the continuing success of our portfolio of streaming services. Disney+, ESPN+ and Hulu have performed incredibly well with 116 million, 14.9 million and 42.8 million subscribers, respectively, for a total of nearly 174 million subscriptions. Numerous breakout hits from our beloved brands, including Pixar's Luca and Marvel's Loki and the Falcon and the Winter Soldier have contributed to strong engagement and new subscriber growth in core Disney+ markets. And we have continued to launch Disney+ in new markets around the world, including Disney+ Hotstar in Malaysia and Thailand in Q3. Disney+ is also currently available in a limited capacity in Japan and will expand to the full market in late October, followed by additional APAC markets, including South Korea, Taiwan and Hong Kong in mid-November. The launch of Disney+ in Eastern Europe has moved from late 2021 to summer of 2022, primarily to allow for an expanded footprint that will include parts of the Middle East and South Africa. Additionally, we're excited about the launch of Star+ throughout Latin America later this month. As we've said, our direct-to-consumer business is the company's top priority. And among our unique advantages in promoting and growing our DTC service are our powerhouse brands and the vast array of direct consumer touch points we have across our businesses, from our media networks to our theme parks to our consumer products. This synergy enables us to raise consumer awareness and further increase engagement with our streaming services. And the power of this synergy will be on full display on November 12 when we celebrate Disney+ Day with an unprecedented companywide cross-promotional campaign. Our robust pipeline of content continues to fuel growth and we have an incredible lineup of new programming for Disney+. On Thanksgiving Day, we are thrilled to be premiering the first of Peter Jackson's highly anticipated 6-episode Beatles documentary, Get Back. We also have exciting new series from Marvel, Star Wars and National Geographic coming later this year, including Marvel's Hawkeye, starring Jeremy Renner and Hailee Steinfeld, The Mandalorian spin-off, The Book of Boba Fett and National Geographic's Welcome to Earth with Will Smith. With respect to our current approach to distributing our feature-length films, last year, in light of the prolonged and unpredictable nature of the pandemic, we needed to find alternative ways to bring our movies to consumers while theaters were closed. And once they began to reopen, there was still widespread reluctance to return. Therefore, we adopted a three-pronged strategy for releasing our films that consisted of theatrical releases, direct to Disney+ and a hybrid of theatrical plus Premier Access as we did with Cruella, Jungle Cruise and Marvel's Black Widow, the top-performing film at the domestic box office since the start of the pandemic. Both Bob Iger and I, along with the leaders of our creative and distribution teams, determined this was the right strategy because it would enable us to reach the broadest possible audience. And just to reiterate, distribution decisions are made on a film by film basis based on global marketplace conditions and consumer behavior. We will continue to utilize all available options going forward, learn from insights gained with each release and innovate accordingly while always doing what we believe is in the best interest of the film and the best interest of our constituents. We have an incredible slate of upcoming theatrical films, starting with Free Guy which premiers tomorrow, followed by Marvel's newest action adventure, Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings, on September 3. The highly anticipated live-action musical, West Side Story from Steven Spielberg, is set for December as is The King's Man, a prequel in the popular Kingsman series. We have Disney Animation Studios Encanto, an incredibly heartwarming story set in the magical town in Colombia and featuring music by the incomparable, Lin-Manuel Miranda. Our Marvel slate includes four feature films in fiscal 2022: the all-new Eternals alongside sequels to Doctor Strange, Thor and Black Panther. A brand new Indiana Jones adventure starring Harrison Ford is due in the summer, as is the origin story of another intrepid explorer in Lightyear, a spin-off of the beloved Toy Story franchise. It's a widely appealing slate with something for everybody. Our goal is always to provide guests and consumers with unparalleled entertainment, whether they're visiting one of our parks or watching one of our films in a theater or on our streaming platforms. And as we continue our recovery, we believe we are taking the right steps to further this goal while growing our businesses and increasing shareholder value. Personally, I am as optimistic as ever about the future of our company. We have a robust and growing portfolio of DTC services powered by the world's best storytellers and greatest brands and franchises. And a parks business, which extend those stories and creates a place where magic comes to life in a more guest-friendly way than ever. With that, I'll turn it over to Christine and she'll talk in greater detail about the quarter and the way ahead.Christine McCarthy -- Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Bob and good afternoon, everyone. Excluding certain items, diluted earnings per share for the third fiscal quarter was $0.80, an increase of $0.72 from the prior-year quarter. I'll walk through our results today by segment, starting with parks, experiences and products where we continued to benefit from improvements and recovery at our parks and resorts as well as at consumer products. Segment operating income at DPEP in Q3 increased by $2.2 billion year over year. At parks and experiences, we continued to benefit in the third quarter from the reopening of our sites around the world. Walt Disney World Resort and Shanghai Disney Resort were both open for the entire third quarter. Whereas in the prior-year quarter, Walt Disney World was closed for the entire quarter and Shanghai Disney was open for 48 days. Hong Kong Disneyland and Disneyland Paris were open for 72 days and 19 days, respectively, in the third quarter versus 10 days and zero days in the prior-year quarter. And Disneyland Resort was open for 65 days during the third quarter and was closed for all of the prior-year quarter. At Walt Disney World, third-quarter attendance levels were generally at or near our daily capacity levels, which increased throughout the quarter. Disneyland Resort also steadily increased attendance and capacity following its reopening at the end of April and particularly after the lifting of California state restrictions on June 15. Guest spending at our domestic parks has been exceptionally strong, with third quarter per caps up significantly versus fiscal 2019 at both Walt Disney World and Disneyland. Guest spend has benefited from pent-up demand and favorable guest mix, driving higher admissions per caps as well as from spending on products related to Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge and Avengers Campus. Looking forward, theme park reservations at both of our domestic parks remain strong and we continue to utilize our yield management strategy to deliver the optimal guest experience and provide flexibility to our guests during these dynamic times, all while driving economic margin for our shareholders. At consumer products, improved results year over year were driven by growth at both our merchandise licensing and retail businesses. Growth in merchandise licensing was primarily due to higher revenue from merchandise based on several of our key franchises, including Mickey & Minnie, Star Wars, including The Mandalorian, Disney Princess and Spider-Man. The increase in retail was due to higher results at Disney Stores, most of which were closed in the prior-year quarter as well as a comparison to the impairment of store assets in the prior-year quarter. Moving on to our media and entertainment distribution segment. Third-quarter operating income decreased by about $1 billion versus the prior year as improved results at direct-to-consumer were offset by declines at Linear Networks and content sales, licensing and other. At Linear Networks, operating results were lower at both our domestic and international channels. At domestic channels, both cable and broadcasting operating income decreased in the third quarter versus the prior year. The decrease in operating income at cable was due to higher programming and production costs and higher marketing costs, partially offset by higher advertising and affiliate revenue. As we called out last quarter, the increase in Q3 programming and production costs was due to the return of live sports at ESPN, driven by the NBA and Major League Baseball. In the prior-year quarter, a significant number of live sporting events were canceled or delayed due to COVID-19. At Broadcasting, lower results from the ABC Television network were only partially offset by growth at our owned television stations. The decrease at ABC was largely due to higher programming and production costs, partially offset by higher advertising and affiliate revenue. The increase in programming and production costs was due to an increase in the average cost of programming and the shift in timing of the Academy Awards, which aired in the third quarter compared to the second quarter in the prior fiscal year. Domestic advertising revenue increased year over year at both cable and broadcasting, driven by favorable comparisons versus the prior year due to COVID-19. At cable, the increase was driven by ESPN, where third-quarter advertising revenue increased by $400 million versus the prior year, reflecting the return of live sporting events. Q4 to date, domestic cash advertising revenue at ESPN is currently pacing above prior year. But bear in mind that this comparison is complicated by various COVID and timing impacts from the prior year. We're not going to provide a forecast for the quarter, but the underlying sports ad marketplace remains strong for us, particularly in a quarter in which the Olympics were held. At Broadcasting, higher advertising results were primarily driven by increased rates and the timing of the Academy Awards, which benefited both the owned television stations and ABC. Total domestic affiliate revenue increased 4% in the quarter. This was driven by a benefit of eight points of growth from higher rates, offset by a three-point decline due to a decrease in subscribers. Results at international channels declined due to higher programming and production costs, partially offset by higher advertising revenue. Both of these factors were impacted by the return of live sporting events and, in particular, the Indian Premier League, which held cricket matches from April 9 until the season was postponed on May 4 versus no matches in the prior-year quarter due to COVID-19. Turning to direct-to-consumer, Q3 operating income improved by over $300 million versus the prior year, driven by Hulu, partially offset by a higher loss at Disney+. The increase at Hulu was due to growth in subscription and advertising revenue, partially offset by higher programming costs related to Hulu Live. Hulu ended the third quarter with 42.8 million paid subscribers, up from 41.6 million in Q2, inclusive of the Hulu Live digital MVPD service. Paid subscribers to Hulu Live decreased slightly to 3.7 million from 3.8 million at the end of Q2. At Disney+, operating results decreased versus the prior year due to higher programming and production, marketing and technology costs, driven by the ongoing expansion of the service. These higher costs were partially offset by increased subscription revenue, reflecting subscriber growth and increases in retail pricing as well as Premier Access revenue for Cruella. Note that Disney+ Premier Access revenue is included in our DTC operating results but is excluded for the purposes of calculating ARPU. As Bob mentioned earlier, we ended the third quarter with 116 million global paid subscribers to Disney+, up from approximately 104 million in the second quarter. Disney+ Hotstar accounted for the majority of our net subscriber additions between Q2 and Q3, making up a little less than 40% of our total Disney+ subscriber base as of the end of the third quarter. However, subscriber growth was also solid at our core Disney+ markets, excluding Disney+ Hotstar, with total quarter-over-quarter net adds in those markets consistent with net adds from Q2. Disney+'s overall ARPU this quarter was $4.16. Excluding Disney+ Hotstar, it was $6.12 or an increase of about $0.50 versus the second quarter, reflecting a benefit from the recent price increases, both domestically and abroad. Disney+ Hotstar ARPU also increased from Q2 to Q3 due to higher ad revenue per subscriber reflecting the roughly four weeks of IPL matches that were played in Q3 versus none in Q2. At ESPN+, operating results in the quarter were comparable versus the prior year. ESPN+ ended Q3 with 14.9 million paid subscribers, reflecting over 1 million net subscriber additions versus the second quarter. Content sales, licensing and other operating income at DME decreased in the third quarter versus the prior year due to lower home entertainment and theatrical distribution results. The decrease in home entertainment results was due to lower unit sales of new release titles reflecting the performance of Raya and the Last Dragon and Soul in the third quarter compared to Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker, Frozen 2, Onward, Call of the Wild and Ford v Ferrari in the prior-year quarter, along with lower catalog sales. The decrease in theatrical distribution results was primarily due to higher marketing expense for future releases and lower operating income from titles in release. Looking ahead, there are a handful of items I would like to mention, as you think about our fourth quarter. At Linear Networks, we expect fourth-quarter operating income to decline versus the prior year, reflecting incremental marketing and programming costs at ABC and FX, in addition to an adverse comparison to last year's benefit from the 53rd week. The increase in marketing and programming expenses at ABC and FX is driven by more than twofold increase in the number of series premieres versus the prior-year quarter as productions in the prior year were impacted by COVID. As it relates to the 53rd week, recall that last year, we estimated a benefit of approximately $200 million to the company which primarily impacted our Linear Networks. At content sales, licensing and other, we are expecting an operating loss in the fourth quarter driven by a number of items, including higher marketing and distribution costs in the theatrical window due to more titles being released versus the prior year, in addition to lower results from home entertainment and third-party content licensing. We now expect our capital expenditures in fiscal 2021 to be approximately $200 million lower than our fiscal 2020 capex of $4 billion due to lower spending at our domestic parks and resorts, partially offset by increased spending for facilities across the enterprise and technology for our DTC services. And finally, in light of the ongoing recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic as well as our continued prioritization of investments that support our growth initiatives, the board decided not to declare or pay a dividend for the first half of fiscal 2021. Longer term, we do anticipate that both dividends and share repurchases will remain a part of our capital allocation strategy. However, for the time being, we don't anticipate declaring a dividend or repurchasing shares until we return to a more normalized operating environment and our leverage is back to levels more consistent with a single A credit rating. And with that, I'll now turn the call back over to Lowell and we would be happy to take your questions.Lowell Singer -- Senior Vice President, Investor Relations OK. Thanks, Christine. And once again, as we transition to the Q&A, let me note that since we are not physically together this afternoon, I will do my best to moderate the Q&A by directing your questions to the appropriate executive. And with that, we are ready for the first question. 