  OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Q1 West Pharmaceutical Services earnings conference call. [Operator instructions]. I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Quintin Lai, vice president of investor relations. Please go ahead.Quintin Lai -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Didi. Good morning, and welcome to West's first quarter 2022 conference call. We issued our financial results this morning, and the release has been posted in the investors section on the company's website located at westpharma.com. This morning, CEO, Eric Green; and CFO, Bernard Birkett, will review our financial results, provide an update on our business and present an update on our financial outlook for the full year of 2022. There's a slide presentation that accompanies today's call and a copy of that presentation is available on the investors section of our website. On Slide 4 is our safe harbor statement. Statements made by management on this call and in the accompanying presentation contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of U.S. federal securities law.These statements are based on our beliefs and assumptions, current expectations, estimates and forecasts. Future results are influenced by many factors beyond the control of the company. Actual results could differ materially from past results as well as those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statement made here. Please refer to today's press release as well as any other disclosures made by the company regarding the risk to which it is subject, including our 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K reports. During today's call, management will make reference to non-GAAP financial measures, including organic sales growth, adjusted operating profit, adjusted operating profit margin, and adjusted diluted EPS. Reconciliations and limitations of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable financial results prepared in conformity to GAAP are provided in this morning's earnings release. I now turn the call over to West CEO and president, Eric Green. Eric? 

 



Eric Green -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Quintin, and good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining us today. We will start on Slide 5. I'm pleased to report that we delivered a strong first quarter. This was driven by double-digit organic sales growth with increasing demand for our high-value products. Our confirmed order book for the rest of 2022 and into 2023 remains as strong as ever, primarily driven by non-COVID-based business. And to provide you more color, over half of the order book is coming from biologics demand. These results were delivered despite several macroeconomic challenges that are impacting all companies and sectors. We have taken proactive measures to mitigate the risk of these challenges and ensure the continuity of critical components to our customers. For example, inflation, we're adjusting our pricing strategy and have enacted surcharges as a pass-through to offset increasing costs of raw materials, energy, and transportation. Supply chain. Our raw material and proprietary medical device components are sourced from across the globe.

 



 We have increased our inventory of these key raw materials to minimize any supply disruption. And we continue to execute and monitor our business continuity plans with respect to these issues, including the war in Ukraine and the recent pandemic surge in China. Turning to Slide 6. Our team members across the globe continue to demonstrate their passion to improve patient lives that remain focused on our strategic initiatives of execute, innovate, and grow. Starting with the first pillar of execute. We continue to deliver the key drivers of growth in Q1 with strong customer demand of HVP components, including NovaPure and Westar. There was solid demand in the quarter across all market units and a positive outlook remains for the rest of the year. And in particular, for our biologics market segment, which is now greater than 42% of our total sales, we see both existing and new customers continue to spec our highest level of components by West or our partner, Daikyo, for their sensitive molecules. Our capital spending investments through expansions and optimizing productivity across the global operations remain on track. To date, almost all of our 2020 expansion phases have been installed, validated and in production, and we're making good progress on the 2021 capital expansion plans, some of which will come online in the second half of 2022 and throughout 2023. With the accelerated biologics demand for NovaPure, we have executed additional support for NovaPure future demand as well as other HVP finishing capabilities. Expansion construction is underway and will be online toward the back half of this year with commercial production in 2023. Shifting to West team of scientific and technical experts. We continue to educate and share insights in biologics, combination products, and container closure integrity, which are priority areas in pharmaceutical packaging. At the recent PDA annual meeting, several of our West experts were recipients of prestigious awards. Now to innovate. We need to fuel innovation to develop future products, solutions, and services that connect the dots across science and technology to create customer value. We're doing so by investing in external opportunities that complement our current business needs such as our partnership with Techin to create a research center of excellence in combination with West scientific expertise. The Corning collaboration as we expand our HVP value proposition to lead the industry from components to a truly integrated system of elastomer in glass and building technologies like the recent collaboration with Pneuma Systems to develop a family of fluid flow technologies for drug delivery. I'm pleased on the progress on our R&D team is making around innovate. Moving to the final pillar, growth, which includes uses of cash. We're working from a position of strength as we believe we have a long horizon of continued strong organic sales growth and margin expansion. As we have demonstrated over the past two years, we have increased our capital spending for capacity expansion at existing sites across our global network to support our organic growth initiatives. In addition, we have made inorganic investments such as partnerships with Corning. Our continued focus within these three strategic pillars, execute, innovate and grow, allows us to be more responsive, leverage our assets more effectively and support the trends that are happening in the industry today. This was most evident from our recent site visits in Dublin and Waterford, Ireland. For example, in Dublin, I saw firsthand how the digitalization of our manufacturing technologies is providing real-time data, enabling our team to raise the bar in operational performance with higher yields and efficiencies. At Waterford, the capital investments over the last one and a half years have significantly increased capacity with additional lines producing HVP product to meet increased demand. And we're seeing early success with our next-generation fully integrated automation that we believe will scale and transfer across the network for a combined benefit of higher quality production and higher manufacturing throughput. Lastly and probably, the hard work of our Waterford team was acknowledged by the Ireland-U.S. Council as we received the Global Public Service Award for our commitment during the pandemic. Now I'll turn it over to our CFO, Bernard Birkett, who will provide more detail on our financial performance.Bernard Birkett -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Eric, and good morning. Let's review the numbers in more detail. We'll first look at Q1 2022 revenues and profits where we saw continued strong sales and EPS growth, led by strong revenue performance in our biologics and pharma market units. I will take you through the profit growth we saw in the quarter as well as some balance sheet takeaways. And finally, we will provide an update to our 2022 guidance. First up, Q1. Our financial results are summarized on Slide 7, and the reconciliation of non-U.S. GAAP measures are described in Slides 15 to 18. We recorded net sales of $720 million, representing organic sales growth of 11%. Looking at Slide 8. Proprietary products sales grew organically by 14.4% in the quarter. High-value products, which made up approximately 73% of proprietary products sales in the quarter, grew double digits and had solid momentum across biologics and pharma market units in Q1. Looking at the performance of the market units, the biologics market unit delivered strong double-digit growth. We continue to work with many biotech and biopharma customers who are using West and Daikyo high-value product offerings. The generics market unit experienced mid-single-digit growth, led by sales of FluroTec and Westar components. Our pharma market unit saw high-single-digit growth with sales, led by high-value products, including Daikyo and NovaPure components. And contract manufacturing declined 3.8% for the first quarter due to a reduction in sales of components for diagnostic devices. We recorded $284.6 million in gross profit, $12.7 million or 4.7% above Q1 of last year. And our gross profit margin of 39.5% was a 100-basis-point decline from the same period last year. We saw improvement in adjusted operating profit with $189.9 million recorded this quarter, compared to $179.2 million in the same period last year for a 6% increase. However, our adjusted operating profit margin of 26.4% was a 30-basis-point decrease from the same period last year. Finally, adjusted diluted EPS grew 12% for Q1. Excluding stock-based compensation tax benefit of $0.12 in Q1, EPS grew by approximately 15%. So let's review the drivers in both revenue and profit. On Slide 9, we show the contributions to sales growth in the quarter. Volume and mix contributed $49.9 million or 7.4 percentage points of growth. And sales price increases contributed $23.6 million or 3.5 percentage points of growth in the quarter. Looking at margin performance on Slide 10 shows our consolidated gross profit margin of 39.5% for Q1 2022, slightly down from 40.5% in Q1 2021. Proprietary products first quarter gross profit margin of 43.4% was 290 basis points lower than the margin achieved in the first quarter of 2021. The decline in proprietary products gross profit margin was caused by several factors, including lower levels of absorption during the early part of the quarter due to short-term labor constraints, increases in raw material and overhead costs. In addition, our 2021 gross profit margin included approximately 150 basis points of benefit in the prior year associated with onetime fees from COVID and other supply agreements, which did not reoccur in the first quarter of 2022. These fees had approximately 160 basis points of benefit on Q1 2021 operating margin. Contract manufacturing first quarter gross profit margin of 20.1% was 440 basis points above the margin achieved in the first quarter of 2021. The increase in margin is largely attributed to pass-through of inflationary costs and components in the quarter. Now let's look at our balance sheet and review how we've done in terms of generating more cash for the business. On Slide 11, we have listed some key cash flow metrics. Operating cash flow was $151.2 million for the first quarter of 2022, an increase of $62.5 million compared to the same period last year, 70.5% increase. Our operating cash flow in the period benefited from our working capital performance. Our first quarter 2022 year-to-date capital spending was $65.8 million, $11.1 million higher than the same period last year. Working capital of approximately $1.1 billion at March 31, 2022, decreased slightly by $42.2 million from December 31, 2021, primarily due to the net reduction of our cash offset by an increase in inventory levels. Our cash balance at March 31 of $667.7 million was 94.9 million lower than our December 2021 balance. The decrease in cash is primarily due to our share repurchase program and higher capex, offset by our strong operating results in the period. Turning to guidance. Slide 12 provides a high-level summary. We are reaffirming our full year 2022 net sales guidance. We expect net sales to be in a range of 3.05 billion to $3.075 billion. There is an estimated FX headwind of $115 million based on current foreign exchange rates, compared to a prior estimated headwind of $70 million. We expect organic sales growth to be in the range of 11% to 12%, compared to our prior guidance of approximately 10%. We expect our full year 2022 adjusted diluted EPS guidance to be in a range of $9.30 to $9.45, compared to a prior range of $9.20 to $9.35. This revised guidance includes our first quarter $0.12 EPS positive impact of tax benefits from stock-based compensation. Also, our capex guidance remains at $380 million for the year. There are some key elements I want to bring your attention to as you review our guidance. Estimated FX headwind on EPS has an increased impact of approximately $0.38 based on current foreign currency exchange rates compared to a prior estimated headwind of $0.21. And our guidance excludes future tax benefits from stock-based compensation. So to summarize the key takeaways for the first quarter, strong top line growth in proprietary, growth in operating profit, growth in adjusted diluted EPS and growth in operating cash flow, delivering in line with our pillars of execute, innovate and grow. I'd now like to turn the call back over to Eric.Eric Green -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Bernard. To summarize on Slide 13, our execution in Q1 has positioned us well for the year ahead. We continue to have a strong base business despite the current macro environment in which we operate. We remain well positioned with the right market-led strategy around execute, innovate, and grow. We have a robust book of committed orders with momentum in 2022 and continuing into 2023. We continue to realize the benefits of our global operating model, and we're continuing to accelerate capital spending across our operations to meet current and anticipated future growth. With great pride, we realized the criticality of our products for healthcare across the globe, which is why our purpose to improve patient lives propels us each and every day. Didi, we're ready to take questions. Thank you. 