
OperatorGood day and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Nasdaq First Quarter 2021 Results. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers' presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Ed Ditmire, Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Ed Ditmire -- Vice President, Head of Investor RelationsGood morning everyone and thank you for joining us today to discuss Nasdaq's first quarter 2021 financial results. On the line are Adena Friedman, our CEO; Ann Dennison, our CFO; John Zecca, our Chief Legal and Regulatory Officer, and other members of the management team. After prepared remarks, we'll open up to Q&A. The press release and presentation are on our website. We intend to use the website as a means of disclosing material, non-public information and complying with disclosure obligations under SEC Regulation FD.

 



I'd like to remind you that certain statements in this presentation, during Q&A may relate to future events and expectations and as such constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results may differ materially from these projections. Information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ from forward-looking statements is contained in our press release and periodic reports filed with the SEC. I will now turn the call over to Adena.Adena T. Friedman -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Ed. Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us. My remarks today will focus on Nasdaq's first quarter 2021 financial and business performance as well as the progress we have made executing on our strategy. I would like to begin by acknowledging how deeply proud I am of the Nasdaq team's continued commitment to our clients during this period. A full year has now passed since our global workforce began working remotely and I could not be more pleased with the first quarter results that our team has delivered to our stakeholders today.Our relentless client focus and Nasdaq's nimbleness allowed us to generate strong financial results for the first quarter of 2021. We also made important progress against our corporate strategy during the quarter with the completion of our acquisition of Verafin in February and the announced agreement to sell our U.S. Fixed Income business to Tradeweb Markets. Our performance during this period continues to underscore the resilience of Nasdaq's diversified product offering and business model as well as our ability to address the needs of our clients in a rapidly changing environment.

 



Now I will turn to our strong financial results for the first quarter of 2021. Nasdaq delivered net revenues of $851 million, an increase of $150 million or 21% from the prior year period, driven by 17% organic growth in our Solutions segment businesses and 17% organic growth in our Market Services business. The acquisition of Verafin and the changes in FX rates drove the remainder of the growth for the business in the quarter. Across our exchange businesses, the incredibly dynamic capital markets environment during the period combined with our strong competitive positioning resulted in record U.S. equity and options volumes and a record quarter for new listings.I'm also extremely proud of the progress we've made to continue to grow our annualized recurring revenue or ARR, which is up 21% compared to the prior year period. This was driven by our continued focus on key secular growth opportunities that are powering our Solutions segments. We are seeing rising demand across our clientele for our solutions including from institutional investors for analytics and workflow tools, from corporate clients for our ESG and IR solutions, and from financial institutions and marketplaces for technology that helps reduce financial crime.Our ARR growth was also boosted by the acquisition of Verafin. This strong operating leverage of our model was evident in the results. Our non-GAAP operating margins increased to 54%, up 2 percentage points compared to the prior year. As a result, we experienced 25% increase in our non-GAAP operating income and a 31% increase in our non-GAAP diluted earnings per share in the period.Turning now to the specific highlights in the quarter, I will begin with our foundational marketplace and corporate businesses. Our Market Services segment saw net revenues of $338 million, a 20% increase from the prior year period and a new quarterly revenue record for this business. This is primarily led by higher U.S. options and cash equities trading volumes.

 



We're also seeing an increase in demand for Trade Management Services connectivity solutions as clients adjust their capacity for a wider range of volume scenarios. Nasdaq's U.S. options market set a quarterly record of 892 million contracts traded during the period, an increase of 57% while our U.S. equities market set a quarterly record of 153 million shares traded, an increase of 20% year-over-year.Additionally, during the period, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell our U.S. Fixed Income business, NFI, to an affiliate of Tradeweb Markets. The decision to sell NFI aligns with our strategy to maximize our potential as a major technology and analytics provider to the global capital markets. We expect the transaction to close later in 2021, subject to customary closing conditions.Next, our Corporate Platforms segment delivered revenues of $155 million, a 21% increase with robust contributions across each of the product areas in that business. The business is boosted by record levels of new listing activity, material contribution from Nasdaq Private Market following a record first quarter for private company transactions and increased demand for our Investor Relations Intelligence and ESG solutions.In our IR & ESG Services business, we are seeing consistent and growing demand for our expanded suite of products, which has been carefully designed to help our clients measure, analyze, collaborate, and take positive action regarding their respective investor relations, governance, and sustainability programs. For example, in our IR Intelligence unit, we saw six new client wins from our new expanded ESG advisory offering, a more in-depth solution that has lengthened and deepened our engagement with executive leadership teams as they seek to meet the demand from institutional investors and other stakeholders for greater clarity on their ESG strategies.And we are seeing the steeper client engagement result in continued sales momentum for our consultative IR advisory service and our Nasdaq IR Insight workflow solution, which saw a combined 36% increase in sales during the quarter. In our listing segment, Nasdaq led U.S. exchanges for IPOs during the period, welcoming 275 IPOs that raised $74.4 billion, including 79 operating company IPOs and 196 SPAC IPOs. The Nasdaq Stock Market led U.S. exchanges with a 69% total win rate on IPOs, including a 77% win rate among operating companies and a 66% win rate among SPACs. Listing highlights from the first quarter include the IPOs of Bumble, Qualtrics, Affirm, Playtika, and Petco. During the quarter, Nasdaq listed seven of the Top 10 largest IPOs by capital raised.Companies have responded positively to our virtual IPO experienced during the pandemic period and we are excited and encouraged to see our iconic bell ceremony and IPO day experience come to life again in Times Square and in cities across the country through our unique remote bell ceremony. Highlights include going on the road during the quarter to Bumble in Texas and to Qualtrics in Utah. We look forward to welcoming our clients and capital markets partners safely to the Nasdaq MarketSite for these milestone celebrations as we start to prepare for a post-pandemic period.Of course, I also want to acknowledge the strong start to the second quarter in Listings with, in particular, noting Nasdaq's successful direct listing of Coinbase, a global leader in infrastructure and technology for the crypto economy. The Coinbase listing represents the largest direct listing in history and was the largest ever initial public listing -- opening across on Nasdaq.Now let me turn to our Market Technology and Investment Intelligence businesses. Our Market Technology segment delivered $100 million in revenues, including a partial period contribution from the Verafin acquisition, which we completed in February. Our annualized recurring revenue for the quarter was $416 million, a 62% increase year-over-year, including a 10% increase from our existing business and an additional $134 million representing the annualized total of Verafin's first quarter subscription revenues irrespective of the closing date or the temporary impact of the writedown of deferred revenues.To give you more transparency in how different parts of Market Technology are operating and progressing going forward. We have started to report our revenues from this segment of our business in two groups. The first is called Marketplace Infrastructure Technology, which will comprise our solutions for the full trade lifecycle to market infrastructure operators, banks and brokers, and non-financial market operators. And the second is called Anti Financial Crime Technology, our offerings providing surveillance, risk management, and Verafin's anti-money laundering and fraud detection solutions.As we stated in previous investor calls, there are certain areas of our Market Technology business that have been inversely [Phonetic] impacted by the pandemic related factors largely in the Marketplace Infrastructure Technology business. And while the environment continues to be characterized by the logistical challenges to implementations and lengthened sales cycles, the actions we took last year to respond to those dynamics are resulting in stabilized, but moderated revenue growth in the near-term, albeit with short-term impact to segment profitability.More importantly, our longer-term vision for Market Technology remains on track as demonstrated by the progress we've been delivering in new sales and revenues from SaaS products and services in particular, our Anti Financial Crime Technology Solutions. Excluding the impact of Verafin, SaaS revenues within all of Market Technology increased 15% year-over-year.Turning to our Investment Intelligence segment, we delivered net revenues of $258 million, up $47 million or 22% from the prior year period. Overall, assets under management in ETPs benchmarked to Nasdaq's indexes totaled $385 billion at the end of the quarter, an increase of 87% from the prior year period and a new quarterly record. Additionally, trading of futures and options on futures contracts tracking Nasdaq indexes increased 31% year-over-year.I'm also pleased to see increasing adoption of some of our recent product innovations. In particular, AUM in the Invesco QQQ Innovation Suite built on their strong debut in the fourth quarter of 2020 and now stands at approximately $2 billion in AUM in just five months after launch making this one of the most successful new launches for Nasdaq's Index business.Our Analytics business delivered revenues of $48 million, an increase of $7 million or 17% from the prior year period. Led by eVestment and Solovis, this business experienced strong -- increased growth in the first quarter due to improvement in both new users and retention compared to the prior year period.On a sequential basis, new sales were up 23% from the fourth quarter of 2020 reflecting both a rebound in institutional investment industry demand following some temporary contraction in 2020 as well as increased realizations of the synergies between eVestment and Solovis as the combination helped drive 28 new accounts to Solovis in the first quarter.These results underscore our strategy to create comprehensive workflow solutions for investment managers and institutional asset owners from pre-commitment diligence to post-commitment portfolio tracking and secondary trades. Lastly, within Investment Intelligence, our Market Data revenues rose 11% driven primarily by expanding international demand for our proprietary data products.As I wrap up, I would like to reiterate that Nasdaq remains diligently focused on serving the unique needs of our clients while we advance our strategic mission to capitalize on the opportunities that lie ahead of us. At our Investor Day in November, we articulated that our diversified business model was designed to provide us with the resiliency to drive disciplined growth across a variety of backdrops.Our recent success, especially in the first quarter, underscores the power of the Nasdaq platform and highlights that the strategy underpinning our repositioned franchise is resonating with our clients as we continue to reallocate capital to higher growth opportunities while maintaining leadership in our marketplace core.This focus has also resulted in many new instances of dynamic collaboration across our businesses, be it new product innovations or bringing advanced technology solutions to help our clients solve major industry challenges. For example, in our Anti Financial Crime Technology segment, we're very excited about the work that we can do together with Verafin.This includes the potential for new client opportunities given our strong relationships with Tier 1 and Tier 2 banks as the Verafin team continues to build out their solutions to increase confidence in the global financial system. Additionally, we are pleased to support their international expansion especially into Europe where Verafin has just landed its first client.Another great example is the intersection of our Listings and Index businesses. Listing the next generation of innovators, including many of the largest IPOs that have come to Nasdaq in the recent years, creates strong synergies to drive new product development in collaboration with our Index business.For example, the strength and success of our flagship Nasdaq-100 index and our partnership with Invesco laid the groundwork for our recent launch of the Invesco Innovation Suite, including the Invesco NASDAQ Next Generation 100 ETF comprised of the 101st to 200th largest non-financial companies listed on Nasdaq, the NASDAQ Next Gen 100 index has been one of the fastest growing ETFs that we've ever launched with a partner and includes companies such as Etsy and Roku as well as many of the fastest growing enterprise technology and healthcare companies listed on our market.As I look back at this quarter, I could not be prouder of the performance across the business. We officially celebrated Nasdaq's 50th anniversary in February and given our rich history as a technology pioneer, I remain confident that we are moving Nasdaq in the right direction for many years to come. And with that, I will turn it over to Ann to review our financial results in greater detail.Ann Dennison -- Executive Vice President, Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Adena and good morning everyone. My commentary will primarily focus on our non-GAAP results and all comparisons will be to the prior year period unless otherwise noted. Reconciliations of U.S. GAAP to non-GAAP results can be found in our press release as well as in a file located in the financial section of our Investor Relations website at ir.nasdaq.com. I will start by reviewing first quarter revenue performance as shown on Page 3 of the presentation and organic revenue growth on Pages 4 and 14.The $150 million increase in reported net revenue of $851 million is the net result of organic growth of $118 million including 17% organic increase in both Market Services and Solutions segments, a $14 million positive impact from acquisitions, and an $18 million impact from changes in FX rates.I will now review quarterly highlights within each of our reporting segments. I'll start with Investment Intelligence revenue, which increased $47 million or 22%. Organic revenue growth during the period was 20%, reflecting very strong growth in our Index business as well as strong contributions from both the Market Data and Analytics businesses. Annualized recurring revenue or ARR was $542 million and increased 13% compared to the prior year period.AUM in ETPs licensed to Nasdaq's indexes rose 87% year-over-year to $385 billion, including a 25% increase from net inflows and a 62% increase from changes in market impact. On Page 19 of the presentation, you will find our new disclosure on net flow contribution to the year-over-year change in AUM. The segment operating margin of 65%, increased 1 percentage point compared to the prior year period. Market Technology revenue increased $19 million or 23%. The increase reflects organic revenue growth of $3 million or 4%, $12 million from the acquisition of Verafin, which closed mid-quarter and a $4 million impact from the changes in FX rates. Excluding a temporary $7 million purchase price adjustment on deferred revenue associated with the closing of the Verafin transaction, Verafin revenues would have totaled $19 million for the partial quarter period following the February 11th, 2021 close.On Slide 10, we show the run-off of the remaining $23 million purchase price adjustment on Verafin's deferred revenue. The $3 million organic increase in Market Tech was driven primarily by higher SaaS-based Anti Financial Crime Technology revenues in particular from our market and trade surveillance products. ARR for Market Technology was $416 million in the first quarter of 2021, an increase of 62% compared to the prior year period largely due to the Verafin acquisition. Excluding Verafin, Market Technology ARR increased 10% in the period.In addition to the new Market Technology reporting Adena mentioned earlier, we are supplementing this with another revenue breakdown disclosing the recurring subscription SaaS and support licensing revenues as well as the non-recurring professional services contributions to help investors and analysts track our progress as we continue to expand the SaaS contribution across both our Market Infrastructure Technology and Anti Financial Crime Technology businesses.The segment operating margin was a negative 2%, but would have been a positive 5% when excluding the non-cash purchase price adjustment related to Verafin deferred revenue. The 5% margin is not a level that we believe reflects the potential of the business and we continue to feel optimistic about our ambition for a margin that supports Market Technology being a Rule of 40 business in 2023 and beyond.While the impact of the Verafin purchase price adjustment on deferred revenue is temporary and will be eliminated over the next four quarters, on a core basis, two main factors will drive our margin expansion over the coming years. First, our mix of SaaS subscription revenues within Market Technology is increasing significantly. Looking ahead, we expect it to continue to grow as we execute our strategy. This is critical, because our SaaS businesses have approximately two to three times the average contribution margin of the on-premise solutions.Second, we accelerated hiring in certain areas of our Market Technology business in recent quarters and on a temporary basis allocated more of our existing resources to relatively low margin installation work, in particular in the most complex on-premise clearing solutions. We expect the margin impact to gradually diminish over the coming years.Corporate Platforms revenues increased $27 million or 21%. Organic revenue growth totaled $24 million or 19% and there was a $3 million impact from changes in FX rates. The organic revenue increase was primarily driven by higher U.S. listings revenues due to an increase in IPOs and higher Nasdaq Private Market revenues, together with an increase in both IR & ESG advisory services revenues. Nasdaq Private Market revenues were about $6 million to $7 million higher than the average quarterly run rate of 2020. And while this business has averaged an over 40% CAGR in the last 3 years, we would expect to see at least $5 million in sequential decline in 2Q '21 from NPM's particularly strong first quarter.Corporate Platforms ARR was $487 million and increased 12% compared to the prior year period. The segment operating margin of 42%, increased 7 percentage points compared to the prior year period and was driven by both the unusually strong activity on the Nasdaq Private Market as well as from the substantial increase in the listed issuer base. Market Services net revenues increased $57 million or 20%. The organic revenue increase was $48 million or 17% and there was a $9 million impact from changes in FX rates.The organic increase during the period primarily reflects increases in cash equities and equity derivatives net revenues due to higher industry trading volumes and an increase in trade management services revenues. The segment operating margin of 67%, increased 4 percentage points from the prior year period reflecting strong operating leverage on record trading revenues.Turning to Pages 9 and 14 to review expenses. Non-GAAP operating expenses increased $57 million to $393 million. The increase reflects a $24 million or 7% organic increase, an $18 million increase from the impact of acquisitions, and a $15 million increase from the impact of changes in FX rates. The organic growth and expenses reflects the sum of one, relatively consistent low-single digit percentage increase related to hiring and wage inflation.Two, higher compensation expense as variable performance linked compensation increased, reflecting the company's outstanding growth and three, cost related to what has been an incredibly active capital markets backdrop. For example, costs related to increasing our trading capacity as well as marketing commitments supporting the extraordinary number of IPO wins in recent periods.Turning to Slide 10, we are narrowing our 2021 non-GAAP operating expense guidance to a range of $1.57 billion to $1.62 billion to reflect strong and broad-based organic revenue growth in the first quarter and the impact that growth has on variable expenses like performance-based compensation and marketing commitments.As we look forward to the remainder of the year, overall, if performance continues to be strong, we would expect to come in at the high-end of the expense guidance range. In addition, we expect the year-over-year organic growth and expenses to be elevated particularly in 2Q '21 compared to 2Q '20 as the prior year period had a significant reduction in travel and other in-office activity due to the onset of the pandemic as well as lower new listing activity and less performance-based compensation due to the uncertain financial environment in 2Q '20.Moving to operating profit and margins, non-GAAP operating income increased $93 million in the first quarter of 2021. Our non-GAAP operating margin of 54%, increased 2 percentage points year-over-year. Net interest expense was $28 million in the first quarter of 2021, an increase of $4 million compared to the prior year period due to incremental interest expense related to the financing of the Verafin acquisition.Consistent with our reporting practice, interest expense related to acquisition financing that was incurred prior to the mid-quarter close of the transaction was excluded from non-GAAP results for this quarter and therefore, an incremental $3 million to $4 million of Verafin-related interest expense will be reflected in the second quarter results.The non-GAAP effective tax rate was 24% for the first quarter of 2021, which includes a benefit related to the vesting of certain equity awards. For the full year 2021, we still expect our non-GAAP effective tax rate to be in the range of 25% to 27% and barring any changes in the corporate tax landscape, we expect to come in near the bottom-end of the range for the year.Non-GAAP net income attributable to Nasdaq for the first quarter of 2021 was $327 million or $1.96 per diluted share compared to $251 million or $1.50 per diluted share in the prior year period.Turning to Slide 11, debt increased by $349 million versus 4Q '20 primarily due to net issuances of $435 million of commercial paper used to fund a portion of the Verafin acquisition partially offset by a $87 million decrease in the book values of our Euro bonds caused by changes in FX rates.Our total debt-to-EBITDA ratio ended the period at 3.4 times, a decrease from 3.5 times in the fourth quarter of 2020. During the first quarter of 2021, the company paid common stock dividends in the aggregate of $81 million and repurchased common stock in the amount of $162 million. Today, we are announcing a 10% increase in the regular quarterly dividend to $0.54 per share.Additionally, during the first quarter, the Board of Directors authorized an increase to the share repurchase program of an additional $1 billion, subject to the closing of the sale of our U.S. Fixed Income business and acceleration of the issuance of Nasdaq common stock related to the sale.As previously communicated, we intend to use the proceeds from the sale as well as available tax benefits, working and clearing capital of the business, and other sources to repurchase shares in order to offset EPS dilution. We continue to expect the sale to be temporarily 2% dilutive to non-GAAP EPS in the 12-month period following the close and we see immaterial [Phonetic] dilution in periods thereafter.Overall, the actions taken during the first quarter support Nasdaq's accelerated evolution and allow the company to further concentrate its resources on technology, analytics, and ESG opportunities. Thank you for your time and I'll turn it back over to the operator for Q&A.