
OperatorGood day and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the CSX Corporation Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speaker presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to hand the conference over to Bill Slater, Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Bill Slater -- Head of Investor Relations

 



Thank you and good afternoon everyone. Joining me on today's call are Jim Foote President and Chief Executive Officer; Kevin Boone, Executive Vice President of Sales and Marketing; Jamie Boychuk, Executive Vice President of Operations and Sean Pelkey, Acting Chief Financial Officer. On Slide 2 is our forward-looking disclosure followed by our non-GAAP disclosure on Slide 3.With that, it is my pleasure to introduce, President and Chief Executive Officer, Jim Foote.James M. Foote -- President and Chief Executive OfficerGreat. Thanks, Bill, and thank you for joining us on the call today. This quarter's results highlight just how quickly volumes have rebounded as each of our three lines of business experienced record growth as we lap the most severe economic impacts of the pandemic. I want to first thank all of the CSX railroaders for their unwavering commitment to our customers as they work very hard to deliver service in a very difficult operating environment. As we enter the second half of the year, our focus is squarely on continuing this growth. We have kept our yards and terminals open and freight moving throughout the recovery and we will continue taking the necessary steps to add resources and increase fluidity in order to help customers meet their own growth targets this year despite the ongoing supply chain disruptions.

 



Let's begin with Slide 5 of the presentation, an overview of our second quarter financial results. Operating income increased to $1.69 billion and earnings per share rose to $0.52. These figures include $349 million and $0.12 per share impact from the sale of property rights to the Commonwealth of Virginia. Our operating ratio was 43.4%, including an 11.7 percentage point impact from the Virginia transaction. Excluding these impacts, operating income increased 62%, earnings per share increased 82% and the operating ratio improved 820 basis points.Turning to Slide 6. Revenue increased 33% on 27% volume growth. Merchandise revenue increased 26% on 21% higher volumes, led by automotive, metals and equipment and ag and food markets. Intermodal revenue increased 42% on 28% volume growth, setting a new record for average daily volume. Both domestic and international volumes increased significantly and continued to benefit from strong demand for transportation services, as well as growth from East Coast ports.Coal revenue increased 47% on 44% higher volumes with growth across all coal markets. Domestic coal benefited from higher utility and industrial demand and both export met and thermal coal volumes rebounded meaningfully. Other revenue growth was driven by increased intermodal storage and equipment usage as well as higher revenue from affiliates.Turning to Slide 7. We remain committed to being the safest railroad. In the second quarter, we achieved a new record low number of train accidents, driven by our focus on increased communication and education to reduce human factor caused accidents. Safety initiatives for the remainder of the year will focus on culture, communication and continuous education. As an example, we recently introduced a modified approach to operational testing for T&E employees. The new program is designed to be instructive rather than disciplinary to increase employee engagement and create lasting changes in behavior. Combined with face to face safety summits and expanded education of top causes of incidents these new programs will further reduce risk and protect our workforce.

 



Moving to Slide 8, let's review this quarter's operating metrics. The intermodal segment continues to perform well. Intermodal trip plan performance averaged 89% for the quarter. And through the use of our reservation system and the hard work of our intermodal team, we have kept all our intermodal terminals open over the last year as volumes surged.Carload trip plan performance improved sequentially to 69% for the quarter and we are focused on continuing this positive momentum throughout the rest of the year. We are also working to further improve network fluidity. Car dwell improved sequentially and remains the lowest in the industry. Velocity began to turn positively exiting the quarter and we expect to see further improvements in both metrics in the second half of the year.On Slide 9, I want to take the opportunity to highlight some of the actions we're taking to resource the network for growth. As I mentioned on previous calls, we entered the year planning to add T&E headcount in response to the expected growth and we will continue adding through the second half of the year. Over the past several months, we have increased the size and number of our new conductor classes. And then also enacted new programs to improve availability of existing employees to ensure that we have resources in place to capture the rising demand and serve our customers well.We staged locomotives across the network as we prepared for the incremental volumes. While these assets provide additional flexibility to react to customer demand, we are maintaining a balanced operating plan. And we are investing in the safety and reliability of our network. We demonstrated this commitment by maintaining our capital spend throughout the pandemic and we continue to invest with a focus on the long-term growth and sustainability of our business. We still have ample capacity across the network for growth and we're working to find new ways to improve the efficiency and impact of our capital spending programs.Turning to Slide 10. Our focus on investing for the future extends to improving the safety, productivity and sustainability of CSX's operations through the increased use of technology while we are driving further emissions reductions through our advancement of energy management software and the expanded use of fuel saving technologies. In addition through the almost 40% increase in distributed powertrains year-over-year, we continue to expand the number of distributed power equipped locomotives. We are adding that capability to approximately 100 locomotives this year, in addition to including that on all the locomotive rebuilds we are performing. We're also expanding the use of inspection technologies to improve the safety of our operations and increase the efficacy of our track maintenance and repair programs. We're performing roughly 80% more drone inspection flights this year and our increased use of autonomous track inspection cars is improving safety by better highlighting areas in need of repair. Lastly, we are providing our field employees with digital tools to replace inefficient manual or paper-based processes to increase the speed of the communication across the railroad. We have distributed roughly 9,000 tablets to employees, which are improving both safety and productivity by allowing real-time information sharing and feedback. We are pleased with the success of these programs to date. And we're only beginning to see the potential value these investments can bring. With more efficient network planning and dispatching we're changing our customers to interact with CSX. We see significant opportunities to leverage technology, to improve the pace and quality of decision making across our business.I'll now turn it over to Sean to run through the numbers.Sean Pelkey -- Vice President and Acting Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Jim. I'm pleased to be here today and I'm excited for the opportunity to continue serving this Company at an important time in our history as we focus on culture, innovation and growth.Looking at the second quarter financial results on Slide 12. Revenue increased $735 million or 33% versus the prior year. This reflects growth across every market as we cycle the impacts of COVID-19. Revenue per unit growth of 5% includes a 2% impact from higher fuel surcharge revenue combined with favorable pricing and higher other revenue. Total expenses were 9% lower in the quarter. These results included a $349 million gain related to the sale of property rights to Virginia which was partially offset by the impact of higher fuel price. Excluding the property gain and the impact of fuel price, expenses would have been up 9% on a volume increase of 27%.Before I get into specifics by line, I would like to address the topic of inflation. The good news is we have secured adequate inventory and supply commitments for critical materials and we've worked to lock in the vast majority of unit costs for 2021. Excluding locomotive fuel, expense inflation this quarter was just above 3% and we don't expect that to move much going into the second half. We are seeing cost pressures on capital materials for core infrastructure and are working to offset that through increased productivity, sourcing shifts and inventory management. We don't expect any change to the overall capital budget this year. Several of our supplier contracts are based on lagging indicators. So we'll continue to monitor things closely going into next year and ensure inventory levels for critical materials remain adequate.Now moving down to the specific expense line items for Q2. Labor and fringe was up 18%. Higher volume and inflation together drove a $75 million increase in expense. Additionally incentive compensation increased $60 million on higher projections for award payouts this year, coupled with prior year downward adjustments related to COVID impacts. We continue to absorb growth on the network and sustain productivity gains. As we work to hire conductors, we've increased the use of distributed power and continue to optimize the plan. While total head count is roughly flat from year-end 2020, the active T&E count is up approximately 200 this year and we expect continued sequential increases in the third and fourth quarters. MS&O expense increased 6% or $23 million in the second quarter as higher volumes and inflation were the primary drivers. Locomotive productivity measured in GTMs per available horsepower hour, improved 4% compared to the second quarter of last year. We expect this to improve even further going forward as velocity and cycle times recover. In addition we are absorbing growth and driving efficiencies at our intermodal terminals with cost per container lift down 12% year-over-year. Fuel expense increased $103 million driven by average fuel prices that nearly doubled as well as higher volume. During the quarter, we also recorded an $18 million benefit related to the settlement of a state fuel tax matter.Looking at other expenses. Depreciation increased $4 million in the quarter primarily due to a larger asset base. Equipment rent expense increased $9 million or 12%. The impact of higher volume on freight car rents was partially offset by higher net earnings at affiliates. As a result of the Virginia transaction, gains on property dispositions increased significantly in the second quarter. As a reminder, the gain during the quarter was related to the first phase of the transaction.Total proceeds are expected to be $525 million, including $200 million already received, $200 million later this year and the remaining $125 million expected next year. Turning below the line. Interest expense improved $10 million due to a lower weighted average coupon and lower average debt balances. Other income increased $5 million, as favorable pension impacts were partially offset by lower interest on cash held. Income tax expense increased $204 million, mostly due to higher pre-tax income. The effective tax rate was 23.3% and was impacted by a state legislative change this quarter.Closing out the income statement, CSX delivered operating income of $1.7 billion. The reported operating ratio was 43.4% including a benefit of approximately 1,200 basis points from property gains. Now, these results do not include any impact from the Quality Carriers acquisition, which closed on July 1.The acquisition will add approximately 6% to CSX's revenue and is expected to be relatively neutral to operating income and EPS this year due to the impact of transaction and integration-related expenses. Quality trucking revenue will be recorded in the other revenue line. On the cost side, about two-thirds of the expense will be MS&O. About one-quarter of it is split between labor and fuel with the rest hitting depreciation and rents. Going forward, we expect to leverage the Quality transaction to accelerate rail growth by offering new multimodal products, extending our reach and further integrating CSX into our customers' supply chain.Now turning to cash flow on Slide 13. As you know, free cash flow is a major focus for this team. Through the second quarter free cash flow before dividends was $1.9 billion, up 35% versus the prior year. Just to put that in context, that's $300 million more free cash flow than we generated in all of 2017. Year-to-date free cash flow conversion on net income is 100% and we expect it to remain near that level on a full-year basis.The Company's cash balance remains elevated at nearly $3 billion. Our expectation remains that this will normalize over time as we continue to invest in the business and return capital to shareholders. Year-to-date shareholder returns are nearly $1.7 billion, including approximately $1.3 billion in buybacks and $400 million in dividends. We remain committed to returning excess cash to our shareholders with a balanced and opportunistic approach to buybacks.With that let me turn it back to Jim for his closing remarks.James M. Foote -- President and Chief Executive OfficerGreat. Thanks, Sean. Concluding with Slide 15, we are maintaining our full year revenue outlook. Excluding the impact from Quality Carriers, we continue to project double-digit revenue growth for the year. As Sean mentioned, the acquisition will add approximately 6% incremental revenue growth on an annualized basis, and we expect the impact this year to be about half of that. We will achieve these growth targets by providing our customers with a high quality service product. As I said, we are taking the necessary steps to ensure we deliver on this commitment.Our capital expenditure outlook remains at $1.7 billion to $1.8 billion for the year and we will continue returning cash to shareholders. Demand remains strong and so does our commitment to customers. We are resourcing the network for growth. We are driving operational improvements to add capacity through increased asset utilization. We are investing in our business for the long term. And we continue to design new and creative solutions to allow customers to move more freight with CSX today and for years to come.Now back to Bill for the Q&A.Bill Slater -- Head of Investor RelationsThank you, Jim. In the interest of time, I would ask everyone to please limit themselves to one question. With that, we will now take questions.