
OperatorGood day and welcome to the Dollar Tree Inc. 2Q 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]. After today's prepared remarks, we will have a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions].At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Randy Guiler, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Randy Guiler -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



Thank you, Madison. Good morning and welcome to our call to discuss the results for Dollar Tree's second fiscal quarter 2021. With me on today's call are Mike Witynski and Kevin Wampler.Before we begin, I would like to remind everyone that various remarks that we will make about our expectations, plans and prospects for the Company constitute forward-looking statements for the purposes of the Safe Harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and our actual results may differ materially from those indicated in these forward-looking statements.For information on the risks and uncertainties that could affect our actual results, please see the Risk Factors, Business and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations sections in our annual report on Form 10-K filed March 16, 2021, our Form 10-Q for the most recently ended fiscal quarter, our most recent press release and Form 8-K and other filings we make from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission.We caution against reliance on these forward-looking statements made today, and we disclaim any obligation to update or revise these statements except as may be required by law. Following our prepared remarks, we will open the call to your questions. Please limit your questions to one and one related follow-up if necessary.

 



I'll now turn the call over to Mike Witynski, Dollar Tree's President and Chief Executive Officer.Michael A. Witynski -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Randy, and good morning everyone. On this morning's call, we're going to discuss our strong operating performance, talk through some of the headwinds facing our industry, and share details on the robust and accelerated strategic initiatives we have underway to drive short and long-term value creation.I am proud of our team's continuing efforts, especially in our stores and distribution centers to adapt and react in this dynamic environment, to serve customers and deliver improvements in both operating margin and earnings. Our second quarter earnings per share of $1.23 represented a year-over-year quarterly increase of 12% and 62% when compared to Q2 of 2019.

 



We continue to see strong performance in discretionary side of the business, and our key initiatives including H2, Dollar Tree Plus and the new Combo Stores are delivering compelling results. All three concepts have performed very well, and we are significantly accelerating these initiatives in 2022 and beyond.Regarding the continuing and well publicized challenges in the global supply chain, as well as higher freight costs and other inflationary pressures, our teams are working hard to navigate these issues while staying focused, as always on delivering the value and convenience our shoppers expect. I want to share more details on these challenges, how they affect our business and the actions we are taking to best manage and mitigate the impacts.In recent quarters, we have spoken about the freight cost environment, both international and domestic. As you have certainly seen in the media and elsewhere, freight costs have reached unprecedented levels as a result of increased demand, limited capacity and shipping delays. For context, three months ago, the Shanghai Containerized Freight Index, which reflect spot rates on ocean freight from China was already at an all-time high, up more than 280% year-over-year and more than 400% since 2019.Now, these rates have continued to rise, and have increased more than 20% since we last reported on May 27th. According to the recent Journal of Commerce, annual ranking of the top 100 importers, Dollar Tree ranked as the fifth largest among retailers. Dollar Tree brings in nearly 90,000, 40-foot containers per year, predominantly for the Dollar Tree banner. As you can see in the slide deck on the Investor Relations portion of our website, at dollartreeinfo.com, we believe the Dollar Tree banner imports more containers per $100 million in sales, than other large retailers. And combined with our low $1 price point, we have an outsized impact from freight cost.After the first quarter of 2021, our updated freight outlook assumed that our regular ocean carriers would fulfill only 85% of their contractual commitments and assumed -- we also assume the higher spot -- the spot market rates. However, we are now -- project that our regular carriers will fulfill only 60% to 65% of their commitments, and the spot market rates will be much higher than previously estimated.This shortfall is caused by a variety of factors such as equipment shortages, equipment situated in wrong location, significant backlogs and delays in both China and US ports, outbreaks of COVID causing labor shortages or closure of entire terminals, and the lingering effects of the Suez Canal blockage. To give you a real life example of the kinds of challenges we're seeing, one of our dedicated charters was recently denied entry into China because a crew member tested positive for COVID, forcing the vessel to return to Indonesia to change the entire crew before continuing. Overall, the voyage was delayed by two months. With the current pressure on carriers, once disruptions in the supply chain occur, there is not enough capacity to make it up.During a recent transportation webinar, a San Francisco-based freight forwarder stated the transit times from Shanghai to Chicago have more than doubled to 73 days from 35 days. Another transportation executive from a carrier recently estimated that voyages are now taking 30 days longer than in previous years due to port congestion, container handling delays and other factors.The Dollar Tree banner is more sensitive to freight costs than others in the industry. Our products have lower price points than other retail importers. And, as a result, our freight costs are a higher percentage of our gross merchandise margin. The good news is, our initial product margin, which exclude freight have been improving as evidenced by our most recent overseas product purchases, included for manufacturers in more than two dozen countries.Even in this inflationary environment, we continue to meet or exceed our desired initial product margins at values attractive to our customers. As freight cost moderate in the future, we are confident when paired with our team's significant efforts to enhance our supply chain, this will become a material tailwind contributing to a better product margins.Industry experts expect the ocean shipping capacity will normalize no later than 2023 when many new ships come online. We are not counting on material improvements in 2022, especially in the first portion of the year.As a result, we are working proactively to reduce the freight cost impact and otherwise improve gross margin merchandise. Examples of steps we are taking include, using dedicated space on chartered vessels for the first time, including one large vessel contracted for three-year term, which is scheduled to make its first voyage within weeks.We are expecting to add more charters this year. We're adding alternative sources of supply, both domestic and international that do not rely on Transpacific shipping. We expect some of this shift could become permanent. As an example, Dollar Tree and Family Dollar were well prepared for back-to-school season which alternatively sourced domestic product. We're taking a fresh look at which SKU should be prioritized for import and which should be alternatively sourced; prioritizing containers based on seasonality, the margin impact and our overall inventory needs.We'll be continuing to pull forward seasonal purchases by 30 days. We're optimizing which China and US ports we use to take advantage of the shipping availability, and our operations team is delivering shrink improvements through technology, enhanced processes and disciplined execution. We are confident that our teams will allow us to navigate through this period of global supply chain challenges.In addition to the supply chain channel news, we are also being impacted by labor shortages in our distribution centers and stores. Steps we are taking to combat these trends include: Hosting national hiring events; Paying sign on bonuses; Offering enhanced wages in select markets; Paying tuition reimbursement and, more. All designed to be more competitive and a tight market for talent.We're continuing to optimize our DC network by reducing stem miles, partnering with suppliers to optimize and minimize the length of haul for inbound freight, testing, validating and expanding self checkout in our stores, and developing and utilizing more efficient processes, both in our stores and DCs.Despite these challenges affecting our industry, I'm very pleased with the team's performance to deliver a 62% improvement in EPS in Q2 when compared to 2019. Now, let's talk about the exciting path forward. I'd like to highlight some of the key initiatives we have in place, especially Dollar Tree Plus in our combo stores, which are helping to position our Company for the future.We are incredibly excited about the results we are seeing. As we have discussed in the past, we are well positioned to serve customers across all types of markets, urban, suburban and rural. The Family Dollar H2 continues to perform very well. In Q2, we renovated 435 stores into the H2 format, and now have a total of approximately 3,300 H2 stores.Importantly, we are accelerating the expansion of Dollar Tree Plus initiative and the rollout of Combo Stores to better serve customer's needs and drive sustainable long-term value. We have been carefully improving and calibrating our Dollar Tree Plus initiative with a better understanding of the multi-priced offerings and greater values. Customers are increasingly embracing the Dollar Tree Plus concept, which provides extraordinary value in the discretionary categories they most desire while enhancing store productivity.As we have refined the Dollar Tree Plus concept, the operating metrics have achieved strong results and have provided us valuable insights that are enabling accelerated expansion. On average, stores with Dollar Tree Plus are experiencing an overall sales lift of approximately 6% with a similar lift in gross profit, improved contribution of approximately 13%, and a payback on investment of less than a year. For obvious reasons, we are focused first on large stores, and we are already seeing similar positive results as we are now implementing into smaller stores. We currently have the multi price assortment in about 340 stores, and we expect to be at 500 stores by year-end.Building on this continued success, we are planning to add Dollar Tree Plus to an additional 1,500 stores in fiscal 2022. And, we aim to have at least 5,000 Dollar Tree Plus stores by the end of fiscal 2024. Many of our new stores will also be opening up as Dollar Tree Plus stores. This past March, we announced that our newest store format, the Combo Store, leveraging the strengths of both banners under one roof, to provide shoppers with extreme value and merchandise excitement. These stores represent another way to introduce the multi price assortment to Dollar Tree shoppers, and the $1 assortment to Family Dollar shoppers, a major benefit from the Dollar Tree and Family Dollar combination.We currently have 105 Combo Stores, and I believe we can reach 3,000 of these stores in rural markets alone. Demonstrating our great confidence in Combo Stores as a strategic format, more than 85% of our new Family Dollar stores will be Combo Stores in fiscal 2022. We anticipate 400 new, renovated or relocated Combo Stores next year. We are also in the process of validating the combo store concept and other demographic markets and are excited about the possibilities.Our larger Combo Stores on average are delivering 23% more sales, 31% more gross margin dollars, approximately 120% more cash contribution dollars, and are reducing payback time by approximately 30%. New Combo Stores compared to similar size stores are showing sales increases of 17%, and even more encouraging, our renovated or relocated Combo Stores are delivering greater than 40% more sales when compared to Family Dollar stores that have not been renovated or relocated. Details about our Combo Stores are available at www.familydollar.com/combostores.I will now hand the call over to Kevin to provide details on Q2 performance and our outlook.Kevin S. Wampler -- Chief Financial OfficerThanks Mike, and good morning. Our second quarter EPS of $1.23 per share is an increase of 12% from the prior year's quarter and 62% compared to the second quarter of 2019. Consolidated net sales increased 1% to $6.34 billion, comprised of $3.26 billion at Dollar Tree and $3.08 billion at Family Dollar.Enterprise same-store sales decreased 1.2% as we cycled a strong 7.2% from a year ago, representing a 6% increase on a two-year stacked basis. Comps for the Dollar Tree segment decreased 0.2%. Family Dollar same store sales decreased 2.1% cycling a very strong 11.6% increase from last year. On a two-year stacked basis, Dollar Tree comps increased 2.9% and Family Dollar increased 9.5%.Dollar Tree's comps was comprised of a 1.1% increase in traffic, offset by a decline in average ticket. Family Dollar experienced a 3.5% decline in traffic, partially offset by an increase in average ticket. We do believe that Dollar Tree's traffic has continued to be hindered by a lack of shopper mobility, as more than half of the workforce continues to work remote. Gross profit was $1.86 billion for the quarter. Gross margin was 29.4% compared to 30.5% in the prior year's quarter. Gross profit margin for the Dollar Tree segment declined 130 basis points to 32.4% when compared to the prior year's quarter.Factors impacting the segment's gross margin performance included merchandise cost including freight, increased 175 basis points, driven by increased freight costs, which was partially offset by favorable mix net of [Phonetic] mark-on. Occupancy costs increased 10 basis points as a result of loss of leverage due to the comparable store sales decline. Shrink improved 55 basis points related to favorable inventory results and a decrease in the shrink accrual rate. And, distribution costs decreased 5 basis points cycling COVID-19 related expenses in the prior year.Gross profit margin for the Family Dollar segment declined 110 basis points to 26.1% in the second quarter, year-over-year delta included the following. Merchandise costs including freight increased 175 basis points related to higher freight costs and increased sales of lower margin consumable merchandise. Occupancy costs increased 35 basis points as a result of the comparable store sales decrease. Shrink improved 50 basis points related to favorable inventory results and a decrease in the shrink accrual rate, distribution costs, improved 20 basis points compared to the prior year quarter due to the lower COVID-19 related costs. And, mark down costs decreased 25 basis points compared to last year based on civil unrest costs incurred a year ago.Consolidated selling, general and administrative expenses improved 150 basis points to 23% of total revenue compared to 24.5% in Q2 last year. For the second quarter, the SG&A rate for the Dollar Tree segment as a percentage of total revenue improved 170 basis points to 22.3% when compared to the prior year's quarter.Payroll costs improved 155 basis points, primarily due to decreased COVID-19 related store payroll costs. Other SG&A decreased by 20 basis points resulting from lower general liability insurance costs, primarily offset by increased debit and credit card fees. Store facility costs decreased 5 basis points due to lower repairs and maintenance costs. And for the Family Dollar, the second quarter SG&A rate as a percentage of total revenue was 21% compared to 21.9% in the prior year's quarter.Payroll cost decreased 95 basis points, primarily due to decreased COVID-19 related store payroll and incentive comp costs, partially offset by deleverage related to the comp store sales decline. Store facility costs decreased 30 basis points, driven mainly by lower repairs and maintenance costs due to expense incurred from civil unrest in the prior year's quarter.Other SG&A expense increased 35 basis points, primarily due to increased advertising and travel expense compared to the prior year and depreciation and amortization expense increased 10 basis points due to deleverage on the comp sales. Corporate and support expenses as a percent of total revenue decreased 20 basis points compared to the prior year's quarter primarily due to lower incentive and equity compensation.Operating income increased 7.3% to $402.2 million compared with $374.9 million in the same period last year and operating income margin was 6.3% in the second quarter compared to 6% in prior year quarter. The second quarter of 2021 included total incremental operating costs of $3 million for COVID-19 related expenses compared to $134.9 million in the second quarter of 2020. Non-operating expenses totaled $33 million, comprising net interest expense and our effective tax rate was 23.5% compared to 23.1% in the prior year's second quarter.Company had net income of $282.4 million or $1.23 per diluted share, and this compared to net earnings of $261.5 million or $1.10 per share in the prior year's quarter. Combined cash and cash equivalents at quarter end totaled $720.8 million compared to $1.42 billion at the end of fiscal 2020. Outstanding debt as of July 31st was $3.25 billion.In Q2, we repurchased approximately 7 million shares of our common stock for $700 million. We currently have $1.45 billion remaining on our share repurchase authorization. Inventory for Dollar Tree at quarter end increased 13.1% from the same time last year while selling square footage increased 3.7%. Inventory per selling square foot increased 9%. Inventory for Family Dollar at quarter end increased 10.9% from the same period last year, while selling square footage increased 2.1%.Inventory per selling square foot increased 8.6%. Both banners' store inventory levels are below 2019 levels at quarter-end. Capital expenditures were $229.1 million in the second quarter versus $232.5 million in Q2 last year. For fiscal 2021, we now expect that consolidated capital expenditures will be approximately $1.1 billion. Depreciation and amortization totaled $176.1 million for Q2 compared to $168.1 million in the second quarter of last year. And for fiscal 2021, we expect consolidated depreciation and amortization to be approximately $720 million.Our outlook for the remainder of 2021 includes the following exemptions. We expect continued pressure on wages due to the current shortage of workers available for our distribution centers and stores. Spec [Phonetic] Shrink will continue to be a tailwind as we go through the back half of the year, but not at the same rate as we begin cycling improved results from the prior year.Net interest expense is expected to be approximately $34 million in Q3 and approximately $134 million for fiscal 2021. We estimate consolidated net sales for the third quarter will range from $6.40 billion to $6.52 billion, based on a low single-digit increase in same-store sales for the combined enterprise. Diluted earnings per share are estimated to be in the range of $0.88 to $0.98.Consolidated net sales for full fiscal 2021 are expected to range from $26.19 billion to $26.44 billion, based on a low single-digit increase in same-store sales and 3.4% square footage growth. The Company now estimates diluted earnings per share will range from $5.40 to $5.60.Freight costs for fiscal 2021 are now expected to be $1.50 per diluted share to $1.60 per diluted share higher than fiscal year 2020 expressed in terms of the impact on diluted earnings per share. The updated outlook includes $0.60 to $0.65 per diluted share, or $185 million to $200 million, of additional freight costs since our prior guidance on May 27, 2021. As Mike noted earlier, the market condition for freight have continued to deteriorate since our update in May. These changes include the significant difficulties our regular contract carriers are having in meeting their original commitments as well as continuing increases in the spot market rate. These disruptions have affected the timing of inventory receipts and have affected sales of mix.Our outlook assumes a tax rate of 22.7% for the third quarter and 23% for fiscal 2021. Weighted average diluted share counts are assumed to be 225.9 million shares for Q3 and 228.9 million shares for the full year. Our outlook does not include any additional share repurchases, although, as I said before, we still have $1.45 billion remaining on our existing share repurchase authorization.I'll now turn the call back to Mike.Michael A. Witynski -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Kevin. Our core business is strong. As Kevin stated, our updated outlook for fiscal 2021 is $5.40 per share to $5.60 per share. It's unfortunate that the global supply chain is in the condition it is, which is expected to result in a year-over-year drag to our business of $1.50 per share to $1.60 per share. If freight costs this year were similar to what we were just a year ago, we estimate that our earnings per share would be in the range of $6.90 to $7.20 for this fiscal 2021.The work of our teams has been remarkable. Our store and distribution center teams continue to demonstrate their commitment to serving our shoppers each and every day. Our customer satisfaction survey scores have never been higher. We have been -- we have seen improvements across the board for store cleanliness, assortment, service and speed of checkout.The merchants are delivering greater values to our customers that are meeting or exceeding our initial merchandise margin targets. Our buyers are disciplined, nimble and committed. While it represents a smaller part of our overall business, our digital team saw a 70% increase in sales versus the first half of 2021. We're also pleased with the solid performance of our local delivery program through Instacart. Our initiatives are driving improved results. Customers are responding to Dollar Tree Plus, the H2 format and our new Combo Stores.We are pleased to accelerate both these initiatives in fiscal 2022. The supply chain issues, which we are confident are transitory in nature will take some time until the global demand and supply for equipment is rebalanced. Importantly, we believe the foundation of our business is stronger than ever. We believe we are in the process of materially improving the long-term earnings power of our business for years to come.Before we get into questions, there's another topic I want to quickly touch on because it's important to all of us here at Dollar Tree. Recently, Morning Consult reported that the public views Dollar Tree as one of the ten most trusted retail brands in America. We see this as a validation of our core mission of delivering value and convenience to our customers, but it also reflects our commitment to the broader communities we serve.As I wrote in our 2021 corporate sustainability report, Dollar Tree strives to be the best corporate citizen for all stakeholders and the thousands of neighborhoods, towns and rural markets where our stores are located. And that means taking concrete actions to implement our sustainable vision. One recent step I can share, we are executing on our climate goals by pursuing two new solar projects for our stores and distribution centers. These will provide up to 6 megawatts of renewable power, taking that usage off the carbon grid for years to come.These, and other efficiency projects show that our efforts to build out the infrastructure for sustainable growth are now taking root. Additionally, our executive leadership team has leaned in on commitment to fostering an inclusive work environment, where the individual differences are understood, respected and appreciated as a valuable source [Phonetic] to strengthen our Company.This strategy is designed to evolve our culture and sustained momentum through the guidance of our executive council that ensures leadership accountability to our very important DEI objectives. We constantly seek to improve all aspects of our business and that includes areas like store safety, healthier product offerings and many other that are so important to our associates, our customers, our neighbors and our shareholders.You should know that we always strive to be transparent on these topics. I look forward to providing future updates on the strides we are making. In summary, there is a lot of inspiring news at Dollar Tree. We are excited that our strategic store formats, our accelerated growth plans, and many key sales and traffic driving initiatives, along with our robust balance sheet and commitment to sustainable growth will enable us to deliver long-term value for our stakeholders.Operator, we are now ready to take questions.