
OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Duke Realty Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to turn the conference over to our host, Ron Hubbard. Please go ahead.Ron Hubbard -- Investor Relations

 



Thank you, Don. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to our first quarter earnings call. Joining me today are Jim Connor, Chairman and CEO; Mark Denien, Chief Financial Officer; Steve Schnur, Chief Operating Officer; and Nick Anthony, Chief Investment Officer. Before we make our prepared remarks, let me remind you that certain statements made during this conference call may be forward-looking statements subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. These risks and other factors could adversely affect our business and future results. For more information about those risk factors, we would refer you to our 10-K or 10-Q that we have on file with the SEC and the company's other SEC filings.All forward-looking statements speak only as of today, April 29, 2021, and we assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. A reconciliation to GAAP of the non-GAAP financial measures that we provide on this call is included in our earnings release. Our earnings release and supplemental package were distributed last night after the market closed. If you did not receive a copy, these documents are available in the Investor Relations section of our website at dukerealty.com. You can also find our earnings release, supplemental package, SEC reports and an audio webcast of this call in the Investor Relations section of our website as well.Now for our prepared statement, I'll turn it over to Jim Connor.James Connor -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

 



Thanks, Ron, and good afternoon, everyone. I will open by saying as always, we hope you and your families are safe and healthy, and that you have the opportunity to be vaccinated. The fundamentals of our business continue to be as good as ever. We've now had two successive quarters of demand breaking all-time records. Our development platform had a record first quarter of starts, and our core portfolio continues to perform at the top of the class. Our liquidity position and sources of capital are very attractively priced to capture opportunities, including our execution of two green debt transactions. All of these drivers result in us raising key components of our 2021 guidance that roll up to double-digit growth in expected core FFO and AFFO with the midpoints. Now let me turn it over to Steve to cover our operations.Steven Schnur -- Executive Vice President and Chief Operating OfficerThanks, Jim. I'll first cover overall market fundamentals, then review our operational results. Industrial net absorption in the first quarter according to CBRE registered an impressive 100 million square feet, marking the first time that demand has exceeded 100 million square feet in consecutive quarters. This was more than enough to offset new supply as completions dipped to 57 million square feet from about 70 million square feet in the fourth quarter of 2020. This positive net absorption over deliveries for the quarter reduced vacancy down to 4.4%, which is back down near the record levels we saw throughout most of 2019. The strong mix and fundamentals increased asking rents by over 7% compared to the previous year. CBRE now projects demand for the full year to surpass 300 million square feet, perhaps even breaking the 2016 record of 327 million square feet. They project deliveries to be about 300 million square feet as well.The overall sector continues to remain very much in balance, which will produce another year of growth in asking rents of high single digits nationally. On the macroeconomic front, the increasing pace of vaccinations, the stimulus being pumped into the U.S. economy and the arrival of spring weather has generated some significant recent data points indicative of a very strong year in our business. The recent March consumer confidence rating is back near the range of 2018 and 2019, and the GDP growth is projected to be in the 6% to 7% range. This bodes very well for demand in logistics real estate.

 



And in addition, we have the secular drivers in our business that remain firmly intact and stronger than prepandemic. To that point, the growth in retail sales and e-commerce sales across the two-month February and March period were up 12% and 28%, respectively. And perhaps more notably, when measured against the 2019 pre -- nonpandemic time frame, the recent February and March figures were up 15% and 43%, respectively. In addition, the experience of the supply chain bottlenecks and response for greater business inventory redundancy is expected to push the retail inventory to sales ratio to above historic levels, yet it now sits near record low levels.Demand by occupier type remains broad-based and very active, with pure e-commerce, omnichannel retailers, 3PLs, healthcare supply firms and food and beverage companies leading the way. Now I'll turn to our own portfolio. We executed a very solid first quarter by signing 7.4 million square feet of new leases. On first-generation leasing, we signed three transactions to stabilize assets that were previously in the unstabilized in-service and spec development pools, including 146,000-square-foot lease on a spec development in Southern California, Mid-Counties submarket for 100% of the space. The lease activity for the quarter, combined with strong fundamentals I mentioned, led to continued growth in rents in our portfolio as we reported 11.4% cash, 26.2% on a GAAP basis.The mark-to-market on our portfolio leases is at 17% below market rental rates, which is supportive of continued strong rent growth. We also had an exceptional quarter of development starts. As initially reflected in our press release last month, on top of the $373 million of starts we reported in the press release, at quarter end, we signed another $39 million project in the Tampa's market, which is build-to-suit for an e-commerce retailer. In total, we started 11 projects during the quarter, totaling 3.8 million square feet and $412 million in cost. These projects were 60% preleased with value creation estimated near 40%. We're very -- we're also very proud that three of the four build-to-suits we signed during the quarter was repeat customers.Our development pipeline at quarter end totaled $1.4 billion with 68% allocated to our coastal Tier one markets. The pipeline -- this pipeline was 65% preleased as of March 31. Looking forward and consistent with the strong fundamentals I discussed and our best-in-class local operating teams, our outlook for new development starts is as strong as it's ever been, as reflected by our revised guidance of over 30% from our original midpoint. I'll also note, we do expect our pipeline preleasing percentage to potentially drop a bit in future quarters as we put fully leased assets in service and start more speculative development projects in high-barrier Tier one submarkets where fundamentals are very strong.I'll now turn it over to Nick Anthony to cover acquisitions and disposition.Nick Anthony -- Executive Vice President and Chief Investment OfficerThanks, Steve. For the quarter, we sold $94 million of assets comprised of two facilities in Houston as well as two facilities in Indianapolis owned in a 50-50 joint venture. In turn, we used part of these proceeds to acquire three buildings totaling 680,000 square feet for $51 million, including one asset in Southern California's IE West submarket and one in Northern New Jersey's Meadowlands submarket. The third facility acquired was in the Indianapolis Airport submarket and was part of a joint venture liquidation and asset swap. These buildings were all 100% leased within markets where we expect strong market rent growth that will contribute to long-term IRRs well in access of the assets we sold.From a strategic positioning standpoint, the net effect of our development, disposition and acquisition activity this quarter moves our coastal Tier one exposure to over 42% of GAV. We've begun marketing a few Midwestern assets leased to Amazon for outright sale, while certain assets leased to Amazon in other noncoastal Tier one markets may either be sold outright or contributed to a joint venture. In addition, the more recent news on disposition in last night's press release, that we are now marketing for sale our entire 5.2 million-square-foot St. Louis portfolio.The rationale on the sale is threefold. One, we are taking advantage of increased investor demand for logistics assets; two, the portfolio accelerates our strategic objective to increase our exposure to coastal Tier one markets; and three, it will provide a source of funds for our increasing development pipeline. As a result, we have raised the midpoint of our full year expected dispositions by $400 million. Altogether, we expect our planned 2021 disposition activity to be weighted toward the middle of the year.I will now turn our call over to Mark to discuss our financial results and guidance update.Mark Denien -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Nick. Good afternoon, everyone. Core FFO for the quarter was $0.39 per share, which represents 18% growth over the first quarter of 2020. We've been saying for the last few quarters that we expected our core FFO growth rates to accelerate and begin to approach our already strong AFFO growth rates. The results from the current quarter and our revised guidance certainly reflect this. AFFO totaled $140 million for the quarter. Our best-in-class low level of capital expenditures, along with the strong NOI growth, continues to generate significant AFFO growth to reinvest into our business. Our best-in-sector rent collections continued in the first quarter of 2021 with more than 99.9% of rents collected.We have also collected more than 99.9% of April rents. And we now only have $52,000 under deferral arrangements remaining to be collected and had effectively no bad debt expense in the first quarter. Same-property NOI growth on a cash basis for the first quarter of 2021 compared to the first quarter of 2020 was 6.3%. The growth in same-property NOI was due to increased occupancy and rent growth as well as the burn-off of free rent compared to the first quarter of 2020. We do expect this growth to moderate for the remainder of the year based on tougher occupancy comps and less free rent burn-off, but to remain strong nonetheless.We finished the quarter with no outstanding borrowings on our own secured line of credit, which we renewed in March and extended through March of 2026, including our extension options. We reduced our borrowing rate by 10 basis points compared to the previous facility. As part of our commitment to corporate responsibility, the credit facility also includes an incremental reduction in borrowing costs as certain sustainability-linked metrics are achieved each year. Our future debt maturities are well sequenced with less than 3% of our total outstanding debt being scheduled to mature prior to the end of 2023.As a result of our strong start to 2021, we announced revised core FFO guidance for 2021 to a range of $1.65 to $1.71 per share compared to the previous range of $1.62 to $1.68 per share. The $1.68 per share midpoint of our revised core FFO guidance represents an over 10% increase over 2020 results. We also announced revised guidance for growth in AFFO on a share adjusted basis to range between 8% and 12.3%, with a midpoint of 10.1% compared to the previous range of 5.8% to 10.1%. This increased earnings growth expectation is impressive when considering we are increasing current-year disposition expectations by $400 million to fund development projects that will not contribute to earnings until 2022 and beyond.For same-property NOI growth on a cash basis, we've increased our guidance to a range of 4.1% to 4.9% from the previous range of 3.6% to 4.4%. We continue to outperform our underwriting assumptions for speculative developments, both in the timing of lease-up and in rental rates achieved, and continue to maintain a solid list of build-to-suit projects. Based on this, our revised guidance for development starts is between $950 million and $1.1 billion compared to the previous range of $700 million to $900 million. This increase in development starts will provide a key source of growth in 2022 and beyond.As Nick mentioned, we intend to take advantage of the investment sales market pricing to prefund a significant portion of our development pipeline with an increase in dispositions. Our guidance for dispositions has been revised to between $900 million and $1.1 billion compared to the initial range of $500 million to $700 million. We've updated a couple of other components of our guidance based on our more optimistic outlook as detailed in our range of estimates exhibit, including our supplemental information on our website.I'll now turn it back to Jim for a few closing remarks.James Connor -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Mark. In closing, a strong economic recovery is unfolding, and numerous secular drivers are continuing to create unparalleled opportunities for our platform to capture growth from rising rental rates, high-margin development opportunities and from raising capital at a very low cost. We're very pleased with our team's execution in the first quarter and now with our expected double-digit growth in core FFO and AFFO. As long as these multiple tailwinds can sustain and as long as the economy continues to recover, we're optimistic we can achieve similar levels of growth for the foreseeable future, that are hopeful it should lead to corresponding increases in our annual quarterly dividend.Thank you for your interest and your support, and we will now open it up for questions. [Operator Instructions] Don, you can open up the lines, and we'll now take questions.