  OperatorWelcome to the MPC first quarter 2022 earnings call. My name is Elan, and I will be your operator for today's call. [Operator instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded. And I would now like to turn the call over to Kristina Kazarian. Kristina, you may begin.Kristina Kazarian -- Managing Director

 



 Welcome to Marathon Petroleum Corporation's first quarter 2022 earnings conference call. The slides that accompany this call can be found on the website at marathonpetroleum.com under the Investor tab. Joining me on the call today are Mike Hennigan, CEO; Maryann Mannen, CFO; and other members of the executive team. We invite you to read the safe harbor statements on Slide 2. We will be making forward-looking statements today. Actual results may differ, and factors that could cause actual results to differ are included there as well as in our SEC filings. With that, I'll turn the call over to Mike.Mike Hennigan -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Kristina. Before we get into our results for the quarter, we wanted to provide a brief update on the macro environment. Year over year, demand trends have been, for the most part, positive and the market seems to have reached a post-COVID point of stability. Distillate remains stable, Jet continues to recover, and gasoline has been more resilient than we would have expected given normal seasonality and recent geopolitical events.

 



 The biggest factor outside of our control is changes in global supply and demand. At the end of 2021, Global light product inventories were already tight. Sanctions and boycotts following the Russian invasion of Ukraine have increased supply uncertainties. Product margins have risen to cover the higher cost structure of marginal supply particularly in European regions where there's a high reliance on Russian natural gas. We expect continued volatility in 2022 with an advantage for safe, reliable, and low-cost operators. We are focused on optimizing our maintenance schedules to maximize uptime and allow us to do what we can to produce volumes to meet the market demand. As we do this, we remain steadfast in our commitment to safely operate our assets, protect the health and safety of our employees and support the communities in which we operate. With this in mind, we anticipate the U.S. refining system running at higher utilization rates in the coming quarters to meet rising demand. MPC's first quarter results reflect the continued recovery for our products and services which supported higher margins and higher throughput across regions. We delivered adjusted EBITDA of $2.6 billion. We repurchased $2.8 billion in shares in the quarter. And since our last earnings call, we have repurchased $2.5 billion of shares. Through today, we've completed 80% of our initial $10 billion capital return commitment. I would also like to highlight the strength of MPLX in our portfolio. Last year, MPC received $2.2 billion of distributions from MPLX.

 



 As MPLX continues to generate free cash flow, we believe it will have the capacity to return significant cash to MPC and its public unitholders. Another milestone in our sustainability objectives was the joint venture agreement with Neste for the Martinez Renewable Fuels project. This strategic partnership with Neste enhances our Martinez project by leveraging our complementary strengths and expertise. The project will utilize existing process infrastructure, diverse inbound and outbound logistics and is optimally located to support California's LCFS goals while strengthening MPC's footprint in renewable fuels. Our intended partnership with Neste also creates a platform for additional collaboration within renewables. We believe there will be opportunities to leverage this partnership between two industry leaders as we pursue our shared commitment to the energy evolution and the goal of leading in sustainable energy. MPC will manage project execution and operate the facility once construction is complete. Additionally, MPLX Logistics assets support Martinez will remain owned and operated by MPLX. We are progressing through the permit process. Contra Costa County certified the Environmental Impact Report for the Martinez project, and we're hopeful that the county will shortly provide final approval. We remain excited about the prospects of the project and its ability to deliver low carbon intensity fuels to support California's climate goals. Shifting to Slide 5, we focus on challenging ourselves to lead in sustainable energy. In February, we became the first among our peers to establish a 2030 target to reduce absolute Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions by 15% below 2019 levels. The new Scope 3 target further enhances MPC's disclosures in addition to our existing Scope 1 and 2 reduction targets. MPLX also established a new 2030 target to reduce methane emissions intensity from natural gas gathering and processing operations by 75% below 2016 levels. In the second quarter, we will publish our annual sustainability and perspectives on climate-related scenarios reports and provide updates on the progress on the goals we have previously said. At this point, I'd like to turn the call over to Maryann to review the first quarter results.Maryann Mannen -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Mike. Slide 6 provides a summary of our first quarter financial results. This morning, we reported earnings per share of $1.49. Adjusted EBITDA was $2.6 billion for the quarter, and cash flow from operations, excluding favorable working capital changes, was $1.9 billion, which is roughly in line with the prior quarter. During the quarter, we returned $330 million to shareholders through dividend payments and repurchased approximately $2.8 billion in shares, which takes us to $2.5 billion repurchased since our last earnings call. Slide 7 shows the reconciliation between net income and adjusted EBITDA as well as the sequential change in adjusted EBITDA from fourth quarter 2021 to the first quarter of 2022. Adjusted EBITDA was lower sequentially, driven primarily by $175 million decrease from refining and marketing. The tax rate for the quarter was 19%, which reflects the benefits from the public portion of MPLX net income, which is not taxable to MPC. Moving to our segment results. Slide 8 provides an overview of our refining and marketing segment. The business reported strong first quarter earnings with adjusted EBITDA of approximately $1.4 billion. Utilization was 91% for the quarter. The sequential decline was driven by lower production which was primarily the result of unplanned downtime in the U.S. Gulf Coast where we experienced two unplanned outages. In the beginning of February, the Galveston Bay refinery experienced a citywide power loss, which resulted in a complete plant outage. Later in the month as we were bringing our Garyville refinery back to service following turnaround activities a fire occurred near our hydrocracker unit. The unit was repaired and returned to service after about three weeks. Both of these events resulted in approximately $200 million of lost profit opportunity. Margin headwinds in the quarter were a result of the lower capture of 84% that we experienced this quarter and were primarily realized in the Gulf and West Coast. Operating expenses were lower in the first quarter, primarily due to lower planned project expense as well as a lower average natural gas price coupled with lower energy consumption compared to the fourth quarter. Natural gas prices strengthened during the quarter, averaging over $0.70 in MMBtu higher in March than in January. In April, natural gas prices averaged $6.70 in MMBtu, or nearly 80% higher than the average price in 2021. The current forward strip for Henry Hub is around $8 for the rest of the year, so we would expect natural gas to be a headwind as the year progresses. Natural gas is an input cost for our refineries, which historically has represented approximately 15% of our operating costs. Our natural gas sensitivity is approximately $330 million of EBITDA for every $1 change per MMBtu. This equates to a sensitivity of approximately $0.30 per barrel of cost. Distribution costs were lower in the first quarter due to lower product volumes. Turning to Slide 9. We want to directly address the refining and marketing capture this quarter. In the first quarter, our capture result was 84%. A few factors drove the majority of the headwinds secondary and light product margins, impacts associated with inventory builds and associated derivative views to manage volatility and to a lesser extent, Gulf Coast refinery outages impacted our yields. Slide 10 shows the change in our midstream EBITDA versus the fourth quarter of 2021. Our midstream segment continues to demonstrate earnings resiliency and stability with consistent results from the previous quarter. Slide 11 presents the elements of change in our consolidated cash position for the quarter. Operating cash flow was approximately $1.9 billion in the quarter, which excludes changes in working capital. Working capital was an approximate $600 million source of cash this quarter, driven primarily by increases in crude oil prices, partially offset by increases in crude and product inventory. In March, MPLX issued $1.5 billion worth of long-term debt, utilizing a large portion of the proceeds to repay the borrowings under the intercompany loan with MPC. During the quarter, MPC returned $330 million to shareholders through our dividend and repurchased approximately $2.8 billion worth of shares. Now 80% complete with our initial $10 billion capital return commitment, we could begin using the $5 billion incremental authorization starting in the second quarter. At the end of the quarter, MPC had approximately $10.6 billion in cash and short-term investments. Last week, we held our Annual General Meeting, which concluded our proxy season, we appreciate the engagement from our investors as we work to create shareholder value, focus on sustainability and position ourselves to deliver results in an energy diverse future. Turning to guidance. On Slide 12, we provide our second quarter outlook. We expect total throughput volumes of roughly 2.9 million barrels per day, representing 95% utilization. Planned turnaround costs are projected to be approximately $155 million in the second quarter. Expected activity is relatively light and spread through all three regions. As Mike mentioned, our optimized turnaround schedule in the second quarter is expected to allow us to run our assets safely and reliably at high utilization as we remain focused on supplying the products and services markets are demanding. Total operating costs are projected to be $5.50 per barrel for the quarter. Earlier in the call, we shared our natural gas sensitivity, the increase we are currently seeing for natural gas costs are reflected in our second quarter guidance, on top of our average baseline $5 per barrel of operating cost. Distribution costs are expected to be approximately $1.3 billion for the quarter. Corporate costs are expected to be $170 million. As we look at the impact of inflation on full year results, the two areas of focus are wages and certain supply chain inputs. However, we have identified incremental sustainable cost reductions that we are executing against to offset these costs. Notwithstanding all of that, we will continue to identify the headwind from rising energy cost to our refining system throughout the year. Slide 13 provides our capital investment plan for 2022. Once we have closed on the Martinez JV, MPC will receive $400 million and be reimbursed for 50% of the capital spent to date. After the JV is closed, MPC will be responsible for its 50% share of the capital spend going forward, and Neste will be responsible for its 50% share. The total cost for the Martinez refinery conversion is still expected to be $1.2 billion and MPC's net cost will be reduced to approximately $200 million. We will provide a more detailed update once we have closed the JV. As a reminder, ongoing growth projects in our Refining and Marketing segment will enhance the capability of our refining assets, particularly in the Gulf Coast, and also support our focus on growing the value recognized from our Marathon and ARCO marketing brand. With that, let me turn the call back over to Kristina.Kristina Kazarian -- Managing Director Thanks, Maryann. [Operator instructions] Operator, we'll now open the call. 