  OperatorGood afternoon. My name is David, and I'll be your conference operator today. At this time, I'd like to welcome everyone to Realty Income's first quarter 2022 operating results conference call. Today's conference is being recorded. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there'll be a question-and-answer session. [Operator instructions] Once again, we ask that you please limit yourself to two questions. If you'd like to ask additional questions, you may reenter the queue. Thank you. Julie Hasselwander, senior manager of investor relations at Realty Income, you may begin your conference.

 



Julie Hasselwander -- Senior Manager of Investor Relations Thank you all for joining us today for Realty Income's first quarter 2022 operating results conference call. Discussing our results will be Sumit Roy, president and chief executive officer; and Christie Kelly, executive vice president, chief financial officer, and treasurer. During this conference call, we will make certain statements that may be considered forward-looking statements under federal securities law. The company's actual future results may differ significantly from the matters discussed in any forward-looking statements. We will disclose in greater detail the factors that may cause such differences in the company's Form 10-Q. We will be observing a two-question limit during the Q&A portion of the call in order to give everyone the opportunity to participate. If you would like to ask additional questions, you may reenter the queue. I will now turn the call over to our CEO, Sumit Roy.Sumit Roy -- President and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thanks, Julie. Welcome, everyone. 2022 is off to a strong start, and we are continuing to build momentum in our business. I want to express my deep appreciation of our One Team whose dedication and collaboration showcased the strength of our team through a timely closing of the first quarter while integrating new processes and systems following the close of the VEREIT merger last November. All integration efforts are progressing, and we remain committed to delivering continued scalability. We continue to make progress on our ESG initiatives and partnerships with our clients. In April, we published our second annual sustainability report, which details our commitments, goals, and progress on our ESG efforts. I welcome all Realty Income stakeholders to share in our dedication to build sustainable relationships for the benefit of those we serve and encourage everyone listening to read through our 2021 sustainability report, which can be found in the corporate responsibility page of our website. Looking at macro trends. Inflation persists as an important topic on the minds of many stakeholders, and I want to emphasize that we believe our business is, by design, well-positioned to drive value in this climate. Our business model is one that generates significant recurring revenue that flows through to the bottom line. As a triple net lease REIT, our business is insulated from inflation. Our clients are responsible for covering taxes, insurance, and other operating expenses. And as prices increase, many of our clients pass the incremental cost burden on to their consumers or suppliers. The efficiency of our model is reflected in our adjusted EBITDA margin, which is routinely around 94%. Maintaining a conservative capital structure has been a key tenet of our business since our founding, and having a well-staggered, fixed-rate debt maturity schedule with no corporate bond maturities until 2024 limits our debt refinancing risk in a rising rate environment.

 



 In summary, we believe the appeal of our consistent and predictable stream of cash flows is amplified during periods of volatility like we find ourselves in today. To that end, we look at the last period in which the Federal Reserve increased interest rates from December 2015 through 2018 as a helpful case study. During this period, Realty Income's total return outperformed the S&P 500 and the MSCI US REIT Index both in year 1 of the rate hike cycle and throughout the three-year duration of that cycle. And during the Great Recession, Realty Income exhibited less operational and financial volatility as compared to many other S&P 500 REITs that carry A credit ratings. From an organic growth standpoint, our asset management team continues to report impressive rent recapture rates. This quarter, we recaptured over 106% of rental revenue on expiring leases. Given our lease expiration schedule and proven rent recapture track record, we believe we are well-positioned to manage through an inflationary environment. Through 2024, nearly 12% of our portfolio annualized contractual rent is set to expire. And in this regard, inflation could serve as a tailwind to our business as rents and costs to build rise. On the acquisition front, our transaction volume flow remains strong. Certain categories of the market have seen discernible increase in cap rates, which we believe should accrue to our advantage as a net acquirer. Historically, we have observed that when interest rate increase, cap rates adjust, following a lag period of six to 12 months. Much of this cap rate expansion can be attributed to levered buyers who have relied upon record low debt pricing to underwrite their returns. Given the current yield environment, we are in a comparatively strong position given our financing strategy. And as such, we would expect our competitive standing to strengthen further. Now turning to the results for the quarter. Our size and scale, in conjunction with strong relationships we have across the marketplace, continue to provide benefits through robust sourcing and acquisition volumes. This quarter, we sourced over $34 billion of acquisition opportunities, and approximately 40% of this amount was sourced from international markets. Our total property-level acquisitions for the quarter was approximately $1.6 billion. Approximately half of our volume in the first quarter was the result of international investments, bringing our total international portfolio to approximately $5 billion of invested capital. As we announced in February, we signed a definitive agreement to acquire the Encore Boston Harbor Resort and Casino leased to Wynn Resorts under a 30-year triple net lease with favorable annual rent increases. The $1.7 billion transaction includes more than 3.1 million square feet of high-quality real estate less than five miles from downtown Boston. Pending regulatory procedures, we continue to anticipate this transaction closing during the fourth quarter of 2022. We believe the market is efficient. And while cap rates have stabilized, significant competition remains with the high-quality assets we pursue. Our average initial cash cap rate for the quarter was 5.6%, which reflects the quality of locations and clients we are adding to our portfolio. As a reminder, we report our cap rates on a cash basis. We estimate the difference between cash and straight-line cap rates to be approximately an additional 70 basis points in the first quarter. The weighted average remaining lease term of the assets added to our portfolio during the quarter was 12.3 years, and the top industry invested during the quarter was grocery stores. We continue to have access to attractively priced capital, which has allowed us to maintain healthy spreads on our investments even as interest rates rise. We are pleased with the continued strength of our core operations. We ended the quarter with our portfolio at 98.6% occupancy based on property count. The weighted average remaining lease term of our overall portfolio is approximately 8.9 years, which, as I mentioned in my opening remarks, we see as an advantage. As leases roll, we continue to favorably recapture rent as a result of diligent underwriting and the inherent quality of our real estate enhanced by the proactive efforts of our experienced asset management team. This quarter, we released 119 leases, recapturing 106.2% of expiring rent. And since our public listing in 1994, we have executed 4,260 releases or sales on expiring leases, recapturing over 101% of rent on those released contracts. We continue to report our quarterly recapture rates because we believe this is one of the most objective ways to measure underlying portfolio quality in the net lease industry. During the quarter, we sold 34 properties, generating net proceeds of approximately $122 million. Approximately 84% of the sales volume during the quarter related to former VEREIT properties that were sold vacant. And our portfolio delivered healthy same-store rent growth increasing 4.1% during the quarter. This was largely attributed to the reversal of $9.4 million of rental revenue reserves during the quarter within the same-store pool compared to a reserve of $8 million recognized for the same pool during the year-ago period. Excluding the impact of reserves in both periods, we estimate that our same-store rent growth would have been approximately 1.2%. At this time, I'll pass it over to Christie, who will further discuss results from the quarter.Christie Kelly -- Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Treasurer Thank you, Sumit. During the first quarter, our business generated AFFO per share of $0.98, supported by a strong acquisition pace and a healthy portfolio. As Sumit mentioned, during the quarter, we recognized a $9.4 million reversal of non-straight-line rental revenue reserves. This was primarily driven by the $7.7 million reversal of our outstanding reserves related to AMC, reflecting the recovery from the pandemic. Given the performance of our One Team, the health of our portfolio, and progress achieved during the first quarter of 2022, we reaffirm our previously announced 2022 AFFO per share guidance of $3.84 to $3.97, representing 8.8% annual growth at the midpoint. From a leverage standpoint, we ended the quarter with a net debt to annualized adjusted EBITDAR of 5.4 times, in line with our target leverage ratios. And our near-term debt maturities remain minimal with a well-staggered predominantly fixed-rate debt maturity schedule and no corporate bond maturities until 2024. As Sumit mentioned in his opening remarks, our modest debt maturity schedule through the end of next year limits our refinancing risk in a raising rate environment. Our size and scale provide us access to attractively price debt across several markets. For example, in January, we issued GBP 500 million in sterling-denominated senior unsecured notes, pricing five-year and 20-year notes at a blended all-in yield of 2.28% with a weighted average term of 12.5 years. During the quarter, we issued over $660 million of equity, primarily through our ATM program. And subsequent to the quarter end, we entered into a definitive agreement for the private placement of a GBP 600 million sterling-denominated offering of senior unsecured notes, pricing eight-year, 10-year, and 15-year notes at a weighted average fixed rate of 3.22% with a weighted average tenor of approximately 10.5 years. We greatly appreciate the support from the investors who have participated in our capital markets transactions. Finally, just last week, we announced the recast and upsizing of our credit facility, which now includes a $4.25 billion multicurrency revolving line of credit with an initial maturity in June 2026 and two six-month extension options, as well as a $1 billion accordion feature. At our current credit rating, the new revolving line of credit provides a borrowing rate of adjusted SOFR plus 72.5 basis points as compared to our previous credit facility of LIBOR plus 77.5 basis points. In total, 25 lenders participated in our recast, and we greatly appreciate the support of our relationship banks, many of whom have supported us for decades and have been integral toward our growth. We've been most active during the last 12 months within corporate finance and capital markets. I'd like to make special mention of Jonathan Pong and his team who have worked tirelessly to bring our corporate financing strategies and capital markets execution together with our partners to fruition on behalf of all whom we serve. Realty Income was founded on the principles of income generation and capital preservation. We remain committed to delivering monthly dividends that increase over time as part of a consistently attractive total shareholder return proposition. In March, we celebrated the payment of our 620th monthly dividend by virtually ringing the New York Stock Exchange closing bell. At Realty Income, the dividend is sacrosanct, and we are proud to be one of only three REITs in the S&P 500 Dividend Aristocrats Index for having raised our dividend for at least 25 consecutive years. And the value of our business is largely tied to current income as a recurring cash flow vehicle. As a result, the value proposition of owning Realty Income is comparatively more attractive during inflationary periods versus those whose value is tied to growth in future years. And now I would like to pass the call back to Sumit.Sumit Roy -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Christie. Our business continues to perform, and we are well-positioned to build on our momentum throughout 2022 and beyond. These are interesting times, and I remain encouraged by our One Team's creativity and work effort. We remain steadfast in our pursuit of providing our stakeholders with attractive risk-adjusted returns over the long term. Thank you again to our team and partners for helping us deliver these results and to our stakeholders for their continued support. With that, I'd like to open it up for questions. 