  OperatorI'll be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the KLA Corporation December quarter 2021 earnings conference call and webcast. All participant lines have been placed in a listen-only mode to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator instructions] Thank you. I will now turn the call over to Kevin Kessel, vice president of investor relations and market analytics. Please go ahead.Kevin Kessel -- Vice President of Investor Relations and Market Analytics

 



 Thank you, Leo, and welcome to KLA's fiscal Q2 2022 quarterly earnings call to discuss the results of the December quarter and the outlook for the March quarter. With me on today's call is Rick Wallace, our chief executive officer; and Bren Higgins, our chief financial officer. During this call, we will discuss quarterly results for the period ended December 31, 2021, released this afternoon after the market closed. You can find the press release, shareholder letter, slide deck, and infographic on the KLA IR section of our website. Today's discussion is presented on a non-GAAP financial basis unless otherwise specified. And whenever we make references to full-year business, performance, it can be understood to be a calendar year. A detailed reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP results is in the earnings materials posted on our website. Our IR website also contains future investor events, as well as presentations, corporate governance information, and links to our SEC filings, including the most recent annual report and quarterly reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q.Our comments today are subject to risks and uncertainties reflected in the risk factors disclosure in our SEC filings. Any forward-looking statements, including those we make on the call today, are also subject to those risks, and KLA cannot guarantee those forward-looking statements will come true. Our actual results may differ significantly from those projected in our forward-looking statements. Let me now turn the call over to our chief executive officer, Rick Wallace. Rick? 

 



Rick Wallace -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Kevin. Before summarizing KLA's results for calendar year 2021 and for the December quarter, I'd like to first acknowledge and thank the global KLA team, the dedication and hard work of our teams never wavered despite challenging conditions, delivering for customers, and managing around a complex global supply chain during a period of unprecedented industry shortages. It was the day-to-day drive to be better that drove KLA's market leadership, resulting in record growth and financial performance across the board for the company in the December quarter and for 2021. KLA also delivered record returns to shareholders in 2021 through our dividend and share repurchase programs with returns to shareholders totaling over $2 billion. KLA's strong results demonstrate our track record of relative strength and revenue growth and superior financial performance compared with semiconductor industry peers in a dynamic and growing wafer fab equipment industry, as well as the long-term value created by employee and consistently refining our KLA operating model. Since our founding in 1976, KLA's mission has been focused on using our expertise and innovative thinking to overcome monumental technological challenges. KLA is advancing humanity with technologies and ideas that inspire action. Our results in the December quarter and for 2021 demonstrate ongoing success of these strategies. So, thank you to all our teams for contributing to KLA's enduring success. 2021 was another year of record growth, profitability, and free cash flow for KLA, as we successfully navigated unprecedented challenges in the marketplace, responding to record demand across the vast majority of our markets, while adapting to the evolving operational complexities associated with the global pandemic. Through it all, we remain focused on delivering to our customers' requirements and driving strong returns to shareholders in a rapidly growing industry demand environment. In 2021, revenue grew 34% to $8.2 billion, marking the sixth consecutive year of revenue growth.

 



 KLA's strong revenue growth in 2021 was driven by 46% growth in the semiconductor process control systems. Revenue from the services business grew 14% in the year, with over 75% of the revenue generated from recurring subscription-like contracts, reflecting the growing value of added process control systems and services in our product portfolio. KLA also demonstrated strong operating leverage on our revenue growth in 2021 with non-GAAP operating profit and non-GAAP earnings per share growing 54% and 61%, respectively. Incremental operating margin on the revenue growth in 2021 was 57%, consistently above our target operating leverage model of 40% to 50% for the second year in a row. Free cash flow also grew a healthy 43% in 2021 to a record $2.5 billion. Consistent with our long-term strategic objectives, KLA delivered on our ongoing commitment to return value to shareholders, including our 12th consecutive dividend increase announced in July 2021, along with an additional $2 billion share repurchase program. Total returns to shareholders in 2021, including dividend and share repurchases, topped just over $2 billion or approximately 79% of free cash flow. This growth demonstrates success in strengthening our market leadership across our business that we can continue to build upon to drive adoption of KLA solutions in the critical markets we serve. Within the Electronics, Packaging, and Component inspection or EPC Group, the Specialty Semiconductor Process segment grew 11% in 2021, and the Printed Circuit Board Display and Component Inspection grew 17% in the year. The strong relative performance for KLA reflects our market leadership and diversification and was driven by secular industry growth trends across multiple end markets. We ended 2021 with an exceptionally strong backlog and began what we anticipate being a seventh consecutive year of growth for KLA. We entered 2022 executing at a high level and operating from a position of strength in our marketplace despite persistent supply chain challenges. This momentum sets the stage for KLA to continue to outperform the market while demonstrating superior financial performance and maintaining our capital returns. Turning now to focus on the December quarter results where we saw diversified strength across our business. Today, demand environment continues to demonstrate accelerated adoption of a broad spectrum of semiconductor and electronic industry growth trends. Technology is transforming how we live and work and the data-driven economy is fundamentally changing how businesses operate and deliver value. This digital transformation is enabling secular demand drivers such as high-performance computing, artificial intelligence, growth in new automotive electronics, and strong growth in data centers and 5G communication markets. Each of these secular trends are driving investment and innovation and advanced memory and logic semiconductor devices, as well as new and increasingly more complex advanced packaging and PCB technologies. With our market leadership in process control, and growth and expansion in new markets like Specialty Semiconductor Process equipment, PCB and finished die inspection in our EPC group, KLA is essential to enabling our increasing digital world. To make this happen, KLA continues to prioritize and invest in R&D, which totaled $1 billion in calendar 2021, double the level of five years ago and growing at a 15% compound annual growth rate. With this favorable backdrop and our demonstrated track record of investing heavily in R&D to drive product differentiation and consistently meeting or exceeding our commitments to customers and shareholders, our performance enabled KLA to outperform the 2023 long-term financial model targets that we set two years ago, two years ahead of expectations. Moving along to the top highlights from the December 2021 quarter. First, we saw continued strength and consistency in foundry logic customer revenue for both leading-edge and legacy technologies in the December quarter. As expected, memory demand also grew in the period. Calendar 2022 is setting up to be another year of strong growth for WFE. We see demand momentum throughout 2022 across our major end markets. The strength and the demand we're seeing reflects KLA's essential role in supporting our customers' drive to innovate and continue to invest in future technology nodes. In foundry and logic, simultaneous investments across multiple nodes and rising capital intensity continues to be a tailwind. In memory, demand remains broad-based across multiple customers, and we expect another year of double-digit growth in 2022 with NAND growing faster than DRAM; second, KLA is seeing strong demand across the breadth of our industry-leading optical inspection portfolio as we have maintained our momentum in one of the fastest-growing markets in WFE. Wafer inspection systems revenues grew 54% in 2021, far outpacing the WFE market, which is estimated to have grown 40%. We're experiencing strong growth across our wafer inspection portfolio from broadband plasma, laser scanning, unpatterned bare wafer inspection, macro inspection, and e-beam products. This quarter, we highlight macro inspection, which is growing at a pace of 1.5x WFE driven by growth in automotive and other specialty markets where KLA has defensible market leadership with a platform uniquely positioned to address growing technical complexity and tighter design rules; third, success in KLA's strategic growth and market diversification strategies are being demonstrated by growth in EPC. Systems revenue from KLA's Electronics, Packaging, and Components, or EPC group, grew 20% in 2021. With EPC, KLA is diversifying our market leadership with a portfolio of solutions addressing fast-growing new markets in the electronics value chain, including RF, specialty semiconductors, automotive, PCB, advanced packaging, and display; fourth, service revenue grew 14% in 2021 to $1.8 billion and continues to sustain a growth rate above its long-term target of 9% to 11%. For the quarter, services revenue was $457 million or 19% of total revenue. Annual services revenue is quickly approaching $2 billion and has grown 81% in the past three years. This growth has been driven by the rising installed base and increasing adoption of subscription-like contracts. Over 75% of service revenue in the Semiconductor Process Control segment and over 90% of services in the Printed Circuit Board business come from recurring subscription-like contracts. Finally, the December quarter was another exceptional one from a free cash flow perspective, capping a year in which KLA generated over $2.5 billion in free cash flow and returned over $2 billion to shareholders. In the December quarter, we generated strong quarterly free cash flow of $746 million, which helped drive 43% growth in free cash flow in 2021. We've also maintained focus on returning capital to shareholders via our dividend and share repurchase program, which rose 63% year over year on a combined basis. Before Bren gets into greater detail on our financial highlights and guidance, let me briefly summarize. Despite the persistent disruption and continued challenges associated with the pandemic, particularly around the supply chain and component availability, KLA is consistently delivering strong revenue growth, financial results, and returns to shareholders. KLA is well-positioned at the forefront of technological innovation with a comprehensive portfolio of products targeting the most demanding inspection and measurement challenges in the marketplace. I also want to provide a quick update on our ESG activities. On December 16, KLA announced setting a goal to use 100% renewable electricity across our global operations by 2030. Managing the impacts of our business in terms of ESG stewardship is an integral part of KLA's mission to advance humanity. This includes contributing to creating a more sustainable future. With that, I'll pass the call over to Bren to cover our financial highlights, outlook, and guidance. Bren?Bren Higgins -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Rick. KLA's December quarter and 2021 results highlight the continuation of strong execution in a dynamic and challenging market environment. We continue to demonstrate our ability to meet customer needs and expand our market leadership, while growing operating profits, generating record free cash flow, and maintaining our long-term strategy of productive capital allocation. The December quarter capped off a year in 2021 that was defined by strong growth and profitability across multiple areas of our business. We also invested almost $1 billion in R&D to sustain our success and $250 million in capital expenditures to grow our global infrastructure to support our industry growth thesis. All this was accomplished while simultaneously continuing to return high levels of capital to shareholders. Total revenue in the December quarter was $2.35 billion, above the midpoint of the guided range of the quarter of $2.225 billion to $2.425 billion and up 13% sequentially versus the September quarter. Non-GAAP gross margin was 63.1%, just above the midpoint of the guided range of 62% to 64%. GAAP diluted EPS was $4.71 and non-GAAP diluted EPS was $5.59, each within the guidance range. Gross margins were 63.1% and in line with expectations as product mix and factory expenses ended the quarter mostly as planned. KLA's gross margin reflects the value we deliver to the marketplace and our competitive differentiation. To improve on our ability to meet our customer needs, we are also making meaningful investments in our global workforce, supply chain, and factory infrastructure to position KLA to deliver our products in this growing demand environment. Total non-GAAP operating expenses were slightly below the midpoint of the guided range of $465 million, including $265 million of R&D expense and $200 million of SG&A. Non-GAAP operating income as a percentage of revenue was 43.4% in the December quarter. KLA's innovation is fundamental to our go-to-market strategy and focused on differentiated solutions. R&D is at the heart of what we do and remains a key element in driving our portfolio strategy, new product introduction cadence, and product differentiation. This in turn helps sustain our technology and market leadership. Given the rapid growth of the business over the last couple of years and our revenue expectations going forward, we expect the company's operating expenses to continue to grow as we invest in global infrastructure and systems to scale the KLA operating model, as well as new product development programs and volume-dependent resources to support our business expansion. Furthermore, we, as most companies are seeing a strong labor market driving cost pressure across our global workforce and within outsourced partners. As a result, we expect operating expenses to grow sequentially to approximately $495 million in the March quarter, and we forecast sequential growth in operating expenses to continue through calendar 2022. While operating expenses are modeled higher going forward as we will make the necessary investments to scale our business to support our long-term structural industry growth thesis, we will continue to size the company based on our target operating model, which delivers 40% to 50% incremental operating margin leverage on revenue growth over a normalized time horizon. Other interest and expense in the December quarter was $39 million, and the non-GAAP effective tax rate was 13.3%. So, we always have some variability in our tax rate, given the timing and impact of discrete items and the geographic distribution of revenue and profit. We believe it remains prudent to maintain our long-term tax planning rate at 13.5% going forward. Non-GAAP net income was $851 million. GAAP net income was $717 million. Cash flow from operations was $811 million, and free cash flow was $746 million. This resulted in a free cash flow conversion of 88% and a very healthy free cash flow margin of 32%. The company had approximately 152 million diluted weighted average shares outstanding exiting the quarter. Revenue for the Semiconductor Process Control segment, including its associated service business, was $2.05 billion, up 49% compared with the December 2020 quarter and up 15% sequentially. Semiconductor Process Control systems and service grew 39% in calendar '21 versus calendar 2020. Foundry logic was 71% of the approximate Semiconductor Process Control system customer segment mix in the December quarter and memory was 29%. Within memory, the business was split roughly 54% DRAM and 46% NAND. Revenue for our Electronics, Packaging, and Components Group continues to be driven by strength in 5G mobile and infrastructure, as well as continued demand in automotive. More specifically, the Specialty Semiconductor Process segment, which includes its associated service business generated record revenue of $113 million, up 24% over the prior year and up 10% sequentially. Specialty Semiconductor Process systems and service grew 11% for calendar '21. PCB, display, and component inspection revenue was $188 million, up 5% year over year but down 7% sequentially. On a full calendar year basis, it grew 17%. Our breakdown of revenue by major products and region can be found in the shareholder letter, so I won't cover those here. Turning to the balance sheet. KLA ended the quarter with $2.8 billion in total cash, total debt of $3.4 billion, and a flexible and attractive bond maturity profile supported by investment-grade ratings from all three agencies. We remain committed to our long-term strategy of cash returns to shareholders, executing a balanced approach split between dividends and share repurchases, targeting long-term returns of 70% or more of free cash flow generated. In 2021, KLA exceeded our long-term capital returns target, returning over $2 billion to shareholders, including $601 million in dividends paid and $1.4 billion in share repurchases. We believe our track record of delivering strong capital returns is a key component of the KLA investment thesis and offers predictable and compelling value creation for our shareholders. KLA has a history of consistent free cash flow generation, high free cash flow conversion, and strong free cash flow margins across all phases of the business cycle and economic conditions. During the December quarter, we repurchased $430 million of common stock and paid $160 million in dividends. As we begin the new year, our view is that the WFE market will grow in the high teens, topping $100 billion off a baseline of approximately $86 billion for 2021. WFE demand is still constrained by the industry's ability to supply. Strong industry growth momentum in 2022 across all end markets is expected to drive growth with the strongest percentage growth coming from foundry logic customers. And memory investment will be led by 3D NAND. Now, wrapping up with our outlook and guidance. Looking ahead, our backlog remains strong and sales funnel visibility over the near-term horizon is good. However, rising product lead times driven by increased supply chain constraints is limiting our near-term output. These issues are reducing our revenue expectation by 8% to 10% for the March quarter. Specifically, COVID-related disruptions at a number of single-source suppliers have exacerbated what has already been a difficult supply situation where these suppliers have been challenged to meet demand by running their production at max capacity. These disruptions are causing delays in parts delivery timing across multiple product platforms. In addition, numerous electronic component sourcing challenges have become more acute over the past month as these are standardized parts and in demand across multiple industries. We expect that the COVID-related impact will begin to abate shortly, and new capacity or supply alternatives are expected to become available as we move through the calendar year. While these issues can be fluid and difficult to predict in the short run, we expect the March quarter revenue to represent the low point for calendar 2022, and we remain exceedingly confident in the sustainability of our current demand profile for the year. Given current expectations for growth in WFE and other electronics markets, we feel confident in our ability to grow throughout the year with total company revenue growth exceeding 20% and semiconductor process control systems revenue to outperform WFE growth again. Our confidence is based on current backlog levels, competitive positioning, strong customer engagement, and steps we continue to take to add capacity to address output constraints in what continues to be a robust demand environment. Our March quarter 2022 guidance is as follows: Total revenue is expected to be in the range of $2.2 billion, plus or minus $100 million. Foundry logic is forecasted to be about 59% of Semiconductor Process Control systems revenue. Memory is expected to be approximately 41%. We forecast non-GAAP gross margin to be in the range of 61.5% to 63.5% as overall revenue levels declined modestly on a sequential basis and product mix dilutes gross margins by roughly 50 basis points versus the prior quarter. To provide some color for the calendar year, given higher revenue volume, product mix expectations across our various segments offset by expected cost pressures within our supply chain, we are modeling gross margins to be approximately 63% for the year, plus or minus 50 basis points. Other model assumptions for the March quarter include operating expenses of approximately $495 million, interest and other expense of approximately $41 million, and an effective tax rate of approximately 13.5%. Finally, GAAP diluted EPS is expected to be $4.54, plus or minus $0.45, and non-GAAP diluted EPS of $4.80 plus or minus $0.45. The EPS guidance is based on a fully diluted share count of approximately 151 million shares. In conclusion, we have exceptionally strong and diversified end market dynamics propelling semiconductors and the essential WFE investments required to make them. Furthermore, we are seeing revenue growth opportunities as more innovation occurs and technology complexity increases in specialty semiconductors, advanced packaging, and other electronics markets. Finally, our services offerings continue to deliver more value to our customers in our Semiconductor Process Control business, and their evolving opportunities to further expand our value proposition in our acquired businesses. Our record backlog is supported by solid customer demand across end markets and at multiple technology nodes. 2022 is setting up to be the third consecutive year of double-digit growth for WFE and the seventh consecutive year of growth for KLA. The KLA operating model fuels KLA's strategic objectives and positions us to outperform the industry in terms of growth and financial performance. These objectives fuel our growth, operational excellence, and differentiation across an increasingly more diverse product and service offering. They also underpin our sustained technology leadership, wide competitive moat, and strong record of free cash flow generation and capital returns to shareholders. With that, I'll now turn the call back over to Kevin to begin the Q&A session. Kevin?Kevin Kessel -- Vice President of Investor Relations and Market Analytics You go ahead and queue for questions. Sorry about that. 