  OperatorGood morning, and welcome to the WestRock Company fiscal Q2 2022 conference call. [Operator instructions] Please note, this event is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to Rob Quartaro, senior vice president of investor relations. Please go ahead.Rob Quartaro -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Good morning, and thank you for joining our second fiscal quarter 2022 earnings call. We issued our press release this morning and posted the accompanying presentation to the Investor Relations section of our website. They can be accessed at ir.westrock.com or via a link on the application you are using to view this webcast. With me on today's call are WestRock's chief executive officer, David Sewell; and our chief financial officer, Alex Pease.

 



 Following our prepared comments, we will open the call for a question-and-answer session. During today's call, we will be making forward-looking statements involving our plans, expectations, estimates and beliefs related to future events. These statements may involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those we discussed during the call. We describe these risks and uncertainties in our filings with the SEC, including our 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2021.We will also be referencing non-GAAP financial measures during the call. We have provided reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in the appendix of the slide presentation. As mentioned previously, the slide presentation is available on our website. With that, I'll now turn it over to you, David. David Sewell -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Rob, and thank you all for joining our earnings call today. To begin our call, I'll provide a brief summary of the recent actions we've taken and provide an overview of our fiscal second quarter results. Following that, our CFO, Alex Pease, will provide a deep dive into the quarterly performance for our segments and other critical financial performance. I'll also provide guidance for the fiscal third quarter and the full year.

 



 We will then move to Q&A to answer any questions you may have. Over the past year, we've been making significant progress in our efforts to transform WestRock into the very best paper and packaging company. We have aligned our mills into one organization and updated our operating segments to provide increased transparency and better reflect how we manage our business. We've established a global supply chain organization to reduce costs and drive efficiencies. We've launched the WestRock operating system to standardize reporting and drive greater productivity, and we have completed a strategic review of our assets, taking our first step to rationalize our portfolio and drive improved return on invested capital. From a balance sheet and capital allocation perspective, we achieved our initial leverage target last year. At the same time, we have increased our dividend 25% and completed approximately $700 million of share repurchases over the last 12 months. While we already have a lot to be proud of, we are only just beginning. Turning to Slide 4. Today, we've reported strong results with record second fiscal quarter consolidated adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EPS above the high end of our guidance. I want to take just a minute to thank all of our team members at WestRock for their hard work in helping us achieve this success. Second-quarter sales were a record $5.4 billion, up 21% year over year. We delivered consolidated adjusted EBITDA of $854 million, up 33% year over year and adjusted earnings per share of $1.17, more than double the year ago numbers. We achieved these outstanding results during another quarter of heavy scheduled maintenance, and I'm happy to report that our maintenance projects were completed successfully. We have already finished the majority of our planned maintenance for this fiscal year. We continue to see robust demand and strong backlogs across our entire system while also navigating the tight labor market and supply chain disruptions.

 



 As the second quarter progressed, we experienced declines in COVID-related absenteeism and improved production levels at our converting facilities. We exited the quarter with appropriate inventory levels, as we enter the stronger demand season in the back half of the year. We ended the quarter with net leverage of 2.34 times while aggressively buying back stock. We have nearly completed the $500 million buyback target that we spoke about last quarter and expect to finish by the end of May. Once completed, we will have repurchased approximately $700 million of our stock over the last 12 months. Today, we also announced that our Board has authorized an additional 25 million shares for repurchase, representing approximately 10% of our outstanding shares. Looking ahead, we will continue to return capital to our shareholders through a sustainable and growing dividend as well as opportunistic share repurchases. Turning to Slide 5. Our previously published price increases have more than offset unprecedented inflation in fiber, labor, freight, energy and chemicals. We are still implementing containerboard and boxboard price increases, and we expect these price realizations to more than offset inflation for the foreseeable future. On the next slide, as we've previously discussed, we completed a portfolio review and have identified assets that don't meet our return thresholds or align with our strategic priorities. In April, we announced the decision to close our Panama City mill as a first step in this portfolio refinement effort. I am incredibly grateful for our mill employees and their contributions to building our company. We are continuing to support our employees during this difficult transition by offering opportunities at other facilities and providing outplacement assistance. This is never an easy decision. However, given the significant capital investments required to keep the mill operational, we do not see a path to achieving our ROIC targets. We are also strategically reducing our exposure to the fluff pulp market and will direct our resources toward more attractive end markets. Our Panama City mill provided containerboard capacity of 353,000 tons and pulp capacity of 292,000 tons. We expect to shift some containerboard grades to other mills within our network. As a result of the closure, we expect approximately $450 million of onetime costs, of which approximately three-fourths are noncash. We recognized $355 million of expense in the second quarter, and we expect to incur the remainder over the next several years. Going forward, we expect ongoing EBITDA to be negatively impacted by approximately $65 million annually. Before I turn it over to Alex to discuss the detailed results for the quarter, I wanted to remind you once again about our Investor Day coming up next week. We are looking forward to seeing many of you in New York, where we will outline our long-term strategy and goals. We have a great story to share with you, and you will get a chance to hear from many members of our talented management team. As a preview and part of our updated capital allocation strategy, one of our goals will be to reduce our leverage even further with a new net leverage target of 1.75 times to 2.25 times. We remain committed to prudent balance sheet management, and we are maintaining our free cash flow guidance of over $1.3 billion in fiscal 2022. On Investor Day, we'll also share information about the many efforts underway across WestRock to focus on high-value markets, enhance our margins and improve our productivity. Now I'll turn it over to Alex to review our results.Alex Pease -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, David. Moving to our consolidated quarterly results on Slide 7. Second quarter revenue increased 21% to $5.4 billion, and consolidated adjusted EBITDA increased 33% to $854 million. Consolidated adjusted EBITDA margin was 15.9%, up 150 basis points year over year. Our diverse portfolio enables us to deliver higher value solutions to our customers, capturing stronger price with enhanced product mix. Price and mix positively contributed over $700 million year over year. We also saw an $88 million benefit as last year we were negatively impacted by the ransomware incident and weather. However, continuing inflation headwinds in fiber, labor, freight, energy and chemicals, along with foreign exchange and other challenges, largely offset the benefits. As David noted, we experienced significant improvement in COVID-related absenteeism, as the quarter progressed, but still see continuing risks in logistics and other input costs. We successfully executed significant planned maintenance downtime during the quarter. And looking ahead, we expect significantly less planned downtime through the remainder of the year. Turning to Slide 8. Corrugated packaging sales were $2.2 billion, an increase of $281 million or 14% year over year. Adjusted EBITDA increased $8 million or 2%, though adjusted EBITDA margin declined 180 basis points to 14.7%, as we continue to work through the impact of labor issues that we experienced early in the quarter. Strong pricing and mix contributed $275 million but was offset by $200 million of inflation and an $80 million decline in productivity. Productivity was negatively impacted by heavy mill maintenance and labor challenges during the quarter. We experienced continued inflation in fiber, labor, freight, energy and chemicals during the quarter. In addition, as mentioned, COVID-related absenteeism negatively impacted converting operations in January and February. However, we experienced significant improvement as the quarter progressed. Favorable comparisons to last year's weather and ransomware events also benefited adjusted EBITDA by $20 million year over year. Per day, North American box shipments were slightly softer year over year, mainly due to labor issues early in the quarter. However, as we exited the quarter, our run rate significantly improved, and we're currently selling everything we can produce. When looking at our end markets, we're seeing a shift due to reopening as the pandemic eases. Our pure-play e-commerce volumes are softer year over year but are being more than offset by expanding omnichannel retail volume. We are also seeing shifting buying patterns with pizza volumes declining as people return to restaurants but growth in areas like bakery. Geographically, our Brazil business outperformed in a challenging market, producing EBITDA margins over 30% across our combined corrugated and Paper segments. Longer term, we continue to see significant opportunities in Latin America. Overall, demand throughout our corrugated business remains strong, and our shipments have been limited by production capacity rather than customer demand. This strength demonstrates the value we provide our customers and our flexibility to serve a diverse range of end markets. We remain optimistic for the remainder of the fiscal year. Our backlogs are healthy and demand is solid. We're also in the early stages of implementing the previously published March containerboard price increase. Productivity has improved, and we exited the quarter with March EBITDA margins of approximately 17%. Looking ahead, we remain relentlessly focused on improving our margins as we continue to implement the WestRock operating system. Turning to the consumer packaging business on Slide 9. Sales increased to $170 million or 16% to $1.25 billion. Adjusted EBITDA increased $42 million or 25%, and adjusted EBITDA margin was 16.5%, an increase of 130 basis points year-over-year. Higher volumes added $31 million and strong price and mix contributed $111 million. These volumes more than offset a negative impact of $93 million due to inflation, primarily in freight, energy and labor. Plastic replacements and other transitions to sustainable packaging provide continued attractive growth opportunities. Our broad portfolio and product innovations enable us to provide unique solutions and help our customers reduce their environmental footprint. Our current run rate for plastic replacements revenue is now exceeding $300 million annually. We are executing well, and we continue to implement the previously published price increases across all consumer grades. We have more demand than we can meet with backlogs of six to eight weeks. We saw particular strength in beverage and retail food during the quarter. Turning to Slide 10. Global paper revenue increased $407 million or 36% to $1.5 billion. Adjusted EBITDA increased $149 million or 93%, and adjusted EBITDA margin increased 600 basis points to 20.1%. It's important to note that this strong margin would have been reported in our corrugated and consumer segments under our prior reporting structure. Our Paper business continues to benefit from previously announced pricing realization and higher volumes, partially offset by energy, freight and other costs. Price and mix contributed $311 million to adjusted EBITDA, while inflation negatively impacted results by $166 million. Favorable comparisons to last year's second quarter, which had the impact of winter weather and ransomware event, also benefited adjusted EBITDA by $63 million year over year. We continue to see strong demand for our paper products in both independent domestic and export markets, though logistics continued to be impacted by ongoing supply chain disruptions. Our global paper business is a competitive differentiator, enabling us to strategically balance our production and provide flexibility to quickly adapt to current market trends. We remain optimistic for our Paper business through the remainder of the fiscal year due to our strong backlogs and the realization of previously published price increases. Next, our distribution results are on Slide 11. Our Distribution performance was strong with revenue increasing 29% year over year to $362 million. Adjusted EBITDA more than doubled to $28 million. Our impressive results were driven by robust demand and strong execution across our distribution network. Results also benefited from fulfillment of a large healthcare order. Turning to Slide 12. During the quarter, we generated $213 million in adjusted free cash flow, up significantly from the previous year's levels, as last year was negatively impacted by the ransomware incident. We still expect fiscal year '22 to be a very strong year for cash generation with adjusted free cash flow of more than $1.3 billion for the year, making this year the seventh straight year of adjusted free cash flow above $1 billion. Additionally, though we aggressively repurchased shares in the quarter, our leverage ended the quarter at 2.34 times, approaching our new long-term targeted net leverage ratio of 1.75 times to 2.25 times. Turning to Slide 13 and our financial guidance for the third quarter. We continue to implement all previously published price increases. We still have approximately 54,000 tons of scheduled downtime across our system in the third quarter. This is due to delays in mill maintenance from earlier in fiscal 2021, along with our originally planned outages. We are early in the process of evaluating our 2023 maintenance schedule, and we are considering shifting maintenance forward into fiscal 2022. Our forecast for third-quarter consolidated adjusted EBITDA is $930 million to $990 million and adjusted EPS of $1.36 to $1.54. Some assumptions behind our outlook include OCC costs roughly flat quarter over quarter, natural gas costs up approximately $2 per MMBTU sequentially, continued inflation in freight and logistics expense and a tax rate between 24% and 26%. On Slide 14, we're also updating our full-year guidance, both tightening the range and raising the low end. We now expect to achieve $3.5 billion to $3.7 billion in consolidated adjusted EBITDA and $4.75 to $5.35 in adjusted EPS during fiscal 2022. Looking forward, given the strength of our differentiated solutions, we're positioned well for sales, earnings and free cash flow growth this year and beyond. I'll now turn it back to David to conclude before we move to Q&A.David Sewell -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Alex. Due to the hard work of our teammates, we had an outstanding quarter, and we are well positioned for the remainder of the year and beyond. I look forward to meeting many of you next week, as we provide a deep dive into our long-term strategy and goals at our 2022 Investor Day in New York. I am incredibly excited about our future, and I can't wait to share our plans with you. Thank you. And with that, Rob, let's move to Q&A.Rob Quartaro -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Thank you, David. Operator, may we take our first question? 