
Unidentified SpeakerCertain statements contained in this presentation constitute forward-looking statements that are subject to the Safe Harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. The forward-looking statements typically use words such as believe, anticipate, should, intend, plan, will, expect, estimate, project, position, strategy, seek, may, could, and similar expressions. These are based on assumptions and assessments made by the Company's management in light of experience or perception of historical trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other factors that the Company believes to be appropriate.These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, product demand; energy prices; weather; competition; credit market conditions; cash flows; access to available and feasible financing; future stock repurchases; the impact of recessionary conditions; consumer debt levels; changes in laws or regulations; risks associated with self insurance; war and the prospect of war, including terrorist activity; the impact of public health issues, such as the ongoing global pandemic of a novel strain of the coronavirus, COVID-19; inflation; the ability to hire, train and retain qualified employees; construction delays; the compromising of confidentiality, availability or integrity of information, including cyber-attacks; historic growth rate sustainability; downgrade of the Company's credit ratings; damages to the Company's reputation; challenges in international markets; failure or interruption of Company's information technology systems; origin and raw material costs of suppliers; disruption in the Company's supply chain due to public health and pandemics, or otherwise; impact of tariffs; anticipated impact of new accounting standards; and business interruptions. Certain of these risks and uncertainties are described in more detail in the Risks Factors section contained in Item 1A under Part 1 of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 29, 2020, and these risk factors should be read carefully.Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results, developments and businesses may differ from those contemplated by such forward-looking statements and events described above and in the risk factors could materially and adversely affect the Company's business.

 



However, it should be understood that it is not possible to identify or predict all such risks and other factors that could affect these forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made. Except as required by applicable law, the Company undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.OperatorGreetings, and welcome to AutoZone's 2021 Third Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]. A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions]. It is now my pleasure to introduce Bill Rhodes, Chief Executive Officer. Thank you. You may begin.William C. Rhodes -- Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Customer Satisfaction

 



Good morning, and thank you for joining us today for AutoZone's 2021 third quarter conference call. With me today are Jamere Jackson, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer; and Brian Campbell, Vice President, Treasurer, Investor Relations and Tax.Regarding the third quarter, I hope you had an opportunity to read our press release and learn about the quarter's results. If not the press release, along with slides complementing our comments today are available on our website www.autozone.com under the Investor Relations link. Please click on quarterly earnings conference calls to see them.I am excited and honored to share with you the exceptionally strong performance our team of 100,000 AutoZoners delivered this quarter. As I've said previously, throughout this pandemic, we could not deliver the kind of results we have without the continued exceptional performance of our entire team, especially our store and supply chain AutoZoners. As our sales volumes have remained at historic all time highs, our AutoZoners have met this demand head on with enthusiasm for going the extra mile for our customers.While we've had -- have asked a lot of our AutoZoners over the last year, they have taken on the challenge and continue to inspire and impress us all. I also want to reiterate our top priority remains being committed to keeping all of our customers and AutoZoners safe. Thank you, AutoZoners again.

 



Now to our sales results. Our overall same-store sales were up 28.9% this quarter. Our growth rates for retail and commercial were both strong with commercials growth north of 40%. This is almost double the comp growth rate of our DIY business, an incredible accomplishment for both businesses, but especially for commercial. We achieved our highest weekly commercial sales of all time. We averaged nearly $70 million a week in commercial sales. This is incredible considering we averaged $48 million for Q3 of last year. For the trailing four quarters, we have sold domestically $3.1 billion to commercial customers. We are doing some really exciting things in commercial and we couldn't be more proud of our team's recent successes.Now let's focus on sales cadence. This quarter we -- this quarter stretched from mid February to the first week of May. In the first four weeks, our sales comp was approximately 11.6%. This was lower than the trend we were experiencing at the end of our second quarter. We believe the cause of our sales slowing were the winter storms experienced across the Central and Southeastern states.Sales picked up for the next four weeks from mid-March to mid-April, concurrent with the arrival of additional stimulus payments. The final four weeks happened to coincide perfectly with the stimulus payments from last year. It was over these four weeks last year when our sales ramped materially. This year, over those four weeks, we averaged a 14% comp with the last two weeks coming down to the mid-single digit range.We continue to maintain solid growth rates post stimulus. For Q3, our two-year comp was 27.9%. On a two-year stack basis, the first four weeks, were up 17.9%, the next four weeks were up an impressive 49.9%, and the last four weeks were still up 26.7%. It was encouraging for us to see sales inflect upward this quarter with both traffic and ticket moving higher. Our traffic growth was roughly double the ticket growth rate as the reintroduction of federal stimulus payments and the execution of our growth initiatives drove a material increase in traffic.During the quarter, there were certainly some geographic regions that did better than others as there always are. Across both our retail and commercial customer basis, we saw the majority of the country performed consistently well. Normally, we talk about the Midwest and Northeastern markets underperforming the others; no, not this quarter. These markets were in line with the rest of the country for both DIY and DIFM. And we believe the winter weather we experienced in February bodes well for our future sales opportunities this summer and into the fall.And I could not be more proud to say that based on the retail sales data we have for our industry, we continue to enjoy share gains. The share data we have available for the first eight weeks of this quarter shows we are growing at a roughly 10% higher rate than the remainder of the industry. While we are thrilled to have those share gains, our charge remains to maintain them heading into the summer and fall months. Our number one priority continues to be the health, safety and well-being of our customers and AutoZoners.On last quarter's call, we shared that we would provide every single AutoZoner with a $100 incentive once they completed their vaccination for COVID-19. That's every AutoZoner, including part timers. This was the logical next step in our efforts to provide a safe working and shopping environment as we have with our ongoing PPE efforts.We spent about $1 million during the quarter incentivizing our AutoZoners to get that vaccine. I continue to be inspired by our Board and management team's commitment to doing what is right and that is putting safety first. Our culture and our values of taking care of one another have been in full force and effect over the last year during this pandemic. While we continue to be encouraged with the current sales environment, we are cautious about predicting future trends. The latest round of stimulus payments certainly accelerated our sales and sales remained at elevated levels through the end of the quarter.However, we can't fully predict what all the different pushes and pulls on macro trends mean for us. However, we remain bullish on the industry's ability to grow this year, and we believe we are well positioned to gain additional share beyond what we already have. I'm sure many of you would like to know how we are thinking about the sales for the fourth quarter of fiscal '21. I'll remind you that typically in recessionary environments, our business is remarkably resilient. However, nothing about this global pandemic is typical.Beyond our primary objective to ensure the safety of our customers and AutoZoners, our focus is on providing our AutoZoners with the resources they need to provide our customers with an exceptional shopping experience. We are optimistic about the sales environment heading into the fourth fiscal quarter, but we will obviously have the most difficult comparison in our history, as last year's fourth quarter benefited from the April 2020 stimulus package and enhanced unemployment benefits through July, and we generated an astonishing 21.8% same store sales growth last year in Q4.While we understand you would like more clarity on our expectations for this Q4, this remains a very challenging environment to predict especially in DIY as many evolving macro factors meaningfully impact our results. Now let's move into more specifics on performance for the quarter. Our same-store sales were up 28.9% versus last year's third quarter, our net income was $596 million and our EPS was $26.48 a share, 84% above last year's third quarter. Our same-store sales growth this quarter was a record for any quarter since we became a publicly traded Company back in 1991. Both our retail and commercial businesses showed strength in the quarter with DIY same-store sales up approximately 25%, and commercial total sales growth of approximately 44%. For commercial, we averaged $70 million in weekly sales, which was approximately $13,500 in sales per program per week. These commercial sales numbers easily set all-time records for us.The initiatives we have in place are helping drive our commercial sales. I'll remind you that this is a highly fragmented $75 billion market, and we believe our product and service offerings provide us a tremendous opportunity to significantly grow sales and market share over time.Next, I'll talk about trends across our merchandise categories, particularly in the retail business. Our sales floor categories continue to be strong with categories like tools, anti-freeze, small repair and floor mats showing strength. But our hard parts business definitely picked up and our hard parts business comped in line with our sales floor for the quarter. This now represents our second quarter in a row where we saw our hard parts business grow in line with sales floor items. We believe the strengthening of our hard parts business is due to the significant winter weather we experienced, additional stimulus, and the pickup in miles driven the nation is beginning to see as people return to a new normal.Business remained very strong in many merchandise categories such as accessories and batteries, notably, brakes and rotors while still slightly below our average growth had a meaningful rebound this quarter due to the winter weather. As we expect, our sales growth from the pandemic related surge will moderate over time, we believe the investments we have made in both our retail and commercial businesses position us to deliver outsized share gains, relative to the overall industry.In addition, we continue to believe our products and services will be in high demand during more difficult economic times and this resiliency gives us significant confidence about our future prospects.Now, I will turn the call over to Jamere Jackson. Jamere?Jamere Jackson -- Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President-Finance and Store Development, Customer SatisThanks, Bill and good morning everyone. As Bill mentioned, we had another outstanding quarter. Once again our growth initiatives are delivering and the heroic efforts of our AutoZoners in our stores and distribution centers are driving extraordinary results.To start this morning, let me take a few minutes to elaborate on the specifics in our P&L for Q3. For the quarter, total auto parts sales, which includes our domestic Mexico and Brazil stores were $3.6 billion, up 31.8%. For the trailing four quarters ended, total sales per AutoZone store were just over $2.1 million. This compares to just under $1.9 million in Q3 last year.Now let me give a little more color on sales and our growth initiatives. Starting with our commercial business, for the third quarter, our domestic DIFM sales increased over 44% to $829 million. Sales to our DIFM customers represented 23% of our total sales and our weekly sales per program were $13,500, up 39.2% as we averaged nearly $70 million in total weekly commercial sales.Our growth was broad-based as national accounts and local and regional accounts both grew over 40% in the quarter. Our execution on our commercial acceleration initiatives is delivering exceptional results. As I've said previously, we're focused on building a faster growing business with disciplined investments in pricing, service and assortment. We have a tremendous market opportunity as we are significantly under-penetrated in this highly fragmented portion of the market.We now have our commercial program in over 85% of our domestic stores, and we're focused on building our business with national, regional and local accounts. This quarter, we opened 19 net new programs, finishing with 5,107 total programs. We continue to leverage our DIY infrastructure and increased our share of wallet with existing customers.Our strategy is working as we continue to grow share this past quarter. We are confident that we can continue to gain share as, we deliver improvements in the quality of our parts, particularly with our Duralast brand; make improvements in our assortment; maintain competitive pricing; and stay committed to providing exceptional service. These core focus areas have enabled us to drive double-digit sales growth for the past four quarters, and position us well in the marketplace.As we move forward, we're focused on our core initiatives that we believe will accelerate our growth even further. First, our mega hub strategy is improving our parts availability and giving us tremendous momentum. We opened two more mega hubs this quarter bringing our total to 50 locations and we expect to open between four and seven more mega hubs by the end of the fiscal year. As you might recall from last quarter's conference call, we raised our near-term targeted build out of mega hubs from 75-90 to 100-110.Mega hubs help us expand coverage and say, yes, we have it, more frequently. Expanding our mega hub footprint delivers a meaningful sales lift to both our commercial and DIY business. Second, our technology investments are improving delivery times and service levels. We continue to make enhancements to our AutoZone Pro system and mobile app to enable faster and more efficient parts ordering.We're leveraging technology to improve delivery times and making it simpler to do business with AutoZone. All of our efforts are driving efficiency for our sales professionals, drivers and customers and will help build a meaningful competitive advantage. Third, we're committed to being price competitive and the strategy is working. We have a laser focus on the key categories, regions and segments where investments in pricing are leading to accelerated sales growth and higher EBIT dollars. We're using data science and market intelligence to test our approach in different markets and different customer segments and delivering solid results.We will continue to lean into this strategy and live up to our pledge to have the best merchandise at the right price. Our execution in the commercial business gives us tremendous confidence in our ability to create a faster growing business. On the retail side of our business, we're excited about the gains we're seeing in our DIY market share and our initiatives are driving solid share gains. Our growth in the quarter was broad based across regions and categories.In the quarter, we delivered double-digit comps in eight of the 12 weeks and all 12 weeks had positive comps, despite some weeks having tough comparisons from a year ago. Our sales floor market share as measured by NPD grew nearly two points for the first eight weeks of the quarter and we saw double-digit growth across both failure and maintenance categories in the quarter.We also grew share in April despite the tremendous growth last year signifying that those customers have likely changed their buying behavior. Our growth in retail is driven by our continued focus in a few key areas. First, the relentless focus on execution by our AutoZoners in our stores and distribution centers has been remarkable. Our supply chain AutoZoners have processed and handled record volumes and our store AutoZoners have handled record store traffic and delighted our customers. To be clear, we are winning in the marketplace and the execution of our AutoZoners who are taking care of our customers is a key competitive advantage.Second, the assortment work in mega hub strategy continue to improve our coverage and availability, leading to a meaningful lift in sales. Third, we continue to focus on improving the customer shopping experience with our e-commerce efforts, buy online pickup in store, next day delivery and ship to home, which were up again significantly this quarter have helped us meet customers when, where and how they want to shop.We're particularly pleased with Buy Online Pickup in Store, the fastest growing portion of our e-commerce offerings, which enables our customer to shop our broad array of products online and maintain the opportunity to get expert advice from our AutoZoners when they pick up in store. This is a significant competitive advantage versus our pure-play competitors.Fourth, and similar to our commercial approach, we're using disciplined and sophisticated data analytics to ensure that we are competitively priced. This is a data rich environment and our data driven approach, tools and capabilities give us a meaningful competitive advantage. We have tested our approach in key categories and markets, and this effort is yielding increased top line and gross profit dollar growth, albeit at slightly lower gross margins.The strategy is working and we're going to lean into this approach more as we live up to our pledge of having the best merchandise at the right price. DIY has been a strong contributor to the growth of our Company. And while comps get more difficult as we lap the accelerated sales growth that we have seen over the past four quarters, the fundamentals of our business have never been stronger.Our strategy and execution are delivering solid results. Now let me spend just a few minutes on international. We continue to be pleased with the progress we're making in Mexico and Brazil. During the quarter, we opened seven new stores in Mexico to finish with 635 stores and one new store in Brazil to finish with 47. On a constant currency basis, we continue to see solid sales growth. More importantly, as those economies stabilize, we remain committed to our store opening schedules in both markets and expect both to be significant contributors to growth and earnings in the future. I am particularly excited about our prospects in Brazil where based on all of the hard work by our Brazilian AutoZoners over the past several years, we're now poised to significantly accelerate our new store growth rate over the coming years.Now let me spend a few minutes on the P&L and gross margins. For the quarter, our gross margin was down 118 basis points driven primarily by the accelerated growth in our commercial business and our investment in our pricing initiatives. As I mentioned, our commercial business grew 44% this quarter, and we're also making disciplined pricing investments to drive top line growth and gross profit dollars. The strategy is working. Our work is translating into higher sales and profits as evidenced by our sales and share growth that outpaced the remaining market this quarter.Our approach is disciplined and specific to certain categories where we have rigorously tested and determined which actions moved the sales and gross profit dollar performance in the right direction. We're beginning to see some cost inflation in certain product categories along with rising transportation costs. To be clear, overall we have pricing power. The industry's pricing remains rational and we're pricing accordingly.All of the actions we are taking have resulted in us growing our DIY and DIFM businesses at roughly double the rate of the overall market or better and we're committed to capturing our fair share and improving our competitive positioning in a disciplined way. This is a good outcome for our business and as such, you should expect to see similar margin performance in the fourth quarter. We will continue to drive new customers and over time grow absolute gross profit dollars at a faster than historic rate in our total auto parts operating segment.Moving to operating expenses, our store operations and commercial teams continue to manage our expenses well in this environment. Our expenses were up 11.3% versus last year Q3, as SG&A as a percentage of sales shows leverage of 550 basis points. Included in this quarter's expenses were over $1 million of COVID related expenses compared to last year's third quarter COVID expenses that totaled $75 million which included provisions for additional emergency time-off.Excluding this comparison, SG&A levered 284 basis points, driven by our exceptionally strong sales growth. While our SG&A dollar growth rate has been higher than historical averages, we remain committed in managing SG&A in line with sales volumes over time. Moving to the rest of the P&L, EBIT for the quarter was $804 million, up 63% versus the prior year's quarter. Our EBIT margin was 22% up 432 basis points versus the prior year's quarter driven by the strong topline growth and operating expense leverage I spoke about earlier.Interest expense for the quarter was just over $45 million, down 5% from Q3 a year ago as our debt outstanding at the end of the quarter was just under $5.3 billion versus just over $5.4 billion last year. We're planning interest in the $60 million to $61 million range for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021 versus $65.6 million in last year's fourth quarter. Our adjusted debt level metric finished the quarter at two times EBITDAR. While in any given quarter we may increase or decrease our leverage metric based on debt and equity market conditions, we remain committed to both our investment grade rating and our capital allocation strategy, and our share repurchases are an important element of that strategy.Moving to tax for the quarter, our tax rate was 21.4% versus 22.8% in last year's third quarter. This quarter's rate benefited 211 basis points from stock options exercised, while last year it benefited 26 basis points. Stock option exercises aren't predictable and as such they will affect our tax rate, and ultimately our net income and EPS. For the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021, we suggest that investors model us at approximately 23.4% before any assumption on credits due to stock option exercises. Because we cannot effectively predict this activity, we remain committed to reporting the stock option impact on the tax rate.Moving to net income and EPS, net income for the quarter was $596 million, up 73.9% versus last year's third quarter. Our diluted share count of 22.5 million was lower by 5.5% from last year's third quarter. The combination of strong earnings and lower share count drove earnings per share for the quarter to $26.48, up 84% over the prior year's third quarter.Now let me talk about our cash flow. For the third quarter, we generated $1.2 billion of operating cash flow. This was up $539 million over last year's Q3. Our operating cash flow results benefited from the strong sales and earnings previously discussed. And as we move forward to make the investments that we have discussed to drive growth, you can still expect us to be an incredibly strong cash flow generator that returns meaningful amounts of cash to our shareholders.Regarding our balance sheet, we now have $976 million in cash on the balance sheet and our liquidity position remains strong. We're also managing our inventory well, as our inventory per store growth was up 2.3% versus Q3 last year. Inventory per store was $701,000 versus $685,000 last year and $715,000 last quarter. Total inventory increased 5.1% over the same period last year, driven by new stores. Net inventory defined as merchandise inventories less accounts payable on a per store basis was a negative $167,000 versus negative $56,000 last year and negative $93,000 last quarter.As a result, accounts payable as a percent of gross inventory finished the quarter at 123.9% versus last year's Q3 of 108.2%. Lastly, I'll spend a moment on capital allocation, and our share repurchase program. We repurchased $900 million of AutoZone stock in the quarter. As of the end of the fiscal quarter, we had approximately 21.6 million shares outstanding.At quarter end, we had just over $1.3 billion remaining under our share buyback authorization. Year to date, we bought back $2.5 billion of stock or approximately 2 million shares. The powerful free cash flow we have generated this year, combined with excess cash carry over from last year has enabled us to buy back over 8% of our shares over the first three quarters of the year.We remain confident in our near-term plans and as such, expect to continue reducing the level of cash and cash equivalents on hand through the remainder of this fiscal year. Our business remains remarkably strong, and this will enable us to invest in our existing assets, grow our business and as I emphasized earlier, return meaningful amounts of cash to shareholders as part of our disciplined capital allocation approach.So to wrap up, we had another very strong quarter, highlighted by exceptionally strong comp sales, which drove a 74% increase in net income and an 84% increase in EPS. We're driving long-term shareholder value by investing in our growth initiatives, driving robust earnings in cash and returning excess cash to our shareholders. Our strategy is working, and I have tremendous confidence in our ability to drive significant and ongoing value for our shareholders.Now, I'll turn it back to Bill.William C. Rhodes -- Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Customer SatisfactionThank you, Jamere. These continue to be unique and extraordinary times. Our team has done a wonderful job of managing and leading throughout this time frame. I am proud of our team, across the Board for their commitment to servicing our customers, but doing so in a very safe manner. At the start of this pandemic last year, we could never have guessed the positive impact it would have on our sales. To be able to report our largest domestic comp sales number ever this quarter, 30 years after going public is just amazing.But with this fortuitous outcome, we knew we had to take advantage of this window of time and experiment. We've tested to understand the origins of our share gains and potential for retaining those gains as the world goes back to some sense of normalcy. We believe the environment continues to allow us this chance to learn. But we will be deliberate. We understand the value of the capital invested as our capital is our investors' capital. We must have an appropriate return. We've worked exceptionally well to deliver on our commitments thus far. But we must keep focus and continue to deliver. There are no lay-ups we must continue to innovate.While our domestic retail business continues to do tremendously well, we understand that trends will slow. But we're going to work hard, real hard to gain as much share as possible now in order to limit our future headwinds. Our goal is to retain all of these new customers in new occasions where existing customers are choosing AutoZone.And as we've discussed, our domestic commercial business is still in the very early innings of the maturation process. It is an honor to have reported this morning that we are now doing materially over $3 billion in domestic commercial sales on a trailing four-quarter basis. But, we hope and we believe the best is yet to come for our commercial business.As always, we have work to do as we head into our summer selling season. But we are excited to exploit the opportunities that are in front of us. First and foremost, our focus will be on keeping our AutoZoners and customers safe, while providing our customers with their automotive needs. Secondly, we must continuously challenge ourselves during these extraordinary times to position our Company for even greater future success. We know that investors will ultimately measure us by what our future cash flows look like in three to five years from now.Lastly, I continue to be bullish on our industry, and in particular, very bullish on our Company. Now, we'd like to open up the call for questions.