
OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the NRG Energy, Inc.'s Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to hand the conference over to your host today, Kevin Cole, Head of Investor Relations, to read the safe harbor and introduce the call.Kevin L. Cole -- Senior Vice President, Investor Relations

 



Thank you, Benjamin. Good morning, and welcome to NRG Energy's Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. This morning's call is being broadcast live over the phone and via webcast, which can be located in the Investors section of our website at www.nrg.com, under Presentations and Webcasts.Please note that today's discussion may contain forward-looking statements, which are based on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable as of this date. Actual results may differ materially. We urge everyone to review the safe harbor in today's presentation as well as the risk factors in our SEC filings. We undertake no obligation to update these statements as a result of future events, except as required by law.In addition, we will refer to both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. For information regarding our non-GAAP financial measures and reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP measures, please refer to today's presentation.And with that, I'll now turn the call over to Mauricio Gutierrez, NRG's President and CEO.

 



Mauricio Gutierrez -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Kevin. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for your interest in NRG. I'm joined this morning by Alberto Fornaro, Chief Financial Officer. Also on the call and available for questions, we have Elizabeth Killinger, Head of Home Retail; and Chris Moser, Head of Operations.I'd like to start on Slide four of today's presentation. Our consumer services platform performed well through this summer and delivered stable results. We are narrowing our 2021 financial guidance at the low end of the range and initiating 2022 financial guidance. Our platform is navigating the unprecedented supply chain constraints, and we are actively working to mitigate the financial impact. Finally, we continue to make progress on our five-year growth plan. In the near term, we are focused on the Direct Energy integration, organic growth in power and gas, and expanding our customer base with dual product options.Moving to the financial and operational results for the third quarter on Slide five. Beginning on the left-hand side of the slide, I want to start with safety. We delivered another quarter of top decile safety performance. This marks 10 straight quarters at this level of performance, a testament toward our strong safety culture. As we continue our return to the office, the safety and well-being of our employees remains our top priority.

 



During the third quarter, we delivered $767 million of adjusted EBITDA, which brings our year-to-date results to $1.99 billion, or 19% higher than the previous year, driven primarily by the acquisition of Direct Energy. We are, however, narrowing our 2021 guidance to the lower half of the range, primarily as a result of unanticipated supply chain constraints impacting fourth-quarter results. This will also impact 2022 guidance, which I will address shortly.During the quarter, we made good progress on our key strategic initiatives. First, Direct Energy integration is well ahead of pace, achieving $144 million year-to-date or 107% of the original full-year plan. We are increasing our 2021 target to $175 million, which reflects the early realization of synergy targets in 2021. We are maintaining the full planned target of $300 million run rate in 2023.Next, in ERCOT, the PUCT continues to advance necessary actions to improve market reliability. In October, the PUCT implemented Phase one of the winter weatherization standards, which will be in effect for this upcoming winter. This weatherization standard adopts best practices and addresses weather-related issues that occurred during Uri. We are making the necessary investments in our fleet to be in compliance and ready for winter operations.On market design, the PUCT remains focused on a comprehensive solution to improve reliability and incentivize dispatchable resources. At NRG, we support this direction and have taken a leading role in offering ideas for the PUCT's consideration. We have proposed a comprehensive solution to prioritize reliability and achieve it through competitive solutions. The PUCT also approved the final orders for securitization to ensure a healthy and competitive market. I want to comment and thank the governor, legislature, and PUCT for tirelessly working to address the issues Uri exposed and to harden the ERCOT system, and protect the integrity of the competitive markets that have benefited consumers over the years.Now turning to Home Retail. We continue to advance our best-in-class customer experience during the quarter. Our Reliant brand was recognized with two awards during the quarter. The North American Customer Centricity Award in the Crisis Management category and the 2021 Innovation Leader Impact Award for the Make It Solar offering, which is a renewable energy initiative that allows customers to support solar energy without installing panels.Now moving to the right-hand side of the slide to discuss 2022. First, as we detailed during our June Investor Day, 2022 is a staging year for high-grading our business and achieving our five-year 15% to 20% free cash flow per share growth plan. In 2022, we remain focused on integrating Direct Energy and achieving the plant's high-quality synergies, removing or streamlining our East generation business that continues to weigh on our valuation given earnings and terminal value concerns that otherwise would have masked our retail growth, deploying small amounts of capital to prepare the platform for growth and returning a significant amount of capital to shareholders.With that, we're introducing 2022 financial guidance of $1.95 billion to $2.25 billion of adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow before growth of $1.14 billion to $1.44 billion. This guidance reflects our plan to fully realize our planned synergies and to streamline our East generation business. Also impacting this guidance are temporary impacts from unforeseen supply chain constraints, ancillary services charges in ERCOT, and our previously announced Limestone Unit one outage through April 2022. But leave no doubt, now that we have identified these near-term headwinds, we are focused on mitigating these impacts into 2022.Finally, we are also announcing an 8% increase in our 2022 dividend, in line with our stated dividend growth rate of 7% to 9%. Now let me turn the call over to Alberto for a more detailed financial review. And after, I will discuss how we're advancing our consumer services' five-year road map. Alberto?Alberto Fornaro -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Mauricio. Moving to the quarterly results. I will now turn to Slide seven for a brief review of our financials. For the quarter, NRG delivered $767 million in adjusted EBITDA, or $15 million higher than the third quarter of last year. The increase in consolidated earnings was driven by the acquisition of Direct Energy and the related additional synergies achieved in Q3, partially offset by the impact of the outage at our Limestone Unit one facility and other headwinds related to the onset of supply chain constraints.Specifically, by region, the East benefited by $89 million, driven by the expected contribution from the Direct Energy acquisition and some incremental synergies and cost savings. This benefit was partially offset by reduced volume in our sale of power as well as lower profitability from our PJM core fleet due to supply chain constraints for chemical necessary to run the environmental controls.Next, our Texas region decreased by $68 million due to the higher supplier cost to serve our retail load. With the outage of Limestone Unit one, we had to purchase higher price supply to supplement this lost generation. This increase in supply cost was partially offset by the contribution from the Direct Energy acquisition. As a reminder, we benefited the last year from exceptionally low market power prices realized during the COVID-driven economic shutdown and a favorable mix in usage between home and business customers.The free cash flow before growth in the quarter was $395 million, a reduction of $230 million year-over-year, driven primarily by two factors, a $75 million increase in cash interest due to the $3 billion in Direct Energy financing in late 2020 and second is the movement in inventory. During Q3 2020, we reduced inventory by $60 million, driven by seasonal trends and coal utilization. While during Q3 2021, we built up inventories by $75 million, mostly for the seasonal needs of the gas business. This overall resulted in a $135 million negative cash flow balance.On a year-to-date basis, our progress in terms of incremental profitability is significant and driven by the acquisition of Direct Energy. Our expectation for the net impact from Winter Storm Uri remains at $500 million to $700 million with a $10 million increase in onetime costs, offset by a similar increase in the range of expected mitigants now that positive development and the Texas legislator have increased the probability of recouping some of our Uri losses. The total negative cash impact has shifted slightly as the estimated bill credits owed to large commercial and industrial customers have been reduced by higher billings in 2021. As a consequence, the 2021 Uri negative cash impact has increased by $85 million with a corresponding movement in 2022. We expect to receive the majority of the securitization proceeds during the first quarter of 2022 with a possible first tranche later this year.Now turning to the Direct Energy integration. We are confirming our goal to achieve a run rate of $300 million synergies by 2023. During 2021, we have identified further areas for cost synergies, and we're able to realize certain synergies earlier than anticipated. Overall, we are on track to achieve $175 million of synergy for 2021, with $144 million realized year-to-date. Synergy expectation, as well as onetime cost savings, achieved so far are fully embedded, respectively, in our 2021 guidance and year-to-date actuals.As you are all familiar, supply chain constraints are affecting many industry across the country, and they are affecting our operation as well. In addition to our Limestone Unit one outage, which is now extended to mid-April 2022, constraint in the availability of coal are impacting both costs and volumes. In addition, our Midwest Generation coal plants are impacted by a shortfall in necessary chemicals to run the environmental controls of the fleet. Due to these constraints, we are now narrowing our guidance to the lower end of our original guidance to $2.4 billion to $2.5 billion. We are currently near the bottom of this range, but we are working intensely to improve our results.Consequently, we have also narrowed our free cash flow before growth guidance to $1.44 billion to $1.54 billion. Moving to Slide eight. We are initiating guidance for 2022 to $1.95 billion to $2.25 billion. This is a significant decrease from our current 2021 results, driven by three elements as laid out on this slide, planned divestiture of East and West power plants and the activation of our Midwest Generation, already highlighted in the Investor Day, the reduction in the New York City capacity revenues and the impact from the transitory costs that are related to 2022 only.As mentioned above, the contribution from Direct Energy would increase in 2022 by $130 million, driven by the anticipated increase in synergies. We have already realized more synergy benefits in 2021, accelerating some action, and therefore, we believe that we can achieve our target for 2022 of $225 million.Next, we anticipate the sale of our East and West assets to close next month for a net of $620 million in sales proceeds, reducing EBITDA by $100 million going forward. With the retirement of our coal assets in the East in mid-2022, EBITDA will decrease by $90 million in the year. In addition, due to change in New York capacity market parameters, capacity prices have decreased on a more permanent basis, affecting our Astoria and Arthur Kill facilities, and reducing EBITDA by a further $30 million.As mentioned above, we are experiencing a one-time extended forced outage at our Limestone Unit one facility and what we believe to be transitory supply chain constraints that are negatively impacting 2022 results. And we expect to correct them in 2023. With increased power prices, the extended outage at our Limestone facility is increasing our supply cost by $50 million to April 2022. With the advent of constraints on coal and chemical deliveries and commodity price, we expect fuel and supply cost to increase by $100 million in 2022 while returning to normal levels in future years.Lastly, with the change in the ERCOT market, we are expecting an increase in ancillary charges that were initiated after we contracted the customers and were not included in our margin price. In the future, these costs will be included in future contract prices. But during 2022, we will incur an incremental $70 million of ancillary costs. This outcome is negative to us, and our management team is working tireless to mitigate these incremental costs as best as possible, including further one-time cost savings opportunity.Given increased volatility in this environment, we are also increasing the range of our guidance with the expectation that we can identify enough mitigants in 2022 to offset the portion for these costs. The reduction in EBITDA is the primary driver for the lower free cash flow before growth.I will now turn to Slide nine, where we are updating our plan 2021 capital allocation. As in the past, our practice on this slide is to highlight changes from last quarter in blue. Starting from the left-most column, we have updated the 2021 excess cash with the latest free cash flow midpoint to $1.49 billion, reducing available cash by $50 million.Moving to the Winter Storm Uri, and as discussed before, the midpoint for the net estimated cash impact for Winter Storm Uri remains at $600 million. But given the increased utilization of customer credit in 2021, the net cash impact after assumed mitigants has increased to $535 million in 2021 and decreased by the same amount in 2022 to only $65 million. As you are aware, the much-anticipated securitization builds HB4492 and SB1580 have been approved and the regulation has been finalized by ERCOT and the PUCT. We anticipate that the main portion of the financing and release of funds will occur during the first quarter of 2022.Moving to the next column, to pursue our targeted net debt-to-adjusted EBITDA ratio, we completed the delivering of $250 million, plus early redemption fees of $64 million in Q3, totaling $319 million. Finally, we have added the anticipated sale of 4.8 gigawatts of generation in the East and West regions. The net cash proceeds of $620 million will be utilized partly for debt reduction, $500 million to maintain leverage neutrality. After incremental fees of $16 million, the remaining $104 million will be available for general capital allocation. This leaves $375 million of remaining capital for allocation, and this capital is dependent on the successful conclusion of the securitization process.Finally, on Slide 10, after reducing our corporate debt balance for 2021, debt delevering and for the minimum cash, our 2021 net debt balance will be approximately $7.9 billion, which, when based at the midpoint of adjusted EBITDA, implies a ratio slightly above three times net debt to adjusted EBITDA.As discussed during Investor Day, given our growth profile, our goal is to achieve investment-grade metrics of 2.5 to 2.75 times net debt-to-adjusted EBITDA ratio. We remain committed to a strong balance sheet and continue to target the 2.5 to 2.75 ratio, primarily through the full realization of Direct Energy run-rate earnings.Back to you, Mauricio.Mauricio Gutierrez -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Alberto. So turning to Slide 12. I want to provide an update on our progress executing our five-year growth road map. As I told you at Investor Day, two of our strategic priorities are to optimize the core and to grow the core. Optimizing the core will focus on strengthening our power and gas businesses, completing the Direct Energy integration, and continuing the decarbonization of our generation fleet.The Direct Energy transaction significantly increased our scale and materially enhanced our natural gas capabilities. This created two near-term opportunities, increasing our number of pure natural gas customers and expanding our dual product capabilities within our existing network of customers. Efforts in both of these areas are well underway, and we will leverage the collective experience of NRG and Direct Energy teams to execute on our growth in these targeted areas.In addition to natural gas and dual product customer growth, we will continue to invest in our core power business to extend our market-leading position in competitive retail electricity by continuing to meet the customers, where they are and to deliver the innovation that customers have come to expect from NRG and its family of brands. The Direct Energy integration is well on track. And today, we are reiterating our full synergy plan targets.Upon closing Direct Energy, we immediately began rationalizing offices in areas with significant employee geographic overlap and completed a number of critical system consolidations without any meaningful impact to the operations of the company.Given that the integration is being led by the same team responsible for executing the transformation plan, we are highly confident in our ability to achieve the synergy targets that we have shared with you.Our portfolio decarbonization efforts remain ongoing. The 4.8-gigawatt asset sale to ArcLight remains on track to close by year-end with only New York PSC approval outstanding. We have 1.6 gigawatts of coal assets in PJM slated to retire in mid-2022, with the remainder of our PJM fleet under strategic review. We continue to execute on our renewable PPA strategy, having signed 2.7 gigawatts nationally and expect to procure more renewable power through additional RFOs for solar, wind, and battery storage in our core markets.Now shifting to grow the core. Our objectives are centered around distinct customer experiences in both power services and home services. As we work to shape these distinct customer experiences, we will break them down into discrete pieces and apply a test-and-learn discipline in order to refine our customer value proposition, optimal business model, and go-to-market strategy. By starting small, it allows us to stay nimble and deploy limited capital while gathering critical market intelligence to inform how we approach these new customer offerings for sustained long-term growth. 2022 will serve as a staging year, where we will be focused on the test-and-learn environment I just discussed.Although this staging year will not be as a growth capital intensive as the later years, it is a crucial year in which we will need to develop data-backed conviction in our initiatives in order to have the confidence to deploy more significant capital in 2023 and 2024. We will be sure to share more on our 2022 efforts as the year progresses.Now as we're turning our attention to 2022 with limited cost on our capital, I wanted to take a moment to review our capital allocation framework and capital available for allocation. Beginning on the left-hand side of the slide, we expect to have over $1.6 billion in capital available for allocation, including $375 million of unallocated cash from 2021. We will apply our capital allocation principles that are outlined in the right side of the slide. Beyond safety and operational excellence, our first use of capital for allocation is to achieve and maintain a strong balance sheet. Our focus is to grow into our target metrics of 2.5 to 2.75 times by the end of 2023, resulting in the vast majority of our excess cash to be available for allocation through our 50% return of capital and 50% opportunistic frameworks.I look forward to providing you a comprehensive capital allocation update on our next earnings call, but this should give you a good idea of our financial flexibility. I am proud of the strength of our platform that, despite near-term supply chain constraints, continues to provide our customers differentiated products and services and, for our shareholders, the financial flexibility to both execute our ambitious five-year growth plan while returning significant cash to our investors.Now turning to Slide 14. I want to provide a few closing thoughts on today's presentation. During the third quarter, we continued to make significant progress on our strategic priorities, but we still have work to do this year. Over the remainder of the year, we expect to close on our announced asset sales and subsequently execute on our capital allocation priorities.As we move into 2022, I am confident our platform is well-positioned to deliver strong and predictable results and create significant shareholder value. So with that, Benjamin, we'll open the line for questions.