  OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Prudential quarterly earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] And as a reminder, today's conference call is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Darin Arita. Please go ahead.Darin Arita -- Senior Vice President, Investor Relations Good morning, and thank you for joining our call. Representing Prudential on today's call are Charlie Lowrey, chairman and CEO; Rob Falzon, vice chairman; Andy Sullivan, head of U.S. [Technical difficulty]Charlie Lowrey -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer OK. Now, we can hear -- sorry, everybody. We're having a little bit of difficulty. It's Charlie. Darin will start over.Darin Arita -- Senior Vice President, Investor Relations Let me start over here. So good morning, and thank you for joining our call. Representing Prudential on today's call are Charlie Lowrey, chairman and CEO; Rob Falzon, vice chairman; Andy Sullivan, head of U.S. businesses; Scott Sleyster, head of international businesses; Ken Tanji, chief financial officer; and Rob Axel, controller and principal accounting officer. We will start with prepared comments by Charlie, Rob, and Ken, and then we will take your questions. Today's presentation may include forward-looking statements. It is possible that actual results may differ materially from the predictions we make today. In addition, this presentation may include references to non-GAAP measures. For a reconciliation of such measures to the comparable GAAP measures and a discussion of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements, please see the slide titled forward-looking statements and non-GAAP measures in the appendix to today's presentation and the quarterly financial supplement, both of which can be found on our website at prudential -- at investor.prudential.com. With that, I'll hand it over to Charlie.Charlie Lowrey -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Darin, and thank you all for joining us this morning. As always, I hope you and your families have remained safe and healthy. Despite the ongoing challenges created by the pandemic, Prudential reported strong results for the first quarter, including record adjusted operating income and robust sales and flows across many of our businesses. Our performance reflects strong underlying demand for our products; continued execution on our strategic initiatives; the complementary nature of our retirement and life insurance businesses, which has helped us mitigate mortality risk; favorable markets; and the commitment of our employees around the world. We're on track with our key transformation initiatives and have increased returns to shareholders, supported by our strong performance and the strength of our balance sheet. I'll cover each of these topics in more detail and begin with a brief review of the transformation initiatives we highlighted for you in February. Turning to Slide 3. We are on track to deliver $750 million in cost savings by the end of 2023, $400 million of which were targeted for 2021. Cost savings for the first quarter were $110 million. The initiatives generating these cost savings are also producing better customer and employee experiences and, as a result, enhancing the competitiveness of our businesses. We are also in the process of reallocating $5 billion to $10 billion of capital by pursuing programmatic acquisitions to grow in asset management and in international emerging markets. In addition, we'll remain focused on investing in our other businesses to expand our addressable market and to continue to improve expense and capital efficiency. In parallel, we're actively executing on other means of changing our business mix and earnings profile by pivoting to less market and rate-sensitive products, such as our buffered annuity product, FlexGuard; running off certain blocks of business; and actively pursuing potential derisking transactions. As a result, we expect Prudential to emerge as a higher-growth, less market-sensitive, and more nimble company. As we execute against our transformation initiatives, you can expect that we'll continue to demonstrate discipline in the redeployment of capital within our businesses and to our shareholders. Turning now to Slide 4. In the first quarter, we increased our shareholder dividend by 5% and repurchased $375 million of common shares. In addition, based on our progress with our initiatives, as well as the improving macroeconomic outlook and the more favorable equity market and interest rate environment, we announced a $500 million increase to our 2021 share repurchase authorization. We expect to repurchase these additional shares starting in the second quarter. As a result, we now expect to return $10.5 billion to shareholders through 2023. Moving to Slide 5. Our expanded shareholder return program is supported by our rock-solid balance sheet, which included $5.4 billion in highly liquid assets at the end of the first quarter. Our operating subsidiaries continue to hold capital to support AA financial strength ratings, and we have a high-quality investment portfolio. Turning to Slide 6. We are also executing on behalf of our stakeholders through our commitment to environmental, social, and governance actions. This work has long been reflected in our purpose as a company of solving the financial challenges of our changing world and is as important as ever. Of recent note, on the environment, we have made significant progress reducing emissions, waste, and paper. And we continually evaluate how we can improve our impact on the environment. On social issues, we have invested further in our people with training and development programs and continued to maintain a high level of pay equity throughout the firm. We also achieved our three-year goal that we created in 2017 of increasing representation of diverse persons among our senior management by 5 points over that time period. We followed this by establishing new goals and are continuing to tie our goals to management compensation as we did in the prior period. And we're already making progress on our commitments to advance racial equity, which we announced last summer. On governance, we continually refresh our board with people who are highly skilled and who also reflect the diverse communities and geographies that we serve. Today, 82% of our independent directors are diverse. You can see more details on how we're progressing against our goals and commitments in our ESG summary report that we published in March. Before closing, I would like to thank all of our employees around the world. It's through their continued hard work and dedication that we've been able to support our customers and colleagues during these challenging times, all while advancing our company's transformation and purpose of making lives better by solving the financial challenges of our changing world. With that, I'll turn it over to Rob for more specific details on our business performance.Rob Falzon -- Vice Chairman Thank you, Charlie. I'll provide an overview of our financial results and business performance for our U.S., PGIM, and international businesses. Turning to Slide 7. I'll begin with our financial results for the first quarter. Our pre-tax adjusted operating income was a record high of $2.1 billion, or $4.11 per share on an after-tax basis. Earnings exceeded the year-ago quarter across all of our businesses. Results of our U.S. businesses were up 38% and reflected higher net investment spread results, driven by higher variable investment income and higher fee income, primarily driven by equity market appreciation, partially offset by less favorable underwriting experience driven by COVID-19 related mortality. PGIM, our global asset manager, had record-high results, including a gain on the sale of our Italian joint venture. Our partner was acquired by another firm with an existing asset management business and expressed the desire to purchase our interest, which was a right it retained under the joint venture agreement. Nonetheless, assets under management of $1.5 trillion were up 12% from a year ago, driving asset management fees to a record level. And earnings in our international businesses increased 25%, reflecting business growth, higher net investment spread, more favorable underwriting results, and higher earnings from our Chilean pension joint venture. Turning to Slide 8. Our U.S. businesses produced diversified earnings from fees, net investment spread, and underwriting income to benefit from our complementary mix of longevity and mortality businesses. As Charlie noted, we continue to make progress in shifting away from capital-intensive and interest rate-sensitive products. Our product pivots have worked well with sales of our buffered annuity FlexGuard growing to $1.6 billion in the first quarter, representing 84% of total annuity sales, up from $1.2 billion in the fourth quarter of 2020. Our sales reflect increasing customer demand for investment solutions that offer the potential for appreciation from equity markets combined with downside protection. In addition, we benefit from having a strong and trusted brand, as well as a highly effective distribution team that has significant reach with Prudential advisors and third-party advisors. We are engaging with a broad range of advisors with FlexGuard. We also leverage our broad multidimensional relationships with our strategic partners that both distribute our products and manage the assets of our clients. With respect to Individual Life, we increased sales by 9% compared to the year-ago quarter as higher variable life sales offset lower sales of other policies, in particular, Universal Life sales consistent with our product pivot strategy. In our Retirement business, account values were a record high, up 23% from a year ago driven by business growth and market appreciation. Net flows in the quarter were $6 billion, including a longevity reinsurance transaction in excess of $8 billion. With respect to Assurance, total revenues, our primary financial metric as we concentrate on scaling the business, were up 80% over the prior quarter. We grew all business lines, particularly in Medicare, where we expanded distribution to increase sales outside of the fourth-quarter annual enrollment period. Now turning to Slide 9. PGIM continues to demonstrate the strength of its diversified active management platform as a top 10 global investment manager. PGIM's diversified global investment capabilities in both public and private asset classes across fixed income, alternatives real estate, and equities position us favorably to capture flows. In addition, PGIM's investment performance remains attractive with approximately 90% or more of assets under management outperforming their benchmarks over the last three-, five- and 10-year periods. Our diversified capabilities and strong investment performance helps contribute to more than $5 billion of third-party net flows during the quarter, including $4 billion of retail and $1 billion of institutional flows. Offsetting the growth in net flows was a decrease in the market value of our fixed-income assets, reflecting the increase in interest rates. As the investment engine of Prudential, PGIM also benefits from a symbiotic relationship with our U.S. and international insurance businesses. PGIM's asset origination capabilities and investment management expertise provide a competitive advantage, helping our businesses to bring enhanced solutions and more value to our customers. And our businesses, in turn, provide a differentiated source of growth for PGIM through affiliated flows that complement its successful third-party track record of growth. PGIM's asset management fees increased 15% compared to the year-ago quarter in a record -- to a record level as a result of market appreciation and continued positive third-party net flows. This contributed to an 8-point increase in PGIM's net adjusted operating margin, including the gain on the sale of the Italy joint venture -- excuse me, excluding the gain on the sale of the Italy joint venture compared to the year-ago quarter, consistent with our expectation of 30% across the cycle. Turning to Slide 10. Our international businesses include our Japanese life insurance operation, where we have a differentiated multichannel distribution model, as well as other operations, focused on high-growth markets. While sales across both Life Planner and Gibraltar operations were lower than the prior year, reflecting the disruption from Japan's metropolitan areas being in a state of emergency this quarter, as well as lower demand for our U.S. dollar-denominated products following price increases last year, profitability increased significantly. We remain encouraged by the resiliency of our unique distribution capabilities which has helped to continue to grow our in-force business. And with that, I'll now hand it over to Ken.Ken Tanji -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Rob. I'll begin on Slide 11, which provides insight into earnings for the second quarter of 2021 relative to our first-quarter results. Pretax adjusted operating income in the first quarter was $2.1 billion and resulted in earnings per share of $4.11 on an after-tax basis. Then we adjust for the following items. First, variable investment income outperformed expectations in the first quarter, which is worth $275 million. Second, we adjust underwriting experience by $160 million. This includes a placeholder for COVID-19 claims experience of an additional $70 million based upon 55,000 COVID-19-related fatalities in the U.S. during the second quarter. Third, we expect expenses and other items to be approximately $500 million lower in the second quarter, primarily as a result of favorable items in the first quarter, including the $378 million gain from the sale of PGIM's joint venture in Italy and seasonality. Fourth, we anticipate net investment income will be reduced by $10 million, reflecting difference between new money rates and disposition yields of our investment portfolio. These items combined get us to a baseline of $2.89 per share for the second quarter. I'll note that if you exclude items specific to the second quarter, earnings per share would be $2.97. The key takeaway is that our underlying earnings power increased from last quarter, including the benefit from business growth and higher equity markets. While we have provided these items to consider, please note that there may be other factors that affect earnings per share in the second quarter. I would also note that we continue to expect the full-year 2021 corporate and other loss to be about $1.5 billion. On Slide 12, we provided an update on the potential impact of the pandemic. Consistent with the information we provided on our fourth-quarter call, the estimated sensitivity of operating income for $100,000 incremental U.S. debt due to the pandemic is about $85 million. As I noted earlier, our second-quarter baseline includes a net mortality impact of $70 million due to COVID-19. The actual impact will depend on a variety of factors such as infection and fatality rates, geographic concentration, and the continued speed acceptance and effectiveness of the vaccine rollout. Turning to Slide 13. We continued to maintain a robust capital position and adequate sources of funding. Our capital position continues to support a AA financial strength rating, and we have substantial sources of funding. Our cash and liquid assets were $5.4 billion, which is greater than three times annual fixed charges. And other sources of funds include free cash flow from our businesses and other continued capital facilities. Turning to Slide 14 and in summary, we are on track with our key initiatives, and we maintain disciplined capital management while returning additional capital to shareholders, and we continue to benefit from the support of our rock-solid balance sheet. Now, I'll turn it to the operator for your questions. 