  OperatorGood afternoon, and welcome to Skyworks Solutions' fourth quarter and fiscal year 2021 earnings call. This call is being recorded. At this time, I will turn the call over to Mitch Haws, investor relations for Skyworks. Mr. Haws, please go ahead.Mitch Haws -- Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Rachel. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to Skyworks' fourth fiscal quarter and year-end 2021 conference call. With me today are Liam Griffin, our chairman, CEO, and president; and Kris Sennesael, our chief financial officer. Before we begin, I would like to remind everyone that our discussion will include statements relating to future results and expectations that are or may be considered forward-looking statements. Please refer to our earnings press release and recent SEC filings, including our annual report on Form 10-K for information on certain risks that could cause actual outcomes to differ materially and adversely from any forward-looking statements made today. Additionally, the results and guidance we will discuss includes non-GAAP financial measures consistent with our past practice. Please refer to our press release within the Investor Relations section of our company website for a complete reconciliation to GAAP. With that, I'll turn the call to Liam.Liam Griffin -- Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and President Thanks, Mitch, and welcome, everyone. Before I touch on the fourth fiscal quarter results, I want to highlight the significant accomplishments that underpin a record-breaking year for Skyworks. First, total revenue grew to $5.1 billion, 52% ahead of last year, representing an increase of over $1.7 billion. We increased earnings per share to $10.50, up 71%.

 



 Operating cash flow expanded to $1.8 billion, an increase of 47%, and we completed a strategic and compelling acquisition, immediately diversifying our product portfolio, and expanding our market reach. Finally, with the investments we've made, Skyworks navigated a complex supply chain environment, leveraging world-class manufacturing capabilities across strategic technology. Now turning to Q4, where Skyworks delivered record performance. Revenues in our mobile and broad markets portfolios both grew at double-digit rates sequentially and year over year as we capitalized on broad-based momentum, fueled by demand for our unique connectivity solutions. Specifically, we delivered revenue of -- $1.31 billion, achieved gross margin of 51% and operating margin of 37.2%. We posted earnings per share of $2.62, exceeding our guidance by $0.09, and generated strong operating cash flow totaling $398 million in the quarter. The complexity inherent in 5G and the demand for highly integrated solutions were a major catalyst in driving our performance. The momentum in global 5G carrier subscription is building with estimates of 580 million users today, expanding to more than 3 billion users by the end of 2025. As expected, smartphones are leading the early transition, but new innovative use cases are emerging from automotive and industrial IoT, to enhance virtual reality, gaming, and telemedicine. Importantly, the power of 5G is increasingly being harnessed to drive sustainability efforts across industries worldwide, providing the wireless backbone to AI-powered ecosystems, combining measurement, analysis, and optimization. For example, a major U.S. manufacturer is combining wireless sensor-enabled cameras with artificial intelligence to reduce chemical usage by 90%. And a European start-up is deploying wireless climate sensors and agricultural applications to drive crop yields up to three times. Looking ahead, 5G has the capacity to manage diverse connections across industries as it becomes the universal connector from the home to the office to the factory floor and to the farm. Skyworks is uniquely positioned to capitalize on this transformation with decades of connectivity leadership. The acceleration of 5G powered a broad set of use cases in Q4 with design wins encompassing the newest, most innovative smartphones and IoT devices, as well as gains in wireless infrastructure.

 



 Specifically, in mobile, we accelerated the reach of our Sky5 portfolio, powering the latest launches at leading Tier 1 smartphone OEMs supporting more than 20 platforms. In addition, we shipped Sky5 solutions across Samsung Galaxy's tablet portfolio. In IoT, we continue to gain new customers and expand content. We delivered 5G CPE connectivity solutions to Nokia. We partnered with Swisscom to launch their WiFi 6 GPON residential gateway. We ramped WiFi 6 and 6E platforms at NETGEAR and Cisco. Launched connectivity and home security devices with Amazon, Ring, and Comcast and captured design wins at Garmin supporting mobile fitness applications. In automotive, we supported autonomous driving systems with a market-leading Robotaxi platform and enabled advanced Charge Control Unit systems for a Tier 1 European automotive OEM. Across the infrastructure markets, we provided power isolation solutions to a strategic manufacturer of EV including residential solar and energy storage systems, and we secured multiple design wins in next-generation MIMO and small cell base station installations. Moving ahead, we see a multiyear secular technology evolution with our aperture widening from smartphones to industrial, automotive, and an expansive set of IoT devices. Skyworks is fueling this dramatic technological shift with our unique capabilities, integrating not only 5G, but increasingly with our other critical connectivity protocols, including high-performance Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, and precision GPS. As these opportunities emerge, Skyworks is positioned to win. With the breadth and depth of our customer relationships established over 20 years, our experience across multiple technology transitions, and a dedicated and talented workforce that executed extraordinarily well during fiscal 2021. With that, I will turn the call over to Kris.Kris Sennesael -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Liam. Skyworks revenue for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2021 was $1.311 billion, up 17% sequentially and up 37% year over year, driven by both mobile solutions and broad markets. Gross profit in the fourth quarter was $668 million, resulting in a gross margin of 51% up 40 basis points sequentially and 60 basis points year over year. Operating expenses were $180 million or 13.8% of revenue, demonstrating leverage in our operating model while continuing our strategic investments in support of future growth. We generated $488 million of operating income, translating into an operating margin of 37.2%. We incurred $11 million of other expenses, and our effective tax rate was 8%, driving net income of $439 million. So, top-line momentum and execution on margins drove diluted earnings per share of $2.62 ahead of consensus estimates. EPS grew 22% sequentially and increased 42% compared to Q4 of last year. Turning to the balance sheet and cash flow. Fourth fiscal quarter cash flow from operations was $398 million. Capital expenditures were $263 million, and we paid $93 million in dividends and repaid $250 million of our term loan. Let's also review our record-breaking full fiscal year performance. Revenue grew 52% to $5.1 billion, adding over $1.7 billion in incremental revenue over fiscal 2020. Gross profit was $2.6 billion, resulting in a gross margin of 50.9%. Operating income increased 73% to $2 billion with an all-time record operating margin of 38.2%, up 450 basis points from the prior year. Net income was $1.8 billion, translating into $10.50 of diluted earnings per share, up 71% year over year. Cash flow from operations was up 47% to $1.8 billion. And during fiscal 2021, we returned $536 million of cash back to the shareholders with $340 million in dividends and $196 million in share buybacks, all during Q1 of fiscal '21. Starting in Q2 of fiscal '21, we temporarily suspended our share repurchase program in connection with the acquisition of the Infrastructure & Automotive business from Silicon Labs. Given the strength of our business and the progress we have made on integrating the acquisition and given the low leverage ratio of less than one turn, going forward, we will, from time to time, consider share repurchases as part of our capital allocation strategy depending on market conditions, and in addition to our dividend program and further term loan repayments. In summary, the Skyworks team executed exceptionally well, delivering record revenue, profitability, and cash generation, while making the investments that advance our technology leadership and manufacturing footprint in order to drive long-term profitable growth. Now let's move on to our outlook for Q1 of fiscal 2022. We expect to deliver another quarter of double-digit sequential revenue and earnings-per-share growth in the December quarter. Specifically, we anticipate revenue between $1.475 billion and $1.525 billion. At the midpoint of $1.5 billion, revenue for the quarter is expected to increase 14% sequentially. Gross margin is projected to be in the range of 51% to 51.5%. We expect operating expenses of approximately $184 million to $187 million. And below the line, we anticipate roughly $10 million in other expense and a tax rate of approximately 9.5%. We expect our diluted share count to be approximately 167.5 million shares. Accordingly, at the midpoint of the revenue range, we intend to deliver diluted earnings per share of $3.10, an increase of 18% sequentially. And with that, I'll turn the call back over to Liam.Liam Griffin -- Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and President Thanks, Kris. Skyworks' record financial performance demonstrates our ability to capture robust demand across a diverse set of customers and end markets. Our execution has been powered and fortified by deep customer relationships, coupled with decades of investments with a square focus on execution and best-in-class performance. Looking ahead, Skyworks will continue to strategically invest in next-generation technologies and capital expansion, positioning us for market leadership and sustainable growth as a transition to 5G and other advanced connectivity technologies accelerates. That concludes our prepared remarks. Operator, let's open the line for questions. 