
OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Catalent Inc. Fourth Quarter Fiscal Year 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]. After the speakers' presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions].I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Paul Surdez, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead sir.Paul Surdez -- Vice President of Investor Relations

 



Thank you, April. Good morning, everyone and thank you for joining us today to review Catalent's fourth quarter and full fiscal year 2021 financial results. Joining me on the call today are John Chiminski, Chair and Chief Executive Officer; and Tom Castellano, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.In addition to reviewing our fourth quarter and fiscal year 2021 earnings release issued earlier this morning, I also refer you to our other press release issued today, announcing our agreement to acquire Bettera Wellness, a leading developer and producer of gummy, soft chew and lozenges for nutraceutical, functional and botanical extract products.Please see our agenda for today's call on Slide 2 of our supplemental presentation, which is available on our Investor Relations website at investor.catalent.com. During our call today, management will be making forward-looking statements and refer to non-GAAP financial measures. It is possible actual results could differ from management's expectations. We refer you to Slide 3 for more detail on forward-looking statements, Slides 4 and 5 discuss Catalent's views of non-GAAP measures and our just issued earnings release provides reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP measures.Please also refer to Catalent's Annual Report on Form 10-K that will be filed with the SEC today for additional information on the risks and uncertainties that may bear on our operating results, performance and financial condition, including those related to the COVID-19 pandemic.

 



Now, I would like to turn the call over to John Chiminski whose remarks will cover Slide 6 through 13 of the presentation.John Chiminski -- Chair and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Paul, and welcome to the call. Fiscal 2021 was an extraordinary year for the entire world and for Catalent. During the year, we achieved truly significant results, financially, operationally and in terms of making a meaningful impact on our global community, including accelerating our capacity expansions and infrastructure, substantially expanding and deepening one of the best talent pools in the industry, intensifying our long-standing commitment to sustainable practices and accelerating our growth strategy, all while delivering record financial results.We rose to the challenge of scaling our capacity to meet significant demand for vaccines and treatments to address the COVID-19 pandemic, and are on track to deliver well over 1 billion COVID-19 vaccine doses this calendar year. We've also continued to develop and manufacture a broad range of other important medicines under difficult, unprecedented and rapidly changing global conditions.

 



Our top priority throughout the pandemic has been to keep our employees safe, and we continue to be humbled by the dedication of the more than 17,000 members of our team around the world who have enabled us to grow the Company and deliver for our customers and their patients during this tumultuous time. Through our shared experience navigating the pandemic, we've grown as individuals and as a Company, added substantial new capabilities, and strengthened partnerships that together enhance our ability to continue to develop and deliver products that help people live better, healthier lives.With that overview, I'll now provide a summary of our financials for the fourth quarter and full fiscal year, as well as operational highlights since our last earnings call.I'll then conclude my prepared remarks with an overview of the acquisition of Bettera Wellness, which we announced this morning. Our net revenue for the fourth quarter was $1.19 billion increasing 25% as reported, or 22% in constant currency, compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020. When excluding acquisitions as well as the divestiture of our blow-fill-seal business, which closed in March, organic growth was 26% measured in constant currency.Our adjusted EBITDA of $348 million for the fourth quarter, increased 30% as reported or 27% in constant currency, compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020 which includes organic growth of 32% measured in constant currency. Our adjusted net income for the fourth quarter was $209 million or $1.16 per diluted share, up from $0.90 per diluted share in the corresponding prior year period.The Biologics segment given the continued high demand for drug product, drug substance and viral based offerings was again the top contributor to Catalent's financial performance with organic revenue growth of 66% and segment EBITDA more than doubling from the fourth quarter of last year.Our Softgel and Oral Technology segment continued to experience some of the same pandemic-related headwinds in the fourth quarter with net revenue down 1% over the fourth quarter of last year on a constant currency basis. However, margins improved year-over-year, and so is our outlook, as we're seeing business gradually come back, and we expect to return to organic growth in fiscal 2022.Our Oral and Specialty Delivery segment had organic net revenue growth in the mid-teens. After excluding the results due to the product in our respiratory platform that we voluntarily recalled last September, in OSD like SOT, we're also seeing that certain offerings within that segment impacted by the pandemic are beginning to come back. And finally, our Clinical Supply Services segment posted over 20% constant currency net revenue growth and strong margin compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, a comparison period that included widespread disruption to clinical trials during global lock downs as a result of the pandemic.For our full fiscal 2021, net revenue and adjusted EBITDA came in at record levels, driven by robust growth in our Biologics business, which represented 48% of our net revenue in the year. Fiscal 2021 net revenue was $4 billion, and constant currency organic growth was 25% compared to the prior fiscal year. We estimate approximately 18 percentage points or more than $550 million of our organic growth last year since July [Phonetic] from the net impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, after factoring in the amount of net revenue generated from COVID-19 projects, against opportunity costs and pandemic-related headwinds that were created in some of our service offerings.Adjusted EBITDA exceeded $1 billion resulting in constant currency organic growth of 32% compared to fiscal 2020. We also increased our adjusted EBITDA margin to 25.5%, up 120 basis points from the 24.3% adjusted EBITDA margin in fiscal 2020. To meet our commitments to our customers and our patients, a number of Catalent facilities have been operating 24 hours a day, seven days a week for more than a year. At the same time, we've increased our workforce from 14,000 at the end of the last fiscal year to more than 17,000 today to meet our growing production volume.As we said in past calls, COVID-19 has not only accelerated our strategic plans, but also accelerated returns on the strategic investments we've made, enabling us to put additional cash to work to continue to drive our long-term growth. Let me update you on some of these capacity and capability investments. As you know, our 950,000 square foot facility in Bloomington, Indiana plays a critical role in the global vaccine production effort.Over the last year, we brought online two new vial filling lines, now dedicated to the manufacture of products for two of our COVID-19 vaccine customers. We're also qualifying a high-speed syringe filling line at this site. This project was first announced in January 2019 and is expected to be operational in the next several months, in line with our original plan.Given the strong demand for bio therapeutic manufacturing [Phonetic], we will continue to invest in digital drug product and drug substance capacity at our Bloomington campus. Our 300,000 square foot facility in Anagni, Italy also continues to make significant contributions to the global supply of COVID-19 vaccines for multiple customers. The additional high speed vial filling line we've accelerated for a vaccine customer is expected to be operational before the end of this calendar year.Last month, we announced a $100 million expansion project at our Anagni facility, to add Biologics drug substance manufacturing capabilities to the site, establishing our first drug substance capacity outside of the US to support the growing European market demand for biologics manufacture and supply. The initial phase of the expansion includes installation of two 2,000-liter single-use bioreactors within new purpose-built manufacturing suites, associated investments to support clinical development and investments to support late stage and commercial tech transfers. This initial phase will also include the installation of all the needed infrastructure for further expansion in the future.The initial bioreactors are expected to be operational for customer projects late in fiscal 2023. Later phases of the plant expansion contemplate creating 16,000 liters of total flexible manufacturing capacity, enabling 2,000 liter to 8,000 liter batches. Also in Europe, we announced last summer further investment in a facility in Limoges, France to create a European center of excellence for clinical biologics formulation development and drug product fill/finish services. These investments are on track to be completed by the end of fiscal 2022.The modernization of the 56,000 square foot facility includes the installation of a high-speed flexible line, capable of filling vials, syringes or cartridges under Isolator technology as well as enhancements to its analytical and quality control laboratories. Our new center of excellence in Limoges will strengthen Catalent Biologics' global and European capacity and will also serve as a feeder for additional services at our Anagni and Brussels facilities.Moving to our cell and gene therapy offerings, we continue to add both capabilities and related capacity. We entered the cell therapy market in February of 2020 and have rapidly build our infrastructure and capabilities. We recently completed the build-out of our GMP cell therapies suites in Houston, Texas and have begun manufacturing for clinical supply. We're also progressing the build out of our commercial scale cell therapy manufacturing facility in Gosselies which is on track to open in late fiscal 2022. We also continue to identify inorganic opportunities to grow our cell and gene therapy platform.Recently, we acquired RheinCell Therapeutics, a developer and manufacturer of GMP-grade human induced pluripotent stem cells or iPSCs. Importantly, iPSCs are an ethically sourced substitute for embryonic stem cell and have shown significant promise in regenerative medicine for a wide range of therapeutic indications. RheinCell expands our existing custom cell therapy process development, and manufacturing capabilities with proprietary GMP cell lines for iPSC based therapies and enables us to offer the building blocks to scale iPSC based cell therapies, while reducing the barriers cell therapy innovators would otherwise space [Phonetic] to gain entry into the clinic.In February, we entered into the plasmid DNA market through the acquisition of Delphi Genetics, also located in Gosselies, now part of our European Cell Therapy Center of Excellence, together with the launch of Plasmid DNA development and manufacturing capability through an organic investment at our Rockville, Maryland facility. We've since further expanded our European Cell Therapy Center of Excellence on our Gosselies campus, with the acquisition of an additional 32,000 square foot facility. This facility provides us with a capacity for commercial scale plasmid DNA manufacturing up to 500-liter scale.With the integration of plasmid DNA into our overall cell and gene therapy offerings, choosing Catalent will allow customers to derisk their supply chains and optimize their programs along the entire development pipeline. In gene therapy, viral vector manufacturing capacity continues to be in high demand for the growing number of gene therapy compounds, currently in the industry's development pipeline as well as for manufacturing viral based COVID-19 vaccines.In fiscal 2021, we completed the build out of commercial-scale manufacturing suites in the first building at our Maryland gene therapy campus. To meet the increasing demand we see, we're now out to be [Phonetic] in the adjacent building to include at least five additional CGMP suites, a project that remains on track for completion by this time next year.Before reviewing the Bettera acquisition, I'd like to highlight our expanding corporate responsibility and ESG commitments and the additional progress we've made since our last update. As a leader in the growing CDMO industry, we understand the need to demonstrate our shared commitment, sense of urgency and value in contributing to the long-term sustainability of the entire biopharma sector.In June, I shared our long-term sustainability plans at the Biopharma CEO Investor Forum, and I encourage you to watch the presentation on our IR website. Since then, we formalized our commitment to the Science Based Target Initiative, joining our growing list of companies selling actionable, science-based greenhouse gas emission reduction targets to limit global warming. This commitment includes calculating and reducing direct and indirect emissions, even as the Company continues to evolve and grow.One of our first actions after making this commitment was to ensure that the energy we purchase for all our sites in North America, South America and Europe as well as the majority of our sites in Asia is coming from renewable resources. As a result of our actions, 97% of our electricity usage across the enterprise is now procured from renewable energy sources such as wind, solar, hydro and biomass, an achievement that will contribute to our overall greenhouse gas reduction efforts.We will incorporate our work on science-based targets into our annual ESG report for fiscal 2021 which we expect to publish in the third quarter of calendar 2022. While I'm very proud of the items I just mentioned, and the many other items that have become part of Catalent's ESG progress over the last several years, there is still more work to do. For example, some of our top ESG goals for fiscal 2022 include continuing to improve employee diversity at all levels of the organization and meeting our commitment to be landfill free by the end of fiscal 2024.Now on to Slide 9, we're pleased to announce our agreement to acquire Bettera Wellness. We've been seeking the right opportunity to expand our participation in the nutraceuticals and nutritional supplements market for quite some time, leveraging the accelerated growth dynamics of the space. Bettera is a leading developer and manufacturer of consumer preferred gummy, soft chews and lozenges for nutraceutical, functional and botanical extract products. And they have four fit-for-purpose production facilities in the US.There is no question that Bettera is one of the leading independent suppliers in this high growth, capacity constraint portion of the market. Within this space, Bettera is well known for its ability to partner with its customers to develop and manufacture a variety of high-quality delivery formats with differentiated flavors and superior consumer experience.It's clear to us that the specialized expertise that the team will be bringing on is unparalleled and Bettera's customer relationships reflect that. The acquisition will enable Catalent, and specifically our Softgel and Oral Technologies or SOT segment to expand our substantial existing consumer health platform with the fastest growing wellness product offerings in this area and also expand our ready to market product library, as well as provide a variety of packaging options to meet customer needs.We're excited to have this opportunity to strengthen our partnerships with our customers across gummies, soft chews and lozenges going forward. As part of today's announcement, we are also increasing our expectations for long-term revenue growth rate for our SOT segment from 3% to 5% to 6% to 8% given the strength of our advanced offerings and product libraries and supported by the significant growth contributions that we expect from Bettera.Moving to the transaction details, we've agreed to acquire Bettera for $1 billion on a debt-free, cash free basis, and we expect to close the transaction within the first half of this fiscal year. Today, the Company generates approximately $150 million in sales at attractive margins, reflecting its premium offerings and is growing at over 20% annually. We expect similar growth over the next several years.We plan to fund the acquisition with a combination of cash on hand, a partial drawdown of our revolving credit facility and potentially the issuance of new debt with the resulting net leverage ratio of approximately 3.1 times at close. Like in some of our other recent acquisitions, we expect significant deleveraging in the near to medium term following closing and expect to maintain ample firepower for further strategic M&A.From an earnings perspective, we expect the acquisition to be accretive to ANI per share in the first year after close and significantly accretive thereafter. At Catalent, we pride ourselves in our ability to bring in new talent and capabilities and we're looking forward to seamlessly integrating Bettera and welcoming its team of approximately 500 experienced and knowledgeable employees and formulators to Catalent. On the integration front, we've developed a detailed plan to support and accelerate Bettera's in-flight growth plans, and have already identified work streams and leaders for integration.Let me now share some additional capability information and market trends as covered in Slide 11. As I mentioned, we've been seeking the right entry point into the nutraceutical gummies, soft chews and lozenges market for some time. Importantly, Bettera is one of the few at-scale independent manufacturers in market today, and is a market leader across all three categories.In addition to Bettera's enhanced solutions from development to commercial manufacturing and packaging, Bettera has an extensive library of ready-to-market formulations to accelerate product launches for partner brands. Importantly, Bettera has the ability to produce gummy formulations with both gelatin and plant-based technologies with culture, halal, organic and other certifications. Bettera also produces soft chews and in particular, soft chews using a cold process, which is ideal for protecting heat sensitive ingredients.Our consumer health customers are constantly asking Catalent for new formats in additions to our product library and specifically ask about gummies and other engaging formats for their nutritional supplement and nutraceutical product concepts. We view Bettera as an innovation engine for emerging, high-growth brands and we're excited to begin working with our customers, in this area going forward.One of the reasons we're focused on investing in these areas is that we believe Bettera is at the intersection of macro consumer health trends, with Innovative Delivery Systems growing at roughly four times the pace of the traditional market. I would also note that about two-thirds of this capacity constrained market is outsourced today. While the market for traditional delivery systems remains large, the innovative segment's recent explosive growth has increased its portion of the nutraceuticals market to close to $17 billion today, measured at the retail level, more than doubling its market size over the last five years.And we expect Bettera to grow in excess of the innovative market as a whole in the near to medium future. Finally, on this subject, I want to emphasize at Catalent, we always have room to add leading, high growth premium CDMO franchises to our business. Bettera is the latest example in our tradition of high growth and earnings accretive strategic M&A, and we're excited to begin working with Bettera's employees and customers.I'll conclude my opening comments by saying that Catalent prides itself on the track record of successfully identifying, acquiring and integrating world-class businesses with leading manufacturing development capabilities. Over the last several years, we transformed our portfolio, expanding capacity and capabilities across our service offerings. We're proud of the work we've accomplished.Our future has never looked brighter. As I look across our entire portfolio, I note again that we remain on track to meet or beat our goal of achieving 50% of our 2024 net revenue from our Biologics segment. We continue to forecast long-term growth in that segment in the range of 10% to 15%. Based on our confidence in the growth we foresee across all of our segments, we're raising our projected consolidated long-term net revenue growth rate to 8% to 10% from the previous 6% to 8%, which we expect will be coupled with continued EBITDA margin expansion.We're confident in our trajectory and believe our announcement today is a testament to how our employees and partners have helped Catalent position itself for continued long term growth. I'm now very happy to welcome Tom Castellano back to our earnings calls. As you know, Tom, previously served as the Company's Investor Relations Officer through 2019, and was promoted on June 1st as CFO from his most recent role as Global, Vice President of Operational Finance. Welcome back, Tom.Thomas Castellano -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, John. I'll begin this morning with a discussion on segment performance where commentary around segment growth will be in constant currency. I'll start on Side 13 with Biologics, our largest business segment, which represented 48% of our net revenue in fiscal 2021 compared to 33% in fiscal 2020 and half of our net revenue in the fourth quarter compared to 38% in the fourth quarter of last year.Biologics net revenue in Q4 of $603 million increased 66% compared to the fourth quarter of 2020, with segment EBITDA increasing 112% over the same period. All net revenue growth was essentially driven organically and EBITDA growth was slightly impacted by 1% due to cost associated with scaling and integrating the cell therapy and plasmid DNA acquisitions we closed in fiscal 2021.The robust organic growth in our Biologics segment in the quarter was again driven by high demand across segment offerings including drug product, drug substance and viral vector manufacturing along with bioanalytical services. The increase was primarily driven by COVID-19 related projects, which continued to contribute to both development and commercial revenue growth. The segment's EBITDA margin increased significantly year-on-year to just under 31%, compared to 24.3% in Q4 of last year, which is primarily attributable to increased capacity utilization and higher volumes manufactured.In fiscal 2022, we expect the Biologics segment will continue to grow net revenue at a double-digit pace, while not near the 88% growth rate, the segment recorded in fiscal 2021. Please turn to Slide 14 which represents results from our Softgel and Oral technology segment. Softgel and Oral Technologies net revenue of $301 million decreased 1% compared to the fourth quarter of 2020 with segment's EBITDA increasing 6% over the same period.This slight decline in net revenue continued to be driven by reduced volume demand for certain prescription products as well as lower demand for consumer health products, particularly for cough, cold and over-the-counter pain relief products. However, over the last couple of months we have seen business begin to recover and expect to return to growth in fiscal 2022 as contemplated in our guidance. EBITDA margin in SOT grew 220 basis points over the fourth quarter of 2020 due to an increase in productivity and favorable product mix.Slide 15 shows the results of our Oral and Specialty Delivery segment, which were again impacted by the voluntary recall of a single product in our respiratory platform in September 2020 that we have previously discussed. As previously reviewed, this product had notably strong sales in Q4 of last year, following its February 2020 launch, and also included a product participation component, creating difficult comparisons over the periods.There was an additional $3 million in recall related cost recorded in the fourth quarter, bringing the total to $32 [Phonetic] million for the fiscal year. With that background, the OSD segment recorded net revenue of $186 million in the quarter, which was down 19% compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020. Segment EBITDA was $63 million, a 29% decline over the fourth quarter of 2020.When factoring out the net impact from the divestiture of our blow-fill-seal business, and the acquisition of Accorda's spray drying facility in February, organic revenue declined 4% and segment EBITDA declined 11%. Further, if you back out the revenue from the recall product in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, the OSD segment would have shown mid-teens revenue growth this quarter, driven by growth in both commercial and development revenue.The OSD segment's fourth quarter results reflect continued momentum in our Zydis proprietary platform which grew nicely despite some lingering consumer health pandemic related headwinds. Each quarter we disclose our long cycle development revenue in the current year in order to provide additional insight into our long cycle segments which include Biologics, Softgel and Oral Technologies and Oral and Specialty Delivery. In the fourth quarter of 2021, we reported development revenue across both small and large molecule products of $538 million which is 51% above the development revenue recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020.Development revenue which includes net revenue from certain COVID-19 related products approved for emergency use, represented 45% of our revenue in the fourth quarter compared to 37% in the comparable period in the prior year. The strong growth in our biologics business included growth from the manufacturer of COVID-19 vaccines and therapies approved for emergency use, were the biggest driver of these year-on-year changes.In the fourth quarter, our development pipeline led to 47 new product introductions for a total of 139 in fiscal 2021. As shown on Slide 16, our Clinical Supply Services segment posted net revenue $105 million representing 21% growth over Q4 of 2020. This notable increase, while appropriately reflecting the many positive aspects that work in the segment, should also be understood in the context of the segment's decreased performance in the fourth quarter of fiscal '22 -- 2020, when the distribution and packaging businesses were impacted by global lockdowns and clinical trial disruptions due to the pandemic.Segment EBITDA was $31 million, a 35% increase compared to Q4 of fiscal 2020 and was driven by strong demand in our manufacturing and packaging and storage and distribution offerings. Segment EBITDA margin was 29%, up 252 basis points over the fourth quarter of last year. As of June 30th, 2021 backlog for the CSS segment was $501 million compared to $490 million at the end of last quarter and up 18% from June 30th, 2020. The segment recorded net new business wins of $119 million during the fourth quarter, a 14% increase compared to the fourth quarter of the prior year. The segment's trailing 12-month book-to-bill ratio is 1.3 times.Moving to Companywide adjusted EBITDA on Slide 17, our fourth quarter adjusted EBITDA increased 30% to $348 million or 29.3% of net revenue, compared to 28.3% of net revenue in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020. On a constant currency basis, our fourth quarter adjusted EBITDA increased 27% compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020. As shown on Slide 18, fourth quarter adjusted net income was $209 million or $1.16 per diluted share compared to adjusted net income of $154 million or $0.90 per diluted share in the fourth quarter a year ago.Slide 19 shows our debt related ratios and our capital allocation priorities. Our net leverage was 2.2 times at June 30th, compared to 2.3 times at March 31st. We expect the acquisition of Bettera to increase our net leverage ratio, possibly to this high or just slightly above our target ratio of three times in closing with funding acquisitions and deploying combination on the $967 [Phonetic] million cash on hand and other liquid assets that we are reporting as of June 30th, a partial drawdown of the more than $700 million of capacity, we are reporting as available as of June 30th, under our revolving credit facility and potentially, the issuance of new debt.We will naturally delever from there, providing us with plenty of flexibility to continue to pursue organic and inorganic growth opportunities. As just noted, our cash and cash equivalents balance at June 30th, stood at $896 million and our marketable securities were $71 million, giving us liquid assets of $967 million compared to cash and cash equivalents of $953 million and no marketable securities as of June 30th, 2020.Moving on, our capital expenditures totaled $686 million in fiscal 2021 or approximately 17% of net revenue. This is in line with our expectations as we accelerate our organic growth plans to meet customer demands and patient needs, and we expect our level of capital expenditures to remain elevated as a percentage of net revenue in fiscal 2022 when we expect that capex will be approximately 15% to 16% of 2022 net revenue.Free cash flow in fiscal 2021 was negative $253 million despite the higher level of EBITDA generated in the last year. This was due to our increase in capex spending and the cost of pandemic related precautions such as increased inventory levels and other supply chain mitigation efforts as well as higher net receivables. In fiscal 2022, we expect to return to positive free cash flow as a result of our strong EBITDA growth and expected improvement in our working capital, despite continuing significant capex investments.As a final note on the balance sheet, I want to call out the disclosure in our 10-K Annual Report we filed with the SEC later today. You will see that, as of June 30th, we had one large customer that represented 15% or $155 million of our net trade receivable balance. This is an unusually high concentration reflected at single point in time to the end of the fiscal year. I note that the customers significantly reduced this filings [Phonetic] on the date [Phonetic] following the quarter close, and the balance is now well below the 10% reporting threshold.Now, we turn to our financial outlook for fiscal 2022, as outlined on Slide 20, which does not reflect the just announced and still pending acquisition of Bettera. We expect full year net revenue in the range of $4.3 billion to $4.5 billion, representing growth of 8% to 13% compared to fiscal 2021. FX is currently expected to have a minimal impact on our revenue growth, as the decline in Euro is offset against the increasing British pounds. We project that revenue from pre-existing M&A activity will negatively impact our growth rate by 1 percentage points to 2 percentage points as the divestiture of the BFS business more than offset the multiple smaller acquisitions completed in fiscal 2021.We project organic revenue growth in each of our segments to be within or above the long-term growth range we have previously disclosed for each segment, leading to revenue growth at or above our new long-term revenue growth range of 8% to 10%. For full-year adjusted EBITDA, we expect the range of $1.13 billion to $1.20 billion, representing growth of 11% to 18% compared to fiscal 2021.I would like to remind you of the seasonality nature of our business, where revenue and EBITDA generation is more weighted to the back half of the fiscal year. We expect full year adjusted net income to be $585 million to $650 million, representing growth of 7% to 18% compared to fiscal 2021. We also expect our fully diluted share count on a weighted average basis for fiscal 2022 to be in the range of 181 million to 183 million shares. This projection counts our Series A convertible preferred shares as this all were converted to common shares in accordance with their terms. We expect our consolidated effective tax rate to be between 23% and 25% for fiscal 2022.Now I'd like to close with a few comments regarding the revenue contribution from our array of COVID-19 response products. First, all of that revenue is considered organic revenue. Second, we now expect particularly in the light of the need to produce vaccine booster shots and address the growth in variant forms that this revenue will have a multi-year duration. Third, as John said in his opening comments, our net COVID related revenue in fiscal 2021 totaled more than $550 million.While we do not plan to disclose a forecast of growth related to COVID revenue in fiscal '22, given the capacity we have dedicated to COVID-19 projects that we brought online in the last nine months, we do expect continued growth from our work related to COVID-19 projects. In addition, we now see innovative vaccines, particularly the newer gene based vaccine as a long-term strategic product area for Catalent given the substantial partnerships we have built in this space due to pandemic.Operator, this concludes our prepared remarks and we'd now like to open the call for questions.