  OperatorWelcome to the SolarEdge conference call for the fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2021. This call is being webcast live on the company's website at www.solaredge.com in the Investors section on the Event Calendar page. This call is the sole property and copyright of SolarEdge with all rights reserved and any recording, reproduction or transmission of this call without the expressed written consent of SolarEdge is prohibited. You may listen to a webcast replay of this call by visiting the Event Calendar page of the SolarEdge Investor website. I would now like to turn the call over to Ms. Erica Mannion at Sapphire investor relations, investor relations for SolarEdge. Please go ahead, ma'am.Erica Mannion -- Investor Relations

 



 Good afternoon. Thank you for joining us to discuss SolarEdge's operating results for the fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2021, as well as the company's outlook for the first quarter of 2022. With me today are Zvi Lando, chief executive officer; and Ronen Faier, chief financial officer. Zvi will begin with a brief review of the results for the fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2021. Ronen will review the financial results for the fourth quarter and full year, followed by the company's outlook for the first quarter of 2022. We will then open the call for questions. Please note that this call will include forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from management's current expectations. We encourage you to review the safe harbor statements contained in our press release and the slides published today for a more complete description.All material contained in the webcast is the sole property and copyright of SolarEdge Technologies with all rights reserved. Please note, this presentation describes certain non-GAAP measures, including non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net diluted earnings per share, which are not measures prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The non-GAAP measures are presented in this presentation as we believe that they provide investors the means of evaluating and understanding how the company's management evaluates the company's operating performance. These non-GAAP measures should not be considered in isolation from, as substitutes for or superior to financial measures prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Listeners who do not have a copy of the quarter ended December 31, 2021 press release or the supplemental material, may obtain a copy by visiting the Investors section of the company's website. Now I will turn the call over to Zvi. 

 



Zvi Lando -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Erica. Good afternoon, and thank you all for joining us on our conference call today. We are pleased to report that we have concluded the quarter with record revenues of $552 million and record revenues for the year 2021 of just below $2 billion. During 2021, we released and began to ramp several new products like our Energy Bank residential battery and higher power optimizers and inverters in our residential and commercial offerings. In recent months, we are experiencing a surge in demand for these products which we attribute to the positive reception in the technology in parallel to market growth, spurred by electrical power prices increasing globally and the increased government and corporate focus on sustainability and use of renewable energy. We are excited about this rapidly growing opportunity and are intending to do everything needed to capitalize on it. However, in the current challenging operational and supply chain environment, expanding infrastructure and ramping production to meet these higher demand level is putting temporary pressure on our gross margins. In the call today, we will provide detail on all of these factors. I would like to start with a summary of 2021 and the main themes which shaped the year and how we expect them to impact our business moving forward. Total revenues in 2021 grew 35% over the previous year and 32% in the Solar business. Growth in the solar business was across all segments and regions, and practically in every country in which we operate. The larger year-over-year growth of significant size markets was in Italy, Germany, Taiwan, France, Poland and Israel.

 



 While we usually focus our comments on North America and Europe, which grew substantially this year, 29% and 36%, respectively, I want to shed some light on the long-term growth opportunities in Southeast Asia and the Middle East. In these markets, we grew in 2021 by more than 43%, representing not only market share gains, but also the high growth rate of these markets, which is expected to continue. In these countries, the market consists primarily of commercial installations and our momentum here is indicative of our overall momentum in commercial, which I'll be discussing later. Other noteworthy dynamics of 2021 include significant increase of battery attach rates in residential installations, which increased by more than 50%, most of which were third-party batteries sold by our partners, DC coupled to our inverters as our residential battery ramp was slower than we originally planned. Also, in residential, we are seeing growth of the average installation size and momentum in our sales of self-consumption devices such as EV chargers and smart water heaters, as consumers seek to optimize their home energy consumption and reduce their dependency on higher-priced energy coming from the grids. In the area of grid services, we are now active in programs in 13 states across the United States, in all states in Australia and in some European countries. Also in 2021, we saw 70% increase in use of our designer software, which enables full system design, including advanced features such as shade analysis, battery usage and consumption optimization, bill of materials generation, financial analysis and automated creation of the offers to the end customer. More than 1.1 million unique site designs were performed by installers on this platform last year. Overall, we are pleased with the growth we have seen in 2021 and the progress we made with our strategic initiatives. Now turning to the fourth quarter results. As mentioned, revenues for the fourth quarter were a record $552 million, driven by North America, where revenue grew quarter over quarter by 37% due to higher battery sales, increased residential inverter sales, in particular, of the higher-priced Energy Hub inverter and the growth of sales to the commercial segment. Moving to our global residential business where we continue to see strong demand, healthy inventory in our channels, increasing sellout by our distributors and a strong backlog of orders. In fact, we already have firm orders for delivery in 2022 of a megawatt volume that represents 60% of our megawatt residential shipments in the entire year of 2021, not including batteries. In commercial, we are seeing a real shift in market momentum driven by a few factors: the rising electricity prices across Europe and other regions, as well as the trend of corporations wishing to progress their ESG programs and offset their carbon emissions. These, together with a stable and favorable regulatory environment in many countries such as Germany where the new government has announced aggressive growth plans for PV, lay the ground for an increase of demand in markets where SolarEdge already has a solid local presence and strong brand awareness. At the same time, we are seeing increased acceptance of our commercial product offering released last year, which includes the Synergy 120-kilowatt inverter and high-power optimizers, supporting the high-power bifacial modules now commonly used in commercial installations. Combined, these market and product dynamics are driving the record demand for our commercial solutions, where our current megawatt firm order for delivery in 2022 are 143% of all commercial megawatts we shipped in 2021. While the increased backlog is partially related to longer lead times, the amount of planned projects and the increase in design wins, including for ground-mount projects demonstrates what we believe to be a true inflection point in the commercial market. Ramping production to meet this demand in the current supply chain and logistics environment is having an impact on our top and bottom line as we prioritize expedited shipments in order to meet customer schedules, at times at the expense of our gross margin. We expect this situation to last until the middle of the year as we adjust our infrastructure and ramp manufacturing capacity to this new level of demand. Moving to product updates. In the residential segment, we released last quarter the 10- and 11.6-kilowatt Energy Hub inverter with 10-kilowatt backup power and a new three-phase EV charger to join the single-phase charger we have been shipping for a couple of years. We are seeing strong demand for the EV charging portfolio, driven by the growing adoption of electric vehicles, in particular, in Europe. Our Energy Bank residential battery has now been installed in 11 countries. We are receiving positive customer feedback, in particular, related to the ease of installation with the new Energy Net wireless communication technology incorporated in our residential offering. Our battery manufacturing ramp has been slower than anticipated due to delayed supply of several components used in our DC to DC and BMS boards. For most of these components, we have already qualified additional sources, and we are working closely with suppliers to assure timely and consistent supply for the remainder of the year. In the fourth quarter, we shipped 42.5-megawatt hour of batteries versus the 70-megawatt hour plant. We plan to close this gap already in Q1 of 2022, reaching a production run rate of 300 Energy Bank batteries per day by end of the quarter, as we discussed in the last quarter's call. In Q1, we plan to ship between 100- to 120-megawatt hour of residential batteries. In the commercial and industrial segment, we continue to test our third 330-kilowatt large-scale inverter in sites in Israel and Europe. We are on track for ramp later this year, further strengthening our offering for ground mount installations. We will provide more detail on our ground mount offering, as well as other new products and services in our Analyst Day scheduled for March 29. Moving to operational infrastructure and progress in that area. In Q1, we will begin to shift residential inverters and optimizers from the -- for the North American market from our new contract manufacturing facility in Mexico. We expect to be able to deliver practically all of the U.S. residential demand from the Mexico factory by the end of this year. This will have a favorable effect on shipping costs, tariffs, working capital management and timely meeting the U.S. demand and lead times. The commercial product manufacturing capacity will be expanded in two phases to meet the new growing level of demand, which I detailed earlier. We are increasing manufacturing capabilities in Vietnam for delivery of products to all regions, and that will be followed by additional manufacturing growth in Mexico to supply commercial products to the U.S. market. The surge in demand is creating manufacturing capacity challenges and pressure across the supply chain, where we need our suppliers to allocate component quantities well above those supplied in previous years. We are working closely with our key suppliers who are supporting us in our mutual growth, as they too see the value in this long-term opportunity. Moving to our nonsolar businesses. 2021 was a record revenue year for our nonsolar businesses, totaling $176 million, coming mostly from our energy storage and e-Mobility division. Our energy storage division concluded the year with record revenues and was profitable for a second year in a row. Sella 2 construction for the manufacturing of our own lithium ion cells continues per plan and is expected to begin production ramp in the second quarter of 2022. In the e-Mobility division, we experienced some slowdown early in Q4 of 2021 due to our customers' temporary halt in production, which resumed to normal levels by the end of the fourth quarter. We expect normal levels of delivery in the first quarter and through the year. In our Critical Power Division, we started first shipments of our three-phased UPS offering, which was designed and productized in house since the acquisition. We will elaborate more about these segments in our Analyst Meeting in March. To summarize, we are facing an accelerated growth opportunity in a challenging operational environment. As we have proven in the past, I am confident that our global team will excel in execution, ensuring our customers have the benefit of our technology when and where they need it. And with this, I will turn the call over to Ronen.Ronen Faier -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Zvi, and good afternoon, everyone. This financial review includes a GAAP and non-GAAP discussion. Full reconciliation of the pro forma to GAAP results discussed on this call is available on our website and in the press release issued today. Segment profit is comprised of gross profit for the segment less operating expenses that do not include amortization, stock-based compensation expenses and certain other items. Total revenues for the fourth quarter were a record $551.9 million, a 5% increase, compared to $526.4 million last quarter and a 54% increase, compared to $358.1 million for the same quarter last year. Revenues from our solar segment were a record $502.7 million, a 5% increase, compared to $476.8 million last quarter and a 54% increase, compared to $327.1 million for the same quarter last year. Overall, this quarter, we shipped approximately 5.1 million power optimizers, approximately 197,000 inverters and 4,250 batteries, representing 42.5-megawatt hour. U.S. solar revenues this quarter were a record $257.4 million, a 36.6% increase from the last quarter and represented 51.2% of our solar revenues. Solar revenues from Europe were $193.2 million or 38.4% of our solar revenues, representing strong revenues in Germany, Netherlands, Italy and Poland. Rest of the World solar revenues were $52.1 million or 10.4% of our total solar revenues and included a record revenue quarter in Taiwan. On a megawatt basis, we shipped 751 megawatts to the United States, 752 megawatts to Europe and 419 megawatts to the rest of the world. 45% of shipments were commercial products and the remaining 55% were residential. ASP per watt, excluding battery revenues this quarter, was $0.253, a 0.8% decrease from $0.255 last quarter, a result of a high volume of residential product shipments to North America, offset by an increased portion of large U.S. customers that benefit from larger volume discount within the overall mix and the weaker euro, which reduced our ASP on products sold in Europe. This quarter, two U.S. customers accounted for more than 10% of our solar revenues. In light of the increased costs associated with the manufacturing of our products and the accelerated ramp-up cost associated with meeting the surge in demand for our products, we have initiated price increases in the fourth quarter of 2021 that will continue into the first half of 2022. These price increases vary among product lines and geographies, depending on the competitive environment, demand level and specific cost increases related to specific products. The price increases are aimed at covering part of the component and manufacturing cost increases and are not focused on a more temporary logistic expenses, which relates to timely meeting increased customer demand. We expect the full impact of these price increases to materialize in the third quarter of 2022. This quarter, revenues from our nonsolar businesses were $49.1 million. Revenues of our energy storage division achieved a record quarterly revenue, while our e-Mobility division revenues reflected lower delivery of powertrain units to the final customer, as explained by Zvi. Consolidated GAAP gross margin for the quarter was 29.1%, compared to 32.8% in the prior quarter and 30.8% in the same quarter last year. Non-GAAP gross margin this quarter was 30.3%, compared to 34% in the prior quarter and 32.5% in the same quarter last year. Gross margin for the solar segment was 32.8%, compared to 36.6% in the prior quarter. Gross margin within the solar segment is affected by various factors, the combination of the following factors contributed to this result. From a customer geography and product mix perspective, high volumes were shipped this quarter to large customers in the United States that benefit from volume discounts and this contributed to the lower margin. This was coupled with a weaker euro, which eroded our margins on sales in Europe since revenues are euro-denominated, while manufacturing expenses are stated in U.S. dollars. Lastly, the growing share of battery shipments that are characterized with lower gross margins further contributed to this margin decrease. From an operational and supply chain perspective, our accelerated growth, combined with the non-industry challenges of component shortages, limited manufacturing output and constrained and expensive shipment environment continued to adversely affect our margin this quarter while we are still recovering from the forced shutdown of our Vietnam facilities that returned to normal operation in mid-November. In supply shortage period, component manufacturers tend to allocate goods among their customers based on past quantities. Given our current accelerated growth rate, some of our suppliers are having difficulties supplying sufficient component quantities in a timely manner. This has result in a need for expedited shipping good shipments to meet the customer delivery times and in certain cases, payment of unutilized capacity to our contract manufacturers. As Zvi mentioned, our battery manufacturing suffered this quarter from delayed arrival of components, resulting in lower shipment volumes at a higher cost. Goods, subject to tariffs, shipped into the United States from China accounted for 66% of our U.S. shipments in Q4. To summarize the solar segment margin discussion, we view the impact on inverters and optimizers margin as transitory and expect to return to our normal level in the second half of 2022. Gross margin for our nonsolar segment was 4.2%, compared to 8.7% in the previous quarter, mostly related to reduction in e-Mobility revenues and margins. On a non-GAAP basis, operating expenses for the fourth quarter were $94.1 million or 17.1% of revenues, compared to $83.8 million or 15.9% of revenues in the prior quarter and $72.9 million or 20.4% of revenues for the same quarter last year. This increase is mainly related to the fact that we have reduced our hiring in the third quarter of 2021 and increased our head count again in Q4, mainly in our R&D and sales and marketing groups worldwide. This quarter, we also experienced a gradual increase in sales and marketing activities as travel restrictions due to the pandemic are starting to ease and trade show activity, as well as customer visits begin to return to normal. Our solar segment operating expenses as a percentage of solar revenues were 15.8%, compared to 14.6% last quarter. Non-GAAP operating income for the quarter was $72.9 million, compared to $95.2 million in the previous quarter and $43.5 million for the same period last year. This quarter, the solar segment generated operating profit of $85.3 million, compared to an operating profit of $104.9 million last quarter. The nonsolar segment generated an operating loss of $12.4 million, compared to an operating loss of $9.7 million in the previous quarter. Non-GAAP financial expense for the quarter was $2.2 million, compared to a non-GAAP financial expense of $3 million in the previous quarter. Our non-GAAP tax expense was $7.9 million, compared to $10.1 million in the previous quarter and $4.6 million for the same period last year. GAAP net income for the fourth quarter was $41 million, compared to a GAAP net income of $53 million in the previous quarter and $17.7 million in the same quarter last year. Our non-GAAP net income was $62.8 million, compared to a non-GAAP net income of $82.1 million in the previous quarter and $55.7 million in the same quarter last year. GAAP net diluted earnings per share was $0.74 for the fourth quarter, compared to $0.96 in the previous quarter and $0.33 for the same quarter last year. Non-GAAP net diluted earnings per share was $1.10, compared to $1.45 in the previous quarter and $0.98 in the same quarter last year. Turning now to the balance sheet. As of December 31, 2021, cash, cash equivalent, bank deposits, restricted bank deposits and investments were $1.2 billion. Net of debt, cash, cash equivalents, bank deposits, restricted bank deposits and investments were $548 million. During the fourth quarter of 2021, we generated $89.6 million in cash from operations. Accounts receivable net increased this quarter to $456.3 million, compared to $416.2 million last quarter. As of December 31, 2021, our inventory level, net of reserve, was at $380.1 million, compared to $304.7 million in the prior quarter. Most of this increase is related to increased raw materials, battery cells and component inventory in our solar segment, while our finished good inventory continued to decrease as a result of the growing demand and limited capacity. Our nonsolar inventory level remained practically similar to the previous quarter. Let's move now to summarize the full year of 2021. Revenues for the year was $1.96 billion, a 34.6% increase from $1.46 billion in calendar 2020. Revenues related to the solar segment were $1.79 billion or 32% increase compared to 2020. GAAP gross margin was 32%, compared to 31.6% in the prior year. Non-GAAP gross margin was 33.5%, compared to 33% in the prior year. GAAP net income for 2021 was $169.2 million, a 21% increase, compared to $140.3 million in the previous year and GAAP diluted EPS of $3.06, compared to $2.66 in the prior year. Non-GAAP net income for 2021 was $272.9 million, a 22% increase, compared to $224.4 million in 2020 and GAAP net diluted earnings per share of $4.81, compared to $4.11 in the prior year. This year, we generated $214.1 million of cash from operations. Turning to the guidance for the first quarter of 2022. The combination of strong demand for our products and the operational adjustments and efforts in fulfilling this growth within an environment of component constraints, fast manufacturing capacity expansion, which require higher investment, logistic constraints and high shipment charges, as well as the expanded rapid growth of our battery shipments that are characterized with lower gross margin, will have a positive effect on our revenue's growth rate for the entire year and will continue to put pressure on our gross margin in the first half of 2022. We expect this impact to be temporary and will be mitigated upon full ramp of our Mexico manufacturing, which is expected to be concluded by the end of the year. On an annual basis, we expect that revenue growth, as well as the operational expense leverage will offset the temporary margin impact and will increase our overall expected profit levels. As such, for the first quarter of 2022, we are guiding revenues to be within the range of $615 million to $645 million. Revenues of the solar segment are expected to be within the range of $575 million and $595 million. We expect non-GAAP gross margin to be within the range of 28% to 30%. Gross margin of the solar segment is expected to be within the range of 30% to 32%. I will now turn the call over to the operator to open it up to questions. Operator, please? 