
OperatorGood day and welcome to the Qorvo Inc. Q1 2022 Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]And now at this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Mr. Douglas DeLieto, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.Douglas DeLieto -- Vice President of Investor Relations

 



Thanks very much Cody. Hello, everybody, and welcome to Qorvo's fiscal 2022 first quarter earnings conference call. This call will include forward-looking statements that involve risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from management's current expectations. We encourage you to review the safe harbor statement contained in the earnings release published today as well as the risk factors associated with our business in our annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC because these risk factors may affect our operations and financial results. In today's release and on today's call, we provide both GAAP and non-GAAP financial results.We provide this supplemental information to enable investors to perform additional comparisons of operating results and to analyze financial performance without the impact of certain non-cash expenses or other items that may obscure trends in our underlying performance. During our call, our comments and comparisons to income statement items will be based primarily on non-GAAP results. For a complete reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures, please refer to our earnings release issued earlier today available on our website at qorvo.com under Investors. Joining us today are Bob Bruggeworth, President and CEO; Mark Murphy, Chief Financial Officer; James Klein, President of Qorvo's Infrastructure and Defense Products Group; and Eric Creviston, President of Qorvo's Mobile Products Group, as well as other members of Qorvo's management team.And with that, I'll turn it over to Bob.Robert Bruggeworth -- Chief Executive Officer

 



Thank you, Doug, and welcome, everyone, to our call. First, the Qorvo team delivered an exceptional June quarter. Revenue, gross margin and EPS were each above guidance. Customer demand during the quarter was broad-based and included recently released product categories including 5G diversity receive modules, MEMS-based touch sensors and Wi-Fi 6E FEMs to name a few. Our R&D teams are relentlessly advancing technologies that enable more complete, integrated solutions and increase differentiation. We are partnering with leading customers, serving them where we are most valued and introducing new products and technologies that expand our addressable markets. We are pleased with ongoing design activity. We are locking in wins and we expect the demand environment to remain robust.In the smartphone market, 5G devices are adopting new architectures and adding functionality that enhance performance and create new challenges related to current consumption, or space and handset design resources. To address these challenges, handset manufacturers are selecting more highly integrated solutions that deliver superior performance. For Qorvo, the content opportunity in a 5G device increases by $5 to $7 when compared to a 4G device. We expect handset units to grow 5% to 10% this year with 5G doubling to around 550 million units. In 2025, 5G units are expected to be approximately 80% of total units. In other connectivity markets, new applications are proliferating, supported by generation over generation advancements, in Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, Zigbee, Thread, ultrawide band and other wireless protocols. And a growing number of applications, multiple wireless standards coexist and operate concurrently.As an example, one of the largest smart home providers recently integrated numerous low-power wireless protocols into its distributed Wi-Fi six router, creating infrastructure for seamless whole home operability. We expect this integration trend to continue. Our expertise in areas including product design, software support and system solutions enable us to simplify our customers' product development efforts, while significantly enhancing the end-user experience. Outside of connectivity markets, the expanding opportunities are driven by a diverse set of underlying upgrade cycles. Brushless DC motors are replacing larger, less efficient conventional DC motors. Solid-state drives are replacing slower and less reliable hard disk drives. And touch sensor solutions are replacing less functional traditional buttons.We also expect RF-based biotechnology testing will enable central lab performance at the point of care. We expect our first commercial orders for our Omnia test platform by the end of the year. Turning to the June quarterly highlights. In 5G handsets, customer demand for highly integrated modules is expanding. During the quarter, we launched our next-generation complete main path solution, which includes low-band, mid-high band and ultra-high band modules, offering higher output power and enhanced MIMO support for upcoming 5G phones. For the diversity path, we began sampling our first 5G DRX, a sub-6 ultra-high band placement, offering best-in-class receive sensitivity. These main path and diversity path solutions integrate filtering and amplifiers that were formally discrete, helping our customers to save board space, improve device performance and accelerate product development efforts.

 



Also during the quarter, we announced the interoperability of our family of ultrawideband products with Apple's U1 chip and the nearby interaction protocol. Qorvo's ultrawideband solutions provide a superior level of accuracy, reliability, latency and security when compared to traditional technologies like Wi-Fi, BLE and NFC. In addition to remote access to our cars and homes, ultrawideband will enable new applications in the connected home, indoor navigation, contactless payment, factory automation and other use cases. With more in-house software capability from our recent 7Hugs acquisition, we now offer a complete solution, and we're working with customers on products combining our ultrawideband hardware with our latest software release, shortening their time to market. We see a growing set of applications for our ultrawideband solutions and customer design activity is accelerating.In Wi-Fi for handsets, we secured new reference design engagements with our Wi-Fi 6E FEMs. These chip-on-board FEMs reduce insertion loss and enhanced handset design flexibility versus system-in-a-package solutions by enabling placement closer to the antenna. Leading Android manufacturers are moving from system and package placements to best-in-class RF solutions and Qorvo is winning on the strength of our product design, performance and customer support. In automotive, we achieved record revenue, up more than 80% year-over-year in support of automotive OEMs in the U.S., Europe and in Asia. Growth was driven primarily by the increased demand and expanding connectivity requirements for Wi-Fi, VDX, LTE and 5G. Content growth was also included our touch sensor solutions, which automotive OEMs are using to enable smart interiors. This is a new growth category for Qorvo, and we have secured design wins in support of multiple automotive customers.To enhance the functionality of our touch sensor solutions and foster new use cases, we've integrated infrared capabilities, a milestone achievement for our sensor team. For the smart home, we partnered with a leading supplier of home mesh networks to introduce the first Wi-Fi six router with integrated BLE, Thread and Zigbee multi-protocol operation. This leveraged our ConcurrentConnect technology. We also secured a BAW filter design win with a leading supplier of high-end audio speakers to support the pairing of Bluetooth Low Energy and Wi-Fi six. As a member of the Connectivity Standards Alliance and an early participant in the upcoming matter connectivity standard, Qorvo stands to benefit as multi-protocol, seamless interoperability drives IoT adoption and growth.In power management, we released a 40-volt motor control solution that supports the ongoing transition to higher voltage battery power tools. Demand for our motor control and power management products has been very strong, driving growth in applications from appliances and battery power tools to enterprise compute, laptops and gaming. We are seeing demand for brushless DC motors expand into lower-cost power tools and smaller appliances, given the advantages in efficiency, size and reliability. We are also leveraging the configurability of our power management solutions to address new applications in defense and other markets. In infrastructure, we increased shipments to multiple OEMs in support of 5G sub-6 gigahertz massive MIMO and macro deployments in the US, Japan, Korea and Canada.We also achieved initial design wins supporting a massive MIMO deployment in India, and we secured BAW filter design wins for 3.5 gigahertz and 4.9 gigahertz 5G small cells with a major China based OEM. New product launches, including GaN integrated PA modules for massive MIMO systems and a family of high-efficiency power amplifiers for 5G small cells serving densely populated areas. Across our markets, there are strong secular tailwinds. Connectivity is proliferating and complexity is increasing, which is expanding our growth opportunities. We supply best-in-class products. And our investments in new product areas and differentiated technologies are extending our technology leadership and broadening our reach.As our June results and September guidance demonstrate, end market demand is broad-based and robust, and our outlook is strong.And with that, I'll hand the call over to Mark.Mark Murphy -- Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Bob, and good afternoon, everyone. Qorvo's revenue for the fiscal year 2022 first quarter was $1.110 billion, $30 million above the midpoint of our guidance and $323 million or 41% higher than last year. Mobile products revenue of $836 million was up 79% year-over-year on the growth of higher content 5G smartphones. Infrastructure and Defense Products revenue of $274 million was down year-over-year due to especially strong infrastructure demand during the June 2020 quarter, but the segment was up sequentially as Wi-Fi and programmable power management growth continued and infrastructure growth resumed.Non-GAAP gross margin was 52.5% and above our guidance on more favorable mix and pricing, improved manufacturing yields and lower inventory charges. Non-GAAP operating expenses in the first quarter were $216 million or 19.4% of sales and in line with expectations. Sequential and year-over-year increases in opex were driven by technology and product development expenses associated with key organic growth programs and recent acquisitions. Non-GAAP operating income in the June quarter was $367 million and 33.1% of sales. This was the third consecutive quarter of operating margin over 33%. Non-GAAP net income in the first quarter was $323 million, and diluted earnings per share of $2.83 was $0.38 above the midpoint of our guidance.Cash flow from operations in the first quarter was over $341 million and capex was $65 million, consistent with the level of spend we've discussed previously to support our outlook. Free cash flow was $276 million, and we repurchased $300 million of shares. The first quarter share repurchase was the largest dollar amount since an ASR in the March quarter of 2016. Since the company's formation and through the June quarter, we have repurchased $3.7 billion of shares at an average price of approximately $71. On the balance sheet, cash decreased to $1.2 billion, following the close of our next input acquisition and the share repurchases. That remained unchanged at approximately $1.7 billion. Our leverage remains low. Our revolver is untapped, and we have no material near-term maturities.Yesterday, Fitch initiated a credit rate out in Qorvo at BBB+. This, along with S&P's upgrade of Qorvo to investment grade in April, highlights the quality of Qorvo's business, the strength and durability of our cash flows and the financial discipline we've maintained. Now turning to the current quarter outlook. We expect revenue between $1.235 billion and $1.265 billion; non-GAAP gross margin between 52% and 52.5%; non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $3.24 at the midpoint of guidance. Our September quarter revenue outlook reflects sustained and broad-based customer demand, driven by multiyear technology upgrade cycles. Qorvo revenue of $1.250 billion at the midpoint is up 13% sequentially, 18% year-over-year and approximately 27% year-over-year adjusting for last year's 14-week quarter.As a reminder, our fiscal year 2021 was a 53-week fiscal year, and the September quarter last year was a 14-week quarter versus this fiscal year's more typical 13-week quarter. We forecast mobile revenue in the current quarter to be approximately $985 million at the midpoint or up 31% year-over-year and 18% sequentially. In IDP, we project revenue to decline slightly to approximately $265 million in the current quarter on defense program timing and continued supply constraints. We expect IDP sequential and year-over-year growth to return in the December quarter. Our September quarter gross margin guide of 52.25% at the midpoint is 55 basis points higher than last year's second quarter and reflects our ongoing portfolio management and sustained strong operating performance. In the second half of the fiscal year, we currently expect gross margins to remain around 52%, resulting in full year gross margin above 52%.Non-GAAP operating expenses are projected to increase in the September quarter to approximately $233 million on added labor and other development expenses associated with recent acquisitions and key growth programs. At the midpoint of our September quarter guidance, operating margin is forecasted to remain over 33% for the fourth consecutive quarter. We now project our current quarter and full year non-GAAP tax rate to be approximately 9%. Capital expenditures are projected to increase to around $75 million in the September quarter as we work to intersect demand and support long-term supply agreements with multiple customers. We are off to a strong start in fiscal 2022, and we are well-positioned to continue delivering premium technology to an expanding set of customers in 5G, Wi-Fi, IoT, defense, power management and other growth markets.Now I'll turn the call back over to the operator for questions.