  Kim Callahan Good morning, and welcome to Camden Property Trust first quarter 2022 earnings conference call. I'm Kim Callahan, senior vice president of investor relations. Joining me today are Ric Campo, Camden's chairman and chief executive officer; Keith Oden, executive vice chairman and president; and Alex Jessett, chief financial officer. Today's event is being webcast through the Investors section of our website at camdenliving.com. And a replay will be available this afternoon. We will have a slide presentation in conjunction with our prepared remarks, and those slides will also be available on our website later today or by email upon request. [Operator instructions] And please note, this event is being recorded. Before we begin our prepared remarks, I would like to advise everyone that we will be making forward-looking statements based on our current expectations and beliefs.These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. Further information about these risks can be found in our filings with the SEC, and we encourage you to review them. Any forward-looking statements made on today's call represent management's current opinions, and the company assumes no obligation to update or supplement these statements because of subsequent events. As a reminder, Camden's complete first quarter 2022 earnings release is available in the investors section of our website at camdenliving.com, and it includes reconciliations to non-GAAP financial measures, which will be discussed on this call. We hope to complete our call within one hour. And we ask that you limit your questions to two, then rejoin the queue if you have additional items to discuss. If we are unable to speak with everyone in the queue today, we'd be happy to respond to additional questions by phone or email after the call concludes. At this time, I'll turn the call over to Ric Campo. Ric Campo -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Kim. The theme for our music today was fools as in April Fools. Since our IPO 29 years ago, April 1, 2022, was one of the most consequential days in Camden's history. The day began with Kim Callahan, telling us that Camden was being included in the S&P 500. At first, we just assumed Kim was attempting one of the lamest April Fools' jokes in history, but Kim has never been a big jokester. Later that same day, we closed on our largest acquisition since the Summit merger in 2005 with the purchase of Texas Teachers' partnership interest in 22 Camden communities with a gross valuation of $2.1 billion. And finally, April 1 was the day that Camden completed the implementation of our Work Reimagined initiative, a comprehensive restructuring of how we staff, manage and support our Camden communities. Alex will provide more details on this initiative in his comments. Any one of these events would have been a big deal for Camden. The fact that all three happen on April Fool's Day was extraordinary, and that's no joke. I want to give a big shout out to our teams in the field. We're continuing to outperform our competitors while improving the lives of our team members and our customers one experience at a time. I'd also like to give a big shout out to our real estate investments, finance, legal and asset management groups, along with our accounting group for their amazing work in completion of the acquisition and the permanent financing for the Texas Teachers transaction, truly a team effort. Keith is up next. Thanks.Keith Oden -- Executive Vice Chairman and President Thanks, Ric. Now a few details on our first quarter 2022 operating results and April trends. Same-property revenue growth exceeded our expectations at 11.1%, the best quarterly growth in our company's history. 12 of our 14 markets posted double-digit revenue growth in the quarter with Tampa, Phoenix and Southeast Florida showing the strongest results. Given this outperformance and an improved outlook for the remainder of the year, we've increased our 2022 full year revenue growth projection from eight and three quarter percent to ten and a quarter percent at the midpoint of our guidance range. Rental rates for the first quarter had signed new leases up 15.8%, renewals up 13.2% for a blended rate of 14.4%. Our preliminary April results are also trending at 14.4% for blended growth with new leases at 14.7% and renewals at 14.1%. Renewal offers for May and June were sent out at an average increase of 14.4%. Occupancy averaged 97.1% during the first quarter of 2022, which matched our performance last quarter and compared to 95.9% in the first quarter of 2021. April 2022 occupancy is trending at 96.9% to date. Net turnover for the first quarter of 2022 was 36% versus 35% last year and move-outs to purchase homes dropped to 14.1% for the quarter versus 15.8% last quarter, in line with normal seasonal patterns we typically see from 4Q to 1Q of each year. Move-outs to purchase homes remain well below normal for our portfolio. Finally, I want to acknowledge all of team Camden for recently being named to Fortune's list of 100 Best Companies to Work For. This year marks our 15th consecutive year on this prestigious list. Camden is one of only five companies included in the S&P 500 and also named to Fortune's list for the last 15 years rarified air indeed. Next up is Alex Jessett, Camden's chief financial officer.Alex Jessett -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Keith, and certainly rarefied air. Before I move on to our financial results and guidance, a brief update on our recent real estate and finance activities. During the first quarter of 2022, we stabilized Camden Lake Eola, a 360-unit $125 million new development in Orlando. We disposed of a 245-unit community in Largo, Maryland for $72 million, and we acquired a 16-acre land parcel in Richmond, Texas for future development purposes. Subsequent to quarter end, we acquired for future development, 43 acres of land comprised of two undeveloped parcels in Charlotte, and we purchased the remaining 68.7% ownership interest in our two joint venture funds for approximately $1.5 billion, inclusive of the assumption of debt. The assets involved in this fund transaction include 22 multifamily communities with 7,247 apartment homes with an average age of 12 years, primarily located in the Sunbelt markets across Camden's portfolio. We expect this acquisition will provide an initial FFO yield of approximately 4.4%. As a result of this transaction, as detailed on Page 10 of the supplemental package, the expected net operating income contribution from markets, including Houston, Austin, Dallas and Tampa will increase slightly, while the remainder of Camden's markets will reflect flat-to-slightly lower concentrations. This transaction allowed us to fully acquire a very attractive portfolio of assets with no execution or integration risks. We initially funded this transaction with cash on hand, which included $500 million drawn on our unsecured $900 million line of credit. We are also now consolidating approximately $514 million of existing secured mortgage debt of the funds. Subsequent to quarter end, we issued 2.9 million common shares and received $490.3 million in net proceeds, which we used to paydown our line of credit. As of today, we have approximately $70 million outstanding under our line. At quarter end, we had $182 million left to spend over the next three years under our existing development pipeline, and we have no scheduled debt maturities until September 30 of this year. Our balance sheet remains strong, with net debt to EBITDA for the second quarter of 2022 anticipated to be at 4.4 times. Last night, we reported funds from operations for the first quarter of 2022 of $160.5 million or $1.50 per share, $0.03 above the midpoint of our prior guidance range of $1.45 to $1.49. The $0.03 per share variance to the midpoint of our prior quarterly FFO guidance resulted primarily from approximately $0.025 from higher occupancy, lower bad debt and higher rental rates for our same-store and non-same-store portfolio and $0.01 from an unbudgeted earnout received from the sale of our Chirp investment completed in 2021. This $0.035 cumulative outperformance was partially offset by $0.005 in higher property insurance expense, resulting from higher-than-expected levels of the self-insured losses. Last night, based upon our year-to-date operating performance, our April 2022 new lease and renewal rates and our expectations for the remainder of the year, we have increased the midpoint of our full year revenue growth from 8.75% to 10.25%. Our revised revenue growth midpoint of 10.25% is based upon an anticipated 12% average increase in new leases and an 8% average increase in renewals. We are also anticipating that our occupancy for the remainder of the year will average 96.6%, up 20 basis points from our original budget for the same period. Additionally, we have increased the midpoint of our same-store expense growth from 3% to 4.2%. This increase results from the expectations of higher-than-anticipated insurance costs, property tax expenses resulting from higher initial valuations in Dallas and Austin and bonus accruals related to our increased full year revenue guidance. As a result, the midpoint of our 2022 same-store NOI guidance has been adjusted from 12% to 13.75%. At the end of the first quarter, we implemented our Work Reimagined initiative, which redesigned the way we conduct business in our property operations. The primary objective of this initiative is to deliver exceptional customer service, focus on leasing apartments, leverage the strengths of our teams and create operational efficiencies. To do this, we shifted our operations model to expand from one community serving our prospects and residents to two or more communities being joined or nested together with shared leadership to support our customers. Additionally, we identified processes that could be automated or centralized and created a shared service division to streamline the execution of tasks, such as invoicing, delinquency management and renewal initiation to name a few. This allows Camden team members at each community to better support the leasing process as well as to focus on the customer experience. We anticipate that this program, which was previously budgeted for, will save us approximately $1 million in 2022 on a net basis after accounting for severance payments which were budgeted for and made in the first quarter. On a full year stabilized basis, our savings should approximate $4 million to $5 million. Last night, we also increased the midpoint of our full year 2022 FFO guidance by $0.27 per share for a new midpoint of $6.51 per share. This $0.27 per share increase resulted primarily from an approximate $0.18 increase related to our acquisition of the fund assets comprised of the following components, a $0.67 increase from consolidating the NOI from the two fund portfolios, a $0.07 increase from the non-cash amortization of net below-market leases assumed in the acquisition. Purchase price accounting requires us to identify either below or above market leases in place at the time of the acquisition and amortize the differential over the average remaining lease term, which is approximately seven months. If the leases were above market, the amortization would have resulted in an FFO reduction over the remaining lease term, a $0.21 decrease in equity and income of joint ventures and property and asset management fees, a $0.14 decrease due to the assumption of approximately $514 million in existing secured debt, which has a current average interest rate of 3.3%. 36% of this debt floats at LIBOR plus 185 basis points. And the remaining 64% is fixed at 3.9%, a $0.14 decrease related to additional shares issued to fund the transaction, and a $0.07 decrease from the removal of any future acquisitions from our 2022 guidance. Although our revised guidance does not include additional acquisitions this year, we will continue to look for opportunities to make accretive investments. Our revised guidance still includes another $200 million of dispositions by year-end. In addition to the $0.18 anticipated increase in FFO related to the fund acquisitions, we are also anticipating an approximate $0.11 increase from our revised same-store NOI guidance and a $0.01 increase from the first quarter unbudgeted earnout received from the sale of our Chirp investment. This $0.30 cumulative increase in FFO per share is partially offset by $0.02 of higher overhead expenses related to our anticipated outperformance versus our original budget and $0.01 of additional interest expense due to higher projected interest rates on our variable rate debt. We also provided earnings guidance for the second quarter of 2022. We expect FFO per share for the second quarter to be within the range of $1.60 to $1.64. The midpoint of $1.62 represents a $0.12 per share increase from the $1.50 recorded in the first quarter. This increase is primarily the result of an approximate $0.09 increase related to our acquisition of the fund assets comprised of a $0.22 increase from consolidating the NOI from the two fund portfolios, a $0.03 increase from the non-cash amortization of net below-market leases assumed in the acquisition, a $0.07 decrease in equity in income of joint ventures and property and asset management fees, a $0.04 decrease due to the assumption of approximately $514 million in existing secured debt and a $0.05 decrease related to additional shares issued to fund the transaction. We are also now anticipating an approximate $0.04 sequential increase in same-store NOI, resulting from higher expected revenues during our peak leasing periods, partially offset by the seasonality of certain repair and maintenance expenses, expected increases from our May insurance renewal and a sequential increase in property tax expense due to higher refunds received in the first quarter, a $0.01 sequential increase related to additional NOI from development communities and lease-up a $0.01 decrease from unbudgeted earnout received from the sale of our Chirp investment in the first quarter, a $0.05 decrease from the sale of Camden Largo at the end of the first quarter and a $0.05 decrease from higher second quarter G&A as a result of the timing of various public company fees. At this time, we will open the call up to questions. 