  OperatorGood afternoon. My name is Katrina and I will be your conference operator today. At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Las Vegas Sands first-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions]. I will now turn the call over to Mr. Daniel Briggs.Daniel Briggs -- Senior Vice President, Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Katrina. Joining me on the call today are Rob Goldstein, our chairman and chief executive officer; and Patrick Dumont, our president, and chief operating officer. Also joining us on the call are Dr. Wilfred Wong, president of Sands China; and Grant Chung, chief operating officer of Sands China. Before I turn the call over to Rob, please let me remind you that today's conference call will contain forward-looking statements that we are making under the safe harbor provision of federal securities laws. The company's actual results could differ materially from the anticipated results in those forward-looking statements. In addition, we may discuss non-GAAP measures. A definition and a reconciliation of each of these measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures is included in the press release.Please note that we have posted supplementary earnings slides on our Investor Relations website. We will refer to those slides during the Q&A portion of the call. Finally, for those who would like to participate in the Q&A session, we ask that you please respect our request to limit yourself to one question and one follow-up question, so we might allow everyone with interest the opportunity to participate. Please note that this presentation is being recorded. With that, let me please turn the call over to Rob. 

 



Rob Goldstein -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Dan, and good afternoon, and very early good morning to our colleagues in Asia. Some brief comments then we'll write the Q&A Our results reflect the pandemic's impact we did generate $244 million of EBITDA for the quarter. And we continue to have a strong belief in the Macao recovery because the March numbers were very different from those in January and February and the recent visitation numbers and whether in this for April reflect continued acceleration. Obviously, we cannot define the timing of the full recovery, but it's under way and we will continue in 2021. At this time, Singapore is in the $500 million to $600 million range annually EBITDA. There is no visibility as to when air traffic will return to Singapore. And unlike Macao, it's more difficult to project additional our incremental EBITDA from MBS until the resumption of the material air travel. Our investments in Macao continue to take shape as the market recovers, Four Seasons and Londoner will present, I think large growth opportunities for us, and we continue to have -- we do have the largest structure in this incredible market of Macao. And China continues to demonstrate economic resilience. The spending in Macao is very strong at the premium mass level for both the gaming and a retail perspective and referenced on Page 29 and Page 30 in invest from a retail perspective, there are some pleasant surprises there. But again, we have no reservations about our ability to perform to pre-pandemic levels once visitation returns. Our company today is sort of divided into three different areas: The Asia portfolio, Macao, and Singapore.

 



 And while we believe Macao will accelerate this year and lead the recovery, Singapore follow-up on the resumption of air travel and participate in the recovery as well, and we anticipate a return to a $5 billion-plus EBITDA from Asia in the future. The sale of Las Vegas assets enables us to have huge optionality to explore large sale land-based destination works in both United States and Asia. And finally, we have -- we're eager to have a material digital presence in the future. We are exploring multiple opportunities at the present time. This is obviously a departure from our historical approach, and we'll update you at the appropriate time. So let's go to Q&A and have our first caller, please. 