  OperatorGreetings, and welcome to the Rollins, Inc's. first quarter 2022 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions]. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. I would now like to turn the call over to Joe Calabrese. Thank you. You may begin.Joe Calabrese -- Investor Relations

 



 Thank you. By now, you should have all received a copy of the press release. However, if anyone is missing a copy and would like to receive one, please contact our office at (212) 827-3746, and we'll send you a release and make sure you're on the company's distribution list. There will be a replay of the call, which will begin one hour after the call and run for one week. The replay can be accessed by dialing (877) 660-6853 with the pass code 13728548. Additionally, the call is being webcast at www.rollins.com, and a replay will be available for 90 days. The company is also offering investors, a supporting slide presentation, which can be found on Rollins' website at www.rollins.com. We will be following that slide presentation on our call this morning, I encourage you to view it with us.On the line with me today and speaking are Gary Rollins, Rollins' chairman and chief executive officer; John Wilson, vice chairman; Jerry Gahlhoff, Jr., president and chief operating officer; and Julie Bimmerman, interim chief financial officer, vice president, and treasurer. Management will make some opening remarks and then we'll open the line for your questions. Gary, would you like to begin? Gary Rollins -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Yes. Thank you, Joe, and good morning. We appreciate all of you joining us for our first quarter 2022 investor call. Julie will read our forward-looking statement and disclaimer, and then we'll begin.Julie Bimmerman -- Interim Chief Financial Officer, Vice President and Treasurer Our earnings release discusses our business outlook and contains certain forward-looking statements. These particular forward-looking statements and all other statements that have been made on this call, excluding historical facts, are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ materially from any statement we make today. Please refer to today's press release and for our SEC filings, including the risk factors section of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021, for more information and the risk factors that could cause actual results to differ.Gary Rollins -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thank you, Julie. I'm pleased to report that Rollins delivered solid first quarter results and realized strong year-over-year growth in many key performance areas. We remain well positioned to deliver on our short-term and long-term objectives, and we look forward to sharing our progress in the quarters ahead. I would now like to give an update on our SEC investigation. Rollins reached a settlement agreement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on April 18. The settlement fully resolves the SEC's investigation into certain adjustments to accruals and reserves and their impact on reported earnings per share in the first quarter of 2016 and the second quarter of 2017. Rollins paid an $8 million civil penalty, which was fully accrued in the third and fourth quarters of 2021. Under terms of the settlement, Rollins neither admits or denies the SEC's findings in this matter. The settlement completes the SEC's investigation, and there will be no restatement of Rollins financials related to this matter. I want to take a moment to highlight the actions that we've taken to strengthen Rollins controls and procedures to prevent something like this from happening in the future. From the beginning, we took this matter very seriously and hired outside consultants to evaluate and strengthen our financial reporting. This included improving processes, procedures, and supporting documentation that impact financial results.  We also hired a chief accounting officer, Traci Hornfeck, last October and added two retired E&Y partners to our audit committee, Susan Bell and Pat Gunning. Susan currently serves as chair of that committee. We have also hired and added several experienced accounting personnel to further strengthen our team. Jerry will share with you details of our active CFO search to further improve this area. It is noteworthy that the SEC recognizes within the order that Rollins "cooperation and the remedial acts were properly undertaken to prevent and detect the type of misconduct described in the order." Out of respect for the process, we will not answer any questions during our Q&A on this matter. I assure you that integrity is at the core of who we are as a company, and we remain committed to doing the right thing for our employees, investors, and customers. And finally, we are pleased that this matter is resolved. With that, let me turn the call over to John, who will provide some business updates. John?John Wilson -- Vice Chairman Thank you, and good morning, everyone. As Gary mentioned, we are pleased with our first quarter financial results, with revenue increasing to 590.7 million and net income totaling 72.4 million or $0.15 per share. Overall, we experienced solid growth across our family of pest management brands and continue to achieve strong levels of customer growth. Over the past couple of years, we have been actively strengthening and solidifying our board of directors and board committees reflecting our commitment to effective corporate governance. For those of you who are familiar with Rollins, our board consists of outstanding directors who have diverse backgrounds and bring in experience, strong governance, and our unique perspectives to our company. As part of that process, our directors have also been a key component of driving Rollins' long-term strategic vision. We are pleased to announce that Gregory Morrison has been recently appointed to Rollins' audit committee. Some of you may recall that Greg who joined as a director of Rollins in 2021, served 18 years as a vice president and corporate chief accounting officer for Cox Enterprises. At Cox, he was responsible for the management and operations of all information technology, including cybersecurity solutions, which we believe makes them particularly well suited to join the audit committee in addition to his responsibilities as a member of our board's human capital management and compensation committee. We are also pleased to announce that Don Carson has been appointed to our nominating and governance committee. Don also joined our board in 2021 and is a trusted advisor to Catheter Precision where he also serves as a director. Don also acts as a trustee for the Cook and Binham Fund. Furthermore, we strengthened our board with the recent selection of seasoned executive, Louise Sams. Louise has also been appointed to our nominating, governance, and the compensation committee. For almost 20 years, Louise was an executive vice president and general counsel of Turner Broadcasting System. As general counsel, Louise oversaw legal work relating to Turner's business activities, and its subsidiaries worldwide, including licensing and production of content for Turner Television. She was also involved in the sale and distribution of those networks, the protection of intellectual property, employment matters as well as litigation and transactional work relating to acquisitions and joint ventures. Most recently, Louise focused on issues related to technology, information security, use of data, and consumer privacy as well as enterprisewide risk management. We are pleased to have Louise join our board, and we believe her broad experience will help to further strengthen Rollins and guide our strategic direction. At our core, we are foremost a service company. Our track record of success is a direct result of the efforts of the dedicated and caring people that work at Rollins. Toward this end, I'd like to highlight that during the quarter, Rollins was awarded a 2022 Top Workplaces Award by the Atlanta Journal Constitution. Rollins now ranked 17th in the large business category, marking the sixth consecutive year we've received this award. This recognition is based solely on employee satisfaction and engagement feedback gathered through a third-party survey. The survey measures several aspects of workplace culture, including alignment, execution, and leadership. More than 2,900 Atlanta companies participated in this program and over 68,000 of their employees were surveyed about their workplace experience. Another recent recognition that I'm particularly proud of is that Newsweek ranked Rollins No. 8 in their article on America's most trustworthy companies for 2022 in the consulting and professional services category. Over 110,000 evaluations were collected and reviewed regarding customer trust, investor trust, and employee trust to receive this recognition. We remain committed to providing a workplace where our team members can grow professionally and have a positive impact on the community. And many thanks go to our leadership team, who deserve all the credit for Rollins achieving these honors. Now let me turn the call over to Jerry, who will provide more details on our business.Jerry Gahlhoff Thank you, John, and hello, everyone. I'd now like to walk through our 2022 first quarter financial results, focusing on items that directly impacted our operations during the quarter. Julie will address the non-GAAP adjustments a little later. Looking at our numbers. Rollins first quarter 2022 was highlighted by revenue growth of 10.3% to 590.7 million, compared to 535.6 million in last year's first quarter. Net income was $72.4 million or $0.15 per diluted share. This is compared to 92.6 million or $0.19 per diluted share for the same period in 2021. This decline in EPS was primarily the result of last year's gain on the sale of properties. As mentioned, Julie will review GAAP and non-GAAP results as well as organic revenue growth numbers shortly. Operationally, all our business lines experienced good growth during the quarter, with residential pest control up 10.2%, commercial pest control rising 9.1%, and termite increasing 13.3%. On the expense side, in the first quarter, we felt significant inflationary pressures in fleet and pest control materials and supplies. I'll give insight on these and an overview of the actions we've been implementing to mitigate these expense pressures. As you may recall from last quarter, we've been proactively addressing supply chain issues in our termite and ancillary service offerings. With our procurement team seeking alternate products and suppliers, while our operation teams have been successfully initiated increases in our rate card pricing where needed to counteract the rise in some of these material costs. We believe we've struck the right balance and these efforts are helping to bring material costs back in line for our termite and ancillary business. In the first quarter, we began experiencing similar inflationary headwinds within our residential and commercial pest control materials and supplies. Given the successes we've achieved mitigating M&S costs in termite, we're implementing a proactive approach within our pest control business by adjusting our rate cards and diversifying through alternative suppliers and also by seeking shipping and freight efficiencies. Most important to improve our profit margin, we're also implementing our annual price increase programs earlier this year. These more aggressive price increases were initiated within all our brands in late spring as compared to typical timing of the early summer months in prior years. In short, we're proactively managing through this. Our fuel expense is an important example. We gave up 0.7 point in margin to increases in fleet expense in Q1. Through extensive routing and scheduling initiatives, we have reduced our overall mileage necessary, which lowers our fuel requirements. For our first quarter of 2022, our fuel costs would have been approximately $700,000 higher if we had not begun these routing and scheduling processes. This equates to an estimated addition of over 3.2 million miles driven if our miles between stops had not been reduced using our routing and scheduling technologies. We expect that we will see ongoing benefits of these improvements as we move throughout the remainder of the year. Furthermore, we continue to increase the number of hybrid and electric vehicles in our fleet as we now have over 800 currently deployed. Next, for a quick update on our acquisition pipeline. Fortunately, it's full. We have plenty of potential opportunities that we're actively engaged with. Our acquisition team has been busy, both domestic and internationally. One of our latest acquisitions highlighted in a recent press release, NBC Environment, headquartered in the U.K. closed April 1. And now gives us full coverage within the U.K., including multiple locations within Scotland. Before closing, I'd like to provide an update on our chief financial officer search. While we don't have an announcement to make today, we have an engaged an executive search firm to assist with identifying an exceptional candidate to join our leadership team. We are focused on getting a seasoned, talented financial executive as our CFO. The search is progressing well, and we look forward to providing an update this summer. Julie has been filling in remarkably as our interim CFO, and you can all rest assured that Julie will be remaining with Rollins as our group vice president of finance and investor relations. I know that I sleep better at night knowing that. Before I turn it over to Julie, I want to emphasize how pleased we are of our first quarter results given the inflationary pressures we faced and we remain well positioned for 2022. I'll now turn the call over to Julie.Julie Bimmerman -- Interim Chief Financial Officer, Vice President and Treasurer Thank you, Jerry. We delivered a strong first quarter, highlight significant growth across many key financial metrics. Like last quarter, we are including a slide deck on our website, which presents the numbers we discuss during today's earnings call presentation. To view the deck, please go to rollins.com, click on news and events, then presentation. Now on to the numbers. Our first quarter revenues of $590.7 million was an increase of 10.3% full exchange rate and 7% organic. With the constant exchange rate, the total revenue growth totaled 9.6% with 6.3% organic. As previously mentioned, residential, commercial, and termite all presented strong growth for the quarter. Residential grew 10.2%, 5.8% organic. Commercial grew 9.1%, 7.9% organic. Lastly, we have termite, which grew 13.3% with -- excuse me, with 8.5% organic. Now on to our income. For the first quarter, we are presenting adjusted EBITDA for comparison purposes due to the impact of our gain on sale of several of our Clark properties of 31 million in Q1 of last year. First quarter EBITDA 2022 was 117.8 million or 4.2% over 2021 adjusted EBITDA of 113 million. First quarter 2022 EPS was $0.15 per diluted share or 7.1% improvement over 2021 adjusted EPS. For the first quarter 2022, gross margin decreased to 50% or 1.2 points below last year. As mentioned, fleet created another quarter of strong headwinds in Q1 2022, primarily from fuel in the amount of 4.6 million and vehicle repairs of 1.2 million over last year. Combined, these fleet expense increases equated to 0.7 of a point in additional costs. Salaries were up 0.4 point, while pet control materials and supplies were up $2.9 million or 0.1 point. Fuel increases were driven by a 42% increase in average price paid per gallon in Q1 2022 over 2021. This, along with customer growth, brought a 55% increase in our total fuel costs for the quarter. The service wages increase was a combination of COVID sick time taken and overtime paid to cover work for employees out sick with COVID. We faced some difficult challenges in January as our reported number of employees testing positive for COVID-19 increased 154% over January 2021. Additional overtime pay required to complete our routes and cover for these COVID cases contributed to a 21% increase over Q1 2021. We believe this to be a onetime event unless another COVID surge occurs. Sales, general, and administrative, or SG&A, on the other hand, held flat Q1 2022 over 2021 with both quarters coming in at 30.3%. Now for a few notes regarding our cash flow. Our dividends for Q1 2022 totaled 49.2 million or an increase of 25% over 2021, while cash used for acquisitions declined 22% to 13.2 million for 2022. We ended the current period with 258.3 million in cash, of which 86.1 million was held by our foreign subsidiaries. As you probably noted, we've also increased our term loan over the last year. This will put us in a strong position to act quickly on either potential acquisitions or stock repurchases as opportunities may arise. Now to free cash flow. For the first quarter of 2022, our free cash was 79.5 million or a decrease of 28.8% over last year. The decline was related to 30.6 million in payroll taxes deferred under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security, or CARES Act, in 2022 and subsequently paid in the third quarter of 2021. In comparing the current first quarter to last year, the deferral was within the Q1 2021 operating activities. Last, I'm pleased to share that yesterday, the board of directors approved a regular cash dividend of $0.10 per share that will be paid on June 10, 2022, to shareholders of record at the close of business May 10, 2022. This represents a 25% increase over the dividends paid in June 2021. The dividend increase reflects our strong performance in the quarter of 2022, accentuates our financial strength, the board's confidence in our outlook for continued growth. Gary, I'll turn the call back to you.Gary Rollins -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Julie. We're happy to take any questions at this time. 