  OperatorHello, and welcome to the Q1 2022 Welltower Inc. earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] It is now my pleasure to introduce general counsel, Matt McQueen.Matt McQueen -- General Counsel Thank you, and good morning. As a reminder, certain statements made during this call may be deemed forward-looking statements in the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. Although Welltower believes any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, the company can give no assurance that best-projected results will be attained. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are detailed in the company's filings with the SEC.

 



 And with that, I'll hand the call over to Shankh for his remarks.Shankh Mitra -- Chief Executive Officer and Chief Investment Officer Thank you, Matt, and good morning, everyone. I'll describe our capital allocation priorities in the rapidly evolving investment environment and review high-level business trends before handing the call over to John, who will detail operational trends. A little over one year ago, our seniors housing operating business witnessed a powerful inflection point with occupancy gains and pricing power sustained through the remainder of the year despite delta and omicron variants. This momentum continued into first quarter of this year and translated into the first period of year over year bottom-line growth for our company since the beginning of pandemic. Our total portfolio revenue is up 32.7% year over year, driven by both organic revenue growth as well as a significant volume of high conviction capital deployment during the last 18 months. On a same-store basis, our Senior Housing Operating portfolio revenue is up 11.2% year over year. driven by a 4.6% occupancy growth and 4.6% rate growth. Encouragingly, we saw sequential pricing growth was 4.3%, the fastest growth recorded in our history despite only half of our operators pushing through in-house rent increases on Jan 1 schedule.

 



 All of these translated into 18.4% same-store NOI growth in Q1, an impressive number that surpassed our expectations. We're all very encouraged by the speed at which pre-trades are moving up. And we expect same-store NOI growth will accelerate into the second half of the year, barring another COVID spike. All of this setting up to be a powerful earnings recovery that we anticipate in 2023 and beyond. Before I turn into investment environment, I want to make two things here that are very important for multiyear earnings growth path. Number one, in 2018, when we converted our Brandywine Senior Living lease to RIDEA, I mentioned there are two other portfolio we had in triple-net structure that we hope to convert. One of them was Legend Senior Living. After many years of discussion with Tim Buchanan, Legend's legendary founder and CEO, I'm pleased to report that we have converted this relationship into RIDEA. Recall that we had an 88% and 20% propco JV between Welltower and Legend. At conversion, Tim contributed a portion of his propco, five brand-new assets and has agreed to a future development agreement to create a powerful 93%, 7% equity partnership going forward. Finally, after years of persuasion, we have convinced him that we can grow the pie using our data analytics platform so significantly that he will still be better off despite owning a smaller portion of the pie. A partner of our company since '90s, Legend has paid every single dollar of rent that was owed to Welltower regardless of their coverage on a given day. Though these deals is dilutive to our FFO in 2022 due to significant agency leverages today, we expect cash flow relative to the previous rent will breakeven in beginning of 2023, and our shareholders will enjoy upside from there on. We hope for extraordinary partnership over last week -- had extraordinary partnership over the last three decades, and we hope that it will continue for many more to come. This transition, along with acquisition and future development partnership exemplifies our sole focus on enhancing long-term value of the portfolio and is indicative of the potential earnings upside in the portfolio that can be captured through a simple cap rate or multiple valuation methodology. Number two, historically, our SHO business focused on managing managers and assets.

 



 Now that we have significantly upgraded our operational capabilities, including through the hiring of John Burkart, our COO, our focus in the SHO business will mirror the real estate and management services that we provide in our medical office business or what an apartment rig does with an understanding that we're limited in providing care services in a health -- qualified healthcare property. This fundamental shift in our approach has a profound impact on how we think about our role in the operating stack. This is particularly important as we think through the most important part of that operating platform, which is the technology stack. John will get into the details as part of his script, but we are delighted that he is in full-scale development and implementation of a true operating platform at Welltower. John is working closely with some of our best-operating partners to launch this, call it RIDEA 4.0 for now, but honestly, that doesn't do our new approach justice, as to the scale and impact, we think his plans will have on the customer experience and value creation overall. Needless to say, we expect this multiyear initiative will have a tremendous impact on our earnings growth trajectory and long-term compounding machine that we are setting up at Welltower. Now let's talk about capital allocation. As you know, my team is extraordinarily focused on allocating capital to create part share value for existing shareholders. The keyword is existing. We'll favor our existing shareholders who have been our partners through thick and thin, especially through thin. We are fiercely protective of their interest on a per-share basis, and won't act in a manner that does not create significant value for them. Because we're extremely transparent and genuinely dislike drama, I will mention to you that Welltower is the party F referenced in the HTA HR merger proxy a couple of weeks ago. Every week, we call owners of assets and express our interest to buy them at a price. This was no different. I am genuinely disappointed that HR board and management did not engage with us, but that is their prerogative. It is completely up to their shareholders and the board, which presents those shareholders to decide how to maximize value. Because of the many rumors circulating and the reports and articles about this, I'll mention a few things before moving on to much more important items. Number one, we're fair win-win people, we offer to buy the company on public information at $31.75 per share, plus a breakup fee of $163 million from a merger which as you have seen, the market reported at significantly value destructive per analyst reports. We believe that our cash offer provided better value to HR shareholders than the HTA merger, and it was fully financed and were prepared to move within days. I read research notes that described our unfair pricing relative to what might be quoted in market cap rate. Please understand that we did not offer to buy an asset, we offer to buy a company that we are willing to pay for assets and pay a breakup fee that bails out company out for company's existing shareholders for potential dilution that well-respected analyst community has been writing about. I hope this will stop mischaracterization of our offer and our intent. Number two, Welltower always has and always will honor its agreement with third parties, including that with HTA. In fact, HTA itself piloted our NDA with them by providing -- by first disclosing it to HR and then later to the public in the joint proxy. Further our NDA with them does not contain a standstill that will apply us to making an offer for HR as a stand-alone entity. As you would expect, we signed it with HTA in order to access information regarding HTA and its properties, therefore, the Standstill only applies to HTA and its properties. Our proposal was expressly conditioned on HR not completing their HTA transaction. Number three, we have never chased the deal and never will. We buy everything at a price and sell everything at a price. Although I'm disappointed that HR did not engage with us, as our offer -- we thought our offer would result into a superior outcome for HR shareholders, I have no intention of being hostile. I personally like Todd, I called him and expressed our interest. We didn't buy shares in the public market, nor did we act in anything but a friendly way. They did not engage. Under these circumstances, we have nothing to do here. Number four, contrary to what some analysts might have written, this deal would not have been dilutive to our senior housing growth. You don't know what proportion of equity, debt, or joint ventures we might have contemplated for the transaction. But even if you think we were to do this entirely on the balance sheet, it would be a rather simple exercise. Look at the NOI bridge in our business update, divide that NOI by existing number of shares, calculate the additional shares required by the HR transaction to calculate dilution on a part share basis and then add back the accretion from the deal. You will see our existing shareholders would have covered ahead. We look at every single investment through the lens of opportunity costs. Specifically, we have to satisfactorily answer three questions that Buffett has taught us. And then what, compared to what, at the expense of what. This is no different. And number five, we're not disappointed nor we are concerned about our growth of our senior housing business. While the contrary, in fact, we just reported 18.4% same-store NOI growth and expected to meaningfully accelerate in the second half of the year. Now that I have put all these rumors to bed, let's talk about the 30 or so owners who did engage with us to create win-win partnership transactions. Year to date, we have closed $1.2 billion of acquisitions across 21 different off-market or privately negotiated transactions. This is a remarkable stat given the torrid pace of activity last year. I find it difficult to talk about specific deals as it feels like picking your favorite children, but I still mention a handful of transactions to give you a sense. We bought 700 units, three large communities in Washington State with Cogir to expand our partnership with Matthew and Dave. Dave Eskenazy is one of the best in the business, and I'm glad that he's now back full time at Cogir U.S. as a CEO. We're also expanding our partnership with purchase of another property in Brentwood located in the East Bay of Northern California. All properties were bought at significant discount replacement cost. For example, the Brentwood asset contains large units, and it was bought for $320,000 per unit. We believe the replacement cost in each way today is easily significantly north of $500,000 units. Additionally, we are significantly deepening our relationship with Dan and his team at StoryPoint with the acquisition of 33 communities in Michigan, Ohio, and Tennessee in their backyard. With a median vintage of 2016, we're extremely pleased with the average price of $197,000 per unit which is meaningful discount replacement cost with 63% of current average occupancy this sizable deal will be dilutive to our 2022 FFO per share, but properties are anticipated to generate significant occupancy, margin and cash flow growth in 2023 and beyond under StoryPoint's enhanced operating platform. This is another example of us choosing the right long-term investment decision and cash flow growth of our GAAP earnings separation, another thing you hear from us consistently. In another transaction, we announced we're expanding our partnership with Courtney and her team at Oakmont with seven new assets in extraordinary locations in California. Courtney and her team are at the absolute top of operating echelons, and we cannot be happier to grow this partnership together. Separately, within the medical office space, we bought four-building property portfolio on the campus of one of the strongest hospitals in Birmingham, Alabama for a 5.5% cap rate in an absolute net lease structure at a great basis. Given the absolute net structure, we expect unlevered IRR to be high single-digit range. We're also under contract to buy two large beautiful MOBs, one in San Francisco Bay Area, another in Sacramento MSA for a high 5% going-in cap rate at a great basis. Again, we expect to generate high single digits in IRR in both cases. In terms of the financing market, in the last 30 days or so, we have seen a massive shift with property level leverage down 15 points, cost doubling, and interest only disappearing from the market, both in seniors as well as in MOBs. This is starting to have a tectonic impact on asset pricing. To put bluntly, I have not been this excited about our acquisition prospects since Q4 of 2020. About six weeks ago, an investor, whom I respect very much asked me if I'm optimistic about the next $7 billion of acquisitions, as I was about the last $7 billion of acquisition that we did since pivoting to offense in 4Q of '20. I instinctively answered what I truly believe that we're driven by value, not by volume, which this investor took it as a no. Today, that answer will be unequivocal yes. Yes, we are excited about the figuratively net $7 billion as we are when we acted on the last $7 billion. To that effect, our pipeline today is roughly $1.5 billion of deals in process across 20 different off-market or privately negotiated transactions. Several of these are potentially operating unit transactions, which we expect to be very popular with the sellers. Please recall that we define our pipeline as transactions that are already under contract. In addition to this, we're negotiating another couple of billion dollars of acquisitions across several other transactions. While we may not eventually succeed in convincing sellers to agree to our price, please note that we don't need any given transaction. Price is the price. We see cracks in the market and are focused on where the puck is going and not where the puck might have been. The value of a party that never retreats and doesn't requires debt has really been higher. In most class systems in nature, such as coastline, cloud, turbulence no matter how much you scale up or scale down, you notice a remarkable self-similarity property. You notice that same occurrence everywhere in nature. For example, a floret of a cauliflower is same as the cauliflower. This phenomenon is called fractal geometry. This is the same idea that our drive time polygons and isochrones are based on if you have seen our data science presentation. Interestingly, organization history is full of companies who grow successfully through small bolt-on acquisitions in their advantageous niche only to convince themselves of strategic acquisitions that get them in trouble. David Packer, the founder of HP brilliantly said, more businesses die of indigestion than starvation to discuss this phenomena. At Welltower, we don't have strategic acquisitions. In fact, self-similarity of mother nature is highly visible in our investment philosophy. No matter how small or big a specific investment is we are after the same, driven by the same factors. In all cases, were buying, number one, a reasonable basis relative to replacement costs. And number two, where we can add value by driving operational improvement. We are not spread investing deal junkies. We are true total retail investors and are optimistic that 2022 will be one of the best years in the company's history from an acquisition point. With that, I'll hand the call over to my partner, John Burkart, our chief operating officer. John?John Burkart -- Chief Operating Officer Thank you, Shankh. My comments today will touch upon the performance of our operating business in the quarter and provide some elements of our vision for senior housing. Starting with our medical office portfolio. In the first quarter, our outpatient medical business delivered 2.7% same-store NOI growth over the prior year's quarter, while occupancy declined modestly to 94.5%. We continue to see strong retention rates in the first quarter of 92%, likely driven by rising construction costs, construction delays, and the related increases in new lease rents. Going forward, we expect occupancy to decline modestly as we continue to increase renewal rates in line with market increases. Now turning to our senior housing portfolio. The coiled spring, as Shankh has called it, is starting its expansion. Revenue in our same-store portfolio grew at 11.2% in the first quarter compared to the prior year's quarter. That's over two times the growth rate experienced last quarter and the highest year-over-year increase since at least 2017. Our first quarter performance was led by our U.S. portfolio, which reported year over year top-line growth of 13.5%. Additionally, as we've described in recent calls, pricing power continues to strengthen as reflected by strong renewal rate increases and improving market rate. In fact, RevPAR growth in the first quarter increased by the highest level in years at 4.6% year over year and 4.3% sequentially. While expenses grew at a rate of 9.5%, the more insightful expense metric is expense POR or expense per occupied room, which only grew at a rate of 3%, in the first quarter year over year on a year-over-year basis, the lowest since at least 2017. The combination of higher rental rates, increasing occupancy, and improving margins led to an outstanding NOI growth rate of 18.4%. Our operators continue to report very strong demand with traffic above 2019 levels, which bodes well for the peak sales season ahead. And if things play out as we expect continued top-line strength and further improvement on the expense side should result in a meaningful acceleration in NOI growth in the back half of the year. Understandably, since taking over as COO at Welltower, I've received questions about my vision and areas of focus, both of which I want to provide some insight to on this call. I will outline the opportunity I see and highlight some key elements of my plan, which I believe Welltower is uniquely positioned to execute. As I evaluate the senior housing business, my perspective is a little different than the conventional wisdom that is developed as the healthcare REIT industry has evolved. The healthcare REIT industry, including Welltower, started with triple-net leases for senior housing, giving the owners little to no say in operations and asset management. As the industry evolved with RIDEA, the historic reliance on the operators to run the business continued. The senior housing industry was founded by strong visionary leaders who saw that there was a much better way for society to provide quality lifestyles for its aging members, and they acted accordingly, like so many industries, which are started by small businesses, they are specialists in their core focus, in this case, providing quality living experience for our aging population and generalists and the many other important elements related to running a modern operating business. But as you know, I come to this business with a different perspective and have broken down the business into a few components. It's essentially the multifamily business that provides care with some hospitality. As Shankh alluded to in his opening remarks. Although REITs are limited in providing care services, we can perform multifamily type functions like revenue management, capital management, procurement, provide IT expertise as well as leverage our data science expertise. By doing so, we have the opportunity to fundamentally change the potential of this business by creating a full-scale operating platform and bringing operational excellence to the senior housing business. Overall, I have come to believe that Welltower has a substantial opportunity to improve the customer and employee experience and create shareholder value through leading the digital transformation of the business. More to come on timing, but I will say that we are actively working on the initiative, partnering with best-in-class operators, and we will deliver various components as they are ready. The addition of the world-class operating platform will continue to dramatically increase the size and depth of the Welltower moat, and it will greatly simplify the business for our top operators, enabling them to focus on their core strengths, increasing their effectiveness and efficiency, and driving increased total returns. We expect that all our stakeholders, including our operating partners and investors will emerge as winners in this next phase of the senior housing business. I'll now turn the call over to Tim.Tim McHugh -- Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Thank you, John. My comments today will focus on our first quarter 2022 results. The performance of our triple-net investment segments in the quarter. Our capital activity, our balance sheet liquidity update; and finally, our outlook for the second quarter. Welltower reported fourth quarter net income attributable to common stockholders of $0.14 per diluted share and normalized funds from operations of $0.82 per diluted share, which was above the midpoint of our $0.79 to $0.84 per share guidance. Despite our results only including approximately $600,000 of HHS funds versus the $6 million expectation we had previously forecasted as part of our guidance. This quarter represented our first with year-over-year normalized FFO growth since the start of the pandemic. And when excluding provider relief funds received in the respective periods, our $0.82 per share represents 15% year-over-year growth versus the first quarter of 2021. We are also pleased to report that total portfolio same-store NOI growth turned positive in the quarter. With 8.9% year-over-year growth, which compares favorably to guidance of 7%. Turning to our triple-net lease portfolios. As a reminder, our triple-net lease portfolio coverage and occupancy stats are reported at quarter in years. So these statistics reflect the trailing 12 months ending 12/31/2021. In our seniors housing triple-net portfolio, same-store NOI increased 6.9% year over year and exceeded our expectations, driven by improvements in rent collections on leases currently in cash recognition and the early impact of rental increases tied to CPI. Trailing 12-month EBITDAR coverage was 0.82 times and with a sequential improvement, mainly driven by the conversion of Legend Senior Living to day in the quarter. As indicated last quarter, we expect coverages to continue to move higher through the rest of the year as the positive inflection point we started experiencing in our SHO portfolio in the first quarter will be reflected in our triple-net coverages on a one-quarter lag. Next, our long-term post-acute portfolio generated negative 1.8% year over year same-store NOI growth, and trailing 12-month EBITDAR coverage was 1.3 times. We completed $67 million of long-term post-acute sales in the quarter bringing our total sales in the last 12 months to $525 million and a blending cap rate of 7.5%, with an additional $202 million under contract for sale at quarter end. As a result, our long-term post-acute portfolio represented just 4.8% of total in-place NOI at year-end versus 10.1% at the end of 2020, a 530 basis point decline driven largely by the exit of our Genesis relationship. And lastly, health systems, which is comprised of our ProMedica Senior Care joint venture with ProMedica Health System, had same-store NOI growth of positive 2.75% year over year and trailing 12-month EBITDAR coverage was 0.02 times. As a reminder, this lease is backed by the full corporate guarantee from ProMedica Health System. Turning to capital market activity. We continue to enhance our balance sheet strength and position the company to capitalize a robust and highly visible pipeline of capital deployment opportunities by utilizing our ATM program to efficiently fund those near-term transactions. Since the start of the year, we have sold 21 million shares via forward sale agreement, at initial weighted average price of approximately $89.90 per share for expected gross proceeds of $1.9 billion. We currently have approximately 19.5 million shares remaining unsettled, which are expected to generate future proceeds of $1.8 billion. Additionally, we are seeing significant interest from potential sellers to accept OP units as consideration, providing further investment capacity. Taken together, our unsettled ATM proceeds, potential OP unit issuances, and $352 million of expected property disposition and loan payoff proceeds provide ample capacity to fund our current investment pipeline. During the quarter, we issued our second green bond comprised of $550 million of 10-year unsecured debt maturing in 2032, with a coupon of 3.85%. Following a similar discipline in our equity funding strategy, this is our fourth unsecured issuance since March of 2021, bringing total debt issuance over the span of $2.3 billion with an average duration of 9.5 years and average coupon of 3%. At quarter end, when factoring in cash and restricted cash balances, our liquidity position exceeded the $4 billion of borrowing capacity on our line of credit. And when combined with the previously mentioned $2.1 billion of unsettled ATM proceeds and expected disposition proceeds, we remain in a very strong liquidity position. Lastly, moving to our second quarter outlook. Last night, we provided an outlook for the second quarter of net income attributable to common stockholders per diluted share of $0.20 to $0.25 per share, normalized FFO per diluted share of $0.82 to $0.87 per share or $0.845 at the midpoint. This guidance takes into consideration approximately $6 million of HHS funds expected to be received in the second quarter. Guidance represents a $0.025 increase at the midpoint from our $0.82 per share number in 1Q. This $0.025 increase is composed of a $0.04 sequential increase in our Senior Housing Operating portfolio NOI, $0.01 incremental increase in HHS funds, and is offset by $0.025 of increased interest expense, lower foreign exchange rates, particularly the British pound, and dilution from development deliveries. Underlying this FFO guidance is estimated in second quarter total portfolio year over year same-store growth of 8% to 10%, driven by subsegment growth of outpatient medical, 2% to 3%; long-term post-acute 2% to 3%; Health System, positive 2.75% and senior housing triple-net 7% to 8%. And finally, senior housing operating growth of 15% to 20%, driven by revenue growth of 11%, and underlying this revenue growth is an expectation of approximately 500 basis points of year-over-year average occupancy increase and continued robust rate increases. We continue to be pleased by the momentum of the top-line recovery in our senior housing operating portfolio, driven by a combination of rate and occupancy growth. setting the stage for a multiyear recovery to average occupancy in the portfolio at 76.4% at quarter end, nearly 1,100 basis points below pre-COVID levels, and nearly 1,500 basis points below peak occupancy levels. We've described as recovery in the past as a coiled spring with both secular and cyclical tailwinds behind it. While we started to see the spring release in the core portfolio, we have made the conscious decision to steadily allocate capital to distressed, underoperated, and often initially diluted properties, along with high-quality development projects. While this capital allocation has the effect of offsetting some of our core growth today, we will sustainably amplify it in the years to come. In short, we're working hard to keep that spring coil even as we start to realize the power of the earnings growth it can drive. And with that, I'll hand the call back over to Shankh.Shankh Mitra -- Chief Executive Officer and Chief Investment Officer I want to sum it up -- sum up the call by saying I cannot be more pleased with the internal and external growth prospects of the company. We have taken a lot of shots, suffered a lot of pain through the course of many years to finally get to the point where we believe we're primed for long-term compounding. The only way we know how to create significant shareholder wealth over a long period of time. A great investment has three characteristics, outsized returns, low risk, and long duration. While we are very successful in finding outsized returns in off-market opportunities that we continue to execute on we're equally focused on lower risk and longevity. This is why we're obsessed with acquiring assets at a reasonable basis relative to replacement costs in order to reduce risk. And in terms of longevity, Page 20 of our business update will describe to you 30 or so win-win contractual partnerships that we have signed through a seamless way of trust where we hope to deploy 30-plus billion dollars of capital over the next decade and beyond. We see enormous opportunity for growth within our circle of confidence, which we define as the area where we can allocate capital with house odds instead of gamblers odds our predictive analytics platform. This confluence of outsized internal and external growth has created a rare condition, which is called Leaping Emergent Effect or as Munger describes it, Lollapalooza effect. You as our owners can rest assured that we will not make any poor capital allocation decisions that will jeopardize these rare leaping emergent conditions that we have achieved through many years of hard work, luck, courage, and a culture where everybody is all in. With that, operator, please open the call up for questions. Thank you. 