
OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Jacobs Fiscal Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast [Operator Instructions]I would now like to turn the call over to Jonathan Doros, Investor Relations. Thank you. Please go ahead.Jonathan Doros -- Investor Relations

 



Thank you. Good morning to all. Our earnings announcement was filed this morning. We have posted a copy of this slide presentation on our website, which we will reference during the call. During the presentation, we'll be in forward-looking statements, including with respect to the continuing effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, potential government stimulus programs and our financial outlook, among others. I would like to refer you to our forward-looking statement disclaimer, which is included on Slide 2 regarding these and other forward-looking statements.During this presentation, we'll be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures. Please refer to Slide 2 of the presentation for more information on these figures. In addition, during the presentation, we will discuss comparisons of current results prior periods on a pro forma basis. See Slide 2 for more information on the calculation of these pro forma metrics. For pro forma comparisons, current and prior periods include the results of the Wood Nuclear business, which closed in March of 2020 and the Buffalo Group, which closed in November of 2020. Our reported results only include results from PA Consulting from the closing date of March 2, 2021 through the end of fiscal quarter. Unless otherwise indicated, pro forma comparisons discussed today do not include key consulting in the prior comparable periods.Turning to the agenda on Slide 3. Speaking on today's call will be Jacobs' Chair and CEO, Steve Demetriou; President and Chief Operating Officer, Bob Pragada; and President and Chief Financial Officer, Kevin Berryman. Steve will begin by updating the progress we are making against our strategy and the future ESG at Jacobs. Bob will then review our performance by line of business. And Kevin will provide a more in-depth discussion of our financial metrics, followed by an update on our Focus 2023 and M&A initiatives as well as a review of our balance sheet and cash flow. Finally, Steve will provide detail on our updated outlook along with some closing remarks. Then we will open the call for your questions. In the appendix of this presentation, we provide additional ESG related information, including examples of our leading ESG solutions.With that, I'll now pass it over to Steve Demetriou, Chair and CEO.

 



Steve Demetriou -- Chair & Chief Executive OfficerThank you, John, and thanks to all of you for joining us today to discuss our second quarter fiscal year 2021 business performance at key initiatives. As the pandemic lessens its impact here in the United States, it's vital to recognize the significant struggles that are still occurring throughout the world, especially in India. Jacobs made an immediate donation to the United Way in New Delhi for critical medical supplies. And I'm particularly proud of our company and employees who together have donated $200,000 through our internal giving platform collectively. We have and will continue to support those that are still being impacted by the pandemic, including, for example, our operations in the Philippines.Turning to Slide 4. Before discussing our second quarter results, it's important to continue to reiterate how we think about our business by aligning and executing against our long-term strategy to drive superior value for our stakeholders. We take a multiyear approach to our rigorous strategy formation. This long-term mindset involves proactively assessing and aligning our portfolio toward large secular growth opportunities where we can deliver sustained double-digit profit growth. The transformation that Jacobs has undergone over the last several years has created significant value measured by relative total shareholder return. As you have seen from our recent organic actions, the PA Consulting investment and the acquisition of the Buffalo Group, we believe there's a significant opportunity to deliver differentiated, digitally enabled solutions as the world accelerates its efforts to modernize infrastructure, improve global supply chain and enhance national security. We have started the development of our new corporate strategy for fiscal year 2022 to '24, which we will present to the investor community later this year.As to our financial results, I'm pleased with our strong second quarter performance with net revenue increasing 7% year-over-year and adjusted EBITDA growth of 27%. Backlog ended the second quarter up 10% year-over-year and up 7% on a pro forma basis. Our strategic investment in PA Consulting closed on March 2nd and demonstrated higher than expected results in the March quarter with 19% revenue growth in sterling, up 28% including the benefit of FX. We are also excited by the revenue synergies our joint Jacobs PA teams are creating, resulting in a robust pipeline in line with our deal model expectations. Given the stronger performance across Jacobs and the early closing of the PA investment, we are increasing our full fiscal year 2021 adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EPS outlook. Looking beyond fiscal 2021, we see the potential for one of the most attractive periods for growth in our company's history, activated through alignment of our portfolio to numerous secular growth opportunities in the expected infrastructure stimulus across the globe.

 



Turning to Slide 5. Sustainability at Jacobs is reflected in our company's purpose of delivering solutions for a more connected sustainable world as well as through our values. We do things right, we challenged the accepted, we aim higher and we live inclusion. This is critical for our people to work for a company that believes sustainability as fundamental to what we stand for as an organization. I'm proud of our efforts over the last few years as we are now being recognized by various external governance groups. For example, IFS recently updated their ESG assessment of Jacobs where we are now approaching top decile in both environmental and social categories. These results are a credit to our people and their focus on our purpose and values. And of course, on an external basis, ESG is a significant growth opportunity for Jacobs. Building on the success of our sustainability strategy launched in 2019, Plan Beyond 2.0 reinforces our commitment to driving to a net zero economy through furthering our sustainable business offerings. We are in the early stages of a significant business growth opportunity to partner with our global customers and communities to provide solutions with their net zero carbon commitments.Now with our investment in PA Consulting, Jacobs is uniquely positioned across the entire end-to-end ESG opportunity. For example, we're implementing the first bio geochemical reactor pilot plant project for PFAS remediation in the US, supporting Germany's transition to significant net zero power generation and distribution by 2030. We're teaming up water utilities in Australia to support decarbonization, working with industrial clients globally on their energy and resource management programs for advanced manufacturing facilities and many other projects, including those shared in the appendix to this presentation. Altogether, sustainable solutions is a high growth business opportunity for Jacobs, today, comprising nearly $5 billion of our revenue, which, by the way, makes Jacob's one of the largest ESG solutions providers.With that, I'll turn the call over to Bob Pragada to provide more detail by line of business.Bob Pragada -- President & Chief Operating OfficerThank you, Steve. Moving on to Slide 6 to review the quarterly performance for our Critical Mission Solutions business. During the second quarter, our CMS business continued its strong performance and our workforce is executing at pre-pandemic levels as COVID-19 vaccines are administered broadly across our operational sphere. Total CMS backlog is at $9.8 billion, representing 7% year-over-year growth and up 6% pro forma, excluding the lower margin hampered and classified procurement contract we have previously discussed. The CMS strategy is focused on revenue growth and margin expansion by offering technology enabled solutions aligned to critical national priorities that drive innovative outcomes. Similar to last quarter, I will discuss four notable market trends positively impacting our CMS business: space exploration intelligence, all source intelligence, digital modernization and clean energy.Beginning with space exploration and intelligence. From idea to operations, Jacobs delivers know how and value to every stage of the space system life cycle for our civil and national security space plan. NASA leads this global exploration and development of deep space with its Artemis program that will carry astronauts to and from the moon surface and beyond. As NASA's largest service provider, Jacobs is involved in many aspects of the Artemis mission, including the space launch system, the Orion spacecraft and the exploration ground systems based at Kennedy Space Center. We are proud to have expanded our NASA support to the Wallace Flight facility located in Virginia, and are now providing full life cycle operations and testing that deploy expertise we have developed at other NASA centers.We remain heavily engaged in the NASA mission portfolio, including the recent support of the SLS hot fire test in the design, fabrication and full deployment of the calibration device on the Perseverance Rover now exploring Mars. NASA continues to enjoy strong bipartisan congressional support with preliminary FY22 budget, including a 6% increase over 2021. We also support the DoD's joint all domain intelligence initiative, utilizing satellite connectivity in space and adding more capacity for intel analysis, such as our successful Mango One launch earlier this year. Overall, defense based spending was up 28% in FY21 and is expected to show strong growth in FY22 as well.Moving on to all source intelligence. Today's threat levels require intelligence analysts to utilize and coordinate multiple sources, including human, signal, open source, geospatial and measurement and signature to allow for better decision making in real time. The Buffalo Group acquisition greatly expanded Jacobs' all source intelligence capability. We were awarded two exciting wins from the Defense Intelligence Agency in the quarter. Jacobs will provide counterterrorism analytical expertise for the Defense Combating Terrorism Center, DCTC, and integrated intelligence centers and direct support of war fighters around the globe. We were also awarded a prime seat on the $12.6 billion Solutions for Information Technology Enterprise, or SITE III, IDIQ to address the evolving IT requirements vital to the security of the United States. All those specific classified budget details were not provided in the preliminary budget, redirection of funds toward emerging cyber and intelligence threats from states are anticipated.Now turning to digital modernization. In order for government agencies to run effectively and transform how they accomplish their missions, they require a full spectrum of digital enterprise solutions, including engineering and operations, digital services, such as cloud services, dev tech ops, cyber and data analytics. Contract obligations for digital modernization services have grown significantly over the past five years with strong continued growth expected as government agencies upgrade their data networks. Recently, our software engineering team won a 10 year contract to continue to develop and sustain terrain awareness and warning system software for the U.S. Air Force C-17 fleet to help ensure pilot safety. A final trend is in clean energy or energy sources such as solar, wind, geothermal, hydro power and nuclear energy, all of which are critical to transitioning global economies away from fossil fuel.Across our CMS new portfolio, our unique blend and depth of technical and program management capabilities allows us to provide life cycle support to our clients, such as the delivery of Hinkley Point C, a large scale nuclear power plant in the UK that will provide low carbon electricity for approximately 6 million homes, developing small modular reactors and advanced modular reactors for delivering sustainable products, such as green hydrogen or synthetic fuels and working with the global community to bring fusion power to commercial viability. Specifically, in the US, the DoE has been allocated a 10% increase in the preliminary FY22 budget for decommissioning and new clean energy investments, including fusion. In summary, we continue to see strong demand for our solutions in fiscal year 2021 and beyond under the Biden administration. The CMS sales pipeline remains robust with the next 18 month qualified new business remaining above $30 billion with over $10 billion in source selection and an increasing margin profile.Now on Slide 7, I'll discuss our People & Places Solutions business. Starting with an overview of the benefit of global stimulus, we anticipate a direct investment in our key industry sectors and geographies that align with global trends and emerging governmental focus on climate change, infrastructure modernization, digital transformation and advanced facility. We are uniquely positioned to provide world class service to significant areas of stimulus, including the anticipated US infrastructure bill. Our global delivery model connected across geographies and markets, combined with our digitized delivery approach, ensures efficient and seamless support anywhere in the world. Our existing contracting framework with the primary recipients of the stimulus funding will allow us to unlock capacity to capture these emerging opportunities. As an example of our engagement, we are hosting a global webinar with our water sector clients on May 12 to help them navigate and access available funding sources through the US stimulus legislation.As we look to increase operating leverage through our Focus 2023 efforts, we are accelerating growth in both core and new sectors. We've engaged our partners from PA Consulting to catalyze these efforts by applying their business transformation expertise to further optimize Jacobs global delivery model, combining our subject matter experts with technology enabled tools for a full solution offering with a competitive differentiator and we look forward to sharing more in the coming quarters. Our continued financial resilience driven by our balanced geographic and market portfolio, resulted in strong P&L performance in the quarter and 10% year-over-year backlog growth. Our pipeline remains healthy and we anticipate continued growth as US infrastructure bill materializes.I'll now discuss the key global trends and themes aligned with our P&PS business. Climate change is a macro and multi decade driver for clients around the world. Much of the economic stimulus is focused as green stimulus, underpinning all infrastructure monetization. Private sector clients are accelerating their transition to a net zero economy, increasingly seeking solutions that embrace ESG principles. We are a leading provider in this space, delivering innovative solutions that support our clients' decarbonization and resiliency goals, such as mass transit and fleet electrification work that we are delivering across the globe. A great example is the Cambridgeshire Autonomous Metro in the UK, where in collaboration with PA Consultant, we are delivering an end to end solution for the implementation of autonomous electric vehicle infrastructure.Infrastructure monetization and digital transformation is driving growth in the mid and long term. Our global program management team continues to deliver iconic programs for clients across major metropolitan areas on five continents. A clear demonstration of our efforts to modernize infrastructure by increasing mobility and improving journey time and nearly doubling road capacity is the recent award at Highways England's lower chems crossing program, one of the UK's most ambitious and largest road project ever. As a result of our leading expertise in the water sector, our recent win, the St. Paul Minnesota water treatment plant demonstrates our ability to implement solutions for aging infrastructure to maintain reliable service, enhance water quality, improve operations and maintenance and provide a sustainable utility. Additionally, we won the Changi NEWater Factory 3 project with the Public Utility Board in Singapore as a result of our technology efficient design that reduces operational costs. The first in service solution features reverse flow technology to maximize reverse osmosis recovery and exemplifies our solutions and technology differentiator.The global semiconductor chip shortage is driving industry growth levels above historical averages. This shortage is being driven by a unique convergence of demand use and applications from areas such as smartphones, cloud computing and data storage. Coupled with the rebalancing of global supply chain, we are engaged with multiple clients to accelerate capital projects and increase capacity. We continue to see robust spending in the life sciences sector driven by our clients' redistribution of their product portfolio. Additionally, contract manufacturing organizations are embarking on an unprecedented amount of biologic capacity to support global demand. Leveraging our industry leadership and long-standing client relationships, we have secured the Fujifilm Dion bio project in the Southeastern United States and other large confidential programs globally. In summary, our balanced portfolio of industry sectors and geographies continues to strengthen our P&PS pipeline.Turning to Slide 8. This is a very successful quarter for PA Consulting, building on a strong full calendar year of 2020, PA's revenue growth at 28% year-over-year. PA is involved in a wide range of digital transformation projects, including the vaccine rollout program globally. PA's backlog was up 36% year-over-year. This positive sales growth as well as continued investment in partner hiring in 2020 and 2021 gives increased confidence for the full year and beyond. We have seen solid performance across all sectors with strong wins in life sciences and UK public services. On the sustainability front, we've built on our global delivery partnership with the innovative start-up Colpac, signing numerous new consumer clients to replace single use plastics in their products. PA continues to secure a wide range of digitalization project programs including the wins highlighted on the slide. PA's strategy is to focus on growth in the private sector with an acute focus in the US and further diversification in end markets globally. We are working in partnership with PA to accelerate that strategy through joint engagements in key sectors, including energy and utility, health and life sciences and Defense & Security.I will now turn it over to Kevin to speak to our financial performance.Kevin Berryman -- President & Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Bob. And turning to Slide 9 for a quick financial review. Second quarter gross revenue increased 4% year-over-year and net revenue was up 7%. This was driven by solid underlying business performance, offset by the timing of advanced facilities projects. Acquisitions and FX benefits continue to grow to growth by more than offsetting the burn off of two lower margin previously disclosed contracts in CMS. Including the pro forma impact from all acquisitions, net revenue was up low single digits. For the second half of fiscal year 2021 compared to 2020, we expect total reported net revenue growth to be up in the low double digits year-over-year. On a pro forma basis for acquisitions, we expect second half revenue up low to mid-single digits versus a year ago as growth from the acquisitions and CMS and P&PS growth from a weaker second half 2020 compare more than offset continued headwinds in CMS from the lower margin contracts coming to an end.Adjusted gross margin in the quarter as a percentage of net revenue was 25.8%, up 260 basis points year-over-year. The higher gross margin on a year-over-year basis was driven primarily by three factors. Improvements in CMS gross margin as we continue to remix the portfolio to higher margin business, a favorable impact from lower benefit costs and the benefit from PA Consulting, which has a strong accretive gross margin profile versus the rest of the portfolio. From a line of business standpoint, CMS gross margins increased strongly on a year-over-year basis as we benefited from higher margin revenue in the base business, new wins and improved portfolio mix. P&PS [Phonetic] gross margin was up slightly year-over-year. Adjusted G&A as a percentage of net revenue was up slightly year-over-year to 15%. As we look forward, we will continue to be disciplined in management of our G&A costs, but do expect an increase in GA as a percentage of revenue as a result of an expected rebound in labor related medical costs, IT related investments as we move to a flexible workforce and other investments to drive growth.GAAP operating profit was a negative $41 million and was mainly impacted by a $267 million cost related to the closing of the PA Consulting transaction that we called out in our press release filed this morning. Let me provide additional detail on the nature of this cost. The $267 million represents a portion of the aggregate purchase price consideration for our investment in PA. That per GAAP accounting is treated as compensation given retention related requirements and distribution of this amount post-closing. We still view the total investment consideration unchanged at GBP1.4 billion. I'll discuss the cash flotation of the $267 million later in my remarks. In addition, we had $42 million in deal and other costs associated with the PA consulting investment, $13 million of restructuring, transaction and other charges, including the Focus 2023 initiative and $31 million of amortization from acquired intangibles. Adjusting for these items, adjusted operating profit was $311 million, up 32% with both lines of business showing strong organic profit growth.In addition, PA Consulting posted strong double digit growth in operating profit during their quarter ending April 2, 2021. Our adjusted operating profit to net revenue was 10.5%, up 200 basis points year-over-year on a reported basis and was effectively 10% without the benefit from PA, a record for the company. GAAP EPS from continuing operations rounded to $0 per share and included $0.86 per share from the PA investment consideration being treated as compensation previously mentioned, net of the associated tax impact, a $0.37 cost related to the mark to market investment in Worley and AR software provider, C3ai, which included the impact of monetizing a portion of our C3ai investment; $0.17 in deal and other PA consulting-related costs; $0.09 per share of after-tax charges primarily related to Focus 2023 and other miscellaneous restructuring costs; and $0.17 of amortization of acquired intangibles. Excluding these items, second quarter adjusted EPS was $1.66, up 19% year-over-year.During the quarter, PA contributed $0.09 of accretion, net of incremental interest. We now expect $0.32 to $0.34 of 2021 accretion from PA. For modeling purpose, we fully consolidate the impact of the P&A investment in our operating results, with the 35% minority interest backed out in non-controlling interest. Q2 adjusted EBITDA was $332 million and was up 27% year-over-year, reaching 11.2% of net revenue. Our adjusted EBITDA calculation includes the burden of the 35% minority interest impact from PA Consulting. Even excluding the strong double digit growth of PA, pro forma EBITDA growth was up 16% year-over-year. Finally, turning to our bookings during the quarter. Our pro forma book-to-bill ratio was 1.06 for Q2 with over onetime book-to-bills across each business.Regarding our LOB performance, let's turn to Slide 10. Starting with CMS, revenue was up 5.3% year-over-year on a reported basis but down 2% pro forma when the acquisitions of Wood and the Buffalo Group are considered. As previously communicated, we are transitioning off two lower margin contracts, which represented $115 million year-over-year revenue headwind during the quarter. When excluding the runoff headwinds, FX benefits and pro forma acquisitions, CMS base revenue growth was actually up 6% year-over-year. We expect approximately $200 million a quarter of year-over-year headwinds and from these two contract roll-offs through the balance of this year and the first quarter of fiscal 2022. CMS operating profit was $114 million, up 35% and up 27% year-over-year on a pro forma basis, even when factoring in the headwinds noted earlier.Operating margin was up 190 basis points year-over-year to 8.7%. The improvement was driven by our strategy to focus on higher margin opportunities and the benefit from the higher margin Buffalo Group business. For the second half fiscal 2021, we expect relatively flat CMS reported revenue growth when compared to the second half of fiscal year 2020. As we continue to ramp new wins that when combined with the benefits from the Buffalo Group acquisition are expected to offset the revenue headwinds previously discussed. Given the strategy to capture higher value business via both acquisitions and organic efforts, we continue to expect reported operating profit growth to be up double digit year-over-year in the second half versus the year ago period.Moving to P&PS. Q2 net revenue was up 1.4% year-over-year, driven by continued solid performance in the Americas and the rebound in our international regions as well as benefits from FX. This growth is partially offset by year-over-year declines in our advanced facilities business due to the timing of contracts. P&PS is now seeing strong pipeline growth as both our life sciences and electronics customers move forward with previously paused projects. Total P&PS operating profit was up 7% year-over-year, and as a percentage of net revenue was 12.9% for the quarter, up 70 basis points year-over-year, driven by a slight increase in gross margin and disciplined G&A cost management. In terms of PA's performance, PA contributed $98 million in revenue and $28 million in operating profit for the stub period, which has been consolidated in our results.On a pro forma basis for a full quarter results, revenue grew 28% on a reported basis and 19% year-over-year in local currency. Full quarter adjusted operating profit for PA was also significantly up year-over-year, representing strong adjusted OP margin as a percentage of revenue. Our non-allocated corporate costs were $33 million for the quarter, driven by continued strong cost discipline and favorable benefit costs. For the second half of fiscal year 2021, we expect our non-allocated corporate costs to be higher year-over-year, driven primarily by expected increases in medical costs, increased IT and other expenses, including travel and entertainment, as we begin to position the company for developing growth momentum that is expected in fiscal 2022 and beyond.Now turning to Slide 11. I'd like to update you on our Focus 2023 and M&A activities. I'm excited to share that we accelerated our focused 2023 strategic initiatives by formally bringing on board a dedicated team from PA Consulting to partner in our work streams. Focus 2023, again, is a strategic initiative that we believe will lead to enhanced employee and customer experience, improve our ability to capture emerging high growth, high margin opportunities and three, drive a more efficient cost structure through increased automation and process alignment for overall long term profitability. During the quarter, we incurred an additional $5 million charge in cash flows of approximately $12 million related to our Focus 2023 initiative. Charges from previous acquisitions and other items fell to $13 million consistent with our guidance regarding these costs falling over the course of 2021.Additionally, we incurred approximately $42 million in deal and other costs associated with the PA consulting investment. For the remainder of fiscal 2021, we expect another $50 million in P&L charges related to transaction, integration and other onetime costs, consistent with our previous guidance. From a cash flow standpoint, for the second half of fiscal 2021, we expect approximately $65 million of cash flow associated with earlier noted items. Please also note that the $260 million of PA price consideration will flow through cash flow from operations in our Q3 period, even though this cash flow represents effectively a part of our investment consideration in PA, which remains unchanged, again, at GBP1.4 billion.Now on to cash generation and the balance sheet on Slide 12. During the second quarter, we generated $209 million on reported free cash flow as DSO again showed strong improvement. The strong Q2 cash flow included $42 million repayment of the UK VAT tax benefit from fiscal year '20 and a net negative of $74 million of costs associated with PA and Focus 2023 restructuring and other items. Please note that PA represented a net cash outflow of approximately $15 million in the stub period given the timing of certain cash taxes paid and transaction related stamp duties. We continue to expect PA on a stand-alone basis to deliver strong free cash flow to adjusted net income on a rolling 12 month basis.Our transformation of the company is now delivering the expected improvements in free cash flow. It is net worthy that the free cash flow of the company has totaled over $1 billion over the last trailing 12 month period, even when including net onetime headwinds. We expect continued strong underlying cash flow through the balance of the year with full year cash conversion now expected to be over 100% when excluding onetime items and the $267 million investment consideration now characterized as P&L charge and included in free cash flow in the third quarter. Regarding the balance sheet, we ended the quarter with cash of approximately $893 million and a gross debt of $3.5 billion, resulted in $2.6 billion of net debt for attributing the benefits of the Worley and C3ai equity. Treating these items as cash, our pro forma net debt to expected adjusted 2021 EBITDA is approximately 1.7 times, a clear indication of the strength of our balance sheet. Regardless, we will continue in the near term to deploy excess cash toward debt repayment given our higher gross debt levels. Finally, given our strong balance sheet and free cash flow, we remain committed to our quarterly dividend, which was increased to 11% earlier this year to $0.21 per share.Now I'll turn it back over to Steve.Steve Demetriou -- Chair & Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Kevin. Now let me review our total company outlook for fiscal 2021. Given our strong first half performance and the benefit from the PA consulting investment, we're raising our full year guidance ranges. We now expect adjusted EBITDA outlook to be a range of $1.2 billion to $1.27 billion versus our previous outlook of $1.075 billion to $1.155 billion. We expect adjusted EPS to now be in a range of $6 to $6.30 versus our previous outlook of $5.30 to $6. Looking beyond fiscal 2021, with optimism building around a major US stimulus package and significant opportunities related to climate change and digital modernization, we are positioned for strong revenue and double digit adjusted EBITDA growth in fiscal 2022 and beyond.Operator, we'll now open the call for questions.