
OperatorGood day and thank you for standing by. Welcome to J.B. Hunt 2021 Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers' presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to hand the conference over to your first speaker today, Mr. Brad Delco. Thank you. Please go ahead, sir.A. Brad Delco -- Vice President-Finance and Investor Relations

 



Good afternoon. Before I introduce the speakers, I would like to take some time to provide some disclosures regarding forward-looking statements. This call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as expects, anticipates, intends, estimates or similar expressions are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. These statements are based on J.B. Hunt's current plans and expectations and involve risk and uncertainties that could cause future activities and results to be materially different from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. For more information regarding risk factors, please refer to J.B. Hunt's Annual Report on Form 10-K and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.Now, I would like to introduce the speakers on today's call. This afternoon, I am joined by our CEO and President, John Roberts; our CFO, Executive Vice President of Finance, John Kuhlow; Shelley Simpson, Chief Commercial Officer and Executive Vice President of People and Human Resources; Nick Hobbs, our COO and President of Contract Services; Brad Hicks, President of Highway Services; and Darren Field, President of Intermodal.At this time, I would like to turn the call to our CEO and President, Mr. John Roberts for some opening comments. John?John N. Roberts -- President, Chief Executive Officer

 



Thanks, Brad. As we open our earnings call for the second quarter 2021, it makes sense to consider our comparison data with recognition for where we all were this time last year with the onset of the COVID virus. That said, we will continue our discussion on our views of our progress across the enterprise. A general term we believe fits our current position is momentum. We noted for you during our last call that we have meaningfully increased our equipment orders for containers in Intermodal and trailers for the J.B. Hunt 360box program. Through the quarter we gained confidence in these decisions and are working with our vendors to accommodate delivery of this equipment throughout the balance of the year with a keen focus on being able to meet the needs of our customers as we approach the traditional peak seasons. This is a fluid situation and we are deploying some new and creative ideas for ongoing equipment delivery. Shelley will add color for us on how we plan to work with our customers heading into the second half of 2021 and 2022. A high-level overview provides visibility for us to see that the Company increased revenues, operating income and earnings per share in total and in all segments compared to the unusual second quarter of 2020. Further review shows that Intermodal, Dedicated and Truckload all increased both revenue and operating income over Q1 of this year. ICS and Final Mile increased revenue but failed to increase operating income when looking sequentially and adjusting Final Mile Services for the gain we called out in our release. As our segment leaders will discuss for you, the segments are all performing well and present solid evidence that support both our strategy to this point and what I believe to be strong momentum as we move forward from here. Given the work we have completed with our customers, current demand trends, order flows and sales pipelines, coupled with the data revealing some of the lowest inventory levels we have seen give us confidence in this momentum continuing.One last point I'd like to highlight is the progress the Company has made in increasing our transparency and focus on our overall sustainability efforts. Under the leadership of our Chief Sustainability Officer, Craig Harper, we have recently published our first sustainability report in accordance with the GRI, SASB and TCFD frameworks, which is easily accessed via our website. I think it's also worth noting that over the last year our broader sustainability disclosure efforts have been recognized by SmartWay, CDP, formally the Carbon Disclosure Project, Sustainalytics and EcoVadis with meaningful improvements in our reporting across these platforms. Craig calls out 25 unique people internally and many more who have helped with this improvement. As noted, this is a journey and not just for a few but for our entire organization.I will now turn the call over to our CFO, John Kuhlow for his comments. John?John Kuhlow -- Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President

 



Thank you, John, and good afternoon everyone. I'd like to start with providing a couple of comments on our second quarter just from a consolidated perspective. As John noted, we are pleased with our revenue, operating income and EPS growth for the quarter with notable achievements in our Highway Services revenue as both ICS and JBT they were certainly over prior-year quarter, but more importantly, they are carrying the momentum from their first quarter results into the second. Current quarter was significantly impacted by labor shortages putting a strain on our ability to serve -- to service demand and effectively use our assets. Cost pressures in the quarter were primarily related to higher purchase transportation costs, salaries and wages and other costs across our networks and operations. While we're hopeful for an improvement, this still remains an area of concern.We ended the quarter with approximately $570 million in cash. On our first quarter call, we communicated our increase in equipment orders and guided our capex to be approximately $1.25 billion for 2021. While all orders are still in place, we anticipate some of these to push to 2022 because of the congestion on the waterways and also at the ports. We are committed to obtaining capacity to serve our customers, but our view today is that net capital expenditures for 2021 will be closer to $1.15 billion because of these delays and other challenges to equipment needs.We resumed stock buybacks on a more regular basis in the second quarter and have acquired approximately $80 million, rounding out close to $85 million year-to-date. We will continue to balance our cash spend on equipment, dividends and buybacks through the remainder of the year as opportunities unfold and trend closer to our targeted 1 times EBITDA leverage metric on a net basis when the environment begins to normalize.As John noted, segment comparisons to prior year are difficult because of the pandemic. But I would like to point out an item for consideration on the year-over-year comparisons for salaries and wages. COVID costs in the second quarter decreased nearly $10 million from the prior-year quarter, which is primarily due to a reduction in PTO for employees needing to quarantine. However, as we called out in the release, this reduction was meaningfully offset by increases across all pay items for both drivers and non-driver employees. The impact of the reopening on salaries and wages is widespread and we see challenges in this area continuing because of the importance of attracting and retaining our people.This concludes my remarks and I'll now turn it over to Shelley.Shelley Simpson -- Chief Commercial Officer, Executive Vice President, People and Human ResourcesThank you, John, and good afternoon. My commercial update will focus on general market conditions, our expectations and plan for our customers' peak season capacity needs as well as an update on the progress we are making as an organization with our J.B. Hunt 360 multimodal digital freight platform.As we discussed last quarter, we entered [Phonetic] 2021 with cautious optimism about the opportunities the market could present to us during the year. Now that the year is just halfway over, clearly the opportunities are bountiful, but so too are the challenges. Demand for our capacity solutions across the scroll of services remains at elevated levels. Capacity across the supply chain remains tight and challenges around velocity and fluidity are still very present and likely to persist, at least through the end of the year.As an organization, we are committed to working with our customers to address these challenges together and have plans in place to provide even greater assistance as we approach peak and that I'll speak to next. The result of the current market conditions is that demand for our trucks, containers and trailers far out exceeds our capacity to serve. Thankfully, our ability to provide value to our customers is no longer limited by our physical assets as the power of our people and our platform allows us to source the most efficient capacity for and on behalf of our customers. This dynamic is evidence across all of our business segments that we will be discussing during our prepared remarks.As we approach bid season and peak season, we are taking a collaborative approach with our customers to ensure that we have an actionable plan to provide the capacity solutions to meet their needs. One of our biggest challenges this year, which got even worse during the second quarter, was the detention of our trailing equipment by customers across both our Intermodal and Truck segments. We are addressing these issues with our customers through direct conversations and accessorial charges and in some instances, we are restricting capacity to certain customer locations. To be clear, we did not implement or augment new accessorial programs with the intent of increasing the cost of our customers. Our intent was to provide the appropriate incentive to our customers to encourage the improvements needed to be able to turn our equipment efficiently. This improvement will afford us to deliver more value to our customers by being able to provide additional capacity.To wrap up my comments on our plan for peak season, we remain very confident in our ability to execute on the plans we are developing with our customers. Our capacity and ability to service our customers will be determined by our performance around three key items. First, the onboarding of equipment orders we discussed last quarter, specifically the containers for JBI and trailers for 360box. Second, improvements in rail fluidity and velocity. And third, improvements in customer detention or dwell time. Progress on these fronts will go a long way in meeting and exceeding customer expectations.Shifting gears to our J.B. Hunt 360 platform. We continued the record breaking trends around user activity, engagement and growth across both our carrier and shipper platforms. This is evidenced by our organization serving the largest number of unique customers in our history during the quarter, a tall task considering the supply limitations and restrictions that typically exist in our market like we're experiencing currently. We believe we are continuing to build momentum as both carriers and shippers see the value in optimizing and transacting in our system in real time in an improving frictionless digital process. Going forward, our focus remains on improving access, visibility and transparency across the supply chain, which we believe sets us up to achieve our mission statement, to create the most efficient transportation network in North America.In closing, as I look across our organization, I remain extremely proud and excited for all the opportunities we have to solve for our customers' needs. I believe we are in a unique position to leverage our people, assets, technology and maybe most important, our experience in bringing those elements together. I'd like to think of that as our scroll and the power of the J.B. Hunt scroll is strong as customers continue to lean into us to help them solve for their needs.Finally, as previously disclosed, I've been given the responsibility of the role of EVP of People and Human Resources. Last quarter I discussed how encouraged I was about the progress we're making on enhancing our inclusive culture and our belief that our organization could lead in this area. As an update, I want to share that we have hired our first Vice President of Inclusion during the quarter. We are excited about our journey ahead and the incredible progress we can make in this area.I'd now like to turn it over to Nick.Nick Hobbs -- Chief Operating Officer, President, Contract Services, Executive Vice PresidentThank you, Shelley, and good afternoon everyone. I'm going to spend my time giving a brief operational update focused on the current driver market and some other processes we are reviewing in addition to providing some greater detail on the performance of DCS and Final Mile Services in the quarter.I'll start with some quick thoughts from our operational perspective focused on the current state of the driver market in addition to our current review of some of our processes. Consistent with my comments from last quarter, the driver market remains as challenged as I have [Phonetic] seen in my 37-year career. As you will hear from Darren's comments in a few moments, we believe the availability of labor is having a meaningful impact across almost every part of the supply chain, ranging from the ports to rail terminal operations, warehouse operations and certainly over the road driver market. While we continue to believe we are in a relatively solid position with some of the best-paying and highest-quality jobs in the market with over 90% of our jobs being either local or regional in our Dedicated, intermodal dray, Truck and Final Mile operations, the truth is we are not immune to the industry's driver challenges. We continue to make adjustments on our experiencing [Phonetic] inflationary cost pressures with driver wages and benefits in addition to experiencing elevated driver hiring and recruiting cost across all businesses.To close up on my operational comments, I want to provide a brief update that I am leading our efforts to review each of our vendors and suppliers to make sure we are properly aligned across our operational and sustainability goals while also ensuring we are receiving the best value for our entire organization.Now let me shift my comments to focus on the performance of Final Mile Services. Final Mile was able to continue its streak of strong performance with revenue growth of 52% in the quarter. Operating income was $10.7 million, but as disclosed in our press release it did benefit from $3.2 million net settlement of claims in the quarter. Demand for our services across Final Mile remained strong, particularly across our big and bulky home delivery and fulfillment services. That said, availability of inventory, particularly across the appliance and furniture categories, is tempering what would otherwise be even stronger demand for our services.Going forward, we're going to remain encouraged by the onboarding of new business as the year progresses, and more importantly, remain encouraged about our pipelines, both organic and inorganic growth opportunities over the long term. As we continue to focus on the growth and scaling of the business, we will remain committed to protecting and investing in our service product and customer experience for and on behalf of our customers.I'll close with some comments on [Phonetic] results in DCS. Our backlog and pipeline for new dedicated private fleet start-ups is as strong as our Company has ever seen. By the end of June, we will have added 555 trucks to the fleet from the end of the prior quarter, which is the third highest truck adds we've had in any single quarter. I am pleased that we are able to onboard not only a significant amount of new accounts, but also across a diverse group of industries all while continuing to perform within our newly established, long-term margin target range of 12% to 14%. We saw 17% growth in revenue, driven by 5% growth in our average fleet count year-over-year in addition to productivity defined as revenue per truck per week, which was supported by contractual annual price escalators and the decline of idled equipment from prior-year levels.Additionally, with regards to productivity in many locations across our network, we have been able to get additional funding to support the needed investment in driver wages in order to maintain performance standards and maintain our competitiveness in certain markets. While we have strong momentum with our sales and operational efforts, we think it's important to recognize that driver and equipment availability, in addition to the ability of trained and experienced account managers, is moderately governing our ability to grow faster. Operating income was down 5% year-over-year as tailwinds in the prior year related to lower driver turnover, travel and entertainment expense and lack of start-ups have returned as anticipated in addition to higher personnel cost in the current quarter. Importantly, we believe our investments to grow the business will help us carry momentum well into 2022 and beyond.To round out my DCS comments, we ended the second quarter selling approximately 1,165 trucks year-to-date. Given our prior guidance to sell 800 to 1,000 for the year, I believe it's safe for you to assume that we will exceed our targets for the full year.That concludes my remarks. So I'll turn it over to Brad Hicks.Brad Hicks -- President, Highway Services, Executive Vice PresidentThank you, Nick and good afternoon. My comments today will focus on the performance of our Highway Services business during the quarter, which includes both Integrated Capacity Solutions, or ICS, and Truck, or JBT. Let me start off by saying how excited I am to see our team respond to the opportunities our customers present us with to deliver both truck and trailing capacity solutions to serve their needs. These capacity solutions were enabled by our multimodal digital freight platform J.B. Hunt 360 and complemented by our drop trailer pools with 360box. Additionally, these capacity solutions across Highway Services continues to provide value for our customers as evidenced by this most recent performance being the third quarter in a row in which both ICS and JBT delivered the strongest growth within our organization. This continues to support our decisions to focus our investments on our people and technology, which is driving further scale across the platform and our organization.I'll start with my comments on JBT or Truck segment. Revenue grew 70% to $184 million. This is the highest revenue this segment has delivered since the second quarter of 2008. Operating income was $14 million which was the highest second quarter level achieved by the segment since 2007. Our growth and performance continues to be driven by our ability to provide capacity solutions with or without our physical trucking assets but with our trailing assets. Our ability to solve for the most efficient way a load should move by finding the right carrier at the right time and at the right price is what continued to drive strong demand for our 360box product. More importantly, our ability to access capacity quickly has allowed us to be able to tell our customers yes. As we had discussed in prior calls, we continue to see the business shifting to a more asset light model and we'll remain focused on investing and scaling our service offering while staying focused on generating adequate returns on our investment. This will require a focus on balancing our growth with network efficiencies as we scale in the future.Next on ICS. The segment delivered $608 million of revenue, which broke our previous record set in the fourth quarter just last year. Revenue grew 100% versus the prior year period. Segment volumes grew 20% within the quarter while specifically truckload volume growth was up 30%. Market dynamics remained challenged as freight demand strengthened from already elevated levels while capacity remained constrained across the country, the result of which puts seasonal pressure on net revenue margins, which was consistent with our expectation. We continue to see solid trends with our carrier and shipper engagement on the 360 platform and remain encouraged by the productivity we are seeing with our people all of which is enabled by our investments in both our people and technology. We continue to see opportunities to invest in our three critical areas, our people, our technology, and scale in the platform and remain committed to these investments.In closing, our performance this quarter in ICS and JBT align with one of our key objectives, which is to grow volume and gain market share by leveraging our platform and using data to help our customers make the best decisions and deliver value to their supply chains. We do this by eliminating waste in the system and creating a frictionless way to access vast amounts of capacity across a multimodal digital freight platform. We remain excited about our opportunity to deliver our capacity solutions to our customers across our Highway Service businesses well into the future.That concludes my comments. I'll pass it over to Darren.Darren Field -- President, Intermodal, Executive Vice PresidentThank you, Brad and good afternoon everyone listening to today's call. My comments this afternoon will focus on Intermodal's performance during the quarter. I will also provide some additional details on network operations including the onboarding of new containers and how we are working to improve velocity and in turn capacity in our network for and on behalf of our customers as we approach peak season.Demand for our Intermodal capacity remains robust. In fact, demand continues to significantly outpace our available capacity which remains constrained by rail performance and restrictions in addition to customer detention of our trailing equipment. We continue to believe that the origin of these challenges center on the availability of labor for both the railroads, particularly in their terminals and our customers in their warehouse operations.Volumes in the quarter increased 6%, broken down by month as plus 17% in April, plus 8% in May and minus 6% in June. As we discussed a year ago, June 2020 was a particularly strong month for us as we had equipment properly positioned for the surge in demand as the activity across the supply chain restarted.Network velocity continues to be well below our expectations as evidenced by our box turns which were approximately 1.65 turns per month during the quarter. We are working very closely with our rail providers and customers to improve our capacity across the network by focusing on reducing the detention of equipment and helping our rail providers reduce congestion across their terminal infrastructure. Going forward, the onboarding of our new equipment will also assist us in serving our customers' capacity needs, particularly as we approach peak season. On that front, we began taking delivery of our new equipment in the last few weeks and have even more on the water as we speak. We expect a steady flow of equipment into the West Coast at this point moving forward, which is now likely to stretch into early 2022.At this time we are through the majority of repricing efforts for this latest bid season and rates came in at the higher end of our earlier expectation, which our original expectations were for high single to low double digit increases. By the end of the quarter, about 70% of the volume had current bid cycle rates and we expect the remaining 30% of the business yet to reprice to implement in Q3.Inflationary cost pressures continue to present themselves in the way of driver wages and recruitment costs in addition to the cost of equipment ownership, particularly as utilization levels remain challenged by both the rail and customer activity previously discussed. We believe we have put in place the right pricing structure and programs that protect our necessity to generate an adequate return on our significant investment in our people and our equipment even if box turns remain challenged due to events outside of our control. As we approach peak season, it is clear that our customers continue to want to lean in more capacity and we feel very confident in our ability to execute our plan. Customers value our Intermodal service offering as it continues to be a very cost-effective alternative to truck and even more so now due to rapidly rising driver wages and fuel prices, but also because of the environmental benefits of Intermodal as its carbon intensity is 60% lower than the truck alternative. Going forward, we will continue to prioritize delivering value to our customers, generating appropriate returns in our business reinvesting to meet their future capacity needs and keeping us on a path toward long-term sustainable growth.That concludes my prepared comments.A. Brad Delco -- Vice President-Finance and Investor RelationsHey, Mika, just if you don't mind, this is Brad, a word to the audience. We're going to do one question again like we did last quarter. So, Mika, we will turn it over to you to open the call for questions.