
OperatorGood morning, and welcome to the Allegion Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Tom Martineau. Please go ahead.Tom Martineau -- Vice President, Investor Relations, and TreasurerThank you, Andrew. Good morning. Welcome and thank you for joining us for Allegion's Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. With me today are Dave Petratis, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Patrick Shannon, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Allegion.

 



Our earnings release, which was issued earlier this morning and the presentation, which we will refer to in today's call, are available on our website at investor.allegion.com. This call will be recorded and archived on our website.Please go to Slides 2 and 3. Statements made in today's call that are not historical facts are considered forward-looking statements and are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of federal securities law. Please see our most recent SEC filings for a description of some of the factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from our projections. The company assumes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements.Today's presentation and commentary include non-GAAP financial measures. Please refer to the reconciliation in the financial tables of our press release for further details. Dave and Patrick will now discuss our second quarter 2021 results, which will be followed by a Q&A session.Please, for the Q&A, we would like to ask each caller to limit themselves to one question and one short follow-up and then reenter the queue. We would like to give everyone an opportunity given the time allotted.

 



Please go to Slide 4, and I'll turn the call over to Dave.David D. Petratis -- Chairman, President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Tom. Good morning, and thank you for joining us today. Allegion delivered a very strong quarter, and I would like to thank the employees of Allegion for their contributions and efforts. Our employees are the greatest strength of Allegion. Their dedication to safety and customer excellence is outstanding. And our teams have moved quickly to adapt to opportunities in a dynamic market.Before I jump into the financials, I want to give you a high level update on recovery trends and the business overall. The pandemic has changed our world and created volatility throughout the last 18 months, both in terms of the economic contraction last year and the current economic rebound we are seeing. Starting in Q1 and accelerating in Q2, demand surged faster and stronger than expected. This is a positive sign and provides confidence in the sustainable economic recovery. In fact, Allegion is already returning to pre-pandemic demand levels. At the same time, the robust demand is constraining the global supply chain's ability to fully meet the pull for labor and materials, especially electronic components.

 



Allegion has built a record nonresidential backlog in 2021, which is a healthy sign of strong demand, and we believe Allegion will be well positioned for the remainder of this year and for 2022. In another positive sign to recovery, our Americas electronics grew more than 20% in the second quarter. There was strong demand for electronic residential products and in the nonresidential retrofit, repair and small project opportunities. Allegion is not immune to inflation and the supply chain constraints impacting the industrial markets. Allegion navigated well during Q2, but these industrywide constraints will persist for the remainder of the year and put pressure on margins for the short term. We will leverage the strength of our supply chain management capabilities as well as price to mitigate these impacts. During the pandemic, we were also able to restructure the business and make it leaner while keeping our front-facing and strategic investments. Allegion is stronger exiting the pandemic than when we entered it.Now let's turn to the second quarter performance for more details. Please go to Slide 5. I'm pleased with the company's second quarter results. We delivered strong performance in all areas. Revenue for the second quarter was $746.9 million, an increase of 26.7% or 23.8% organically. The organic revenue increase was driven by the favorable comparable created by last year's shutdowns, solid price realization from the price increase announced earlier this year and the increased market demand, which returned to pre-pandemic levels. Currency tailwinds provided a boost to total revenue and more than offset the impact of divestitures.Adjusted operating margin increased by 70 basis points in the second quarter. The restructuring and cost management actions taken during 2020 along with volume leverage have offset the accelerated inflation. We are also seeing cost creep back from reductions experienced last year during the pandemic. Mix is also a margin headwind due to our strong residential growth. Adjusted earnings per share of $1.32 increased $0.40 or 43.5% versus the prior year. The increase was driven largely by the expanded operating income with some benefits also coming from a favorable tax rate and share count.Year-to-date available cash flow came in at $249.6 million, an increase of $146 million versus the prior year. The increased cash flow was driven by higher net earnings, along with improvements in net working capital and reduced capital expenditures.Please go to Slide 6. Last quarter, I shared with you Allegion's build-borrow-buy approach to accelerating seamless access. Today, I want to briefly focus on the borrow innovation engine and our strategic pillar to be the partner of choice. Allegion participates in recognized secure industry-leading platforms. We expand our reach through strategic relationships with recognized experts and tech innovators, and we leverage open standards. By doing this, we not only set up Allegion as the partner of choice and a continued leader in the IoT marketplace, we also ensure Allegion has its choice of strategic partners as well. Allegion has a growing breadth of strategic partners, mega techs, software and product integrators, our venture portfolio and technology alliance and industry consortiums.We are executing on our partnership strategic pillar and here are a few recent examples. Allegion was showcased at Apple's Worldwide Developer Conference. We are expanding our innovation with Apple in both the residential and commercial marketplaces. In the smart home space, Schlage will soon be growing its connected portfolio with a new device that allows people to easily and securely unlock their doors with just a tap using home keys for the iPhone or the Apple Watch. At the same time, we are extending our work with student ID and the Apple Wallet to offer more access control options to universities and colleges, enterprises and their students plus employees. Allegion renewed our engagement with the Matter Work Group, a mega-tech consortium. Through this partnership, we're working to establish a secure connectivity standard for the future of the smart home that will ultimately allow more seamless connections between more IoT devices. We announced the Allegion Ventures investments in both Mint House and Mapped, two start-ups driving new value in a post-COVID world through revolutionary experiences and technology. And we completed a brand new cloud-to-cloud integration with Openpath, leveraging our ENGAGE technology and Schlage NDE and the LE mobile-enabled smart locks. Through these partnerships, we're investing in promising innovation. We are leveraging developer friendly APIs and open standards. Allegion is building strategic, commercial and technical relationships. We are collaborating with recognized experts who also understand and embrace how Allegion creates value by securing people and assets with seamless access wherever they reside, work and thrive.Patrick will now take you through the financial results, and I'll be back to discuss our revised '21 outlook and to wrap up.Patrick Shannon -- Senior Vice President, Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Dave, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining today's call. Please go to Slide 7.This slide reflects our earnings per share reconciliation for the second quarter. For the second quarter 2020, reported earnings per share was $0.80; adjusting $0.12 for charges related to restructuring expenses, the 2020 adjusted earnings per share was $0.92. Operational results increased earnings per share by $0.36, driven by volume leverage, along with continued benefits from cost control measures and restructuring actions taken in 2020. Favorable price and currency also contributed to the increase. A combination of these items offset headwinds from inflation, bounce back variable costs related to reduced volume from the COVID-19 pandemic and unfavorable mix.Favorable tax rate drove a $0.06 increase in earnings per share. Divestitures had a positive $0.01 per share impact and offset the impact of other income and interest expense. Investment spend increased during the quarter and reduced earnings per share by $0.05. As a reminder, the incremental investment spend is predominantly related to R&D, technology and market investments to accelerate future growth. This results in adjusted second quarter 2021 earnings per share of $1.32, an increase of $0.40 or 43.5% compared to the prior year.Lastly, we had a $0.01 per share reduction related to restructuring charges and acquisition and integration expenses. After giving effect to these items, you arrive at the second quarter 2021 reported earnings per share of $1.31.Please go to Slide 8. This slide depicts the components of our revenue performance for the second quarter. I'll focus on the total Allegion results and cover the regions on their respective slides. As indicated, we experienced organic revenue growth of 23.8% in the second quarter as higher demand and a favorable comparable drove significant volume increases versus the prior year. We also experienced solid price performance coming in over 2%, which is up sequentially. Currency continued to be a tailwind to total growth and more than offset the impact of divestitures. In total, reported revenue came in at 26.7% growth.Please go to Slide 9. Second quarter revenues for the Allegion Americas segment were $549.4 million, up 23.7% on a reported basis and 22.9% organically. While the strong growth reflects the impact of COVID-related shutdowns last year, it is also the result of accelerated market demand. The region continued to deliver good price realization. On volume, Americas nonresidential experienced high single-digit growth driven by retrofit, repair and small projects. Americas residential was outstanding, again, experiencing growth of more than 70%. The significant growth from the prior year was primarily due to facility closures in 2020. However, we continue to see strength in retail point-of-sale and new home construction. Electronics revenue was up high 20s percent. We experienced electronics growth in both the nonresidential and residential businesses. Electronics and touchless solutions will continue to be long-term growth drivers.The accelerated demand, coupled with labor and parts shortages, especially in electronic components, is resulting in elevated backlogs as we enter the third quarter, particularly in nonresidential. The timing of when we see the revenue could shift as the industry works through the supply chain constraints.Americas adjusted operating income of $150.5 million increased 21.3% versus the prior year period, and adjusted operating margin for the quarter was down 50 basis points. The decrease was driven by headwinds related to inflation, bounce back costs and unfavorable mix more than offsetting the volume leverage. While the price productivity inflation dynamic was slightly positive on a dollar basis, it did have a 60 basis point dilutive impact on adjusted margins as did the incremental investment spend.Please go to Slide 10. Second quarter revenues for the Allegion International segment were $197.5 million, up 36% and up 26.6% on an organic basis. The organic growth was driven predominantly by strength across all European countries and businesses as markets continue to rebound. Part of the year-over-year growth was due to the comparative impact of COVID-related shutdowns in the prior year. Favorable currency impacts also contributed to total revenue growth and were slightly offset by divestiture impacts. International adjusted operating income of $18.5 million increased more than $18 million versus the prior year period. Adjusted operating margin for the quarter increased by 920 basis points. The margin increase was driven primarily by solid volume leverage, benefits from lower operating costs due to the restructuring and cost control actions taken during 2020 as well as favorable currency impacts. All of these offset the higher inflation and bounce back costs, which had a 150 basis point impact and incremental investments, which were a 20 basis point headwind.Please go to Slide 11. Year-to-date available cash flow for the second quarter 2021 came in at $249.6 million, which is an increase of $146 million compared to the prior year period. The increase was driven by higher earnings, improvements in net working capital and reduced capital expenditures. Our cash flow generation continues to be a strong asset for the company.Looking at the chart to the right, it shows working capital as a percent of revenues decreased based on a 4-point quarter average. This was driven by improved asset turnover in both receivables and inventory. The business continues to generate strong cash flow and is well positioned to deliver $500 million in available cash flow for the year.I will now hand it back over to Dave for an update for our full year 2021 outlook.David D. Petratis -- Chairman, President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Patrick. Please go to Slide 12. At the end of Q2, leading indicators continue to be positive. I'm increasingly optimistic on the economic recovery. The Americas residential business continues to be hot. On the nonresidential side of Americas, demand accelerated for retrofit, repair and small projects and is recovering in new construction. However, labor and part charges are proving to be challenging, and we are building a strong backlog that will benefit us in the future. With these parameters in place, we are raising our outlook for total revenue in the Americas to be up 4.5% to 5% and organic revenue to be up 4% to 4.5% in 2021.In the Allegion International segments, markets continue to recover led by our Germanic and global portable security businesses. Currency tailwinds more than offset the divestiture of our QMI door business and contribute to total growth. For that region, we are raising our outlook for total revenue growth to 13.5% to 14.5% with organic growth of 8.5% to 9.5%. All-in for total Allegion, we are now projecting total revenue to be up 7% to 7.5% and organic revenue to increase to 5.5% to 6%. We are also raising our earnings per share outlook with reported EPS at a range of $5.15 to $5.30 and adjusted EPS to be between $5.25 and $5.40. This guide incorporates pricing actions to mitigate the expected impact of direct material inflation. We anticipate these inflationary challenges will persist for the balance of the year and we will continue to monitor and adapt to changing market conditions.Our outlook for available cash flow is also being raised and is now projected to be $490 million to $510 million. The outlook assumes investment spend of approximately $0.20 per share. The full adjusted effective tax rate is expected to be approximately 12%. The outlook for outstanding diluted shares continue to be approximately 91 million shares.Please go to Slide 13. Allegion continued its great start in 2021. We have managed the business extremely well and leading indicators and specific market indices related to our business continue to be positive. Looking forward, we are prepared to navigate the pressures related to accelerated inflation and labor and parts shortages. We are encouraged by the positive resiliency of our supply chain and we will continue to manage these challenges for the balance of the year. Thank you.Now Patrick and I will be happy to take your questions.