  OperatorGood morning. My name is Geronne, and I will be your conference facilitator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the BlackRock, Inc. second-quarter 2021 earnings teleconference. Our hosts for today's call will be chairman and chief executive officer, Laurence D. Fink; chief financial officer, Gary S. Shedlin; president, Robert S. Kapito; and general counsel, Christopher J. Meade. [Operator instructions] Mr. Meade, you may begin your conference.Christopher Meade -- General Counsel Thank you. Good morning, everyone. I'm Chris Meade, the General Counsel of BlackRock. Before we begin, I'd like to remind you that during the course of this call, we may make a number of forward-looking statements. We call your attention to the fact that BlackRock's actual results may, of course, differ from these statements. As you know, BlackRock has filed reports with the SEC, which lists some of the factors that may cause the results of BlackRock to differ materially from what we say today. BlackRock assumes no duty and does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements. So with that, I'll turn it over to Gary.Gary Shedlin -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Chris and good morning, everyone. It's my pleasure to present results for the second quarter of 2021. Before I turn it over to Larry to offer his comments, I'll review our financial performance and business results. While our earnings release discloses both GAAP and as adjusted financial results, I will be focusing primarily on our as adjusted results. Last month, at our 2021 investor day, we highlighted how the investments we have consistently made to support growth have enabled us to execute on our framework for shareholder value. We have invested and evolved over time to create a globally integrated investment and technology platform that enables clients to construct resilient whole portfolios that meet their objectives regardless of market environment or risk appetite. And we continue to invest in our industry-leading high-growth franchises such as ETFs, private markets and technology and are accelerating investments to drive growth in our ESG, traditional active and solutions capabilities. The combination of our comprehensive and integrated investment platform with global and local distribution capabilities once again delivered strong results for the quarter. And we remain very well positioned to continue delivering differentiated organic growth in the future. BlackRock generated total net inflows of $81 billion in the second quarter, representing 4% annualized organic asset growth. As previously disclosed, second quarter net inflows included the full impact of a $58 billion low fee institutional index redemption from a large U.S. public pension client. Strong net inflows from ETFs and our entire active franchise once again contributed to this quarter's robust 10% annualized organic base fee growth. Over the last 12 months, our broad-based platform, pairing diverse investment capabilities with best-in-class technology and rigorous risk management, has generated over $500 billion of total net inflows, representing 13% organic base fee growth, well in excess of our 5% long-term target. Second-quarter revenue of $4.8 billion increased 32% year over year, and operating income of $1.9 billion rose 37%. Earnings per share of $10.03 was up 28%, also reflecting lower non-operating income and a higher effective tax rate compared to a year ago. Strong year-over-year comparisons benefited in part from significant improvements in equity market conditions versus a year ago. Non-operating results for the quarter included $145 million of net investment income primarily driven by mark-to-market gains in our private equity co-investment and unhedged seed capital portfolios. Our as adjusted tax rate for the second quarter was approximately 24%. We now estimate that 24% is a reasonable projected tax run rate for the remainder of 2021 primarily reflected an increase in certain state tax rates, though the actual effective tax rate may differ as a consequence of nonrecurring or discrete items or potential changes in tax legislation during the year. Second-quarter base fee and securities lending revenue of $3.8 billion was up 27% year over year primarily driven by the positive impact of market beta on average AUM and strong organic base fee growth, partially offset by higher discretionary money market fee waivers, lower securities lending revenue and strategic pricing investments over the last year. Sequentially, base fee and securities lending revenue was up 5%. However, our effective fee rate was down 0.3 basis points as strong organic base fee growth driven by our higher fee active businesses and the impact of one additional day in the current quarter were more than offset by higher discretionary money market fee waivers and the impact of divergent equity beta in the quarter. During the second quarter, we incurred approximately $165 million of gross discretionary yield support waivers driven in part by continued strong flows into our U.S. government money market funds. While the Fed's recent technical adjustments to the IOER and RRP have modestly helped, we still expect discretionary fee waivers to persist at or around current levels for the near term. However, future levels of discretionary fee waivers may also be impacted by several additional factors, including the level of AUM and funds with existing waivers, gross yields and competitive positioning. Performance fees of $340 million were up significantly from a year ago, reflecting strong performance across our entire investment platform, including liquid and illiquid alternatives and long-only strategies. Quarterly technology services revenue increased 14% from a year ago, while annual contract value or ACV increased 16% year over year and continued to reflect strong growth from the second quarter of 2020, which was impacted by slower sales and extended contracting in the early days of the pandemic. We remain committed to low to mid-teens growth in ACV over the long term. Total expense increased 29% versus the year-ago quarter driven primarily by higher compensation, direct fund and G&A expense. Employee compensation and benefit expense was up 34%, primarily reflecting higher incentive compensation driven by higher operating income and performance fees and higher deferred compensation, reflecting the impact of additional grants associated with prior-year compensation and certain compensation arrangements related to a previous acquisition. Direct fund expense increased 30% year over year, primarily reflecting higher average index AUM. G&A expense was up $73 million or 19% year over year primarily driven by higher technology, portfolio services and marketing spend. Sequentially, G&A expense was down $124 million, reflecting the impact of approximately $180 million of product launch costs incurred in the first quarter, partially offset by higher technology and marketing spend. Intangible amortization expense increased $10 million year over year as a result of our Aperio acquisition. Our second quarter as adjusted operating margin of 44.9% was up 120 basis points from a year ago, benefiting in part from significant equity market improvements over the last year. BlackRock has never been positioned, has never been better positioned to take advantage of the opportunities before us. And we remain committed to optimizing organic growth in the most efficient way possible. Our capital management strategy remains first to invest in our business, including through prudent use of our balance sheet, and then to return excess cash to shareholders. We see incredible opportunity to make Aladdin the language of all portfolios and are investing to evolve Aladdin for its next leg of growth. As Larry will discuss in more detail, during the second quarter, we announced a partnership with Baringa, including the acquisition of their industry-leading climate chain scenario model, which will enhance Aladdin Climate's capabilities and set a new standard for climate analytics. In addition, yesterday, we announced a minority investment in SpiderRock Advisors, a tech-enabled asset manager focused on providing professionally managed option overlay strategies. This investment adds incremental product capabilities to our recent acquisition of Aperio and extends our market-leading personalized SMA franchise. We also repurchased an additional $300 million worth of shares in the second quarter and stand by previous guidance as it relates to share repurchases for the remainder of the year. As we discussed at investor day, our strong and resilient platform has never been better positioned to deliver for clients as we leverage our scale, unique insights and solutions orientation to meet their long-term investment needs. Quarterly net inflows of $81 billion reflect a continued momentum across our entire investment business, especially in our ETF and active platforms. Our ETFs generated net inflows of $75 billion in the second quarter, representing 11% annualized organic asset and base fee growth. We also crossed $3 trillion in assets globally for the first time. Core equity and higher fee precision ETFs continued to generate strong inflows, particularly in international equities. However, most of our growth this quarter came from the strategic category, led by continued strength in our sustainable ETFs and renewed strength in fixed income as well as steady positive flows into factor and thematic ETFs. Retail net inflows of $21 billion, representing 9% annualized organic asset growth and 10% annualized organic base fee growth, were positive in both the U.S. and internationally and across all major asset classes. Inflows continue to reflect broad-based strength across the entirety of our active platform, and we remain well positioned to capture demand for both active equities and investor appetite for yield where our diversified fixed income range, including unconstrained, high-yield, international and broad market strategies, is equipped to meet client demand in any rate environment. BlackRock's institutional active net inflows of $43 billion were led by $35 billion of multi-asset net inflows largely driven by a significant outsourced CIO mandate from a U.K. pension client. As Larry will also discuss, BlackRock is uniquely positioned to deliver customized whole portfolio solutions by capitalizing on our global scale, expertise in investment, technology and risk management and focus on sustainability. During the second quarter, we also saw a continued demand for active fixed income and the liquid alternatives and LifePath target date offerings. Institutional index net outflows of $80 billion were impacted by the previously mentioned single client redemption during the quarter. Outflows from index equities were partially offset by inflows into fixed income as clients rebalance portfolios after significant equity market gains or sought to immunize portfolios through LDI strategies. Despite overall asset net outflows across BlackRock's institutional franchise for the quarter, annualized organic base fee growth was 6% as net inflows into higher fee active and alternative strategies more than offset the de minimis base fee impact of low fee index equity outflows. Overall, BlackRock generated approximately $63 billion in quarterly active net flows across the platform, matching our ninth consecutive quarter of positive active equity flows. Demand for alternatives also continued with nearly $7 billion of net inflows into liquid and illiquid alternative strategies during the quarter driven by single strategy hedge funds, fund of hedge fund solutions, real assets, private credit and private equity solutions. Fundraising momentum remains strong, and we have approximately $31 billion of committed capital to deploy for institutional clients in a variety of alternative strategies, representing a significant source of future base and performance fees. Finally, BlackRock's cash management platform continued to grow, generating $23 billion of net inflows in the second quarter driven by both prime and U.S. government money market funds. Despite facing near 0 returns in both the U.S. and Europe, client demand for cash strategies remained strong, given significant liquidity in the financial system. And by helping clients manage their cash, we are building broader and deeper strategic relationships. Our continued strong performance is a direct result of a thoughtful growth strategy that has been well-executed by a talented group of purpose-driven employees who live the One BlackRock culture each day. We are thankful for their tremendous effort and contributions to our success for these last 18 months. We will continue to embrace change and invest responsibly for the future so that we can meet the needs of all of our stakeholders. With that, I'll turn it over to Larry.Larry Fink -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Gary. Good morning, everyone and thank you for joining the call. We are once again reporting earnings today from our headquarters in New York City. And I'm happy to see more and more of our colleagues in the office in recent weeks, and I remain cautiously optimistic for a gradual return to having people back in the office and a little normalcy. After more than a year of virtual meetings, I spent the last few weeks meeting with clients in person again. I also spoke at the G20 in Venice on Sunday about sustainability and climate change, and it was great to be back on the road. Our business is built on listening to the people we serve and understanding their needs. And there is no substitute for meeting face to face with people to hear directly from them about their investment challenges, their opportunities and what lie ahead for them. It is through these conversations that we're able to build a deeper relationship with our clients across their whole portfolio and to ensure BlackRock is always evolving and staying current and staying in front of their needs. This long-standing client-centric approach is powering consistently strong results for the benefit of all our stakeholders. Total net inflows of $81 billion in the second quarter, representing a 10% organic base fee growth, were driven by continued momentum in strategic growth areas. We saw client demand in our ETFs and illiquid alternatives, our active and sustainable strategies as well as our scaled cash management solutions. And we developed 14% year-over-year growth in technology services revenues as clients increasingly turned to Aladdin. We have now delivered organic base fee growth in excess of our 5% target for five consecutive quarters, including 13% over the last 12 months from over $500 billion of net inflows. This is driving strong financial performance, and I'm very confident that we have significant room to grow as we are partnering with more clients on larger and more comprehensive mandates than ever before in our history. The global economic restart continues to broaden in the second quarter as vaccinations were rolled out, and some countries are gradually reopening. With significant amounts of cash still in the sidelines, markets are anticipating continued growth near term. Despite the potential for various restrictions in certain regions, certain countries due to the variant, we have seen equity markets rally year to date with most indexes up over 10% from the first half of the year and hitting record highs. We look ahead to the remainder of the year and beyond. Inflation concern's top of mind for investors. We need to assess the potential impact on their portfolios. Debate remains as to whether this inflation will be transitorial or structural, and central banks will need to balance their monetary policy decisions alongside expansive fiscal policy by so many governments. In this environment, clients are looking for scale partners who have a deeper understanding of the global picture and a platform that can construct portfolios tailored for their needs and for their future goals. They are turning to BlackRock to help them navigate uncertainty. They're turning to BlackRock to invest more opportunistically, and they're turning to BlackRock to help them plan for their future. And our deliberate investment over many years to build a resilient and scaled asset management and technology platform is helping them in their needs, and we are delivering for them. Building on what we laid out at our investor day last month, we remain focused on consistently improving and investing ahead of our clients' needs in the biggest growth areas of the future. In ETFs, the benefit of our investments over time are showing up through accelerated momentum across the franchise. In June, client assets in our ETFs passed $3 trillion globally driven by second quarter net inflows of $75 billion. It took 15 years for iShares to get to $1 trillion in assets. It took iShares only five years to get to $2 trillion in assets, and it just most recently took iShares only two years to get to $3 trillion. Importantly, the more majority of this growth at each milestone has been organic as more investors are using ETFs in more ways. They are using to build whole portfolios. They are using iShares to invest beyond traditional market cap-weighted indexes. And they're using iShares more than ever before to access the bond market efficiently. Our ETFs grew across each of our core, our strategic and precision product categories, with more than half of our net inflows coming from our strategic categories led by fixed income and sustainable ETFs. We saw more than $22 billion of net inflows into our fixed income ETFs as investors sought more efficient ways to access fixed income and turn to us for a more broad range exposure, including Chinese bonds, multi-sector, municipal bonds, inflation-linked ETFs. And we now manage more than $700 billion in fixed income ETFs and continue to believe that this category will grow to $1 trillion by 2024 as fixed income ETFs modernize the $100 trillion bond market. Momentum in sustainable ETFs remained strong with another $14 billion of net inflows in the second quarter, including the launches of our low carbon transition readiness ETF. We have seen $40 billion of net inflows into sustainable ETFs in the first half of 2021 compared to $46 billion in all of 2020. With nearly $120 billion of sustainable ETFs, BlackRock has four times the size of the next sustainable ETF player. And we are incredibly well positioned for the future for our clients' needs in this fast-growing category. Demand for sustainable strategies is accelerating from investors worldwide in both index and active. Within active sustainable strategies, we saw $4 billion of net inflows in the second quarter. Sustainable investments offer significant opportunities to generate alpha for clients, and we are focused on innovating ahead of their needs. For example, we announced last week the first close for the climate finance partnership. We'll invest in climate infrastructure across emerging markets. This strategy is a great example of how public and private sectors can come together to deliver positive environmental and social impact for communities and attractive risk-adjusted returns for clients, including global institutional investors, for governments and for philanthropies. BlackRock's broader active platform is playing an increasingly important role in our clients' portfolios. And we are seeing the benefits of our investment in our growth and our investment performance. We generated $63 billion of active net inflows in the second quarter across equities, fixed income, multi assets and alternative strategies. This growth is outpacing that of the $70 trillion active management industry as we continue to captive active market share. Long-term investment performance is strong with over 85% of our fundamental active equities, systematic active equities, taxable fixed income assets outperforming the benchmark or peer mediums over the past five years. By delivering durable alpha for clients, we remain well positioned to continue to generate growth in active strategies. More clients are looking to outsource their entire portfolio as regulations intensify, operating cost-wise and investing grows more complex. They want customized solutions spanning active, index, alternatives, powered by sophisticated technology and risk management. The breadth of BlackRock's investment platform, our portfolio of construction expertise and our Aladdin technology uniquely positions us to meet these clients' needs. We are honored to be entrusted to manage the over $30 billion of pension assets for British Airways in the second quarter through the creation of a bespoke investment and service model. This partnership represents the largest of this kind in the U.K. pension fund, and we believe it will be a catalyst for more transformational change in the industry. We manage over $200 billion in OCIO assets today and believe the trend toward outsourcing will only continue to accelerate. We are also seeing demand for personalization growing more among the financial advisors and our wealth clients. And we're continuing to invest behind the democratization of tax-efficient, personalized portfolios at scale. BlackRock is partnering with financial intermediaries in providing model portfolios, which utilize our broad range of iShares ETFs and actively managed funds as well as separately managed account strategies across alpha, factor investing and index investing. Building on our acquisition of Aperio, we recently announced a minority investment in SpiderRock Advisors, which will further enhance our ability to provide wealth managers and financial advisors with tax-efficient, personalized portfolios and risk management solutions. This is another major step we are taking to advance our market-leading franchise in personalizing and personalization of SMAs. Alongside ETFS, SMAs continue to see high-growth rates as advisors and personalization and tax management to wealth client portfolios. BlackRock is the second-largest SMA provider today with over $200 billion in assets, including Aperio. And we remain focused on investing in a comprehensive platform of solutions and customization capabilities for the wealth management market. BlackRock's commitment to evolve and to meet our clients' needs is recently most evident in sustainability. As we adapt to the fundamental restructuring that the energy transition is driving across the economy, we are investing across products, data, technology capabilities so we can help clients address their impact of sustainable factors on their portfolios and help them capture significant client demand for sustainable solutions. Last year, we began developing Aladdin Climate to fill a need in climate risk analytics and to help investors better understand and act on climate risk. Aladdin Climate measures at both the asset and portfolio levels the impact of physical risk like extreme weather event, and transition risks such as policy changes, new technologies and energy supply. In June, we will further -- in June, we further advanced Aladdin Climate through a new partnership with Baringa. The combination of Baringa's climate transition risk models and Aladdin's financial and physical risk models will provide investors with the ability to better understand and customize their risk -- their climate risk exposures. This partnership is a significant milestone in the build-out of Aladdin Climate and will set a new bar in the industry for climate analytics and risk management tools. We are also committed to bringing the benefit to our global platform to clients around the world by deepening our local infrastructure. We are investing in people who speak every language to understand local markets and regulations and have insight into how the changing world intersects with each of our clients' goals. This includes investing in the leading -- this is -- excuse me. This includes investing in -- to be the leading global asset manager in China. Rapid economic development and wealth accumulation in the world's second-largest economy has propelled the growth of the $9 trillion Chinese domestic asset management industry. Earlier this year, we obtained our wealth management joint venture license. And last month, we received our fund management company license. We are the first global asset manager firm to obtain this type of license. We are now well positioned to extend the breadth of our investment solutions and insights to all our client segments across China and help more people transition their savings to investments in China, including in preparation for their retirement. With more than half of BlackRock's assets linked to retirement, we are incredibly focused on innovating and helping our clients address the retirement crisis around the world. Client demand for our LifePath target date funds remained strong with $17 billion of net inflows year to date, representing a 10% organic growth and outpacing the entire industry. The need for retirement income and retirement is also accelerating. A recent study BlackRock conducted found that nearly 90% of the participants across every generation wants a retirement income solution. And 96% of plan sponsors feels responsibility for helping their participants generate and manage their income in retirement. BlackRock is developing LifePath Paycheck to address this growing need. And we are already seeing strong commercial demand with several initial client commitments and support from an institutional and investment consultants. The incredible momentum we are seeing across our entire platform is a direct result of our dedicated employee base. I have never been prouder of BlackRock's nearly 17,000 employees. I have seen their commitment to our clients and to each other in incredible ways throughout this pandemic. And in recognition of this hard work and to have them share in BlackRock's growth and success, we are investing in our employees through an 8% raise in base salary compensation for all employees up to and including director levels as of September 1, 2021. We strive to cultivate an environment at BlackRock where employees feel supported and have a diverse and inclusive environment where they can thrive and grow and build a career and life. After a period like no other in the firm's history, BlackRock has never been better positioned for the future. My recent trips to Europe and the Middle East to meet with our clients have only further validated our differentiated positioning and our approach to building deeper, broader relationships with our clients. We have always led by listening to our clients and hearing what they want, what they need. And through that -- through anticipation and embracing change and innovating and stay in front of our clients' needs, that has what driven us going forward. Our fiduciary focus has guided the deliberate, our deliberateness in terms of investments we have made to build a more resilient asset manager and a more resilient technology platform by anticipating and staying in front of our clients' needs. And we will continue to deliver industry-leading growth to benefit all our stakeholders for the long term. With that, let's open it up for questions. 