
OperatorGood afternoon. My name is Olivia and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Cadence First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]I will now turn the call over to Alan Lindstrom Senior Group Director of Investor Relations for Cadence. Please go ahead.Alan Lindstrom -- Senior Group Director, Investor Relations

 



Thank you, Olivia. I would like to thank every -- welcome everyone to our first quarter 2021 earnings conference call. I am joined today by Lip-Bu Tan, Chief Executive Officer; Anirudh Devgan, President; and John Wall, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.A webcast of this call is available through our website cadence.com and will be archived through June 18, 2021. A copy of today's prepared remarks will also be available on our website at the conclusion of the call today.Please note that the discussion today will contain forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to statements about our business outlook, product development, business strategy and plans, industry and regulatory trends, market size, opportunities and positioning. These statements are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected or implied in today's discussion. For information on factors that could cause a difference in our results, please refer to our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These include Cadence's most recent reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q, which was just filed and then also including the company's future filings and the cautionary comments regarding forward-looking statements in the earnings press release that was issued today. You should not rely on our forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. All forward-looking statements we make on this call are based on estimates and information available to us at the time of this discussion and Cadence disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements except as required by law.In addition to financial results prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles or GAAP, we will also present certain non-GAAP financial measures today. Cadence management believes that in addition to using GAAP results in evaluating our business, it can also be useful to review results using certain non-GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered an isolation from or as a substitute for financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures are not based on any standardized methodology prescribed by GAAP and are not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies. Investors and potential investors are encouraged to review the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures with their most direct comparable GAAP financial results. A reconciliation between each non-GAAP financial measure and it's nearest GAAP equivalent may be found in our earnings press release following the financial statements.

 



Copies of today's press release dated April 26, 2021 for the quarter and year ended April 3, 2021, related financial tables and the CFO commentary are also available on our website. For the Q&A session today, we would ask that you observe a limit of one question and one follow-up, you may requeue if you would like to ask additional questions and time permits.And now I will turn the call over to Lip-Bu.Lip-Bu Tan -- Chief Executive OfficerGood afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us today. I'm pleased to report that Cadence had a great start to the year delivering outstanding financial results for the first quarter with broad-based demand for our innovative solutions, driving strong revenue growth, profitability and cash flow. John will provide the details in a moment as well as our updated outlook.

 



Generation trends like 5G, hyperscale computing, autonomous driving and industrial IoT continue to propel the need for innovation in compute memory, networking and storage, from the edge to the cloud with massive amounts of new data being generated everyday. AI/ML and Data Analytics are helping transforming that data through intelligence providing actionable insights and accelerating digital transformation of several industry. These trends are continuing to drive strong semiconductor demand and design activity across a broad spectrum of end markets, and our Intelligent System Design strategy ideally positions us to capture this exciting opportunities.Now let me talk about the Q1 highlights. Starting off with Core EDA and IP in the Design Excellence year of our ISD strategy. We had ongoing strength in aerospace and defense. And we significantly expanded our collaborations with marquee aerospace defense systems company that included the proliferation of our digital full flow as well as our functional and custom simulation solutions. Our Digital Signoff business has a strong revenue quarter, with multiple market shaping customers successfully hitting out at 5 nanometer and below process nodes using our digital full flow. Increasing design complexity, continuous driving a secular trend for hardware assisted certification and Q1 was a standout quarter for our Palladium emulation and Protium prototyping platform. Significant expansions as well as multiple new wins contributed to Q1 in our best hardware revenue quarter ever.Additionally we announced our new Palladium Z2 and Protium X2 platforms delivering 2 times capacity and 1.5 times higher performance than our current leading Z1 and X1 systems. This next-generation system enables the highest throughput hardware debug and pre-silicon software validation for million -- multibillion sorry -- multibillion gig associate design and endorsed by Nvidia, AMD and ARM.Our IP business also delivered double-digit year-over-year revenue growth. There was strong demand for our high-speed SerDes IP by market shaping customers for their next-generation data center and networking environments as well as continued strength in our memory interface IP business. Tensilica continued to expand its footprint in true wireless stereo and Bluetooth headsets, and our Vision P6 and HiFi products proliferated in the Wearables and Smart Speakers end markets. It was another exciting quarter for system design and analysis segment, delivering over 30% year-over-year revenue growth. Early this month, we acquired Pointwise, a leader in mesh generation for Computational Fluid Dynamics. The addition of Pointwise Technologies and experienced team, both have broadened our system analysis portfolio, complements our recently acquired NUMECA CFD Technology and our organic multiphysics products.Pointwise provides highly innovative mesh and grid generation technologies to enable high fidelity CFD analysis and its solutions are being used by several marquee customers, especially in the aerospace segment.We want to congratulate our NUMECA team for the role their products played in the design of the Emirates Team New Zealand racing boat, that won the America's Cup for New Zealand for the fourth time. The winning team used a simulator based on NUMECA's Fine/ Marine CFD software and their computational dynamic modeling and thanks to the unprecedented accuracy and realism of their simulators, were able to accurately test new ideas and concepts long before the first boat ever touched the water.We introduced Sigrity X, our next generation signal and power integrity solution with endorsements on Samsung, MediaTek and Renesas. These solutions leverage new simulation engines and a massively parallel architecture to deliver over 10% -- up to 10% performance and capacity gain for system level simulations of the most demanding hyperscale, 5G, automotive and aerospace applications. And Qualcomm expanded their usage of our flagship Virtuoso and AWR products for advanced RFIC design and Clarity for system analysis.Let me conclude with a few comments on some macro level topics. We continue to monitor the semiconductor supply chain situation and so far, we are not seeing any slowdown in design activity across our customer base. Next, in regarding the evolving state of the COVID-19 pandemic, while some countries are edging toward normalcy, there is a growing concern with the escalating number of cases in certain regions, especially in India. As always the health and safety of our employees, customers and partners is paramount and we will continue doing what is in their best interests while working closely with local regulatory agencies.Lastly, this past year has brought to light many social justice challenges, including the recent acts of violence against Asian Americans. I strongly believe that we have an obligation as individuals and as a company, we'll take a stand against racism and set an example for inclusiveness and understanding. At Cadence, we are committed to listening with empathy, inclusive of different points of view and as a result ensure that our diversity enhances our experience and our innovative spirit.Now I will turn it over to John to go over the Q1 results and present our Q2 and updated 2021 outlook.John Wall -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks Lip-Bu, and good afternoon everyone. I'm pleased to report that we exceeded all of our key operating metrics for the quarter. Broad-based growth across many lines of our business combined with some earlier than anticipated hardware sales, resulted in strong revenue growth in Q1. We continue to invest heavily in building out a multiphysics platform for system design and analysis. We completed our second acquisition of the year in the CFD space, when we acquired Pointwise in April, a leader in CFD mesh generation. The focus over the past few months in completing acquisitions contributed to some delays to our expected pace of hiring in Q1, but we expect to get hiring back on track by the second half of the year.Now, let's go through the key results for the first quarter, beginning with the P&L. Total revenue was $736 million. Non-GAAP operating margin was approximately 38%. GAAP EPS was $0.67 and non-GAAP EPS was $0.83.Next, turning to the balance sheet and cash flow. At quarter end cash totaled $743 million while the principal value of debt outstanding was $350 million. Operating cash flow for Q1 was $208 million. DSOs were 48 days and during Q1, we repurchased $172 million of Cadence shares.Before I provide our updated outlook for fiscal 2021 and what we expect for Q2, I'd like to take a moment to share the assumptions embedded in our outlook. The ongoing chip capacity constraints along with the recent surge in COVID-19 cases in India are expected to create a headwind for IP revenue for the remainder of this year. The revenue impact has been factored into our outlook. We expect expenses to increase in the second half of the year, primarily due to headcount growth as we continue to invest in our expanding multiphysics platform. We've included the Pointwise acquisition in our 2021 outlook. And finally, our outlook assumes that the export limitations that exist today for certain customers will remain in place for all of 2021.Embedding these assumptions into our outlook for fiscal 2021, we expect revenue in the range of $2.88 billion to $2.93 billion. Non-GAAP operating margin in the range of 35% to 36%. GAAP EPS in the range of $2.01 to $2.09. Non-GAAP EPS in the range of $2.99 to $3.07. Operating cash flow in the range of $900 million to $950 million, and we expect to use at least 50% of our free cash flow to repurchase Cadence shares in 2021.For Q2 2021, we expect revenue in the range of $705 to $725 million. Non-GAAP operating margin of approximately 36%. GAAP EPS in the range of $0.44 to $0.48 and non-GAAP EPS in the range of $0.74 to $0.78.Our CFO commentary, which is available on our website, includes our outlook for additional items as well as further analysis and GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations. In conclusion, the Cadence team delivered another quarter of strong operating results and remain focused on driving profitable revenue growth. We'd like to thank our customers, partners and of course our employees for a solid start to 2021. And I'd like to remind them all, that their health and safety continues to be our first priority.And with that operator, we'll now take questions.