  OperatorGood morning. My name is Pema, and I'll be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the PNC Financial Services Group earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this call is being recorded. I will now turn the call over to the director of investor relations, Mr. Bryan Gill. Sir, please go ahead.Bryan Gill -- Investor Relations

 



 Well, thank you, Pema, and good morning, everybody. Welcome to today's conference call for the PNC Financial Services Group. Participating on this call are PNC's chairman, president, and CEO, Bill Demchak; and Rob Reilly, executive vice president and CFO. Today's presentation contains forward-looking information. Cautionary statements about this information as well as reconciliations of non-GAAP measures are included in today's earnings release materials as well as our SEC filings and other investor materials. These materials are all available on our corporate website, pnc.com under Investor Relations. These statements speak only as of July 14, 2021, and PNC undertakes no obligation to update them. Now I'd like to turn the call over to Bill.Bill Demchak -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Bryan. Good morning, everybody. As you've seen we accomplished a lot in the second quarter, and most important was the closing of the acquisition of BBVA USA on June 1st. Obviously this created a fair amount of noise in our reported results, adding one month of BBVA USA operating results and the impact of purchase accounting adjustments as well as merger-related impacts.

 



 Rob's going to take you through all of that in a couple of minutes. But putting those things aside, we had a pretty good quarter driven by solid net interest income, strong fee growth, continued improvements in credit quality, and announcement of higher capital returns. While loans increased primarily due to the acquisition, we did have spot loan growth in both consumer and C&I in the legacy PNC balance sheet. We've seen loan utilization rates stabilize within our corporate and institutional banking business. However, they remain near historic lows. And while new loan approvals have rebounded actually to the highest level in a couple of years, that's been offset by continued paydowns. Within the legacy -- within the PNC legacy consumer book, we saw loans grow in the quarter, which was encouraging, and we're confident that strong economic growth is ultimately going to drive strong loan growth. But it remains an open debate as to the timing of that loan growth relative to the second half of '21 and into '22. During the quarter we continue to deploy excess liquidity through $10 billion of net security purchases. Going forward and considering the significant recent rally in treasuries, we'll be disciplined as we look to reduce our elevated cash position. You saw that our recent CCAR results underscore the strength of our balance sheet and our commitment to returning capital to our shareholders. Following the results, we announced a 9% increase in our quarterly common stock dividend and a $2.9 billion share repurchase program. Importantly we're well-positioned with substantial capital and liquidity to continue to support our customers and invest in our businesses. Regarding BBVA, I couldn't be more pleased with where we are. PNC and BBVA employees have hit the ground running and are making great progress in preparing for a successful conversion and integration. The deal significantly expands our footprint, gives us access to 29 of the top 30 MSAS across the country with a coast to coast franchise and it provides us with an opportunity for growth for years to come.

 



 All of our original deal metrics are the same or better than we estimated, and Rob's going to take you through those. And finally, the underlying growth opportunities in the new markets are outstanding. Across this footprint, employees are making joint calls and we are seeing deal pipelines build, especially as we present our enhanced capabilities and scale of the new markets. We continue to believe the revenue synergy opportunity is significant as we look to drive BBVA's U.S. -- BBVA USA's non-interest income contribution to total revenue closer to legacy PNC's mid-40% level. On the integration front, we're leveraging our past investments in technology and automation to expedite the process, drive synergies, and reduce complexity. We're moving the data from more than 600 BBVA USA applications to PNC applications, taking a lift and shift approach that allows us to simplify the customer conversion. I also want to mention that our continued rollout of low cash mode, which was available to 2.5 million virtual wallet customers as of the end of June, we're planning to roll it out to the remaining 1.1 million virtual wallet customers by the end of this month and look forward to making it available to BBVA customers upon conversion later this year. Since announcing the product in April, we've delivered over 10 million low cash mode alerts and has seen strong engagement with the experiences. It helps to address a major frustration for many of our customers across the industry. Over time, we expect it to drive significant growth in new and existing customer relationships as we execute our national expansion strategy. Finally, I'd like to close by thanking our legacy PNC and the new BBVA USA employees for all of their hard work that allowed us to close this deal early and prevent and prepare for conversion and long term success. With that, I'll turn it over to Rob for a closer look at our results and then we'll take your questions.Rob Reilly -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Bill, and good morning, everyone. As Bill just mentioned, and notable during the second quarter, we successfully completed our acquisition of BBVA USA, significantly expanding our footprint, which now includes growth markets throughout the Sunbelt region. Our balance sheet is on Slide 4 and is presented on a spot basis. While we typically cover our average balance sheet, we'll focus this quarter on spot balances due to the timing of the June 1 closing of the acquisition. Overall linked quarter balance sheet growth was driven by the acquisition, of course, which contributed $60 billion in loans, $18 billion of investment securities, and $82 billion of deposits at quarter end. Excluding those additions during the quarter, legacy PNC loan balances declined $3 billion, investment securities increased $10 billion and deposits declined by $4 billion, and I'll cover the drivers in more detail over the next few slides. We ended the quarter with a tangible book value of $93.83 per share and an estimated CET 1 ratio of 10%, substantially above the levels we anticipated at the time of the deal announcement. As a result, we're well-positioned with significant capital flexibility. And as Bill just mentioned, we recently announced a $0.10 increase to our quarterly cash dividend on common stock, raising the dividend to $1.25 per share. Additionally, we reinstated our share repurchase programs of up $2.9 billion for the fourth quarter period beginning in the third quarter of 2021. Slide 5 shows our period-end loans and deposits, accounting for the acquisition and highlighting the relative contributions. Total loans were $295 billion at quarter end. And with the acquisition, our loan mix remains consistent at approximately two-thirds commercial and one-third consumer. Total deposits were $453 billion at June 30th. And our rate paid on interest bearing deposits is now five basis points, a one-basis-point decline linked quarter. Taking a closer look at loans, commercial loan balances of $200 billion increased $35 billion. BBVA contributed $39 billion and spot PNC legacy growth of approximately $1 billion was offset by a $4.5 billion decline in PPP loans. Consumer loans were up $23 billion, represented by $22 billion of acquired loans as well as growth in legacy PNC consumer loans, primarily in the residential real estate portfolio. The yield on loan balances was stable at 3.38% percent compared to the first quarter and reflected the combined loan portfolio. Slide 6 details the change in our spot securities and federal reserve balances over the past year. Securities balances were $127 billion at the end of the second quarter, $28 billion increase linked quarter due to the addition of $18 billion of securities from the acquisition and $10 billion in net purchases. Our Fed cash balances decreased $14 billion linked quarter, reflecting continued deployment into securities and the payment of $11.5 billion dollars for the acquisition. Despite the linked quarter decline, our liquidity position remains in excess of our LCR requirements. As you can see on Slide 7, our second-quarter income statement includes the impact of the acquisition. Our reported EPS was $2.43, which included an initial provision for BBVA USA of $1 billion and integration costs of $111 million. Adjusted for these items, the EPS was $4.50 in the second quarter. Second-quarter revenue was $4.7 billion, up $447 million compared with the first quarter, reflecting the acquisition as well as strong organic fee growth. Expenses increased $476 million or 18% linked quarter, including $181 million of significant items related to integration expenses and litigation reserves as well as one month of BBVA operating expenses and higher legacy PNC business activity. The provision of $302 million included a provision recapture of $704 million related to improve credit quality and macroeconomic factors as well as balance reductions, which was more than offset by $1 billion initial provision in connection with the acquisition. As a result, total net income was $1.1 billion in the second quarter. Now let's have got to discuss the key drivers of this performance in more detail. Turning to Slide 8, these charts illustrate our diversified business mix with non-interest income representing 45% of total revenue in the second quarter. Net interest income of $2.6 billion was up $233 million or 10%. And net interest margin of 2.29% was up 2 basis points, both of which reflect the impact of the acquisition. Second-quarter fee income of $1.6 billion increased $229 million or 16% linked quarter. Within that, legacy PNC fees grew by $167 million and BBVA USA's one month of operations contributed $62 million. Taking a more detailed look at the performance in each of our fee categories, asset management revenue increased $13 million or 6% as a result of higher average equity markets; consumer services fees grew $73 million or 19%, primarily due to increased transaction volume and higher merchant services revenue; corporate services increased $133 million or 24% driven by higher MSA advisory activity and treasury management product revenue; service charges on deposits grew $12 million or 10% due to the addition of BBVA USA; other non-interest income of $468 million declined $15 million linked quarter and included a negative visa derivative adjustment, lower security gains, as well as higher private equity revenue. In total, non-interest income of $2.1 billion increase $214 million or 11% compared to the first quarter, driven primarily by legacy PNC fee growth as well as $80 million of non-interest income from the acquisition. Turning to Slide 9, our second-quarter expenses were up by $476 million or 18% linked quarter and included $181 million of significant items related to integration expenses and the addition to legal reserves.The remainder of the increase was driven by BBVA's one month operating expenses of $179 million as well as increased business activity and marketing for legacy PNC. Obviously with the acquisition, our operating expenses are going to be higher going forward. Nevertheless, we remain disciplined around our expense management. And as we've previously stated, we have a goal to reduce PNC stand-alone expenses by $300 million dollars in 2021 through our continuous improvement program, and we're on track to achieve our full year target. Additionally we're confident we'll realize the full $900 million in net expense savings of BBVA USA's expense base in 2022. Our credit metrics are presented on Slide 10 and reflect the impact of the acquisition. Apart from the addition of the acquired loans, credit performance improved considerably within the legacy PNC portfolio. Non-performing loans were $2.8 billion at June 30th, and $871 million were related to the acquired loans. PNC legacy non-performing loans declined $230 million due to decreases in both commercial and consumer. Total delinquencies were $1.3 billion at June 30th, of which the acquisition impact was $291 million. Legacy PNC's delinquencies declined $147million. Net charge-offs for legacy PNC were $58 million, the lowest level since 2007 with an annualized charge-offs to total loans ratio of 10 basis points. Acquired low net charge-offs were $248 million, which was largely the result of required purchase accounting treatment for the acquisition. Slide 11 shows a change in our allowance for credit losses during the second quarter. Within our legacy portfolio, we rereleased reserves by approximately $700 million related to both improved credit quality and macroeconomic factors. Upon closing the acquisition, we established a $2.2 billion ACL for the acquired loans or 3.5% through fair value loan marks of $1.2 billion related to purchase credit deteriorated loans and an initial provision of $1 billion related to non-PCV loan. The initial BBVA USA ACL to total loans of 3.5% was subsequently reduced to 3.1% at the end of the quarter as a result of portfolio changes. So in total as a result, our total quarter year end reserves for the combined entity were $6.4 billion, representing 2.16% of consolidated loans outstanding. Turning to Slide 12, now that we've closed the BBVA USA acquisition, I wanted to provide an update to some of the deal metrics, all of which are the same or have improved since our deal announcement. As you know, the purchase price was an all cash fixed price and with approximately $11.5 billion at closing. And as I've already mentioned, tangible book value per share and the CET 1 ratio are favorable relative to our original expectations. We continue to project an internal rate of return in excess of 19%, earnings per share accretion of more than 20%, and an annualized expense reduction of $900 million in 2022. Additionally our expectations for non-recurring merger and integration costs is approximately $980 million, the majority of which we expect to be recognized in 2021 consistent with our initial expectations. Taking a look at the credit metrics, these have all improved since we've announced the deal. And as a result, the ACL to total loans for BBVA USA is better than our original expectations. In addition and as anticipated, our net purchase accounting adjustment is nominal with a net fair value premium of $322 million, the majority of which will be amortized over the next several years. For the second quarter due to the maturity of some short-dated acquired assets, we realize a $30 million benefit to net interest income, which will not recur. In summary, PNC reported a strong second quarter, highlighted by the successful acquisition of BBVA USA. We expect this transaction to add significant value to our shareholders as we begin to realize the potential of the combined franchise. In regard to our view of the overall economy, our current expectations are for GDP to surpass prerecession levels sometime during the third quarter and for the Fed funds rate to remain near zero throughout 2021. Looking at the third quarter of 2021, which will now include a full quarter impact of BBVA USA's operations compared to the second quarter of 2021, we expect total spot loan balances to be up modestly, which includes a $3.5 billion decline in PPP loans. On a percentage basis, we expect NII to be up in the mid teens. We expect fee income to be up in the mid-single digits. We expect total non-interest expense, excluding integration expenses, to be up in the high single digits. We expect other non-interest income to be between $325 million and $375 million, excluding net securities gains in these activities. And we expect third quarter net charge-offs to be between $150 million and $200 million. For annual guidance, taking into account our first half operating results and the addition of six more months of BBVA USA's forecasted operating results, plus our expectation for modest loan growth in the second half of the year, we expect revenues to be up between 12% to 14% and expenses, excluding integration costs, to be up between 13% and 15% for the full year 2021 compared with PNC stand-alone 2020. We acknowledge some upside exists in spot loan growth during the second half of the year but that remains to be seen, and as a result is not included in our guidance. And with that, Bill and I are ready to take your questions. 