  OperatorWelcome to Visa's fiscal third-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time. I would now like to turn the conference over to your host from investor relations, Ms. Jennifer Como and Mr. Mike Milotich. Ms. Como, you may now begin.Jennifer Como -- Investor Relations Thanks, Michelle. Fiscal third-quarter 2021 earnings call. Before we begin, we want to acknowledge the filing was a little later than usual due to an issue, but hopefully, you've had opportunity to review prior to the call. Joining us today are Al Kelly, Visa's chairman and chief executive officer; and Vasant Prabhu, Visa's vice chairman and chief financial officer. This call is being webcast on the investor relations section of our website at www.investor.visa.com. A replay will be archived on our site for 30 days. A slide deck containing financial and statistical highlights has been posted on our IR website. Let me also remind you that this presentation includes forward-looking statements.These statements are not guarantees of future performance, and our actual results could differ materially as a result of many factors. Additional information concerning those factors is available in our most recent reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q, which you can find on the SEC's website and the investor relations section of our website. For non-GAAP financial information disclosed in this call, the related GAAP measures and reconciliation are available in today's earnings release. And with that, let me turn the call over to Al.  Al Kelly -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Jennifer. Good afternoon. Thank you for joining us. We had a really strong fiscal third quarter as payments volume, process transactions and cross-border volume all improved globally. In our time today, I will first cover our results and then, discuss our performance to date across our three growth levers: consumer payments, new flows and value-added services. The first Q3 results. Net revenue rose 27% or 39% if service revenues were recognized on the current quarter's payment volume. This growth far exceeded our expectations due to the strength in the U.S., improving cross-border volumes and lower-than-expected client incentives, largely due to deal timing. Non-GAAP EPS was $1.49, up 41%. As we look at volumes and transactions, keep in mind that year-over-year growth rates are less indicative of performance and the business trajectory due to the COVID-19 impact. So once again, we provide metrics compared to 2019 on a constant-dollar basis, as well as year-over-year growth rates. Payments volume was 121% of 2019, which is up 5 points from the second quarter and represents a 34% year-over-year growth rate. Cross-border volume, excluding intra-Europe, was 82% of 2019, 7 points better than the second quarter and up 53% year over year. Process transactions were 120% of 2019, up 4 points from Q2 and up 39% year over year. Vasant will provide more color on our results. So now let me transition to progress relative to our business strategy. Efforts across our three growth levers helped to fuel strong results while positioning us to capture future opportunities. In consumer payments this quarter, we saw a favorable secular trend and had a number of wins with large issuers, co-brands and fintechs. Cash displacement trends continued this quarter. Globally, cash volume on Visa debit credentials, the dollar amount of cash taken out of ATMs, was 98% of 2019 levels, flat [Inaudible] on Visa debit credentials was 140% of 2019 levels, up 5 points from Q2. While debit remained strong and has accelerated since Q2, credit spending is now also improving. Global credit payment volume was 104% of 2019, up 4 points from the second quarter. At the same time, face-to-face payments volume trends are stable to improving, while e-commerce or card-not-present remains elevated. When we average across our top markets where we process versus 2019, we see card-present improve 10 points, while card-not-present, excluding travel, improved 1 point in Q3 over Q2. Travel is starting to recover both domestically and in cross-border. Again, averaging across our top markets where we process versus 2019, domestic travel spending improved more than 20 points in Q3 over Q2. Globally, cross-border travel, excluding intra-Europe, versus 2019 improved 6 points in Q3 over Q2 and exited the quarter with June at 50% of 2019. Simply looking at the absolute levels, it was a record quarter for Visa with $2.7 trillion in payments volume and payment transactions per day globally, which is up 16 million per day from the last quarter and nearly 160 million transactions per day from a year ago. And we expect much more recovery to come, especially in the areas of credit and cross-border travel. Tap to pay is a key accelerator for many of these trends, including face-to-face spending in both credit and debit. We continue to see countries increase in tap to pay limits. For example, in Brazil, the limit was doubled five months ago and the face-to-face tap to pay penetration has already more than doubled from 6% to 14% in that short period. In the United States this quarter, we surpassed 370 million tap to pay-enabled cards. And we now have three cities above 25% face-to-face tap to pay penetration: New York, San Francisco and San Jose. Merchant progress continued as well. Target has doubled its tap to pay penetration in the last year to two out of every five face-to-face transactions. And Costco's U.S. gas stations have reached 40% penetration in tap to pay payments since enabling this feature approximately six months ago. Now shifting to clients. We continue to win with large issuers globally. Let me share a few examples from the quarter. In the United States, we are pleased to have renewed our long-standing partnership with Navy Federal Credit Union, the largest U.S. credit union with over 10.5 million members for a multiyear credit, debit and processing agreement. Also in the U.S., Google Pay introduced a Visa virtual card that links to U.S. Android users' Google Pay balances, enabling these users to spend their balances at stores. In Italy, we extended our agreement with Banca Sella, part of the Sella Group, the largest private and independent banking group in Italy, for the consumer credit and commercial portfolios with plans to launch a new innovative digital credit small business solution. In Singapore, we are expanding our strong partnership with DBS, the largest bank in Southeast Asia. We have renewed and we will continue to grow in the DBS debit portfolio. In Latin America, we renewed the HSBC debit portfolio, one of the top five portfolios in Mexico. In our CEMEA region, we won the consumer credit portfolio of Qatar National Bank, the largest financial institution in the Middle East and Africa. And we renewed the credit portfolio of Saudi British Bank, one of the largest Saudi banks. We're also building momentum as a global leader in co-brands. In the U.S. alone, we have seven of the top 10 co-brands. And this quarter, we're pleased to renew Hyatt in the U.S. and renew and grow the Williams-Sonoma co-brand, which will be relaunched with an expanded scope across the Williams-Sonoma brand, including Pottery Barn and West Elm. We secured a new co-brand relationship with PayPal in Australia and MercadoLibre, the largest e-commerce retailer in Latin America. In partnership with Banco Itaú, we also won the co-brand business of Magalu, a major retailer with one of the largest co-brand portfolios in Brazil. Finally, in the Asia Pacific region, we have secured a significant part of LINE Pay's business with a partnership renewal in Taiwan, the largest co-brand program in the country. Fintechs are also core to our consumer payments growth. In this quarter, we forged new partnerships and deepened relationships with onetime clients. I just mentioned LINE Pay in Taiwan, and we also continue to see strong momentum in our partnership with LINE Pay in Japan and with LINE BK in Thailand. Over the last year, they have added more than 2 million Visa credentials across those markets. Likewise, in India, longtime partner, Paytm has issued 6 million virtual Visa debit cards. In addition, they recently started to issue physical Visa debit cards, which they expect to ramp up over the coming months. KakaoPay, one of the top three mobile wallet providers in Korea with more than 30 million users, recently signed on to issue Visa credit cards. In the Middle East, we're partnering with stc pay, the fintech subsidiary of Saudi Arabia's largest telecom operator to embed stc pay wallets. More than 1 million Visa credentials have been issued since September of '20. Rappi, Latin America's super app with over 70 million users, have now started issuing Visa credit cards in Brazil, Mexico, Colombia and Peru with plans to expand to additional countries in coming months. And in the crypto space, we recently signed three partnerships: one with Tala to partner on cryptocurrency solutions for the global unbanked; and two, with crypto exchanges, FTX and CoinZoom, to begin offering Visa cards. We now have more than 50 crypto wallet and platforms, up from 35 in Q1 and more than the next leading network. And collectively, they drove over $1 billion in payments volume, which represents a significant engine of growth. The market opportunity in new flows is 10 times greater, and we continue to make progress in our efforts. We had several capabilities within carded B2B that have been gaining traction. Our freedom solution enables corporates to control and monitor corporate card spending and expand to new use cases, including payables and virtual card capabilities. Across Australia and New Zealand, we have renewed our long-standing partnerships with ANZ Bank for Freedom's expense management capabilities, as well as NAB and BNZ to deliver expense management and payable solutions. And in the United States, Wells Fargo will deliver these capabilities to their corporate clients as part of our partnership we announced earlier this year. Visa's Commercial Pay, which offers a mobile app enabling virtual card issuance and management of business incidentals with enhanced data, will be part of OCBC Bank's virtual purchasing card offering in Singapore. Visa Direct transaction growth remains robust with nearly $0.5 billion more transactions this quarter than in the third quarter of last year. We continue to see large banks enable Visa Direct payouts for their customers, including CIBC this quarter. In the payroll category, ADP, a leading global technology company providing human capital management solutions recently integrated its Wisely offering with Visa Direct to provide ADP clients with a digitally enabled, convenient and cost-effective solution for employee off-cycle payments. In the P2P space, the WhatsApp payment feature powered by Visa Direct and Visa Cloud token framework launched in Brazil in May. And we're seeing early success with a significant number of Visa credentials enrolled and sizable growth in P2P money transfers. PayPal announced instant transfers for merchant settlement and P2P via Visa Direct in Australia. We also developed new use cases this quarter for Visa Direct. First, GoFundMe is integrating Visa Direct to soon launch funds disbursement to individuals and organizations. Second, Questrade, the Canadian brokerage platform, announced the launch of Instant Deposit, allowing investors to fund their trade accounts in seconds. Let's now move to our third growth lever, value-added services, where revenue growth grew 28% in Q3. Let me discuss our efforts across a few of our capabilities. First, installments. In addition to investing in and partnering with numerous installment providers globally, we've also developed our own solution, which had some notable progress in the quarter. In Canada, Scotiabank is extending their post-purchase installments offering to -- they're offering to eligible Visa retail credit clients. CIBC is launching installments during purchase and Desjardin, North America's largest financial cooperative, will be offering during purchase installments for their eligible Visa customers. In addition, Global Payments is enabling our installment solution for their merchant customers. Second, CyberSource, our omnichannel gateway platform, has grown as a result of three drivers: one, increased e-commerce and omnichannel volumes; two, more business creating online and omnichannel presences while leveraging our risk tools; and three, more acquirers white labeling the solution. This past quarter, top 20 U.S. acquirer Paya and Qatar National Bank, both signed up to utilize CyberSource's capabilities. Third, DPS. I mentioned the processing agreement earlier with Navy Federal, they intend to utilize DPS. In addition, Current, one of the fastest-growing U.S. fintechs with nearly 3 million members, have selected Visa DPS as its partner. Current will integrate with DPS' newest all digital processing solution called DPS Forward, which combines issuer processing capabilities with a new suite of APIs that integrate with modern digital banking players to create unique card programs and payment solutions. Finally, Visa Consulting and Analytics. Our advisory teams have delivered nearly 1,000 projects year to date in 88 countries to help our clients be more successful. Let me just share a couple of examples. In Latin America, we developed a digital acquisition platform and helped one of the top issuers in the region improve credit approval turnaround times from days to minutes while also better qualifying leads to reach a four times improvement in approval rate compared their prior solution. Globally, we have launched a new program called Visa Portfolio Health Check, where we review client portfolios tracking 30-plus key performance indicators. Year to date, we have held health checks across 55 countries, identifying nearly 300 specific opportunities worth nearly $50 billion in incremental payment volume. Before I close, let me touch briefly on the two recently announced acquisitions. First, out of the open banking platform, Tink. Visa's proven infrastructure and sustained investment in resilient cybersecurity and fraud prevention, combined with Tink's APIs, their technology and customer relationships is expected to help accelerate the adoption of open banking in Europe by ensuring a secure, reliable platform for innovation, which will help consumers and businesses. Second is the acquisition of Currencycloud, a global platform that enables banks and fintechs to provide their customer and business customers innovative foreign exchange solutions for cross-border payments around the world. As part of our network of networks strategy, the combination of Currencycloud's capabilities on the front end of the transaction through their API and our settlement capabilities across VisaNet and other Visa networks, such as Plus, Earthport and Visa B2B Connect will be very compelling value propositions for our partners. In closing, as we look to finish our fiscal year, I'm very encouraged by the recovery trajectory across the board and pleased with the momentum in many of our key growth areas. Our recently launched new brand campaign describes Visa-as-a-Network working for everyone, and we are increasingly sitting at the center of enabling money movement. I'm confident that our strategy combined with -- our network-to-network strategy, combined with our three growth levers of consumer payments, new flows and value-added services remains more relevant than ever and positions us well as we look forward to a robust recovery. With that, let me turn it over to Vasant. Vasant?Vasant Prabhu -- Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Al. Good afternoon, everyone. Fiscal third-quarter results exceeded our expectations with net revenues up 27%, driven by robust growth in both credit and debit in the U.S., higher cross-border volumes from a faster-than-anticipated recovery in travel, as well as a spike in cryptocurrency purchases and lower client incentives, largely due to deal timing. Had we recognized service revenues on current-quarter payments volume, net revenue growth would have been 39%. The reason for this large difference in growth is a result of the significant quarter-over-quarter change in growth rates of payments volumes both last year and this year. The third quarter last year experienced the steepest drop in payments volume and third quarter this year has been our strongest growth quarter since the pandemic started. When adjusted for the service fee recognition lag, net revenues for Q3 FY '20 are lower and net revenues for Q3 this year are higher. GAAP EPS grew 10%, primarily due to a nonrecurring noncash step-up in deferred tax liabilities as a result of the recently announced increase in U.K. tax rates starting in 2023. Non-GAAP EPS rose 41%, helped by lower-than-expected expense growth and a lower tax rate. Exchange rate shifts lifted net revenue growth by 1 point and EPS growth by 2 points. As we did last quarter, to help you better assess both the magnitude and the trajectory of the recovery, we have also provided key performance metrics relative to fiscal-year '19. In constant dollars, global payments volume was up 34%, led by continued strength in debit, as well as improved credit spending. Compared to the third quarter of 2019, global payments volume was 21% higher, a 5-point acceleration from the second quarter with debit and credit improving by 5 points and 4 points, respectively. Excluding China, total payments volume growth was 38% or 25% higher than 2019 and a 5-point acceleration from the second quarter. Chinese domestic volumes continue to be impacted by dual-branded card conversion, which have minimal revenue impact. U.S. payments volume growth was 40% and up 30% over 2019, benefiting from economic impact payments in the first half of the quarter and then, from the lifting of COVID-related restrictions across the country. Debit growth accelerated 4 points, up 48% from 2019, remaining strong throughout the quarter as the trend toward accelerated cash digitization and e-commerce was sustained even as the economy reopened. Credit growth improved 8 points, up 14 points from 2019. The credit improvement was fueled by two interrelated factors: a significant acceleration in travel, entertainment and restaurant spending; as well as the resurgence of affluent cardholder spending. Card-present spend accelerated by 9 points to 12% about 2019, even as card-not-present volume, excluding travel, improved 4 points to 59% over '19. Online shopping habits acquired during the pandemic are persisting. As the U.S. reopen, travel and entertainment spending improved steadily through the quarter, both up about 25 points from the second quarter. Travel is approaching 2019 levels in July, while entertainment surpassed 2019 levels in May. Restaurant spending in the quarter was over 20% above 2019 levels. Growth across all other spend categories remain strong and stable. International constant dollar payments volume growth improved 4 points from the second quarter, up 13% over 2019 levels. A few regional highlights. Growth in our CEMEA region remained strong, up 48% from 2019 levels, consistent with Q2, fueled by cash utilization and client wins. Latin America was also up 48% from 2019, accelerating 8 points from the second quarter with robust performance across the region, fueled by market share gains. Brazil volumes are seemingly unaffected by the high level of COVID cases due to significant cash utilization and large increases in e-commerce adoption. We are also benefiting from our digital partnerships and client wins in Brazil. Europe was up 17% from 2019, improving 9 points from the second quarter, the largest sequential acceleration among our regions. Across Europe, restrictions were relaxed and in-store spending recovered while e-commerce spend remained strong. Asia Pacific remains our weakest region, up 5% from 2019 and down 3 points from the second quarter, excluding China. Performance across the region varied based on the level of infections and COVID-related restrictions. There were intermittent restrictions during the quarter in Australia, Japan and Singapore. Much of Southeast Asia was significantly impacted by rising COVID infections and resulting lockdowns. In India, a sharp slowdown in spending starting in mid-April and through May was followed by a quick rebound with July spending well above 2019 levels. Global profit transaction growth was 20% over 2019, improving 4 points from the second quarter as transactions increased with volume across every region, except the U.S., where transaction growth still lags payments volume growth due to higher ticket sizes. Visa Direct transaction growth remained robust in the mid-50s. The cross-border volume recovery continued as more countries open their borders. Constant dollar cross-border volume, excluding transactions within Europe, was at 82% of 2019 volumes, a 7-point improvement from Q2, led by a steady increase in travel, as well as a spike in cross-border cryptocurrency purchases from mid-April through the end of May. Cross-border card-not-present volume, excluding travel, continued to be very strong, up 56% from 2019, improving 12 points from the second quarter, with cryptocurrency purchases representing most of that acceleration. We have seen more active cards and more spend per card in cryptocurrency purchases. We saw the normal seasonal uptick in cross-border travel spending during March and April. However, cross-border travel in May and June was stronger than the typical seasonal trend as many borders reopened or eased requirements. Cross-border travel-related spend, excluding intra-Europe, was at 45% of 2019 levels, expanding 6 points in the second quarter, rising from 40% in 2019 April to 50% in June. The state of the cross-border travel recovery varies significantly across regions, depending on border openings, quarantines and other requirements, as well as infection levels. Outbound travel from the U.S. and Latin America was back to around 60% of 2019 levels in the third quarter, but as Europe and CEMEA were about halfway back. Inbound travel has recovered the most into Latin America and CEMEA, with Latin America above 2019 levels due to Mexico, but as the U.S. and Europe are only about a third of 2019 levels. Asia Pacific cross-border travel, both in and out, has recovered the least still at around a quarter of 2019 levels. We have seen immediate impacts when popular travel destinations open their bothers. Greece opened borders in April and inbound card-present spend rose nearly 30 points by the end of June relative to 2019 levels. France opened on June 9, and inbound card-present volume rose nearly 20 points by the end of June relative to 2019. Travel to Mexico has been strong for several quarters, while the third quarter accelerated further helped by travel from the U.S. amid vaccination progress. Since April, carp-present cross-border spend in Mexico from the U.S. rose nearly 50 points to over 170% of 2019 levels. Moving now to a quick review of third-quarter financial results. Service revenues grew 17%, led by 11% growth in the second-quarter constant dollar payments volume, helped further by favorable FX exchange rates and mix, as well as small pricing modifications. Data processing grew 32% due to very strong domestic processed transaction growth, particularly outside the U.S. The 7-percentage-point difference between revenue and processed transaction growth reflected the mix shift away from higher-yielding cross-border transactions. In addition, while value-added services recorded in data processing revenues had strong and accelerating growth, this was lower than overall process transaction growth, which benefited from lapping effects. International transaction revenues were up 54%, 8 points lower than nominal cross-border volumes, excluding intra-Europe, due to lapping high currency volatility last year and a less favorable regional mix. Other revenues grew 31%, led by consulting and data services and helped by lapping COVID impacts last year. In total, value-added services revenue grew 28%. Of the 14-point acceleration from the second quarter, about two-thirds was due to COVID-related lapping effects. Client incentives were 25.8% of gross revenues, consistent with the second quarter but lower than our expectations due to both numerator and denominator effects. A lower-than-expected numerator as some deals were delayed and are now expected for the fourth quarter, also higher incentives from U.S. outperformance were largely offset by lower incentives from underperformance in Asia Pacific. A higher-than-expected denominator as we had stronger cross-border volumes and value-added services revenue, both of which don't have significant incentives associated with them. Non-GAAP operating expenses grew 12%, below our expectations, mostly due to timing of some initiatives being pushed into Q4, particularly marketing spend and professional fees. Marketing expenses did grow over 50% in the quarter as we lapped reductions in spending at the outset of COVID last year. G&A expenses decreased year over year due to favorable foreign currency fluctuations and lower indirect taxes. We recorded gains from our equity investments of $439 million. Visa has minority investments in over 50 strategic partners. When there is a new financing round or an IPO, per the accounting rules, we mark our investments to market, which can result in gains or losses. Our investment portfolio has been performing very well. There were gains across several of our investments. The gain recorded this quarter was largely driven by one partner's financing round and another partner's IPO. Excluding investment gains, non-GAAP nonoperating expense was $114 million in the fiscal third quarter. Our GAAP tax rate was 41.3% due to a $1 billion nonrecurring noncash tax charge pertaining to the remeasurement of deferred tax liabilities and the taxes related to investment gains. The non-GAAP tax rate was lower than expected at 17.9% due to the recognition of a tax benefit. GAAP EPS was $1.18, non-GAAP EPS was $1.49, up 41% over last year. We bought 9.5 million shares of Class A common stock at an average price of $227.83 for $2.2 billion this quarter. Including our quarterly dividend of $0.32 per share, we returned approximately $2.9 billion of capital to shareholders in the quarter. Moving on to our outlook for the fourth quarter. I'll start with business trends through July '21. U.S. payments volume growth was 31% above 2019, consistent with the third quarter, with debit up 46% and credit up 17% versus 2019. As we've said before, weekly numbers can have noise in them. For example, in the third week of July 2019, a major online retailer had their annual sales event, which impacted performance indexed to 2019, particularly e-commerce spending using credit. International payments volume trends versus 2019 are moderately about a third quarter but in line with June. Notable exceptions include improvements in India, Canada and Brazil, with modest slowdown in Australia and Japan. Process transaction growth continued to improve, up 23% versus 2019. Cross-border volume, excluding transactions within Europe on a constant-dollar basis were 81% of 2019, which is 1 point below the third quarter in June. Travel-related spending versus 2019 improved 3 points compared to June, offset by lower e-commerce growth, mostly due to cryptocurrency purchases falling back to pre-April levels. The recent announcement by the U.K. and Canada regarding border openings in August should be helpful in the fourth quarter, while Asia Pacific remained largely closed to travelers. Assuming July trends continue, fourth-quarter net revenue growth is expected to be in line with the third quarter. We expect the benefit from the service fee recognition lag and the cross-border travel recovery to be partially offset by cryptocurrency purchases falling back to pre-April levels, as well as smaller year-over-year lapping benefits in transaction processing and value-added services revenues. We expect client incentives as a percent of gross revenue to increase half a point to 1 point versus the third quarter due to delays from the third quarter and the typical increase we see in Q4 due to the end of fiscal year-end deal closing -- end of fiscal-year deal closings. The third quarter was the first quarter of growth, relative to fiscal-year '19, we have had since the pandemic started. Based on current trends, we expect fourth quarter net revenue growth relative to fiscal-year '19 to be in the same range as the third quarter. Q4 operating expenses are expected to grow in the mid-teens inclusive of some expenses planned for the third quarter, which were pushed into Q4. Nonoperating expense is expected to be around $125 million. Our tax rate expectations are in the 19% to 19.5% range. In summary, we had a stronger-than-expected third quarter as economies and borders reopen. Even as card present spend recovered, e-commerce spend stayed strong. Debit spending sustained high growth rates as cash digitization remains robust. The cross-border travel recovery is gaining momentum. Our new flows and value-added services businesses continue to grow at high rates as they have all through the pandemic. We are stepping up investments in key growth initiatives as we look ahead to several quarters of recovery and prepare to capture the exciting opportunities available to us in the post-COVID era. With that, I'll hand it over to Mike for questions and answers.Mike Milotich -- Senior Vice President, Investor Relations We're now ready to take questions, Michelle. 