
OperatorGood morning and welcome to the IPG Photonics Second Quarter 2021 Conference Call and Webcast. Today's call is being recorded and webcast.At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Eugene Fedotoff, IPG's Director of Investor Relations for introductions. Please, go ahead, sir.Eugene Fedotoff -- Director of Investor RelationsThank you, Ken, and good morning, everyone. With us today is IPG Photonics' Executive Chairman; Dr. Valentin Gapontsev; Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Eugene Scherbakov; and Senior Vice President and CFO, Tim Mammen.Statements made during the course of this call that discuss management's or the company's intentions, expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements.These risks and uncertainties include the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business and those detailed in IPG Photonics' Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2020, and our reports on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Copies of these filings may be obtained by visiting the Investors section of IPG's website or by conducting the company directly. You may also find copies on the SEC's website.Any forward-looking statements made on this call are the company's expectations or predictions as of today August 3, 2021, only. The company assumes no obligation to publicly release any updates or revisions to any such statements. For additional details on our reported results, please refer to the earnings press release and the Excel-based financial data workbook posted on our Investor Relations website. We will post these prepared remarks on our website following the completion of this call.With that, I'll now turn the call over to Valentin.Valentin Gapontsev -- Executive ChairmanGood morning, everyone. We are pleased to report another good quarter for IPG. Our second quarter revenue was significantly above the same period of last year and increased from strong results in the prior quarter, driven by improved macroeconomic conditions in most major geographies, growth in emerging products as well as, excellent execution by the IPG team.We saw higher end market demand for our core material processing product, where our fiber lasers are replacing traditional tools and handheld welders and continue to pursue the opportunities in emerging markets.We remain focused on growing sales in applications that require innovative solutions, our expertise in fiber laser technology and superior quality of product, such as advanced applications, electric vehicle battery production, medical and microprocessing.Our technologies are transforming the way products are created, enabling production of smaller and more complex devices, improving the product we use every day and bringing advanced manufacturing capabilities to electric vehicle and renewable energy industries, helping to address climate change and sustainability initiatives. Our investment in new products and the applications are paying dividends.In the second quarter, emerging product sales increased 47% year-over-year and accounted for 29% of sales compared to 25% last year. We continue to focus on innovation at IPG and are working on potential for exciting new opportunities. I hope to share more details about these opportunities with you on our future calls.With that I will turn the call over to Eugene Scherbakov.Eugene Scherbakov -- Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Valentin, and good morning, everyone. During the quarter we demonstrated excellent progress in our core material processing market, across all major geographies, with accelerated growth in high power and ultra-high power lasers for cutting applications in the U.S. and Europe and strong growth in welding in China and Europe.We also delivered robust growth in emerging products and applications. Revenue from material processing applications increased 27% year-over-year and contributed 93% of total revenue in the quarter. Sales in welding application grew significantly in the last several quarters due to increased sales of our AMB adjusted motor beam lasers for general manufacturing purposes and electric vehicle battery welding applications.Battery manufacturers are facing challenges welding together different type of materials such kind of copper, sulfur and aluminum. These materials are extremely same reflective and need to be welded with high precision and reliability. Each battery model requires hundreds of welds and our AMB lasers can address these challenges, offering superior speed and weld quality or competence solution this broad range of beam tunability and spotless welding. We also saw strong demand in emerging and micro material processing applications such as solar cell manufacturing and 3D printing.Sales of our green pulsed lasers, which are used to improve solar efficiency more than tripled compared to the prior year and becoming a more meaningful part of IPG's revenue. We are taking advantage of opportunity created by increased focus on sustainability globally and expect future solar cell manufacturing capacity to grow driving additional sales in our green lasers. We are also increasing the pulse energy of the green lasers to enable next-generation applications in solar, drilling and copper welding for consumer electronics. Revenue from our other applications increased by 5% year-over-year. Medical sales showed a good growth both year-over-year and sequentially, as a result of improved demand of our surgical lasers. Advanced application sales improved year-over-year, while telecom revenue declined compared to the same period in the prior year.Examining our performance by region. Our revenue in China increased 10% year-over-year in the second quarter representing approximately 43% of our total sales. Year-over-year comparison for the region was more difficult as China sales rebounding from the pandemic earlier than other regions last year. We saw strong demand in welding application for our AMB and ultra-high power lasers while demand and cutting translate at the end of the quarter, so the sales of high-power lasers increased only slightly compared to the second quarter last year. We continue to see solid demand in foil cutting and welding applications, related to electric vehicle batteries and also starting to see some demand for the LightWELD compared by the welding system in China, which should provide a modest benefit to revenue in the second half.While China's market remains very price competitive, we have continued to be disciplined with our approach to pricing given superior performance quality, energy efficiency and reliability of power lasers. China remains a significant part of the customer base that is very focused on the price alone. Sales to the rest of Asia increased 123% year-over-year with strong growth in Korea and other countries, offsetting lower revenue in Japan. We are seeing a strong demand for our welding and foil cutting solution for EV batteries in Korea and encourage by improved bookings in Japan. In Europe, revenue increased 50% year-over-year as we saw an acceleration of demand from customers in the region and strong growth in cutting, welding, marking and cleaning applications.Sales improved significantly in high power -- ultra-high power in AMB and QCW lasers. European cutting customers are moving into the ultra high-power lasers and are replacing CO2 laser with fiber lasers to improve productivity. Bookings for the region remain positive pointing to continued recovery. Revenue in North America increased 23% year-over-year. Growth was primarily driven by material processing and increased sales of high-power lasers for cutting applications.Sales to automotive was traditional. Electrical and solar markets remain strong. We also saw solid improvement in micro material processing applications and strong growth in demand for LightWELD. Besides our normal direct sales model, we are leveraging the new third-party resales with numerous welding stores and new direct online sales platform for LightWELD in US.Laser system sales improved in the second quarter. This is both laser and non-laser system posting strong revenue growth. Booking remained high and we expect to see additional improvement in system sales in the third quarter. We continue to benefit from our vertically integrated production model which enable key technology advantages or the competition while minimizing the cost and supply chain disruptions.However, we did experience focus on certain components during the quarter and so increasing lead-time that have impacted our and our customers' operations. We are also evaluating inflationary pressures on our input cost and we will deviate prior quotations when they expire.Despite this troubled years, we were able to deliver the revenue growth to the midpoint of our guidance and gross margin close to top or our expectations for the second quarter.IPG itself been a technology leader in fiber laser more than 20 years. And none of our competitors have been able to match or approach the capability of our products. Restructuring development is our DNA. And we are continuing to focus on reducing the cost and improving the quality of our components and products.We are also committed to expanding the range of products and applications. We address by pushing on research and development project. By belief we can commercialize in the near to midterm which have significant market potential.We will continue to focus on opportunities where we can increase our value propositions to customers by delivering complete processing and technology solutions with our optical -- and system capability. I want to thank our employers through the execution during in the second quarter and thank our shareholders for your continued support.With that I will turn the call over to Tim to discuss financial highlights in the quarter and third quarter outlook.Tim Mammen -- Senior Vice President & Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Eugene and good morning everyone. Revenue in the second quarter was $372 million, which increased 25% year-over-year and 8% sequentially. Revenue from materials processing applications increased 27% year-over-year and revenue from other applications increased 5%.Sales of high-power CW lasers increased 20% year-over-year and represented approximately 51% of total revenue. Sales of ultra-high power lasers at six kilowatts or greater represented 51% of total high-power CW laser sales and increased 15% compared to the prior year. Medium power laser sales increased 70% on growth in cutting welding 3D printing and semiconductor applications.QCW laser sales increased 13% year-over-year on higher demand from welding applications. Pulsed laser sales increased 45% year-over-year with strong growth in green pulsed laser used in solar cell manufacturing and higher sales of our infrared lasers for marking and cleaning applications as well as foil cutting applications in the electric vehicle batteries manufacturing process.System sales increased 19% year-over-year with improved sales for Genesis and ILT. Other product sales decreased 4% year-over-year. We estimate that supply chain constraints impacted our revenue by $7 million to $10 million in the quarter.Second quarter GAAP gross margin was 48.6%, an increase of 260 basis points year-over-year. Compared with the year ago period, the increase in gross margin was driven primarily by improved absorption of manufacturing expenses, partially offset by lower pricing and higher shipping costs as a percentage of sales. GAAP operating income was $92 million and operating margin was 24.8%.Second quarter net income was $70 million or $1.29 per diluted share. The effective tax rate in the quarter was 24%. During the quarter, we recognized a foreign exchange loss of $3 million primarily related to the appreciation of the Russian ruble and euro, partially offset by the appreciation of the Chinese yuan. The foreign exchange loss reduced the EPS by $0.04.Exchange rates relative to the US dollar, had been the same as one year ago, we would have expected revenue to be $23 million lower and gross profit to be $13 million lower. We ended the quarter with cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $1.5 billion and total debt of $36 million.Strong operational execution resulted in cash provided by operations of $116 million during the quarter. Capital expenditures were $27 million in the second quarter and we now expect capital expenditures to be between $130 million and $150 million for the full year. During the quarter we repurchased 185,000 shares for $39 million.Commenting on outlook for the next quarter. Second quarter book-to-bill remained above one. While we expect continued improvement in sales outside of China, sales in China are likely to moderate in the third quarter due to more difficult comparisons and softer demand in cutting applications.However, displacement of non-laser technologies, secular environmental trends and investments we have made in emerging products, mean that we continue to see growth opportunities in high-power cutting, foil cutting and welding applications for electric vehicle battery productions as well as opportunities in solar cell manufacturing, medical procedures and advanced applications.We also see LightWELD sales gaining traction in multiple geographies in the second half of the year. For the third quarter of 2021, IPG expects revenue of $350 million to $380 million, which implies a 15% year-over-year growth at the midpoint despite more difficult third quarter year-over-year comparisons, softness in the cutting market in China and ongoing supply chain constraints.The company expects the third quarter tax rate to be approximately 25%, excluding any discrete items. IPG anticipates delivering earnings per diluted share, in the range of $1.10 to $1.40 with 53.5 million basic common shares outstanding and 54 million diluted common shares outstanding.I would like to remind you that financial guidance provided this quarter continues to be subject to greater risk and uncertainty given the COVID-19 pandemic and its associated impacts to the global business environment, public health requirements and government mandates. Please refer to the safe harbor passage of today's earnings press release for more details on risks and uncertainties associated with our forward-looking statements.With that, Valentin and Eugene will be happy to take your questions -- and I will be.