  OperatorGood afternoon, and welcome to Ulta Beauty's conference call to discuss results for the third quarter of fiscal 2021. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. We ask that you please limit yourself to one question and then reenter the queue for any additional questions. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. It is now my pleasure to introduce Ms. Kiley Rawlins, vice president of investor relations. Ms. Rawlins, please proceed.Kiley Rawlins -- Vice President of Investor Relations Thank you, Laura. Good afternoon, everyone. Hosting our call today are Dave Kimbell, chief executive officer; and Scott Settersten, chief financial officer. Kecia Steelman, chief operating officer, will join us for the Q&A. This afternoon, we released our financial results for the third quarter of fiscal 2021. A copy of the press release is available in the Investor Relations section of our website. Before we begin, I'd like to remind you of the company's safe harbor language. The statements contained in this conference call, which are not historical facts, may be deemed to constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.Actual future results may differ materially from those projected in such statements due to a number of risks and uncertainties, all of which are described in the company's filings with the SEC. We caution you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of today, December 2, 2021. We have no obligation to update or revise our forward-looking statements, except as required by law, and you should not expect us to do so. In today's comments, we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures, including adjusted operating income and adjusted diluted EPS for the third quarter of fiscal 2020. A reconciliation of these measures to the corresponding GAAP measures can be found in our earnings release, which is available in the Investor Relations section of our website. We'll begin this afternoon with prepared remarks from Dave and Scott. Following our prepared comments, we will open up the call for questions. We respectfully request that you ask one question to allow us to have time to respond to as many of you as possible during the hours scheduled for this call. As always, Mary Kate and I will be available for any follow-up questions after the call. Now I'd like to turn the call over to Dave. Dave? Dave Kimbell -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Kiley, and good afternoon, everyone. The Ulta Beauty team delivered outstanding results again this quarter. For the third quarter, net sales increased 28.6% to a record $2 billion. Operating profit increased to 14.2% of sales, and diluted EPS increased to $3.94 per share. In addition to producing these excellent financial results, we also delivered strong operational results. We continue to increase our market share in Prestige Beauty based on dollar sales for the 13 weeks ended October 30, 2021, compared to the same period last year. We increased the number of members in our Ultimate Rewards loyalty program by 13% to a record 35.9 million members and returned to pre-pandemic member penetration levels. And we navigated global supply chain challenges and tight labor markets and remained well-positioned to meet guest needs and deliver a successful holiday season. This performance reflects the strength and resiliency of the beauty category, the power of Ulta Beauty's differentiated model, and the impact of our winning culture and outstanding team. I want to express my sincere appreciation to all of our Ulta Beauty associates for their incredible efforts to serve our guests and deliver these excellent results. I'm inspired every day by our associates' passion for beauty and passion for our guests, and I am honored to lead such a great company of talented associates who continue to care for each other while driving our business forward. At our Analyst Day in October, we introduced a new strategic framework, which will shape our future and enable Ulta Beauty to deliver against longer-term financial targets. Today, I'll reiterate some of the information we discussed about our strategic imperatives and share an update on progress made in the third quarter, then I'll share how we are positioning Ulta Beauty for holiday before I turn it over to Scott to discuss the financials. Starting with our focus on driving breakthrough and disruptive growth through an expanded definition of All Things Beauty. Our differentiated assortment is core to our success. And we continue to innovate, evolve, and expand our offering to excite the beauty enthusiast. In the third quarter, all major categories delivered robust double-digit comp growth compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2020, driven by cycling last year's disruption from COVID, product newness, and strong performance from our strategic promotional events, including 21 Days of Beauty, Fall Haul, and our Gorgeous Hair Event. Compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2019, fragrance, bath, haircare, and skincare all delivered strong double-digit comp growth. While makeup was slightly below 2019 levels, we are encouraged that the trend in Prestige Makeup improved from the second quarter, and growth in mass cosmetics remained strong. Engagement with the category remains high with consumers looking to refresh their beauty stash with new products, and recent trends give us confidence the makeup category will return to growth compared to pre-pandemic levels. Compared to last year, eyes, face, and lip continued to deliver strong growth within the makeup category. Engagement with false lashes and lash growth serums, combined with innovation like creamy eye shadow sticks, are driving continued growth within eye. Increased interest in tinted moisturizers and blush are driving growth within face. And lip color, lip gloss, and lip balm continue to drive growth within lip. Newness continues to excite and engage guests. New brands like Bobby Brown and Elaluz, combined with new product launches from a wide range of brands, including ColourPop, Urban Decay, Tarte and NYX drove nice growth in the quarter. In addition, this quarter, we expanded MAC into 200 additional stores. Haircare delivered another quarter of double-digit growth driven by strong guest engagement with our strategic events, newness, and our Back Bar Takeover events. In early October, we kicked off our fall Gorgeous Hair event, a semiannual event strategically focused on acquiring members who do not shop the haircare category or engage with our salon services. Building on the success of our spring event, we continue to streamline offers, focus our marketing events, and create relevant storytelling around hair goals, service enhancements, and holiday kits. We saw good growth from our core assortment and engagement with new brands like KRISTIN ESS, Briogeo, and Verb. And product newness from brands like Dyson, Living Proof, Redken, and Curlsmith continued to resonate with guests. We continue to expand our assortment of prestige haircare brands, and I'm excited to share we will launch OLAPLEX, the No. 1 prestige hair brand in the market, in all Ulta Beauty stores and on ulta.com in January. Our Back Bar Takeovers give our stylists the unique opportunity to introduce new brands and products to guests. And this quarter, salon takeovers by Bondi Boost, IGK, Verb, and KRISTIN ESS all drove nice sales growth during their respective takeovers. Skincare delivered another quarter of strong double-digit sales growth as guests continue to invest in self-care and maintain their skincare regimens. Similar to last quarter, skincare routines, including moisturizers, serums, and cleansers, drove category growth. New brands, including Drunk Elephant; Fresh; Good Molecules, which is exclusive to Ulta Beauty and peach slices; as well as new products from Tula, Clinique, and The Ordinary drove solid guest engagement. Finally, our fragrance and bath category continued to deliver exceptional growth. Ariana Grande's latest fragrance, God is a Woman, which is exclusive to Ulta Beauty; as well as newness from Carolina Herrera; Coach; YSL, and Dior, drove strong growth during the quarter. Events included in our back-to-school gift with purchase and our monthly Fragrance Crush program also drove strong engagement. Beyond fragrance, the bath and body category continues to drive robust growth as moisturizers and scrubs remain on trend. In addition to delivering growth from our core categories, we are focused on driving growth from key cross-functional platforms. Starting with Conscious Beauty, our cross-category initiative intended to help guests discover and engage with brands and products which reflect their personal values. Through this program, we identify brands across five key pillars: clean ingredients, cruelty-free, vegan, sustainable packaging, and positive impact. During the quarter, we certified 19 new brands, including LAMIK Beauty, WLDKAT, and Better Not Younger, bringing the total number of certified conscious beauty brands to 275 at the end of Q3. During the third quarter, we expanded our certification to the SKU level for clean ingredients and vegan and added in-store badging at the shelf for certified brands, as well as new search filters online to help guests easily identify products, which reflect what is most important to them. Moving now to our efforts to expand our assortment of black-owned and BIPOC brands. During the third quarter, we added two new black-owned brands, Sunday II Sunday, and Nude Sugar, and we are on track to double the number of black-owned brands in our assortment this year. In addition, I am excited to share that we have welcomed our first South Asian-owned makeup brand to the Ulta Beauty family, Live Tinted. Founded by Asian influencer Deepica Mutyala, Live Tinted is a cosmetic brand that celebrates multicultural beauty. The brand is also [Technical difficulty] 