  OperatorThank you for standing by, and welcome to the CrowdStrike Holdings second-quarter fiscal year 2022 financial results conference call. [Operator instructions] After the speakers' presentation, there'll be a question-and-answer session. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, today's conference call is being recorded. I will now turn the conference to your host, Ms. Maria Riley, vice president of investor relations. Please go ahead.Maria Riley -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



 Good afternoon, and thank you for your participation today. With me on the call are George Kurtz, president and chief executive officer and co-founder of CrowdStrike; and Burt Podbere, chief financial officer. Before we get started, I would like to note that certain statements made during this conference call that are not historical facts, including those regarding our future plans, objectives, growth, and expected performance, including our outlook for the third-quarter and fiscal year 2022, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements represent our outlook only as of the date of this call. While we believe any forward-looking statements we make are reasonable, actual results could differ materially because the statements are based on current expectations and are subject to risk and uncertainty. We do not undertake and expressly disclaim any obligation to update or alter our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. Further information on these and other factors that could affect the company's financial results are included in filings we make with SEC from time to time, including the section titled Risk Factors in the company's quarterly and annual reports that we filed with the SEC. Additionally, unless otherwise stated, excluding revenue, all financial measures discussed on this call will be non-GAAP.A discussion of why we use non-GAAP financial measures and a reconciliation schedule showing GAAP versus non-GAAP results is currently available in our press release, which may be found on our investor relations website at ir.crowdstrike.com or on our Form 8-K filed with the SEC today. With that, I will now turn the call over to George to begin. George Kurtz -- President and Chief Executive Officer and Co-Founder

 



 Thank you, Maria, and thank you all for joining us today. We delivered an outstanding second quarter, with rapid subscription revenue growth and record net new ARR generated in the quarter. We saw strength in multiple areas of the business, added $150.6 million in net new ARR, and grew ending ARR 70% to exceed $1.34 billion. Our continued strong performance was driven by the groundswell of customers turning to CrowdStrike as their trusted security platform of record. We saw strong demand across the market, which for us spans large enterprise, mid-market, and SMB customers. Our success in gaining share in each of these market segments is reflected in our net new customer growth rate, which, on an organic basis, accelerated in the quarter. In total, 1,660 net new customers chose CrowdStrike as their security partner, bringing our customer count to 13,080. The CrowdStrike brand is viewed as the gold standard in security. We designed the Falcon platform and our security cloud to add value and improve the security posture of any organization, regardless of size and sophistication. Customers new to CrowdStrike this quarter included a household name in the consumer security space, one of the largest nonprofit healthcare organizations in the United States, a Fortune 50 global insurance provider, and our security partner proof point, who we are excited to deepen our relationship with as both a technology and security partner. I'm also pleased to highlight that Workday, a cloud pioneer and leading provider of enterprise cloud applications for finance and human resources, which CrowdStrike also uses, has now standardized on CrowdStrike Falcon across their multi-OS fleet. The threat environment remains fierce, as expanding attack surface and inherent vulnerabilities in widely used operating systems, along with the complexity of active directory, leaves companies of all sizes open to attack and provide a rich feeding ground for sophisticated and novice e-criminals alike. The lessons learned from recent attacks emphasized that a breach involves more than just malware, which is why companies need to employ a holistic breach prevention strategy rather than overly relying on malware prevention, regardless if it's legacy or next-gen. As I've said before, nearly every breach you have ever heard of had two things in common, the victims had both a firewall and an antivirus solution, which is why we built the Falcon platform from the ground up to stop breaches and not just prevent malware. With this mission, CrowdStrike has turned the tables on the adversaries and has become a trusted leader in security. Meanwhile, competitors fall further behind as they continue to blindly promote a strategy that relies on malware prevention versus a comprehensive solution, focused on people, process, and technology that stops breaches.

 



 According to recent data from our customer base indexed by Threat Graph, more than half of the detections analyzed were not malware-based. Attackers are increasingly attempting to accomplish their objectives without using malware. They are exploiting the proliferation of vulnerabilities and abusing systemic weaknesses in identity architecture to get on the system and then moving laterally, thus making it more difficult for legacy and next-gen malware-focused products to be effective because they are not focused on breach prevention. To further demonstrate my point, I'd like to share a recent customer win with a Fortune 500 company that was using Microsoft's legacy security products that failed to rise to the challenges of today's adversaries and ended up unnecessarily costing them millions of dollars. This company experienced a long and difficult deployment process, particularly in low bandwidth environments where endpoint performance was critical. Notably frustrated, this company began to evaluate alternatives when it was unfortunately hit by ransomware that encrypted their primary and backup data, causing weeks of business disruption and a financial impact estimated to be in the tens to hundreds of millions of dollars. This is when they turned to CrowdStrike. First, by bringing in our incident response team to remediate and stabilize their IT operations, and followed by deploying Falcon Complete across their environment. Our approach to stopping breaches with the Falcon platform is foundational to CrowdStrike's leadership position in the market and the epicenter of restoring trust to the security posture of companies worldwide. Using AI, machine learning, and an intelligent lightweight agent, the Falcon platform defends against today's most sophisticated threats with unmatched speed and simplicity. CrowdStrike's Threat Graph combines a massively scalable threat intelligence database with AI-powered analytics to detect, prevent, predict, and mitigate advanced attacks and zero-day exploits. Threat Graph and Falcon's XDR capabilities continuously ingest massive volumes of life telemetry data from Falcon endpoints and other sources at [Audio gap] scale. The Falcon platform processes approximately 1 trillion events per day from millions of agents, delivering unprecedented security insights, Bytes. This empowers Falcon to benefit from crowdsourcing and economies of scale unlike any other solution on the market today, which we believe enables our AI algorithms to be uniquely effective. The success of our platform strategy and growing leadership as the trusted security partner of choice is also reflected in our module adoption metrics, which we have continued to increase quarter after quarter. Subscription customers that have adopted four or more modules, five or more modules, and six or more modules increased to 66%, 53%, and 29% respectively in the second quarter. We believe that our extensible Falcon platform, purpose-built to collect data once and reuse it many times to address multiple use cases, not only provides customers an advantage over adversaries and lowers TCO, it is a cornerstone to building a durable growth business over the long term. As we innovate on the platform, customers can derive even more value from their CrowdStrike investment. Take for example a midsize healthcare organization who despite their limited budget and security staff was looking to bolster its security in the wake of repeated attacks against their peers. This organization initially thought they only needed to add a SIM solution but quickly realized the implementation and maintenance would be a burden to their current security posture. Whereas with CrowdStrike's Falcon Complete, Falcon Zero Trust, and Humio, they could transform their security posture, have round-the-clock monitoring, gain identity visibility and risk scoring, and implement a highly effective log management solution for less than the cost of purchasing a stand-alone SIM product. This customer was also amazed by Humio's speed of ingestion and ability to query data in real-time, which they deemed critical given the rise in malicious cyberactivity, targeting the healthcare sector. Customer interest in Humio is very high as the ability to log everything and get answers in real-time is a growing necessity. In Q2, we secured new Humio deals across multiple industries, including technology, healthcare, hospitality, and financial services. Additionally, Humio is already off to a great start in Q3 with a seven-figure land and growing pipeline. The integration of Humio into our already market-leading XDR capabilities is on track, and we are encouraged by the growth opportunities we see in this area. We look forward to showcasing more of our leading XDR capabilities at Falcon in October. I will now highlight several of our cloud modules that are gaining exceptional traction with customers as the threat landscape has intensified. First is Falcon Complete, our turnkey manage, detection, and response subscription. The heightened threat environment has put a significant strain on cyber resources and has exacerbated the skills gap in the industry. Recent reports indicate that over 3 million cyber jobs are unfulfilled, which is more than double the current number of professionals currently working in the field. Falcon Complete combines the advantages of our security cloud, the technology in our Falcon platform, and a team of threat hunters and responders to deliver gold standard security around the clock at scale with superior economics to organizations of all sizes. This translates to stopping breaches that extend far beyond the prevention of malware and that leverage legitimate software or services, exploit system misconfigurations, or abuse legitimate credentials. In recent quarters, we have seen a significant increase in the Falcon Complete customer base, which has grown approximately 2.5 times year over year. Additionally, just last week, Falcon Complete was named a leader in IDC MarketScape for U.S. manage, detection, and response services. Within the report, Falcon Complete was recognized for strength in its breach prevention warranty, fully remote automated remediation, breadth of threat hunting capabilities, and strong machine learning and artificial intelligence capabilities for detection and response. The next module on the Falcon platform I would like to highlight is Falcon Spotlight, which leverages the power of the cloud to provide real-time vulnerability assessment and AI to prioritize vulnerability remediation without impacting performance of the network or endpoint. Real-time vulnerability management is becoming a necessity for a proactive security posture given the continued targeting of core functionality and vulnerabilities in the Microsoft ecosystem and increase in zero-day exploits such as the recent Microsoft PrintNightmare vulnerability. Demonstrating the power of Falcon's network effect, we leveraged the massive amount of data and intelligence available in our security cloud in our AI model to predict that this newly discovered vulnerability would be exploited by adversaries. Using this data intelligence allowed us to provide customers with real-time visibility into their exposure. Our ability to provide real-time vulnerability management significantly differentiates CrowdStrike, and it's directly attributable to the fundamental architecture of our cloud-native Falcon platform that enables us to collect data once and reuse many. We believe our success to date with Spotlight is an excellent illustration of our ability to leverage the CrowdStrike's security cloud to stop breaches and drive module adoption. Spotlight's ability to provide visibility in real-time into PrintNightmare exposure, without deploying new agents or scanning, was a significant driver of no-touch trials generated through the CrowdStrike's store. Spotlight has also become strategic in the sales process, with a number of Spotlight customers growing more than 150% year over year in Q2. Next, I will briefly discuss Zero Trust. The recent Kaseya breach, which is reported to have impacted over 1,000 companies from a single breach, serves as a reminder to the far-reaching impact of a supply chain breach and the importance of a zero-trust architecture. It is also important to remember that most ransomware outbreaks have a compromised identity component. Shoring off this threat factor is critical to stopping breaches and lateral movement. Customers are increasingly turning to a zero-trust solution to combat threat actors that leverage identity-based attacks and move laterally within their targeted environments. CrowdStrike has the only zero-trust solution on the market today that combines endpoint, workload, and identity visibility, and behavioral analytics to secure environments and prevent lateral movement. Moving to cloud. More and more organizations are waking up to the fact that adversaries do not draw much of a distinction between targeting data on an endpoint versus a cloud environment. As an innovator in cloud security and operator of one of the largest clouds, organizations are turning to CrowdStrike to protect their cloud estates. I'd like to share with you a recent customer win that demonstrates how cloud-native organizations can leverage the Falcon platform to achieve best-in-class security that empowers their business model instead of clashing with it. A cutting-edge enterprise AI platform company and a member of the Forbes Cloud 100 was experiencing stability and scaling issues when trying to use a competitor's cloud security offering that was built through M&A. As a company on a mission to reduce their own customer friction and deliver actionable intelligence, they felt it was critical that their security partner could match their speed and scale in the cloud instead of slowing them down. With these requirements in mind, this cloud innovator selected CrowdStrike for its ability to provide a fully integrated and fully managed cloud solution through a single pane of glass with a single team. This customer purchased Falcon Complete with Cloud Workload Protection and Falcon Horizon to fully manage both their traditional endpoints and cloud workloads. This new customer found immense value in Falcon's cloud offerings across their EC2 and AWS Fargate infrastructure, making CrowdStrike the perfect partner to scale with their business. To summarize the power, breadth, and value the Falcon platform provides and the importance of building trust with customers, I will share two more customer wins with you. The first is with a large media company that was using a legacy provider and was hit with a severe ransomware attack that quickly spiraled across their business. They called on CrowdStrike services who leveraged both Falcon EDR for visibility, as well as our new module, Falcon Forensics, which automates the data collection and accelerates incident analysis, to help them quickly locate the root cause and take back control of their environment. Following remediation of this breach, this new CrowdStrike customer was eager to transform the security posture and adopted 11 Falcon modules, including Falcon Complete, Discover, Spotlight, Falcon X Recon, Cloud Workload Protection, and Falcon Zero Trust to proactively secure and fully manage their workstations, cloud workloads, and identity layer, as well as provide visibility into their IT assets and vulnerabilities. Next is a customer when I spoke about earlier was one of the largest nonprofit healthcare organizations in the United States. Given this company is a nonprofit, budget really matters, but not at the expense of breach protection. This customer was looking to refresh its endpoint strategy and move away from their existing vendor, Cylance, given it lacks the focus, efficacy, and the customer service they have been promised. Without a security partner they could trust to protect them, they felt vulnerable as incidents were not identified or remediated at the speed required to stay ahead of today's threat actors. The competitive bake-off initially included multiple next-gen and legacy vendors. The low-cost next-gen product was quickly eliminated because the system realized the overly prevention-focused approach was too similar to legacy tech. Ultimately, this customer chose CrowdStrike as their trusted security partner given Falcon's low false-positive rate, manageability at scale, ease of use, and performance that stood out prominently over all others. Additionally, our frictionless deployment was once again a key differentiator as Falcon was deployed across nearly 400,000 endpoints in just a few weeks. Moving to our partners. As we have discussed before, we are a partner-first company and believe the rapid expansion of our partner ecosystem is a direct reflection of our growing leadership position. Partners naturally gravitate to market leaders as it helps them bring in new customers. And likewise, customer choice helps propel vendor prominence within the partner community. Our leadership position is driving strong engagement [Audio gap] partners of all sizes, which is contributing to our growing presence among the highest levels, including boards and CIOs. For the first half of fiscal 2022, our partner-sourced ending ARR nearly doubled year over year. Investing in our partner ecosystem continues to be a key priority. In July, we teamed up with Telefonica Tech to bring the power of the Falcon platform to their hundreds of thousands of customers across Europe and North and South America. Coupling CrowdStrike's Falcon with Telefonica's NextDefense MDR offering, our joint customers now have trusted and proven next-gen endpoint protection and world-class services. We are also excited to announce a new strategic alliance with Horizon. Through this collaboration, the CrowdStrike Falcon platform will be positioned as part of Horizon's business security portfolio to provide comprehensive endpoint and workload protection that spans prevention, detection, and response capabilities. Horizon business will be able to manage CrowdStrike through their manage, detection, and response and CRM services, and we are thrilled to team up with them to help joint customers stop breaches and reduce cyber risk. In summary, I couldn't be more confident in our leadership position and opportunities for growth. I do not see another vendor in the market with our vision, platform, or ability to execute at scale. Our leadership as a trusted security platform of record and strong financial performance stands as a testament to CrowdStrike's dedication to innovation, protecting and delivering value to customers, and transforming the security industry. I'd like to thank every CrowdStriker for all that they do day in and day out to make us the best in the business. With that, I will turn the call over to Burt to discuss our financial results in more detail.Burt Podbere -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, George, and good afternoon, everyone. As a quick reminder, unless otherwise noted, all numbers, except revenue, mentioned during my remarks today are non-GAAP. We once again delivered exceptional results. In addition to strong growth at scale, in the second quarter, we continued to maintain very high unit economics, drive leverage, and remain very capital efficient, generating strong operating and free cash flow. Additionally, we continued to perform at a high level well in excess of the SaaS industry's Rule of 40 benchmark, once again achieving a Rule of 80. Demand in the quarter was broad based and well-balanced, fueled by strength in multiple areas of the business as we expand our leadership across the market from large enterprises to small businesses. We once again ended the quarter with a record pipeline, which we believe indicates a strong foundation for future growth. In the quarter, we delivered 70% ARR growth year over year to exceed $1.34 billion. Rapid new customer acquisition, as well as expansion business within existing customers, drove substantial growth in the second quarter, once again resulting in very strong net new ARR, which came in at an all-time high of $150.6 million. Our dollar-based net retention rate was once again above our benchmark. Moving to the P&L, total revenue grew 70% over Q2 of last year to reach $337.7 million. Subscription revenue grew 71% over Q2 of last year to reach $315.8 million. Professional services revenue was $21.9 million, setting a new record for the fourth consecutive quarter and representing 49% year-over-year growth. In terms of our geographic performance in Q2, we continued to see strong growth in the U.S., as well as international markets. Revenue growth in the U.S. was 73% and contributed approximately 72% of second-quarter revenue. Approximately 14% of revenue was derived from Europe, Middle East, and Africa markets, 10% from Asia Pacific, and approximately 4% from other markets. Second-quarter non-GAAP gross margin was 76%, up more than 150 basis points from Q2 of last year. Our non-GAAP subscription gross margin was 78% and not more than 90 basis points from Q2 of last year. We're continued to be pleased with our strong subscription gross margin performance. While we expect subscription gross margin to fluctuate quarter to quarter, we expect it to remain solidly within our increased target model range of 77% to 82% or more as we march to fiscal year 2025. Total non-GAAP operating expenses in the second quarter were $222.4 million, or 66% of revenue, versus $140.9 million last year or 71% of revenue. As planned, we continued investing aggressively in our business during the quarter, including increasing investments in new technologies, international geographies, and marketing programs. We believe the investments we are making today will lead to sustained growth over the long term and maintain our pole position as the trusted security partner of choice. Scaling our business efficiently remains a top priority, which is why we intensely focus on our unit economics, including Magic Number. Our go-to-market engine is executing on all fronts to seize the strong demand we see in the market so we can help even more customers restore trust in their security posture. In Q2, we ended with a Magic Number of 1.4. Our continued exceptional unit economics speaks to the efficiency of our go-to-market engine and frictionless sales motion, which we specifically designed to rapidly onboard and support customers of all sizes. It also indicates that we should increase investments in order to capture even more of the market opportunity at hand, which is exactly what we are planning. Second-quarter non-GAAP operating income was $35.3 million, and operating margin improved more than 6 percentage points over Q2 of last year to exceed 10%. Non-GAAP net income attributable to CrowdStrike in Q2 was $25.9 million or $0.11 on a diluted per share basis. Our weighted average common shares used to calculate second-quarter non-GAAP EPS attributable to CrowdStrike was on a diluted basis and totaled 238 million shares. We ended the second quarter with a strong balance sheet. Cash and cash equivalents increased to approximately $1.79 billion. Cash flow from operations in the second quarter was $108.5 million, and free cash flow was $73.6 million or 22% of revenue. This brings our free cash flow as a percent of revenue to 30% for the first half of the year. Moving to our guidance. We remain optimistic about the demand for our offerings, record pipeline, and the powerful secular trends fueling our growth. Given the growth drivers of our business, as well as our exceptional second-quarter performance and momentum into the third quarter, we are raising our guidance for the fiscal year 2022. While we do not specifically guide to ending or net new ARR, we expect seasonality in net new ARR to be less pronounced relative to prior years as we moved from Q2 into Q3 given our steady climb at a much higher scale in recent quarters. Additionally, please recall that our net new ARR in Q3 of last year included approximately $6.8 million in acquired new ARR. For the third quarter of FY '22, we expect total revenue to be in the range of $358 million to $365.3 million, reflecting a year-over-year growth rate of 54% to 57%, with subscription revenue being the dominant driver of growth. We expect non-GAAP income from operations to be in the range of $29.4 million to $34.7 million, and non-GAAP net income attributable to CrowdStrike to be in the range of $19.7 million to $25.0 million. We expect diluted non-GAAP net income per share attributable to CrowdStrike to be in the range of $0.08 to $0.10, utilizing a weighted average share count of 240 million shares on a diluted basis. For the full fiscal year 2022, we currently expect total revenue to be in the range of $1,391.2 million to $1,409.4 million, reflecting a growth rate of 59% to 61% over the prior fiscal year. Non-GAAP income from operations is expected to be between $138.5 million and $152.1 million. We expect fiscal 2022 non-GAAP net income attributable to CrowdStrike to be between $102.9 million and $116.5 million. Utilizing 239 million weighted average shares on a diluted basis, we expect non-GAAP net income per share attributable to CrowdStrike to be in the range of $0.43 to $0.49. George and I will now take your questions. 