  OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to third quarter 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] I would now like to hand the call over to your speaker today, Mr. Dennis McDaniel, investor relations officer. Sir, you may proceed.Dennis McDaniel -- Investor Relations

 



 Hello. This is Dennis McDaniel, investor relations officer at Cincinnati Financial. Thank you for joining us for our third quarter 2021 earnings conference call. Late yesterday, we issued a news release on our results, along with our supplemental financial package, including our quarter end investment portfolio. To find copies of any of these documents, please visit our investor website, cinfin.com/investors. The shortest route to the information is the Quarterly Results link and a navigation menu on the far left. On this call, you'll first hear from Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer Steve Johnston and then from Chief Financial Officer Mike Sewell. After their prepared remarks, investors participating on the call may ask questions.At that time, some responses may be made by others in the room with us, including Chief Investment Officer Marty Hollenbeck; and Cincinnati Insurance's chief insurance officer, Steve Spray; chief claims officer, Marc Schambow; and senior vice president of corporate finance, Theresa Hoffer. First, please note that some of the matters to be discussed today are forward-looking. These forward-looking statements involve certain risks and uncertainties. With respect to these risks and uncertainties, we direct your attention to our news release and to our various filings with the SEC. Also, a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures was provided with the news release. Statutory accounting data is prepared in accordance with statutory accounting rules and therefore is not reconciled to GAAP. Now I'll turn over the call to Steve. 

 



Steve Johnston -- Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Dennis. Good morning, and thank you for joining us today to hear more about our third quarter results. Overall, it was another good quarter. While weather-related catastrophes were lower than a year ago, communities across our country were impacted by hail, wind, flooding and fire. As we send our field claims associates into these communities, they shine, providing excellent service in reassuring affected families and businesses. Net income for the third quarter of 2021 fell $331 million, compared with the third quarter of last year due to $457 million less benefit on an after-tax basis in the fair value of securities held in our equity portfolio. Equity portfolio fair value changes have caused significant earnings volatility for several quarters recently, and net income increased $1.3 billion for the first nine months of 2021 compared with a year ago despite the third quarter decrease. Non-GAAP operating income for the third quarter of 2021 more than tripled, up $146 million or 232% versus a year ago, with lower catastrophe losses on an after-tax basis, contributing $31 million of the increase. Our 92.6% third quarter 2021 property casualty combined ratio was 11 percentage points better than last year with decreased catastrophe losses this year, representing 4.1 points of the improvement. Our current accident year combined ratio before catastrophe loss effects also continued to improve and was 2.5 percentage points better than the first nine months of 2020. Premium growth continued at a nice pace during the quarter as a strengthening economy and great relationships we enjoy with our agents helped us grow ahead of industry estimates. Consolidated property casualty net written premiums rose 10% in the third quarter of 2021.

 



 We continue to focus on risk segmentation, giving our underwriters the tools they need to retain and write more profitable accounts while walking away from opportunities when we determine pricing is inadequate. Renewal pricing during the third quarter continued to be ahead of our estimate for prospective loss cost trends for each property casualty segment. Our commercial lines insurance segment again experienced mid-single-digit percentage range estimated average renewal price increases, down slightly from the second quarter. Our third quarter personal lines segment average renewal price increases slowed a little compared with the second quarter, including personal auto in the low single-digit range, while the excess and surplus lines insurance segment continued in the high single-digit range. Our commercial lines segment had an outstanding quarter with this 80.6% combined ratio improving by 21.8 percentage points, compared with the third quarter a year ago and growing net written premiums by 10%. For our personal lines segment, third quarter net written premiums grew 7% as it continued to benefit from planned expansion of high net worth business produced by our agencies. Its third quarter 2021 combined ratio was higher than a year ago, largely due to driving patterns moving toward pre-pandemic levels, increasing our personal auto loss ratio. Personal auto still produced a small underwriting profit for the third quarter. And for the first nine months of 2021, our personal lines segment, in total, had an underwriting profit. Our excess and surplus line segment produced a sub-95% combined ratio for the third quarter and the first nine months of the year and grew third quarter net written premiums by 30%. Cincinnati Re and Cincinnati Global each grew net written premiums in the third quarter of 2021. While both experienced significant losses from Hurricane Ida leading to underwriting losses for the quarter, we weren't surprised by the level of loss we saw for an event of this magnitude based on our models. Our life insurance subsidiary produced third quarter 2021 net income of $11 million and grew term life insurance earned premiums by 8%. I'll conclude with the value creation ratio, our primary measure of long-term financial performance. Strong operating results, measured as net income before investment gains, were the largest component of our VCR for both the third quarter and the first nine months of the year. VCR through September 30, 2021, was 12.4%, already reaching our annual average target range of 10% to 13%. Now our chief financial officer, Mike Sewell, will add perspective on some other areas of our financial performance.Mike Sewell -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Steve, and thanks to all of you for joining us today. Investment income grew nicely during the third quarter of 2021, up 7% compared with the same period a year ago. Third quarter dividend income was up 11%, and net purchases for the equity portfolio totaled $153 million for the first nine months of the year. Interest income from our bond portfolio grew 7%, and the pre-tax average yield was 4.06%, up three basis points from the third quarter a year ago. The average pre-tax yield for the total of purchased taxable and tax-exempt bonds during the third quarter of 2021 was 3.43%. Investing in the fixed maturity portfolio continues to be a priority with net purchases during the first nine months of the year totaling $694 million. Valuation changes for our investment portfolio during the third quarter of 2021 were modestly unfavorable for both our stock and bond portfolios. The overall third quarter net loss was $158 million before tax effects, including $105 million for our equity holdings and $80 million for our bond holdings. At the end of the third quarter, total investment portfolio net appreciated value was approximately $6.7 billion, including $5.8 billion for our equity securities. Cash flow was very strong in the third quarter, as it has been all year. It contributes to investment income and was a major factor in the 7% increase in interest income we reported for the third quarter. Cash flow from operating activities for the first nine months of 2021 generated $1.5 billion, a 36% increase compared with the year ago period. Expense management is another area we focus, always trying to optimize the balance of strategic business investments and expense controls. The third quarter 2021 property casualty underwriting expense ratio was 0.9 percentage points higher than last year's third quarter, including 1.2 points due to higher accruals for profit sharing commissions for agencies. Moving on to loss reserves. Our approach to reserving remains consistent and aims for net amounts in the upper half of the actuarially estimated range of net loss and loss expense reserves. As we do each quarter, we consider new information, such as paid losses and case reserves and then updated estimated ultimate losses and loss expenses by accident year and line of business. During the third quarter of 2021, we experienced $102 million of property casualty net favorable development on prior accident years. It favorably contributed to the combined ratio by 6.4% for the quarter. On an all-lines basis by accident year, net reserve development for the first nine months of the year was favorable by $225 million for 2020, $46 million for 2019, $39 million for 2018 and $21 million, in aggregate, for all accident years prior to 2018. Regarding capital management, we also follow a consistent approach, including share repurchases as part of a maintenance intended to offset issuance of shares through equity compensation plans. We believe that our quarter end financial strength was in good shape and provides plenty of financial flexibility. During the third quarter, we repurchased approximately 100,000 shares at an average price per share of $119.03. I'll conclude my prepared remarks, as I typically do, with a summary of third quarter contributions to the book value per share. They represent the main drivers of our value creation ratio. Property casualty underwriting increased book value by $0.59. Life insurance operations increased book value by $0.05. Investment income, other than life insurance and net of noninsurance items, added $0.81. Net investment gains and losses for the fixed income portfolio decreased book value per share by $0.39. Net investment gains and losses for the equity portfolio decreased book value by $0.51, and we declared $0.63 per share in dividends to shareholders. The net effect was a book value decrease of $0.08 per share during the third quarter to $73.49 per share. And now I'll turn the call back over to Steve.Steve Johnston -- Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Mike. The COVID-19 pandemic has continued to demand flexibility in how we accomplish our day-to-day tasks. However, by staying focused on the steady execution of our long-term initiatives, we are able to keep producing these strong results. We have the people, the technology and the drive to continue delivering strong value for shareholders for years to come. As a reminder, with Mike and me today are Steve Spray, Marc Schambow, Marty Hollenbeck and Theresa Hoffer. Grace, please open the call for questions. 