
OperatorGood morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Thermo Fisher Scientific 2021 Second Quarter Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] I would like to introduce our moderator for the call, Mr. Rafael Tejada, Vice President, Investor Relations. Mr. Tejada, you may begin the call.Rafael Tejada -- Vice President of Investor RelationGood morning, and thank you for joining us. On the call with me today is Marc N. Casper, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Stephen Williamson, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Please note that this call is being webcast live and will be archived on the Investors section of our website, thermofisher.com, under the heading News and Events until August 13, 2021. A copy of the press release of our second quarter 2021 earnings is available in the Investors section of our website under the heading Financials. So before we begin, let me briefly cover our safe harbor statement. Various remarks that we may make about the company's future expectations, plans and prospects constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the safe harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors, including those discussed in the company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly report on Form 10-Q, which are on file with the SEC and available in the Investors section of our website under the heading Financials, SEC Filings. While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimates change. Therefore, you should know, you should not rely on these forward-looking statements as representing our views as of any date subsequent to today. Also, during this call, we will be referring to certain financial measures not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles or GAAP. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is available in the press release of our second quarter 2021 earnings and also in the Investors section of our website under the heading Financials. So with that, I'll now turn the call over to Marc.

 



Marc N. Casper -- Chairman, President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Raf, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us today for our second quarter call. As you saw in our press release, we executed on our growth strategy to deliver another fantastic quarter in Q2 with excellent growth on both the top and bottom line. As I reflect on the first half of the year, three things stand out to me: first, our team's exceptional execution, operating with speed at scale to deliver on our growth strategy and gain share; second, we're already seeing the benefit of the accelerated investments we initiated in 2020; and third, the power of our PPI Business System, which enables our performance. These three factors position us exceptionally well to deliver a fantastic 2021 and provide terrific momentum as we enter 2022. I'll cover each of these topics in more depth in my remarks. But first, let me recap the financials. Our revenue in Q2 grew 34% year-over-year to $9.27 billion. Our adjusted operating income for the second quarter increased 44% to $2.69 billion, and our adjusted operating margin expanded 200 basis points to 29% for the quarter. Finally, we delivered another quarter of exceptional adjusted EPS performance, achieving a 44% increase to $5.60 per share. Turning to our end markets. We continue to see excellent conditions driven by three factors: robust fundamentals in the life sciences, strong economic activity globally and the role our industry is playing in the pandemic response. Our unique competitive position and excellent execution by our team have allowed us to gain share and deliver another outstanding quarter. Starting with pharma and biotech. We had outstanding performance with growth of over 30% driven by strong underlying market conditions, the benefit of our unique customer value proposition and our leading role in supporting our customers across a wide range of exciting therapeutic areas, including our significant role in COVID-19 vaccines and therapies.We saw excellent growth across all businesses serving these customers, including bioproduction, pharma services, biosciences, chromatography and mass spectrometry and in our research and safety market channel. We're clearly benefiting from our trusted partner status that we've earned over many years with these customers. In academic and government, we grew 35% this quarter. We saw very strong growth across our businesses supporting this customer base, especially in biosciences, electron microscopy and the research and safety market channel. Turning to industrial and applied. We grew approximately 30% during the quarter as the team continues to execute at a high level to capture opportunities. In Q2, we had particularly strong growth in our electron microscopy and chromatography and mass spectrometry business. Finally, in diagnostics and healthcare, we grew in the high teens during the quarter, and we're seeing customer demand in our base business approach prepandemic levels. Our immunodiagnostics and transplant diagnostics businesses delivered outstanding growth. Also in diagnostics and healthcare, demand for COVID-19 testing-related products grew to approximately $1.4 billion. Let me wrap up the end market recap with a quick comment on our role in the pandemic response. Since the beginning of the pandemic, we have played the largest role in the life science tools and diagnostics industry in supporting the societal response in delivering critical solutions for our customers and governments around the world. In the second quarter, we generated a total of $1.9 billion, bringing our first half COVID-19 response revenue to $4.7 billion. One of the benefits of our response activity is the ability it gives us to accelerate investments and position the company for a phenomenal future. You know about the additions to capacity, capabilities and new products that we are making. And we are also continuing to invest in our colleagues. Building on our investments last year, we are again providing all nonexecutive colleagues with a special recognition payment of two weeks additional pay to reflect the incredible contributions to our success.This is just one of the many measures we are taking to ensure we remain the employer of choice across the life sciences industry. Let me turn to the great progress we made in Q2 on our growth strategy, which is based on three pillars: launching high-impact, innovative new products; leveraging our scale in high-growth and emerging markets; and delivering a unique value proposition to our customers. Let me give you a few examples. I'll start with innovation. We launched a number of new products across our businesses to further strengthen our industry leadership and enable our customers to accelerate scientific breakthroughs. Let me highlight a few. In chromatography and mass spectrometry, we launched the new Thermo Scientific Orbitrap IQ-X Tribrid Mass Spectrometer, which further extends the impact of our industry-leading Orbitrap platform to accelerate small molecule analysis from metabolites and other complex compounds. In our electron microscopy business, we introduced the Thermo Scientific Helios 5EXL Wafer DualBeam scanning electron microscope, a very important tool to help semiconductor customers more efficiently ramp up production of new, smaller and more complex microprocessors and memory devices. In our biosciences business, we launched several new products, including two instruments to advance cell analysis. The Invitrogen Bigfoot Spectral Sorter is a powerful cell sorter tool based on the technology we acquired from Propel Labs in Q1; and the Invitrogen Attune CytPix Flow Cytometer, which offers enhanced imaging capability to enable researchers and cell therapy developers to better understand cell biology. Turning to the second pillar of our growth strategy. We continue to leverage our scale to create an outstanding experience for customers in the high-growth and emerging markets. This has contributed to excellent growth and share gain we are delivering across Asia Pacific. Let me cover a couple of the highlights. In China, we delivered strong growth of just under 30% in the quarter. The team is ramping up our new single-use technology facility in Suzhou. In India, we demonstrated speed at scale at our genetic sciences facility in Bengaluru, which shipped millions of COVID-19 PCR tests to support the country's response to the pandemic. We also contributed $10 million in urgently needed products and donations to help India bring the crisis under control.

 



Our performance across the region demonstrates that we're creating a differentiated experience for our customers, and the significant investments that we've made in these markets are fueling growth. The third pillar of our growth strategy is our customer value proposition, and we continue to increase our capabilities and capacity to be an even better partner for our customers and help them achieve their goals. Building on our significant investments last year, in 2021, we're executing on over $2.5 billion in capex to further expand our capacity and capabilities. It's exciting to see the continued progress of these investments. For example, during the quarter, we brought additional capacity online around the world to support customers' production of vaccines and therapies. These include sterile fill/finish lines in Italy and Greenville, North Carolina; expanding our single-use technology capacity in our facility in Logan, Utah; and adding to our Lithuania site for the production of essential raw materials used in making mRNA vaccines. These investments in our value proposition demonstrate our commitment to our customers, which rely on us as an essential partner to their work. During the quarter, we announced a number of collaborations with leading academic medical centers. The combination of our innovation and our unique customer value proposition position us to move science forward. For example, we're collaborating with the Mayo Clinic to develop more precise and personalized diagnostics for blood-based cancers, allergy, autoimmunity and therapeutic drug monitoring. This work will leverage our insight and technology in clinical and next-gen sequencing, immunology and clinical mass spectrometry. In addition, we announced that we'll build and operate a state-of-the-art cell therapy development, manufacturing and collaboration center at the University of California, San Francisco to advance innovation in cell and gene therapy. These partnerships will lead to new capabilities for our customers and ultimately better outcomes for patients.As always, our PPI Business System was a major factor in our success during Q2. This discipline and our mission-driven culture helps us to find a better way every day so we can continue to bring more innovative new solutions to our customers, work more efficiently and effectively, operate with speed at scale and create even greater value for all of our stakeholders. Turning to capital deployment. We announced the acquisition of PPD at the beginning of the quarter. This acquisition will establish Thermo Fisher as a leader in the attractive and high-growth clinical research services industry and add highly complementary services for our fastest-growing end market. The integration planning is going extremely well. I've been very impressed with the world-class talent I've met during the integration planning process. We're looking forward to welcoming our PPD colleagues to Thermo Fisher upon closing of the transaction. Before turning to guidance, let me update you on our progress on our ESG initiatives. As the world leader in serving science, we know that our role goes beyond the work we do to enable our customers and the value we create for our shareholders. It extends to our responsibility to make the world a better place. To that end, we continue to advance our sustainability initiatives. Yesterday, we announced our commitment to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050. This builds on our existing goal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions across our operations by 2030. We're moving forward on this front by making our facilities more energy efficient, increasing our use of renewable energy and reducing waste in our operations while also innovating across our portfolio to enable customers to meet their sustainability needs.This is aligned with our commitment to doing business the right way and to fulfilling our mission to enable our customers to make the world healthier, cleaner and safer. Now let me turn to our guidance for 2021. Driven by our very strong start to the first half of the year and our confidence in the full year outlook, we're raising both our revenue and earnings guidance for the full year. Stephen will hop on the assumption behind our guidance. I'll cover the highlights. We're raising our revenue guidance by $300 million to $35.9 billion, which represents 11% reported growth over 2020. In terms of adjusted EPS, we're raising our guidance by $0.10 to $22.07, which will represent 13% growth over 2020. Before I turn the call over to Stephen, let me summarize our key takeaways from Q2. Our team is doing an outstanding job of executing our proven growth strategy to strengthen our competitive position. Our PPI Business System is enabling our ability to operate with speed at scale. Our business is performing extremely well and gaining share. All of this enabled us to deliver excellent first half results, position us to deliver a fantastic 2021 and provides terrific momentum as we enter 2022. Finally, I'd like to thank my 80,000 colleagues for their dedication to our company, our customers and for once again delivering another excellent quarter.And now I'll turn the call over to our CFO, Stephen Williamson. Stephen?

 



Stephen Williamson -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Marc, and good morning, everyone. I'll begin with a high-level summary of our Q2 performance. We had another excellent quarter and grew our revenues 34%, including 28% organic growth. As Marc mentioned, our growth strategy is enabling us to take share on top of strong market conditions. As a result, in Q2, we were able to deliver 27% organic growth in the base business and continue our industry-leading response to the pandemic, generating $1.9 billion of COVID-19 response revenue in the quarter. Our PPI Business System enabled us to generate excellent pull-through on the very strong top line growth and is also enabling us to execute really well on our significant growth investments. As a result, we grew our adjusted EPS in Q2 by 44% to $5.60 and delivered $1.7 billion of free cash flow. Overall, another excellent quarter. Now let me provide some more color on the Q2 performance. GAAP EPS in the quarter was $4.61, up 59% from Q2 last year. On the top line, our Q2 reported revenue grew 34% year-over-year. The components of our Q2 reported revenue increase included 28% organic growth, 2% from acquisitions and a tailwind of approximately 5% from foreign exchange. As I mentioned, the base business organic growth was 27%. Turning to our performance by geography during the quarter. North America grew 25%, Europe grew 35%, Asia Pacific and China both grew just under 30%, and rest of the world grew low double digits. Turning to our operational performance. Q2 adjusted operating income increased 44%, and adjusted operating margin was 29%, 200 basis points higher than Q2 last year. In the quarter, our PPI Business System enabled us to deliver very strong contributions from volume and productivity. We also have favorable business mix. This was partially offset by the ongoing strategic investments across our businesses to support our near- and long-term growth. Included in the investments in the quarter is over $100 million of supplementary cash bonuses for the nonexecutive colleagues, and we recorded a similar amount in Q1.This is to recognize the extraordinary work that our colleagues continue to do for our customers, communities and shareholders. Our ongoing investments in our colleagues and capacity and capabilities are ensuring a really bright future for the company. Moving on to details of the P&L. Total company adjusted gross margin in the quarter came in at 50.6%, flat to Q2 of the prior year. In the quarter, we delivered strong productivity and had positive business mix. This was offset by strategic investments. Adjusted SG&A in the quarter was 17.9% of revenue, a decrease of 200 basis points versus Q2 2020, reflecting strong volume leverage. Total R&D expense was approximately $340 million, representing growth of 29% versus Q2 2020 and reflects the increased investments in high-impact innovation to fuel future growth. Looking at our results below the line for the quarter. Our net interest expense was $111 million, $17 million lower than Q2 last year largely due to lower net debt. Adjusted other income and expense was a net income in the quarter of $3 million, $30 million lower than Q2 2020 mainly due to changes in nonoperating FX. Our adjusted tax rate in the quarter was 14%. This is 250 basis points versus Q2 last year due to the increase in pre-tax profit. Average diluted shares were 396 million in Q2, about two million lower year-over-year driven by share repurchases, net of option dilution. Turning to cash flow on the balance sheet. The cash flow performance enabled by our PPI Business System was very strong in the first half of the year. Year-to-date, cash flow from continuing operations was $4.2 billion, up 88% from the same period last year. Year-to-date free cash flow was $3 billion, up 76% over the same period last year, and that's after investing $1.2 billion of net capital expenditure. This reflects the strong returns we're generating in the short term and the investments we're making for the long term. We returned over $100 million to shareholders through dividends in the quarter.This reflects the 18% dividend increase we announced in February. We ended Q2 with $7 billion in cash and $18.8 billion of total debt. Our leverage ratio at the end of the quarter was 1.4 times gross debt to adjusted EBITDA and 0.9 times on a net debt basis. Concluding my comments on total company performance, adjusted ROIC was 22.5%, up 10 percentage points from Q2 last year as we continue to generate exceptional returns. I'll provide some color on the performance of our four business segments. Similar to the last few quarters, I'll start with some framing thoughts on the impact of the COVID-19 response on our segment results. From a revenue standpoint, as was the case in the last three quarters, the majority of the COVID-19 response revenue is recognized in Life Science Solutions, with the remainder recognized in Laboratory Products and Services and Specialty Diagnostics. From a margin standpoint, the impact of COVID-19 differed across the segments based on the scale of the response revenue and the different levels of profitability on that revenue. In addition, during the quarter, we continued to make strategic investments across all of our businesses. The size of those investments does not necessarily align with the COVID-19 response revenue in each segment, so that does skew some of the reported segment margins. Moving on to the segment details, starting with Life Science Solutions. Q2 reported revenue in this segment increased 37%, and organic growth was 29%. In the quarter, we delivered exceptionally strong growth in our biosciences and bioproduction businesses. Q2 adjusted operating income in Life Sciences Solutions increased 39%, and adjusted operating margin was 48.3%, up 90 basis points year-over-year. In the quarter, we drove strong volume pull-through and saw a positive business mix, which were partially offset by the strategic investments. We also had a tailwind on margins from FX in this segment in Q2. In the Analytical Instruments Segment, reported revenue increased 41% in Q2, and organic growth was 36%.During the quarter, we saw excellent growth in all businesses within the segment. Q2 adjusted operating income in Analytical Instruments increased 107%, and adjusted operating margin was 18.9%, up 600 basis points year-over-year. During the quarter, we drove very strong volume pull-through and productivity, which more than offset the strategic investments that we're making across this segment. Turning to Specialty Diagnostics. In Q2, reported revenue in this segment increased 25%, and organic growth was 21%. During Q2, we delivered exceptionally strong growth in the immunodiagnostics and transplant diagnostics businesses. Adjusted operating income increased 15% in the quarter, and adjusted operating margin was 19.9%, down 170 basis points from the prior year. In Q2, the positive volume leverage and favorable business mix were more than offset by the continued strategic investments in this segment. Finally, in the Laboratory Products and Services Segment, Q2 reported revenue increased 29%. Organic growth was 23%. In the quarter, we saw excellent growth in all our businesses in this segment. Adjusted operating income in the segment increased 59%, and adjusted operating margin was 12.4%, which is 230 basis points higher than the prior year. In the quarter, we delivered positive volume leverage at a favorable business mix, and this was partially offset by strategic investments. With that, now let me turn to our updated 2021 guidance. As Marc mentioned, we're raising both our revenue and adjusted EPS guidance, reflecting the strength of our Q2 performance along with a stronger outlook for the base business in the second half of the year. In terms of revenue, we're raising our full year guidance by $300 million to $35.9 billion and increasing our full year organic growth to 9%.The increase in revenue guidance is driven by three factors: an increase in the base business organic growth outlook for the full year from 8% to 12%, an updated assumption of $6.7 billion of COVID-19 response revenue for 2021 and a slightly more favorable FX tailwind than previously assumed. Let me give you additional details on each of these factors. Starting with the base business. Here, we're increasing the outlook by $850 million, reflecting a great Q2 performance and a stronger outlook for growth in the second half of the year. This increases our 2021 full year organic growth outlook for the base business by 400 basis points to 12%. Our end markets are very strong, and we're executing very well on our growth strategy and increased strategic investments to drive excellent performance. Moving on to COVID-19 response revenue. Our role in supporting COVID-19 vaccines and therapies continues to increase, and we now expect $1.8 billion of related revenue in 2021, up $300 million from the prior guide. Approximately half of that $1.8 billion was recognized in the first half of the year. Given the strength of both the base business growth and our vaccine and therapy response, we've taken the opportunity in this revised guidance to significantly derisk the outlook for testing. We've lowered the full year testing-related response revenue by $900 million from the prior guidance. We're now assuming it will be $4.9 billion for 2021, of which $3.8 billion was delivered in the first half of the year, leaving just over $1 billion to go in the second half. There continues to be a wide range of outcomes for testing in the second half of the year. There are scenarios where the pandemic could increase in intensity, driving a higher need for testing. Should that be the case, we'll be well positioned to support customer needs, and we'll flow those benefits of that through our P&L. But for now, we thought it was prudent to take the opportunity to derisk the outlook. The third and final element of the revenue guidance raise is FX. Rates continue to fluctuate.They were favorable to those from our prior guidance for most of Q2 and then moderated significantly. But net of these results, an increase in our FX revenue tailwind for the year is now assumed to be $525 million, up $50 million versus the prior guidance. Taking account of the different margin profiles of the revenue changes I've just outlined, we're increasing our annual adjusted EPS guidance by $0.10 to $22.07, which will result in 13% growth over 2020. With the revenue mix assumed in the guide, we now estimate that the adjusted operating margin for the full year would be approximately 29.7%, in line with 2020. The other elements of our guidance remain the same as the prior guide. Let me remind you of some of those assumptions. We've not included any operational benefits in 2021 from the acquisition of PPD. When we get more clarity on the actual close date, we'll provide an estimate of any potential impact in 2021. We expect net interest expense in 2021 to be approximately $510 million. As a reminder, included within that number is $40 million or $0.10 to adjusted EPS as a placeholder for prefinancing for the PPD transaction. We expect the adjusted income tax rate to be 14% in 2021. We're assuming net capital expenditures of approximately $2.5 billion to $2.7 billion and free cash flow of approximately $7 billion in 2021. Our guidance still includes $3.8 billion of capital deployment, which is $2 billion of share buybacks, which were completed in Q1, $1.4 billion for completed M&A and $400 million of capital returned to shareholders through dividends. We estimate the full year average diluted share count will be 397 million shares. Finally, I wanted to touch on phasing of revenue dollars and adjusted EPS for the remainder of the year. When I think about the split of the second half P&L between Q3 and Q4, we're assuming that the results will be slightly weighted to Q4. As you think about that split, remember the placeholder for PPD financing is all in Q4. To conclude, we delivered another excellent quarter, and we're in a great position to achieve our 2021 goals as we move into the second half of the year.With that, I'll turn the call back over to Raf.Rafael Tejada -- Vice President of Investor RelationThank you, Stephen. Operator, we're ready to take questions.