
OperatorPlease standby, we are about to begin. Good day. And welcome to the Chubb Limited First Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. Today's call is being recorded. [Operator Instructions]For opening remarks and introductions, I'd like to turn the call over to Ms. Karen Beyer, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Karen Beyer -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations

 



Thank you. Welcome everyone to our March 31, 2021 first quarter earnings conference call. Our report today will contain forward-looking statements, including statements relating to company performance, pricing and business mix, growth opportunities and economic and market condition, which are subject to risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially.Please see our recent SEC filings, earnings release and financial supplement, which are available on our website at investors.chubb.com for more information on factors that could affect these matters. We will also refer today to non-GAAP financial measures, reconciliations of which to the most direct comparable GAAP measures and related details are provided in our earnings press release and financial supplement.Now, I'd like to introduce our speakers. First, we have Evan Greenberg, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, followed by Phil Bancroft, our Chief Financial Officer, and then we'll take your questions. Also with us to assist with your questions today are several members of our management team.And now, it's my pleasure to turn the call over to Evan.

 



Evan Greenberg -- Chairman & Chief Executive OfficerGood morning. We had a really good start to the year, highlighted by excellent premium revenue growth globally, powered by our commercial businesses, double-digit commercial P&C rate increases and expanding underwriting margins, leading the record ex-cat underwriting results and simply world class margins. It was an active quarter for natural catastrophes due primarily to the winter storm losses in Texas. Though even with that, we produced a really good calendar year combined ratio, which speaks to our improved risk adjusted underwriting returns.The public P&C combined ratio was 91.8% and included catastrophe losses of 9.1 percentage points, compared with 3.3% last year. The current accident year combined without cats was 85.2%, compared to 87.5% prior year. The 2.3 percentage point improvement was made up of 0.1% loss ratio with the balance related to the expense ratio. Adjusted net investment income in the quarter was $930 million, up about 1.5%. That excludes private equity gains, which most other companies include. On that basis, investment income grew 50%. In sum, core operating income in the quarter of $2.52 per share was down $40 million from prior year to $1.1 billion, while net income of $2.3 billion was up significantly over prior year's $252 million. Phil will have more to say about the expense ratio, cat, prior period development, investment income and book value.Turning to growth and the rate environment, P&C premium were up 9.7% globally, with commercial premiums up 15.6% and consumer lines down 2.5. Foreign exchange had a positive impact on growth of 1.6 points. The consumer lines result included negative growth in global A&H, flat revenue in international personal lines and about 2.5% underlying growth in North America personal lines. We continue to experience a very strong commercial P&C pricing environment globally and based on what we see today, I'm confident these conditions will endure. Chubb was built in all aspects over years to capitalize on these conditions.

 



In North America, commercial P&C premiums grew almost 15%, new business was up 21.7% and renewal retentions remain strong at 95% on a premium basis. In North America, major accounts and specialty business, net premiums written grew about 17.5% or about 15% excluding year-over-year impact of large structured transactions. Our middle market and small commercial business grew over 11%. Overall rate increases in North America commercial were up by 14.5%, while loss costs are trending up about 5.5%. That would varies up or down depending upon line of business.Let me give you a better sense of the rate environment. In major accounts, risk management related primary casualty rates were up almost 8%, general casualty rates were up 34.5% and varied by category of casualty, property rates were up nearly 20% and financial lines rates were up almost 21%. In our E&S wholesale business, property was up 15.5%, casualty and financial lines rates were up 25%. In our middle market business, rates for property were up 16%, casualty was up 12% excluding comp, with comp up 1% and financial lines rates were up 18.5%.In our international general insurance operations, commercial premiums grew over 20% on a published basis or 15% in constant dollar. International retail commercial grew about 17.5% and our London wholesale business grew 38.5%. Retail commercial growth varied by region with premiums up over 26.5% in Asia-Pac, 22.5% in Europe, with equally strong growth in both the U.K. and on the Continent. Our Latin America commercial lines business returned to growth in the quarter with premiums up 4.7%. Internationally, like in the U.S., in those markets where we grew, we continued to achieve improved rate to exposure across our commercial portfolio.In overseas gen, rates were up about 14.5%, with a loss cost trend of 3%, though that varies by class of business and country. Rates were up 14% in our international retail business and 20% in our London wholesale business. Keep in mind, these outstanding commercial insurance growth rates in the U.S. and overseas were achieved in spite of the headwinds we face from negative exposure growth due to reduced business activity.On the other hand, consumer lines growth globally in the quarter continued to be impacted by the pandemic's effects on consumer-related activities. During the quarter, there were signs of recovery beginning. Breaking consumer down between A&H and personal lines, our international personal lines business produced modest growth of 1.2% on a published basis, fundamentally flat constant dollar. While our international A&H business shrank 3.7%.Travel globally, both business and consumer related remains depressed and that hits A&H hard. While our direct marketing and group employee benefits A&H business is beginning to pick up modestly. If we exclude the travel business, our internationally A&H business grew almost 2% on a published basis. We expect growth to continue to improve as the year goes along, though predicting the continued impact of the pandemic in Asia, Latin America and Europe is difficult.Net premiums in our North America high net worth personal lines business were up about 2.5% excluding reinsurance reinstatements, auto renewal credits in California and wildfire exposure related cancellations.As I have said before, this outstanding franchise is about customers who choose Chubb for the service and richness of coverage and are willing to pay for them. These clients segments which are at the heart of what we do grew 8% in the quarter. Overall portfolio retention remains strong in high net worth at over 94%. We achieve positive pricing, which includes rate and exposure of 11% in our homeowners portfolio.Looking ahead, we have been and are taking continued action to shape this portfolio. To that point, we're taking ongoing action to reduce our wildfire exposure in parts of California as a consequence of our inability to achieve adequate rate and terms for the coverage. This will have an impact for the remainder of the year of about $15 million or about 1.25% impact on our growth rate.Lastly, in our Asia focused international life insurance business, net premiums plus deposits were up over 18.5% in the quarter. In sum, as I have said, the past few quarters are longer. We're in a harder firming market for commercial P&C in most of the world. The rate environment and my judgment is a rational and necessary response to years of industry underpricing and a more uncertain risk environment today, driven by climate change, litigation, environment and cyber-related exposures.Given our years of data and analytics capabilities and underwriting knowhow, we know what rate we need in order to achieve an adequate risk adjusted rate of return from underwriting and that is the objective. And it is a relentless focus, though we're never perfect. Some lines are there. Others have a way to go. Virtually all of our commercial P&C lines of business continued to achieve rates that exceed loss cost and so margin continued to improve. As you can see, we're off to an outstanding start to the year. My colleagues and I are confident in our ability to grow our business and continue to expand margins. And as I said, I expect as the year progresses, our sizable consumer business will return to growth.Our organization is focused, it's mission driven, the quality of Chubb service and consistency is a widely recognized differentiator. They are the wellhead of our reputation. We are leaning in to the current favorable underwriting conditions and capitalizing wherever we can get paid adequately to assume risk and volatility. We are growing exposure. Our people are energized and focused, and we have all of the capabilities in place to grow our company profitably, while increasing shareholder value. In light of recent events concerning the Hartford and for the sake of absolute clarity, I want to reiterate once again, our enduring views concerning M&A and capital management. We look at lots of deals every year, different sizes, small to large, different geographies and product areas, and we pull the trigger infrequently.We have lots of optionality. We have made 17 acquisitions over the past 15 years and have an excellent track record of advancing the company's capabilities, while creating shareholder value. Our approach is steady and consistent. We are extremely patient, disciplined and the money is not burning a hole in our pocket. If we believe a transaction will advance our strategy and further what we are building organically and is good for shareholders, we won't hesitate to pull the trigger. As regards surplus capital, we're again very consistent. We hold capital for risk and growth, both organic and non-organic. Beyond that, we return surplus capital to shareholders. We are highly confident about our future and wealth creating -- creation prospects and we approached the Hartford from that position of strength. This was another opportunity to create additional value and would not distract us from capitalizing on an organic growth opportunity.With that said, the purpose of today's call is to discuss our first quarter financials and our company's business. I'll now turn the call over to Phil and then we're going to come back and take your questions.Phil Bancroft -- Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Evan. Our financial position remains exceptionally strong. Our balance sheet includes a $121 billion AA rated portfolio of cash and investment assets. We have over $74 billion in capital, stemming from our superior operating and investing performance. Our operating cash flow remains very strong and was $2.1 billion for the quarter.Among the capital related actions in the quarter, we returned $871 million to shareholders, including $352 million in dividends and $519 million in share repurchases. Adjusted pre-tax investment income for the quarter of $930 million was higher than our estimated range and benefited from increased corporate bond call activities. Well, there are a number of factors that impact the variability in investment income. We expect our quarterly run rate to be approximately $900 million.Our annualized core operating ROE and core operating return on tangible equity were 8.2% and 12.8%, respectively, for the quarter. Separately, as Evan mentioned, we continued to present the fair value mark on our private equity funds outside of core operating income as realized gains and losses. Instead of net investment income, as other companies do. The gain from the fair value mark this quarter would have added 3.1 percentage points to core operating ROE.Book and tangible book value per shares decreased by 0.4% and 0.6%, respectively, for the quarter due to unrealized losses of $1.9 billion after-tax in our investment portfolio from rising interest rates. This loss was tempered by adjusted realized gains of $1.2 billion after-tax, mainly from the mark-to-market gains in private and public equities, and in our variable annuity reinsurance portfolio. At March 31st, our investment portfolio remains in an unrealized gains position of $2.8 billion after-tax.Our pre-tax P&C net catastrophe losses for the quarter were $700 million from severe weather related events globally, including $657 million of losses from the storms in the U.S. We had favorable prior period developments in the quarter of $192 million pre-tax or $156 million after-tax. The favorable development is with approximately 20% in long tail lines, principally from accident years 2017 and prior, and 80% in short tail lines. There was no change to the previously reported aggregate P&C COVID-19 losses, the majority of which remain as incurred but not reported.For the quarter, our net loss reserves increased $1.1 billion and are paid to incurred ratio was 77%. The P&C administrative expense ratio of 8.6% in the quarter improved by 70 basis points over the prior year, about half related to one-time items that we don't expect to repeat. Our core operating effective tax rate was 15.5% for the quarter, which is within our expected range of 15% to 17% for the year.I'll turn the call back over to Karen.Karen Beyer -- Senior Vice President of Investor RelationsThank you, Phil. At this time, we are happy to take your questions.