  OperatorThank you for standing by. This is the conference operator. Welcome to the Lululemon Athletica Inc. fourth quarter and year end 2021 conference call. [Operator instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Howard Tubin, vice president, investor relations for Lululemon Athletica. Please go ahead.Howard Tubin -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you and good afternoon. Welcome to Lululemon's fourth quarter earnings conference call. Joining me today to talk about our results are Calvin McDonald, CEO; and Meghan Frank, CFO. Before we get started, I'd like to take this opportunity to remind you that our remarks today will include forward-looking statements reflecting management's current forecast of certain aspects of Lululemon's future. These statements are based on current information, which we have assessed, but by which its nature is dynamic and subject to rapid and even abrupt changes. Actual results may differ materially from those contained in or implied by these forward-looking statements due to risks and uncertainties associated with our business, including those we have disclosed in our most recent filings with the SEC, including our annual report on Form 10-K and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. Any forward-looking statements that we make on this call are based on assumptions as of today and we expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to update or revise any of these statements as a result of new information or future events. During this call, we will present both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures.Reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP measures is included in our annual report on Form 10-K and in today's earnings press release. In addition, comparable sales metrics given on today's call are on a constant dollar basis. The press release and accompanying annual report on Form 10-K are available under our Investors section of our website at www.lululemon.com. Before we begin the call, I'd like to remind our investors to visit our investor site where you will find a summary of our key financial operating statistics for the fourth quarter, as well as our quarterly infographic. Today's call is scheduled for one hour. So please limit yourself to one question at a time to give others the opportunity to have their questions addressed. And now, I would like to turn the call over to Calvin. Calvin McDonald -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Howard. It's my pleasure to welcome everyone to our earnings conference call. The fourth quarter was a strong finish to a strong year. Once again, we delivered revenue growth in excess of our Power of Three targets and we grew adjusted earnings per share of 31% compared to last year and 22% on a two-year CAGR basis. Looking at our full year results, I am particularly proud that we crossed the $6 billion in annual revenue milestone and we accomplished this despite the ongoing challenges in the macro environment. And we have seen our momentum continue and accelerate as we enter the first quarter. Our guidance calls for 24% to 26% top-line growth and 19% to 23% adjusted EPS growth in quarter 1. For 2022 overall, we are also guiding to another strong year for the company and I am optimistic about our performance and opportunities going forward as we continue to build upon our unique strengths and bring technical innovation to our guests. I am pleased to walk you through the key highlights of our fourth quarter and annual performance on today's call. And I look forward to speaking with you again in a few weeks when we host our analyst day, where we will share our vision and outlook for the next five years. But before I begin, I want to take a moment to acknowledge the horrific situation in Ukraine and the humanitarian crisis that is unfolding. While we do not operate in Ukraine, we have made a donation to the relief efforts and are also supporting our employees who have family and friends in the region. In addition, as we look around the world, we continue to closely monitor our markets that are experiencing the surging impacts of COVID-19. As we have done throughout the pandemic, we will prioritize the health and safety of our people and the communities we serve, and the decisions that we make. Now, turning to our results. The fourth quarter capped off another impressive year of growth for us, demonstrating the sustained momentum in the business. I want to thank our teams across the entire organization who navigated the Omicron variant, successfully executed against our Power of Three growth plan, and continue to deliver for our guests and all of our stakeholders. In the fourth quarter, revenue grew 23% versus last year and 23% on a two-year CAGR basis. And for the full year, revenue grew 42% versus 2020 and 25% on a two-year CAGR basis, an impressive performance by any benchmark with strength across our products, channels, and geographies. Before discussing our results in more detail, I will touch on several topics, including the macro trends that continue to provide a tailwind for our business, the ongoing issues within the global supply chain, and their impact on our inventory levels and pricing. Lululemon continues to benefit from several consumer trends that uniquely position us in the marketplace. First, category strength as athletic apparel continues to outpace growth in overall apparel; second, the growing significance of versatility both while guests are engaging in their fitness routines and in their everyday lives; third, the importance of both physical retail and the convenience of digital engagement, these speak particularly well to our operating model; and finally, the increasing focus on physical, mental and social well-being given everything that people are navigating across the globe. These trends have accelerated during the COVID-19 period and we are well-positioned to continue to grow our business in 2022 and beyond. Shifting to the supply chain, we continue to experience delays across our global network, particularly related to transporting our products via ocean freight. As a result, we continue to lean more heavily into air freight. However, I am pleased with how our teams have become increasingly adept at navigating these challenges. We have implemented several strategies to ensure we have the proper levels of inventory to fuel our top-line growth. And as I have stated on prior calls, our core seasonless product makes up a meaningful percentage of our inventory, approximately 45%, which carries minimal markdown risk and positions us well to fulfill ongoing and future guest demand. Meghan will discuss our inventory levels in more detail shortly. When looking at pricing, we continue to be strategic. We plan to take some selective price increases over the course of the year on a small portion of our styles. Our pricing also factors in the value of our innovation and we will continue to monitor the competitive environment to ensure we maintain our price position relative to our key peers. Let me share further highlights from quarter 4 and our overall results for 2021, starting with the fourth quarter. First, we generated total revenue of $2.1 billion. Despite the onset of the Omicron variant during the peak weeks of the holiday season, we delivered growth in excess of our Power of Three plan. Second, our e-commerce business remains strong, with comps up 16% on top of a strong 92% last year. This translates on a two-year CAGR basis to an increase in e-commerce of 50%. Third, our adjusted earnings per share were $3.37, which is better than the guidance we provided in January. And as I mentioned, we are pleased with how our momentum accelerated into the first quarter, as indicated by our strong guidance range. For the full year 2021, we delivered on our financial commitments and also made notable headway on our impact agenda goals. Some key milestones include generating total revenue of $6.26 billion, delivering adjusted earnings per share of $7.79, and achieving our Power of Three targets early, including exceeding our total revenue target, doubling our e-commerce business, doubling our men's business and we are on track to quadruple our international business by the end of 2022. I am pleased in our ability to deliver every 2023 goal ahead of schedule, which is particularly noteworthy given the effects of the global pandemic. This level of performance is only possible because of the agility and nimbleness of our teams who successfully navigated the macro environment, supported each other, and found new ways to engage with our guests. I am also proud of how we advanced our impact agenda in 2021 to drive meaningful positive change in the world. A few examples include launching our first re-commerce program, Lululemon Like New in two test markets and introducing our limited edition Earth Dye collection; partnering with and investing in Genomatica to create the first-ever plant-based alternative to nylon, which will help us achieve our goals to make 100% of our products with sustainable materials and have end-of-life solutions by 2030; and establishing our Lululemon Center for Social Impact to help break the barriers to well-being in local and global communities with a commitment to contribute $75 million by 2025. These are important milestones and represent only the beginning of what we will accomplish related to sustainability and well-being. Next, I will provide some additional details on our quarter 4 results and the foundational strengths that drive our business, fuel our success, and give us a distinct competitive advantage. I will begin with product innovation. Our momentum remained on the upswing across all major categories, with women's revenue increasing 20%, men's growing 28%, and accessories up 33%, all on a two-year CAGR basis. In quarter 4, we continued to leverage the Science of Feel to fuel product newness and innovation, our guests responded well to our holiday merchandise assortment, and we saw positive response to outerwear, second layers, and technical shorts for both women and men. Looking forward, our product pipeline remains robust and I am excited for the innovations we are bringing to market in 2022. Some highlights include our multiyear partnership with the Canadian Olympic Committee and Canadian Paralympic Committee. I am excited by the reaction to our product in the buzz this partnership created for our brand, notably both inside and outside of Canada. Partnering with Team Canada is a unique opportunity for us to build awareness for Lululemon on the global stage and to support some of the world's most elite athletes. We are off to a great start. And I am thrilled that this month, we launched our footwear collection and we have received a very broad-based positive reaction to our unique women's first positioning. In development for more than four years and leveraging our 20-plus years of designing and creating performance gear for women, we revealed our first three styles of technical athletic shoes and one performance slide to the market. The first of our four styles, Blissfeel, began selling on March 22 in North America and Mainland China and the U.K. will launch shortly. The initial guest response to Blissfeel has dramatically exceeded our expectations, not to mention incredible reviews from a number of publications and guests and we will have more to share about our footwear at analyst day. Before moving on to our omni guest experience pillar, I want to highlight several additional innovations we have teed up in 2022. First, we will continue to lean into our franchise strategy and you will see us introduce new silhouettes into our popular scuba and defined collections. Next, as guests begin to return to the office into more normalcy in their lives, we will continue to expand our on-the-move collection with new styles of tops and bottoms for men and women planned throughout the year. And finally, I'm very excited that we are advancing our play strategy as well with the launch of our first-ever design for tennis collection available in stores and online beginning this week and our first-ever design for golf collection, which will roll out next week. As you can see, we have ample opportunity to bring new technical solutions to our guests and I am pleased with how our product pipeline looks going forward. Switching now to our store channel, total revenue in quarter 4 increased 47% versus last year and 3% on a two-year CAGR basis. Traffic increased 50% and operating profit expanded significantly versus last year. We were pleased to get off to a promising start during the recent holiday season and then like others, we experienced several consequences of the Omicron variant, such as capacity constraints, limits on staff availability, and reduced operating hours in some locations. Towards the middle of January, we began to see store traffic improve and this trend has continued into the first quarter. This acceleration underpins our guidance, which is detailed in our press release and Meghan will discuss shortly. I am excited by the energy I am seeing in our stores. In fact, I was able to spend some time with our teams in New York earlier this month and it was incredible to see our guests once again looking to connect with Lululemon in real life and the excitement among our educators to welcome them back into our stores. Turning to our e-commerce business, we continue to successfully leverage our investments in our sites and apps over the last two years, which enhanced the user experience and allowed us to serve even more guests where, when, and how they want to shop. Looking forward, we will fuel ongoing growth in both traffic and conversion by continuing to make foundational investments across our digital platform. These will include enhancing our storytelling by adding more content and product comparisons, improving inventory accuracy, and continuing to make the guest checkout experience more seamless. Our omni operating model has served us well through the COVID-19 environment. We were an omni business long before the pandemic hit. And this enables us to continue raising our capabilities across channels to engage with our guests on their terms in new and compelling ways. Turning now to MIRROR, in quarter 4, MIRROR performed in line with our revised expectations and for the year both revenue and dilution were consistent with the guidance we provided. We remain enthusiastic about MIRROR, the opportunities within hybrid fitness, and our plans for the platform in 2022 and beyond. We will hold further discussion about MIRROR for our analyst day in a few weeks and I am excited to share more with you about the evolution of our business and how it will further help build loyalty and community at Lululemon. Before handing it over to Meghan, I'd like to spend a few minutes on our international business. While we saw similar impacts from COVID-19 across many of our international markets, our performance remained strong in quarter 4. It's also important to note that we remain in early days of our growth trajectory outside of North America. For the full year 2021, international revenue grew by more than 50% and still represents just 15% of the business and our EMEA business turned profitable for the first time. We continue to see how well the Lululemon brand translates across borders and our plans in the coming year call for approximately 40 new stores opening across our international markets. In quarter 4, we saw strong performance from every major region with each generating robust double-digit sales growth on a two-year CAGR basis. In Mainland China, revenue increased more than 60% on a two-year CAGR basis. After experiencing a slowdown in stores in December related to the COVID-19 variants, we saw an acceleration in January fueled by our Lunar New Year activation. The Olympics also generated considerable excitement in the region and we saw a significant lift in traffic that coincided with the games. And one other data point among many, in Australia, we have begun a store optimization program modeled after our successful approach in North America. Initial guest response to our remodeled stores has been strong and the program is also helping drive new guest acquisition in our most mature international market. This shows the growth potential for Lululemon in both our more mature and relatively new international markets. And with that, I will turn it over to Meghan.Meghan Frank -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Calvin. We delivered solid performance in Q4 while navigating supply chain challenges and the impacts of COVID-19. And I am encouraged that we have seen trends accelerate in Q1. We are positioned well for spring despite the challenges that continue to exist in the macro environment, and I am excited about what's in store for Lululemon in 2022. I am also thrilled that I will get the chance to see many of you in person at our analyst day next month. We have a new five-year plan and I am looking forward to sharing our updated long-term financial targets with you at that time. Let me now share with you the details of our Q4 performance. I will also discuss specifics on our balance sheet, including our inventory and cash position. Please note that the adjusted financial metrics I will share include the operating results of MIRROR that exclude approximately $1.5 million of acquisition-related costs and their associated tax effects in Q4 2021 and $7.8 million of acquisition-related costs and their associated tax effects in Q4 2020. You can refer to our earnings release for more information and reconciliations to our GAAP metrics. For Q4, total net revenue increased 23% to $2.1 billion, in line with our guidance. Comparable sales increased 22% with a 32% increase in stores and a 16% increase in digital. On a two-year CAGR basis, total revenue increased 23%. In our store channel, sales increased 47% on a one-year basis and 3% on a two-year CAGR basis. Productivity was slightly below 2019 levels due to impacts from the Omicron variant, including increased capacity constraints, more limited staff availability, and reduced operating hours in certain locations. On average, we had 99% of our stores opened throughout Q4. We currently have 97% open with current closures related to the impact of COVID-19 in China. Square footage increased 14% versus last year driven by the addition of 53 net new stores since Q4 of 2020. During the quarter, we opened 22 net new stores. In our digital channel, revenues increased 50% on a two-year CAGR basis and contributed $1 billion of top line or 49% of total revenue. Within North America, revenue increased 21% and within international, we saw 41% increase both on a two-year CAGR basis. Gross profit for the fourth quarter was $1.2 billion or 58.1% of net revenue, compared to 58.6% of net revenue in Q4 2020 and 58% of net revenue in Q4 2019. The deleverage relative to 2020 was driven by increased air freight expense. Our gross margin increase of 10 basis points relative to 2019 was driven by 120 basis points of leverage on occupancy, depreciation, product team, and DC costs and 20 basis points of favorability in foreign exchange, which was partially offset by a 130-basis-point decrease in product margin. Q4 product margin included an increase of approximately 530 basis points in air freight related to macro supply chain challenges, without which product margin would have increased versus 2019. I would also note that markdowns declined 110 basis points relative to 2019. Moving to SG&A, our approach continues to be grounded and prudently managing our expenses while also continuing to strategically invest in our long-term growth opportunities. SG&A expenses were $642 million or 30.2% of net revenue, compared to 31.5% of net revenue in Q4 2020 and 28.2% of net revenue in Q4 2019. The leverage in the quarter versus Q4 2020 resulted from leverage in our store channel, somewhat offset by increased investments in corporate SG&A. The deleverage relative to Q4 2019 is primarily related to the consolidation of MIRROR's results this year but not in 2019. Adjusted operating income for the quarter was $592 million or 27.8% of net revenue, compared to 26.9% of net revenue in Q4 2020 and 29.8% of net revenue in Q4 2019. Excluding MIRROR, Lululemon-only operating margin increased modestly versus 2019, inclusive of the 530-basis-point increase in air freight. Tax expense for the quarter was $156 million or 26.4% of pre-tax earnings, compared to an adjusted effective tax rate of 27.4% a year ago. The reduction relative to last year is primarily due to increased deductions for stock-based compensation and a reduction in adjustments upon the filing of certain tax returns. Adjusted net income for the quarter was $436 million or $3.37 per diluted share, compared to adjusted earnings per diluted share of $2.58 in Q4 of 2020 and $2.28 in Q4 of 2019. Capital expenditures were $128 million for the quarter, compared to $58 million in the fourth quarter last year. Q4 spend relates primarily to store capital for new locations, relocations and renovations, supply chain investment and technology spend to support our business growth. Turning to our balance sheet highlights, we ended the quarter with nearly $1.3 billion in cash and cash equivalents and nearly $400 million of available capacity under our revolving credit facility. Inventory grew 49% versus last year and was $966 million at the end of Q4. Our product teams continue to strategically use air freight to help mitigate industrywide supply chain issues, with these higher costs having an impact on inventory when looked at on a dollar basis. We also believe that 2019 is the most relevant comparison point given supply chain challenges since the beginning of the pandemic. On a two-year CAGR basis, unit inventory increased 29% relative to 2019 at the end of Q4 and is well-positioned relative to our Q1 2022 top-line guidance of a 25% to 26% increase on a three-year CAGR basis. Again, comparing to 2019 due to the supply chain issues that existed throughout 2021, we were in an under-inventory position for most of the year and likely could not fulfill all guest demand, which our product teams have taken into account as they have planned merchandise receipts for 2022. In addition, we continue to leverage our core assortment, which makes up approximately 45% of our total inventory. Looking forward and grounded in my prior comments, we expect inventory dollars to grow in excess of the 49% one-year growth rate we experienced at the end of Q4 2021 until the end of the year when the growth rate will begin to moderate. However, when looking at units, we'd expect growth in line with the 29% CAGR at the end of Q4 versus our three-year CAGR revenue guidance of 23% to 24%. In Q4, we repurchased approximately 844,000 shares at an average price of approximately $381. For the full year, we repurchased 2.2 million shares, returning $813 million to shareholders. By mid-March, we have completed our current authorization, and I'm pleased that our Board has authorized a new $1 billion program. This program is our largest individual authorization ever and speaks to the optimistic view of our future shared by our management team and our Board of Directors. Before discussing our guidance, I'd like to provide an update on MIRROR. As Calvin said, MIRROR performed in line with our expectations in Q4. For the year, revenue and dilution were also in line with our expectations. Looking at 2022, we expect MIRROR will generate revenue in excess of 2021 and dilution will improve. Beyond that, we will have more to say regarding MIRROR at our analyst day, when we're excited to share with you our updated vision for the business. Let me shift now to our outlook for Q1 and the full year 2022. For Q1, we expect revenue in the range of $1.525 billion to $1.55 billion, representing a one-year growth rate of 24% to 26% and a three-year CAGR of 25% to 26%. We expect to open five to 10 net new company-operated stores in Q1. I'd also note that store productivity has trended modestly above 2019 levels to date in Q1. We expect gross margin in Q1 to be down 200 to 250 basis points relative to Q1 of 2021. Our Q1 guidance includes an impact of approximately 300 basis points of pressure from air freight costs due to port congestion and capacity constraints. In Q1, we expect SG&A leverage of approximately 200 to 250 basis points relative to 2021. Drivers of the leverage include reduced digital marketing costs at MIRROR and cost efficiencies in both our store and e-commerce channels. Turning to EPS, we expect adjusted earnings per share in the first quarter to be in the range of $1.38 to $1.43 versus adjusted EPS of $1.16 a year ago. For the full year 2022, we expect revenue to be in the range of $7.49 billion to $7.615 billion. This range assumes our e-commerce business grows in the mid-teens relative to 2021. When looking at total revenue, our guidance implies a three-year CAGR of 23% to 24%, which continues to be higher than our three-year revenue CAGR of 19%, leading up to 2020. We expect to open approximately 70 net new company-operated stores in 2022. This is an increase relative to our recent annual opening cadence and reflects both the benefits and learnings from our pop-up strategy, which enables us to test and identify new markets where strong demand exists for our brand and informs our permanent store opening strategy and guests and insights derived from our digital business. Our new store openings in 2022 will include approximately 40 stores in our international markets and represents a square footage increase in the low 20% range. For the full year, we are forecasting gross margin to decrease between 50 to 100 basis points versus 2021. The reduction relative to last year is driven by increased investment in our DC network and a strategic increase in product development cost for MIRROR. The increased MIRROR cost and gross margin will be offset by a reduction in digital marketing, which flows through SG&A. Turning to SG&A for the full year, we are forecasting leverage of 50 to 100 basis points versus 2021 driven by the increased sales and the shift in MIRROR investments I just mentioned. And when looking at operating margin for the full year 2022, we continue to expect modest expansion. I also wanted to provide some additional color for the quarters beyond Q1. When looking at revenue, we expect growth in the low 20s on a three-year CAGR basis in quarters 2 through 4. In terms of gross margin, we are taking into account the dynamic nature of the global supply chain environment, our current thinking regarding air freight usage, and the ramp in air freight usage we experienced last year. We currently expect gross margin to decline approximately 200 to 250 basis points versus last year in Q2, declined approximately 100 to 150 basis points versus last year in Q3, and then expand versus last year in Q4. In terms of SG&A, we would expect it to be relatively flat with 2021 in quarters 2 and 3 and then leverage in Q4. For the full year 2022, we expect our effective tax rate to be approximately 29%. We expect our tax rate for 2022 to be higher than 2021 as we benefited from some higher tax deductions related to stock-based compensation in 2021. And in 2022, we are expecting to begin accruing for Canadian withholding taxes on earnings, which we aren't able to repatriate on a tax-free basis. For Q1, we expect our effective tax rate to be approximately 27.5%. For the fiscal year 2022, we expect diluted earnings per share in the range of $9.15 to $9.35 versus adjusted EPS of $7.79 in 2021. Our EPS guidance excludes the impact of any future share repurchases. We expect capital expenditures to be approximately $600 million to $625 million for 2022. The increase versus 2021 reflects increased investment in our supply chain, digital capabilities, new store openings, and renovation, as well as other technology and general corporate infrastructure projects. Notably, we are beginning a new multiyear project to increase our distribution capabilities to support our future volume and growth. And we are also ramping up our square footage growth relative to last year. A range of $600 million to $625 million is approximately 8% of revenue, in line with our current Power of Three target of 68%. Thank you. And with that, I'll turn it back over to Calvin for some closing remarks.Calvin McDonald -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Meghan. As you can see from these results in the early start to 2022, this is an exciting time for Lululemon as we build upon the momentum in the business and the across-the-board performance of our products, channels, and markets. We look forward to sharing more with you during our analyst day, which will be held in person in New York and available through a live stream. We will go into more details on the strength of the brand and speak to our next five-year growth plan. And the fact that we have achieved our current growth targets ahead of schedule bodes well for the opportunities ahead. In closing, I want to thank everyone across Lululemon for continuing to consistently deliver at such a high level. I'm honored to work alongside each of you as we continue to deliver for our guests, shareholders, and one another. And with that, we are happy to take your questions. Operator? 