
OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Public Storage Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions]It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to Ryan Burke, Vice President of Investor Relations. Ryan, you may begin.Ryan C. Burke -- Vice President Of Investor RelationsThank you, Tamika. Hello, everyone. Thank you for joining us for our second quarter 2021 earnings call. I'm here with Joe Russell and Tom Boyle. Before we begin, we want to remind you that certain matters discussed during this call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain economic risks and uncertainties. All forward-looking statements speak only as of today, August 4, 2021, and we assume no obligation to update, revise or supplement statements become untrue because of subsequent events. A reconciliation to GAAP of the non-GAAP financial measures we provide on this call is included in our earnings release.You can find our press release, supplemental report, SEC reports and an audio replay of this conference call on our website at publicstorage.com. We do ask that you initially limit yourself to two questions. Of course, after 2, if you have further questions, please feel free to jump back in queue.With that, I'll turn the call over to Joe.Joseph D. Russell -- President, Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Ryan. Good morning, and thank you for joining us. Tom and I will walk you through some highlights from Q2 as well as our perspective on the second half of the year. And then we will open up the call for questions. I'd like to start by stating the obvious. Business is excellent. Move-in rates are up 27% from where they were in 2019, and there is little evidence that pricing strength is abating. A meaningful wave of new first-time customers are using storage based on a combination of traditional and nontraditional reasons. In 2021, we have welcomed nearly 700,000 new customers to our platform, many having never used self-storage before. Demand has been strong for several quarters with upward pressure tied to vibrant home sales up 34% year-over-year.In addition, a hybrid work home environment is being planned by 68% of companies according to a recent Deloitte survey. This certainly gives us confidence that overall adoption of self-storage will continue to grow and is looked upon favorably by consumers and businesses as a cost-efficient alternative to storing goods in residential or commercial space. I'd like to step back for a moment and reflect on our May three Investor Day. The Public Storage leadership team took you behind the Orange Door and outlined several strategic initiatives. I am pleased to say many of these strategies are taking hold in 2021 and I'd like to highlight three areas that were particularly evident in our Q2 results. First, organic growth powered by innovation.Our multiyear and continued investment in technology has allowed us to give customers what they want, an efficient and more consistent leasing experience with the support of a knowledgeable and helpful property manager when needed. Our industry-leading online eRental platform opened up an entirely new channel for customers to rent a self-storage unit and adoption has been impressive. Nearly 50% of our customers now select this option. It's fast, intuitive and simple. What's even better, the quality of the customers using this option has been excellent, and our employees have embraced it as well. We are already seeing the impact this new channel will have on labor utilization while improving customer satisfaction. This has clearly been a win-win for customers and our operations team.In 2021, we also launched the PS storage app, giving customers a new tool to access their property via smartphone, along with the ability to manage their account, including automatic payment of rent. Second, our four-factor growth platform. Public Storage is uniquely positioned to drive growth through acquisitions, development, redevelopment and third-party management. All areas took steps forward in Q2. Acquisition volume is robust. Year-to-date, we have closed or are under contract on nearly $3 billion of assets. The $1.8 billion ezStorage portfolio closed 90 days ago, and the integration and performance of those assets has exceeded expectations. Our development and redevelopment pipeline continues to grow, up $150 million this quarter as we are seeing good opportunities to expand the largest development program in the industry.And third-party management is growing with assets under management to 131 properties, along with a deepening pipeline of assets under review. Our goal is to reach 500 assets by 2025. We Overall, our non-same-store assets added $0.20 of FFO this quarter with NOI up 138%, driven by improving yields on both development, redevelopment and acquisitions. This 34 million square foot base of assets is now 86% occupied compared to the same-store portfolio at 96.5% with strong momentum to drive additional shareholder value. And third, the utilization of our exceptional balance sheet. This quarter, we funded $2.3 billion in transactions through bond issuances, driving down our blended cost of leverage to 3.1%.Public Storage has the longest duration balance sheet in the REIT industry with one of the lowest cost profiles with room to fund significant additional growth. Overall, we remain optimistic about the core drivers in our business, along with the commanding capabilities tied to the Public Storage brand. Our industry-leading ownership position in core national markets, all led by a talented and committed team of professionals in every part of our business.Now I'll hand the call over to Tom.Tom Boyle -- Senior Vice President, Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Joe. Our financial performance accelerated into the second quarter, driven by both strong demand from customers and execution from the team. Our same-store revenue increased 10.8% compared to the second quarter of 2020. That performance represented a sequential improvement in growth of 7.4% from the first quarter driven by rate. Two factors led to the acceleration in realized rent per foot. First, about half came from strong demand and limited inventory, which allowed us to achieve move-in rates that were up 48% versus 2020. And as Joe mentioned, 27% versus pre-pandemic 2019. Secondly, existing tenant rate increases also made up about half of the improvement comparing against the period when we did not send increases at the onset of the pandemic in 2020. Now on to expenses.The team did a great job executing in this environment. Lower expenses were driven by property payroll, utilities, marketing and a timing benefit on property taxes. On property payroll, we discussed at our Investor Day the operating model transformation underway. About half of the year-over-year decline in payroll expense was attributable to those initiatives that use technology and role specialization to drive improvements in customer experience, employee experience and our expense levels. And the other half of the payroll decline is comparing against the onset of the pandemic last year when we put in place a program that we call the PS Cares program to provide additional support to our operations team, including a $3 per hour incentive for property managers.On property tax, we will expense our annual estimate ratably through the year, leading to an approximately $0.05 benefit in each of the first three quarters of the year and reversing to a $0.15 headwind in the fourth quarter. This will lead to a more stable quarter-over-quarter expense profile in the future. In total, net operating income for the same-store pool of stabilized properties was up 21.7% in the quarter. In addition to the same-store, as Joe mentioned, the lease-up and performance of recently acquired and developed facilities was also a standout in the quarter, adding $35 million in NOI or $0.20 of FFO. As we sit here today at the peak of the leasing season, customer demand remains robust and business is good. So let's shift to the outlook. We raised our core FFO guidance by $0.55 at the midpoint or 4.8%.Looking at the drivers, we increased our outlook for same-store revenue to grow from seven percent to 8.5% in 2021. That outlook implies a faster rate of growth in the second half compared to our 7.1% growth in the first half. Our current expectations are for occupancy to moderate from here by about 300 basis points from peak now to trough at the end of the year. This would generally reflect a return to typical seasonality of the business, albeit at higher occupancies than historically achieved. But big picture, the baton has clearly been passed to rate growth in the second quarter which will be the driver of performance in the second half. We also expect continued strong expense control throughout 2021. Our expectations are for zero percnet to one percent same-store expense growth.And we also increased our guidance for nonsame-store performance given the acceleration of acquisitions and the strong lease-up of our unstabilized facilities. The balance sheet, as Joe mentioned, is poised for incremental activity in the second half of this year. To wrap up, business is good and the strategies we discussed at our Investor Day in May are evident in this quarter.With that, I'll turn it over for questions.