
OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by, and welcome to the eBay Q3 2021 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded.[Operator Instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Joe Billante, VP, Communications and Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Joe Billante -- Vice President, Communications and Investor Relations.

 



Good afternoon. Thank you for joining us, and welcome to eBay's earnings release conference call for the third quarter of 2021. Joining me today on the call are Jamie Iannone, our Chief Executive Officer; and Steve Priest, our Chief Financial Officer.We're providing a slide presentation to accompany Steve's commentary during the call, which is available through the Investor Relations section of the eBay website at investors.ebayinc.com.Before we begin, I'd like to remind you that during the course of this conference call, we will discuss some non-GAAP measures related to our performance. You can find a reconciliation of these measures to the nearest comparable GAAP measures in the slide presentation accompanying this conference call.Additionally, all revenue and GMV growth rates mentioned in Jamie's and Steve's remarks represent FX-neutral year-over-year comparisons unless they indicate otherwise.

 



In this conference call, management will make forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, statements regarding our future performance and expected financial results. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties, and our actual results may differ materially from our forecast for a variety of reasons. You can find more information about risks, uncertainties and other factors that could affect our operating results in our most recent periodic reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q and our earnings release from earlier today. You should not rely on any forward-looking statements. All information in this presentation is as of October 27, 2021, and we do not intend and undertake no duty to update this information.With that, let me turn it over to Jamie.Jamie Iannone -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Joe. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us. Today, I'll begin the call with key highlights from the third quarter. Then I will share some updates on the progress we are making toward our strategic vision. At the end of my remarks, I will turn the call over to Steve, who will discuss our financial performance and outlook in greater detail.

 



Q3 was another strong quarter, driven by our team's relentless focus on sellers and buyers. I'm excited by the positive impact this is having on the underlying health of the business. The changes we are making to the marketplace are improving results today and are also putting us in a better position to deliver sustainable growth. We remain confident in our long-term vision to grow the core, become the seller platform of choice and cultivate lifelong trusted relationships with buyers.Let me highlight a few achievements from the quarter that brought us one step closer to this vision.Our business delivered better-than-expected revenue and earnings growth on the high end of our guidance. Our strategic playbook continues to improve customer satisfaction and build trust and is leading to faster GMV growth in our focus categories. The managed payments migration, which is nearly complete, is helping sellers and buyers by reducing friction, lowering cost and enabling new capabilities. Our advertising business continues to grow faster than marketplace volume, and our product innovation provides sellers new tools to help them scale their eBay businesses.We are also making great strides in our ESG efforts. Recently, we received approval from the science-based targets initiative for our multiyear carbon emission reduction goals. And importantly, we announced that eBay will be 100% carbon neutral this year and will remain so going forward.I'm pleased to report that all key business metrics either met or surpassed our expectations in Q3. Revenue overperformed growing 10%, driven by acceleration in the payments migration and Promoted Listings growth. We also delivered $0.90 of non-GAAP EPS, at the high end of expectations, while increasing technology investments.GMV performed in line with expectations globally, declining 12% versus last year and increasing 9% compared to 2019. Excluding transitory macro impacts, we continue to see modestly positive underlying growth in the business.Global active sellers remained unchanged at 19 million, and total active buyers were 154 million. Over the past year, we have focused on attracting and retaining high-value buyers by innovating in focused categories and targeting enthusiasts with upper funnel marketing. We have also discontinued legacy couponing that's skewed toward low-value buyers. These actions are resulting in a gradual evolution of our buyer base over time. Compared to the third quarter of 2019, high-value buyers are up 6%.Another ongoing transformation of our marketplace is managed payments, which progressed quickly during the quarter. In Q3, we processed over 90% of on-platform GMV and remain on track to finish by the end of this year. I'm thrilled that we are close to migrating all of our global sellers to a next-gen product experience. While we are close to completing the transition, we are only at the beginning of realizing our full payments potential. Owning the entire seller and buyer journey unlocks opportunities to remove friction, improve trust and provide new capabilities to sellers and buyers. We are already starting down this path, and here are a few examples.Last quarter, we effectively eliminated unpaid items on fixed-price transactions and have continued to reduce this issue for best offers. In the U.K., we are paying many sellers as quickly as next business day after buyer payment is confirmed. Based on community feedback, we reduced another pain point for trusted sellers by increasing protection against fraudulent returns by requiring photos and providing return shipping credits.In addition, we continue to improve our stores experience to make eBay the seller platform of choice. We've been increasing our traffic to stores and providing more CRM capabilities to make managing their businesses on eBay easier than ever. Sellers are leveraging these new features to drive repeat purchases. For example, in only six months since launch, more than 2.5 million buyers have completed a repeat purchase from a store using our new seller funded coupons. To further build sellers brands, we are testing video integration on high-traffic pages to help them tell their unique and compelling stories to enthusiast buyers.Our advertising revenue continues to outpace volume due to Promoted Listings, which drove over $207 million in revenue in Q3, up 9%. We also tested three new Promoted Listings products and are starting to offer these features to more sellers.In September, we opened up Promoted Listings Express to more sellers in the U.S., U.K., Germany and Australia. This feature allows sellers to boost visibility of auction listings for a onetime fee regardless of whether the item is sold. Early adopters have seen substantial growth in impressions and clicks.Last month, we invited eligible sellers to try Promoted Listings Advanced, enabling them to create campaigns on a cost-per-click basis with more budget control. In parallel, we launched a suite of tools to create campaigns, monitor performance and optimize returns. We are also providing training and webinars to drive trial and adoption. During Q3, we explored ways to syndicate ads off eBay through external Promoted Listings.Through the eBay Partner Network, we are testing tools and incentives for affiliates to drive enthusiast buyers to existing promoted listing sellers. We are also experimenting with other forms of seller-funded marketing across various channels. Our new advertising products are in the early days, and we are excited about their long-term potential.Moving to our focus categories. I'm pleased with the pace of innovation and the positive reaction from our sellers and buyers. Volume from these categories continues to outperform the rest of the marketplace, and we are increasing customer satisfaction by improving trust.As you may recall, when we exited last quarter, we had applied our playbook to approximately 10% of global GMV. We remain on track to expand that to roughly 20% by the end of the year. Let me walk you through several examples.Our sneakers business in the U.S. continues to grow at healthy double-digit rates. During Q3, we launched authentication in Germany, added 30 more brands to our catalog and improved SEO performance for top sneaker brands. We also leaned further into upper funnel marketing and sponsored key industry events to strengthen our reputation with enthusiasts.Starting tomorrow, we will be trialing a new 3D image capability on select sneaker listings. Leveraging AI and machine learning, the experience will allow buyers to interact with a detailed 360-degree view of the actual item they are buying. We're excited about the potential of this new technology, particularly the ability to reinforce buyer confidence at the point of purchase.Moving to luxury watches. This category is also growing at strong double-digit rates in the U.S. Buyers are finding more inventory on eBay than other marketplaces as many brands have decreased production, and preowned supply is limited on other platforms.Since launching authentication in luxury handbags, growth has accelerated in this category and was positive in Q3, outperforming the total U.S. site by double digits. We are seeing the same high customer satisfaction as other authenticated categories.As I've mentioned in the past, part of our strategy is to drive enthusiasts to new trusted experiences and then leverage those buyers across our vast supply in other categories. The average buyer who purchases sneakers and luxury watches spends approximately $2,000 and $8,000, respectively, in other categories. We are seeing the exact same behavior in our latest focus category.Buyers of authenticated handbags are spending over $5,000 outside of handbags. This cross-category benefit for sellers and buyers is a unique advantage for eBay. One of the reasons our growth has improved in luxury categories is the improvement in buyer and seller trust. We recently celebrated the one-year anniversary of authenticity guarantee, having now processed over 1.4 million items across multiple categories. Customer satisfaction has consistently exceeded 90%, and we are operating in five countries with a mix of in-house and third-party resources.Another focus category that is driving growth in the U.S. is trading cards, which is growing significantly faster than the total marketplace. In late July, we launched new features, including price guides and collections, which allow trading card enthusiasts to view, manage and track the value of their portfolios. To date, close to 4 million cards have been added to customer collections. In addition, close to 250,000 buyers have used eBay's newly launched price guide to visualize the changing value of their favorite trading cards. These features cater to the needs of high-value enthusiasts and are increasing engagement and trust in eBay.The next focus category we're applying the innovation playbook to is motors, parts and accessories. Among the changes we are making is to take our entire parts inventory and add it to the eBay Motors app, creating a one-stop shop for vehicles and parts enthusiasts. We are excited by the potential of bringing together one of the world's largest vehicle selections with hundreds of millions of parts in one customized experience. We're exploring further changes to parts and accessories that leverage our strong market position to capture more untapped growth.ESG remains critical to our business health and to our customers, and I'm pleased to announce that we have reached some significant milestones in our journey toward establishing eBay as the leading sustainability company in e-commerce.Just two weeks ago, we announced that our emission reduction goals were approved by the Science Based Targets initiative. We will reduce Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions by 90% by 2030. This is the most ambitious designation available and aligned with the Paris agreement.Additionally, we will reduce value chain emissions from downstream transportation by 20% in the same time frame. To reduce emissions from good shift using our platform, we will partner with our logistics providers to encourage low-carbon alternatives. I'm also proud that eBay will be carbon neutral for our offices and data centers in 2021. We expect to maintain this going forward as we continue efforts to reduce our overall carbon footprint.At eBay, one of our core values is to be for everyone. As part of this focus, supporting our seller community is critically important. Earlier this month, we issued a new report on equitable entrepreneurship, which detailed how selling on eBay helped women during the pandemic. We found that 82% of women who are new to eBay or increased their selling did so because of job loss, reduction of income, illness, loss of child care or some other hardship. This vast majority of women surveyed says the ability to sell on eBay was a benefit during the pandemic, citing the need to earn additional income for themselves or drive revenue for their businesses. I'm proud that our platform can provide flexibility and opportunity to so many during tough times so that they can earn extra income through selling in our marketplace.I'm also inspired by the continuous generosity of sellers and buyers on eBay. During Q3, approximately $35 million was raised through eBay for Charity, up 11%. Additionally, thousands of global employees helped select small businesses to receive grants totaling $3 million from the eBay Foundation. These grants are focused on serving underrepresented entrepreneurs and are used to provide training, coaching and mentorship needed to help their businesses thrive.In closing, as I mentioned at the start of the call, Q3 was yet another strong quarter. We continue to make progress on our multiyear journey, and it's clear that our strategy is working. Enthusiasts are responding to innovation in our focus categories and are increasingly putting their trust in eBay.Managed payments is on track to complete the migration this year and is driving friction out of the experience while opening up new capabilities for sellers and buyers.Our advertising business is innovating by providing a portfolio of tools our sellers can leverage to build and grow their businesses on eBay. And we're accomplishing all of this while setting and achieving ambitious climate goals and providing a platform where economic opportunity is available to all.I want to thank our passionate employees who have tirelessly worked to bring our vision and purpose to life. Their dedication to serving sellers and buyers is inspiring. Their relentless execution is driving innovation and making eBay a better marketplace, and I couldn't be prouder to lead this team.With that, I'll turn the call over to Steve to provide more details on our financial performance. Steve, over to you.Steve Priest -- Senior Vice President, Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Jamie, and thank you all for joining us today. I'll begin with our Q3 financial highlights on Slide 4 of our presentation. We delivered another strong quarter. Our results met or exceeded expectations across all key metrics, while our year-over-year comparisons reflect the extraordinary growth we experienced last year as a result of the pandemic. These results were underpinned by continued execution against our strategic pillars, including contributions from payments, Promoted Listings and focus categories.Revenue grew 10% year-over-year on an FX-neutral basis. The transaction revenue grew by double digits for the sixth consecutive quarter, primarily due to contributions from managed payments.Non-GAAP EPS was $0.90 per share, and our operating margin was 31.7%. We generated $502 million of free cash flow and returned approximately $2.4 billion to shareholders through share repurchases and cash dividends during Q3. Given the underlying growth in our business and strong free cash flow generation, I'm pleased to announce we've raised our share buyback target for 2021 from $5 billion to $7 billion.Our pending portfolio transactions remain on track to close within previously communicated time lines. We anticipate the sale of Adevinta shares to Permira will close during Q4, while the Korea deal, which will close early next year or potentially by the end of 2021.Turning to active buyers on Slide 5. We exited Q3 with 154 million active buyers on a trailing 12-month basis, representing a 5% decrease year-over-year. This decline was primarily driven by low-value buyers, a group that makes up more than half of our buyer base but only 5% of GMV. As Jamie mentioned, this ongoing trend is a result of our strategy to prioritize attracting and retaining high-value buyers. We are confident in this approach, but we recognize the reduction in low-value buyers could pressure our rolling 12-month active buy account in the coming quarters. Compared with Q3 of 2019, a low-value buyers are down 7%, while high-value buyers were up 6%.Moving to GMV on Slide 6. In Q3, we delivered $19.5 billion of GMV, down 10% year-over-year on a spot basis and down 12% on an FX-neutral basis, in line with our expectations. The macro benefits to our business from mobility was significantly diminished in Q3 as restrictions faded across the globe, where we continue to see modestly positive underlying growth in our business. Compared with Q3 of 2019, GMV grew 9% on an FX-neutral basis. Consistent with prior quarters, our performance by market varied based on a number of factors, including relative mobility and country-specific macroeconomic trends.Internationally, GMV was roughly flat versus Q3 of 2019 on an FX-neutral basis. A number of factors influenced the growth differential between the U.S. and our international markets during the quarter. Mobility is back to pre-COVID levels in many of our largest international markets, diminishing the volume tailwinds we benefited from in prior quarters. Changing consumer behavior, including an uptick in leisure activities and travel, also may have impacted e-commerce growth internationally.Additionally, category mix varies in our international markets, which have lower exposure to certain fast-growing verticals like collectibles, but higher concentration of items from cross-border trade that are more difficult to source amid the ongoing supply chain disruptions.Finally, our focus category rollouts are more nascent in our international markets. However, as our innovation playbook expands to more categories and countries, we are confident our international growth trajectory will improve.In the U.S., GMV grew 22% versus Q3 of 2019. Growth in our domestic marketplace was driven by strong execution against our strategic pillars, more product rollouts within focus categories and steady growth within e-commerce.Residential mobility improved in the U.S. but continues to trial the European markets, while leisure activities and travel increased in line with normal seasonal trends. Other external factors may be benefiting our U.S. business relative to international markets, including the lingering impact of government stimulus and scarcity benefits and supply chain disruptions. The precise impact of these effects is unclear, but they are likely a net positive contributor to U.S. growth in the near term. In aggregate, there are numerous puts and takes between regions, but we remain encouraged by the modestly positive underlying growth in our business.Turning to revenue on Slide 7. Net revenue for Q3 was $2.5 billion, up 10% year-over-year on an FX-neutral basis and 11% on a spot basis. We delivered $2.4 billion of transaction revenue, also up 11% on an FX-neutral basis. Growth was primarily driven by managed payments, which contributed roughly 20 points of incremental revenue growth during the third quarter. The payments ramp drove an 80 basis point sequential increase in our take rate, which surpassed 12% in Q3.Moving forward, we expect our sequential take rate increases to moderate as the managed payments rollout is nearly complete.Within our advertising business, Promoted Listings grew 9% year-over-year, outpacing volume by 21 points. Early adopters of the new Promoted Listings products are seeing significant increases in performance, giving us confidence in the long-term potential for advertising revenue.Marketing services and other revenue declined 7% year-over-year to $151 million, driven by the impact of sold item declines and shipping programs and headwinds within third-party advertising. We continue to purposely reduce third-party advertising in favor of Promoted Listings, which delivers superior performance and offer a better experience for both sellers and buyers.Moving to expenses on Slide 8. In Q3, we delivered non-GAAP operating margin of approximately 31.7%. This represents the 2.7 point year-over-year decrease primarily driven by lower volume. Our cost of revenue has scaled in line with payments growth due to variable processing costs. This dynamic has pressured gross margins during our transition to managed payments. However, once the transition is complete, we expect gross margins to be more stable. Moreover, the incremental revenue from payments drive significant leverage in our fixed expenses, most notably sales and marketing and G&A.Sales and marketing fell by nearly 4 points as a percentage of revenue year-over-year in Q3. In addition to leverage from payments revenue, sales and marketing was lower due to reduction in coupons and rewards programs that were previously targeted toward low-value buyers.Product development increased 21% year-over-year as we continue to accelerate product innovation and support our longer-term strategic initiatives within payments, advertising and focus categories. Transaction losses rose as a percentage of revenue by nearly 2 points versus last year due to higher consumer protection losses from the payments transition and the lapping of onetime benefits in the prior year, which were partially offset by the benefits of fee netting.Turning to EPS on Slide 9. We delivered $0.90 of non-GAAP EPS in Q3, up 9% year-over-year as ramping contributions from payments and the net benefit of share repurchases more than offset the lapping of COVID-driven volumes a year ago. GAAP EPS for the quarter was $0.43, roughly 50% lower than last year. The delta was primarily driven by a fair value adjustment on our Adevinta shares, partly offset by gains from other investments.Switching to free cash flow on Slide 10. We delivered another strong quarter of cash generation in Q3 with $502 million of free cash flow, a 4% decline year-over-year. The decline was driven by the timing of working capital and CapEx spend, partly offset by operational efficiencies and the timing of 2020 cash taxes.As a reminder, the managed payments transition has yielded meaningful working capital benefits. Through three quarters of 2021, this benefit amounted to approximately $300 million.Moving to capital allocation on Slide 11. We ended the quarter with cash and nonequity investments of $5.1 billion and gross debt of $9.1 billion. During the third quarter, we returned approximately $2.4 billion to our shareholders through stock repurchase and dividends. We repurchased approximately 31 million shares to $2.3 billion at an average share price of $72.52. We also paid a quarterly dividend of $116 million in September.Given our fortress balance sheet and strong underlying free cash flow, we are updating our share buyback plan for 2021 from $5 billion to $7 billion, which implies approximately $3 billion of repurchases during the fourth quarter.Overall, our capital allocation objectives remain unchanged. We'll preserve financial flexibility to execute on strategy and drive long-term value creation. We aim to drive organic growth in our business, and we'll look for opportunities to supplement that growth with disciplined acquisitions and investments. We will optimize our financial flexibility, access to debt and cost of capital, and we'll continue to deliver meaningful returns to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.Moving to investments on Slide 12. As a reminder, we received 540 million shares in Adevinta from our Classifieds sale, which closed during June of this year, representing an equity ownership stake of approximately 44%. As a regulatory condition of the Classifieds sale, we committed to reduce our ownership stake in Adevinta to 33% or less over the 18 months following the close of the deal. In July, we agreed to sell approximately 135 million shares to Permira for roughly $2.4 billion. We believe the Permira share sale remains on track to close during Q4, and the 405 million shares that we would retain were worth close to $7 billion at the end of September.Turning to Adient. The warrants we acquired in connection with our strategic partnership during the second quarter of 2018 were valued at $1.4 billion at the end of Q3, an increase of over $300 million quarter-over-quarter. You will find more information on the Adyen warrant in our 10-Q. Our stake in Kakao Bank has appreciated in value following the company's IPO in August. At the end of Q3, our investment was worth approximately $800 million.Finally, in June, we announced plans to sell over 80% of our Korea business to eMark for approximately $3 billion. Upon deal close, we will retain an interest of just under 20% of eBay Career, which carried an implied value of roughly $800 million at the time of the announcement. We believe the deal remains on track to close by early 2022 with a possibility of closing before the year end. We remain excited about our portfolio of global investments, the potential optionality they provide and the significant value they collectively represent for eBay shareholders.Turning to guidance on Slide 13. For the fourth quarter, we are projecting revenue between $2.57 billion and $2.62 billion, representing growth of 3% to 5% on an FX-neutral basis and approximately 4% to 6% on a spot basis.Our pay rate has risen notably in recent quarters due to contributions from payments and advertising. Although we expect advertising to continue growing faster than volume, we expect the impact from payments on our take rate to moderate as we are nearing completion of our managed payments transition.We are raising our 2021 full year outlook for payments revenue from $1.8 billion to $2 billion. Our revenue guidance implies GMV is down low teens on an FX-neutral basis versus last year and up mid- to high single digits compared to Q4 of 2019. Our GMV guidance assumes steady execution against our strategic pillars and continued innovation within focused categories. Our outlook also assumes minimal benefits from macro factors like mobility, stimulus and supply chain impacts. However, we note the macro environment remains dynamic and difficult to predict, with varied impacts from country to country.We expect non-GAAP EPS of $0.97 to $1.01 per share in Q4, representing a 14% to 19% year-over-year growth. We plan to continue investing in product and technology to deliver better category experiences and improved customer satisfaction. We anticipate our non-GAAP tax rate to between 18% and 19% due to recent outperformance of our U.S. business. We expect our GAAP EPS in the range of $0.72 to $0.76 per share in Q4.In closing, we delivered strong results in Q3 that met or exceeded their expectations across all key metrics. We continue to execute our strategic vision and grow our core marketplace while maintaining the balance and discipline that will enable us to generate tremendous value for our shareholders for years to come.Managed payments is on track to deliver $2 billion in revenue this year. and our transition is on track for completion by year-end. However, we believe our payments journey is just beginning as this milestone unlocks new opportunities to reduce friction in the marketplace and provide additional financial services.Advertising revenue continues to outpace volume, the sellers increasingly leverage our expanded product portfolio to amplify the exposure of their listings. We observed impressive momentum with our focus categories, which are meaningfully outpacing overall volume growth. We are confident we can continue expanding this innovation playbook to more categories and countries in the quarters ahead.Our balanced approach to capital allocation has enabled us to reinvest in our business, generating consistently strong free cash flow and deliver attractive returns for shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.As proud as I am of our numerous business accomplishments, what makes them even more impactful to me is knowing we are achieving these milestones while building sustainable, exclusive and circular economy platform for all.Once again, I'd like to take this opportunity to thank our teams across eBay for their incredible work over the last quarter and their support for our amazing sellers and buyers in the eBay community.One final note, we are in the midst of a multiyear journey to deliver a tech-led reimagination of eBay. As the impact from macro factors stabilizes, we are reviewing our internal goals for 2022 and beyond. We anticipate showing our longer-term goals and aspirations at an investor event early next year.With that, Jamie and I will now take your questions. Operator, over to you.