  OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the West Pharmaceutical Services second-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to Quintin Lai, vice president of investor relations. Thank you. Please go ahead.Quintin Lai -- Vice President of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Erica. Good morning, and welcome to West's second-quarter 2021 conference call. We issued our financial results this morning, and the release has been posted in the investors section on the company's website located at westpharma.com. This morning, CEO, Eric Green; and CFO, Bernard Birkett, will review our financial results, provide an update on our business and present an update on our full-year 2021 financial guidance. There is a slide presentation that accompanies today's call, and a copy of that presentation is available on the investors section of our website. On Slide 4 is our safe harbor statement. Statements made by management on this call and in the accompanying presentation contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of U.S. federal securities law.These statements are based on our beliefs and assumptions, current expectations, estimates and forecasts. The company's future results are influenced by many factors beyond the control of the company. Actual results could differ materially from past results, as well as those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statement made here. Please refer to today's press release, as well as any other disclosures made by the company regarding the risk to which it is subject, including our 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K reports. During today's call, management will make reference to non-GAAP financial measures, including organic sales growth, adjusted operating profit, adjusted operating profit margin and adjusted diluted EPS. Reconciliations and limitations of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable financial results prepared in conformity to GAAP are provided in this morning's earnings release. I'll now turn the call over to West's CEO and president, Eric Green. 

 



Eric Green -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Quintin, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. Starting on Slide 5, I am pleased to report that we delivered another solid quarter of growth. This was driven by strong organic sales in both our base business and the accelerating demand for products associated with COVID-19. Our high-value products, coupled with productivity gains, continue to fuel expanding gross and operating margins. Together, this has resulted in significant EPS growth for the second quarter. The strong performance demonstrates the criticality of our business as the market leader in primary packaging of injectable drugs and is a testament to the foundation we have built over time with our market-led strategy, globalization of our manufacturing network and our One West team approach, which is bringing meaningful benefits to our customers to support patient health. We continue to manage through the challenges of the pandemic with focus on our key priorities of team member safety and ensuring uninterrupted supply of high-quality containment and delivery devices. I am proud of our team across the globe for their dedication to customers, patients and most importantly, to each other as we have met the demands of our business. Another highlight this quarter is the release of our 2020 Corporate Responsibility Report. The core values of West are well aligned with our environmental, social and governance goals with a great year of achievement and accolades. And in the future, we expect even more progress as we continue to raise our ESG expectations.

 



 I encourage you to get the report, which is on our corporate website. And as for guidance, we're well positioned with the right strategy, strong core business and the incremental pandemic opportunities. With this momentum and a strong execution by the team, we're raising our sales and EPS guidance for the full-year 2021. Bernard will go into greater detail shortly. Turning to Slide 6. We continue to deliver the key drivers of growth in Q2 with strong customer demand of HVP components, including Westar, FluroTec, Envision and NovaPure offerings, as well as Daikyo's Crystal Zenith. It is clear that our unique value propositions and technical expertise resonate with our customers. As quality requirements continue to rise, we have seen growing demand each year for our HVP products. Our industry-leading portfolio of film-coated components, Daikyo, FluroTec and NovaPure are sought by our biologic and pharma customers as an effective barrier against organic and inorganic extractables and minimizing the interaction between the drug and closure while maintaining container closure integrity. Through the first half of 2021, our participation rate in recently approved new molecular entities in the U.S. and Europe remains strong. Our components by West or our partner, Daikyo, are specked on almost all of the biologics and biosimilars approved so far in 2021 and a large majority of small molecules approved. And for the most part, these new drugs are using our highest levels of HVPs, including NovaPure, FluroTec and Westar. This has translated into robust double-digit growth for our biologics and pharma segments, both including and excluding COVID-19-related sales. Altogether, we continue to see sustainable, consistent growth and momentum in revenue growth and margin expansion and we have increased visibility into customer demand as our book of committed orders continue to significantly expand and grow, not only for the second half of this year, but also for sales into 2022 and beyond. Moving to Slide 7. And speaking of visibility into future demand, we continue to increase the capacity of our global manufacturing network to support our growth trajectory to keep pace with the demand increase. At the outset of the pandemic crisis, we responded by accelerating our plans to expand HVP capacity, especially for FluroTec and NovaPure components. This is above our typical annual capex spend of approximately 7% of sales. That first tranche of capacity expansion began in May of last year. Our teams did a fantastic job of procuring, installing and validating the equipment, and all of it is now producing commercial product at our sites in the U.S., Ireland, Germany and Singapore. In December, we began another tranche of investment based on the increased visibility of vaccine development success in our growing base business. We expect this portion to be completed and in production during the second half of this year. Of note, these capacity expansions are within existing HVP sites. And coupled with higher margins of HVP components, provide shorter paybacks and higher returns on invested capital than greenfield investments. This was made possible through the multiyear strategic transformation that our operations is currently executing, moving from a site or regional model to a global operating supply chain network. As we discussed in the last earnings call, we have been contemplating an additional tranche as we are working with our customers to evaluate the need for even more volume production to stay ahead of both base and pandemic demand. Today, we are announcing that we have begun to execute that part, which is approximately $80 million, to support future demand of NovaPure and seals, as well as other HVP finishing capabilities. We expect to start in the second half of this year and be online toward the back half of 2022. Now I'll turn it over to our CFO, Bernard Birkett, who will provide more detail on our financial performance. Bernard?Bernard Birkett -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Eric, and good morning. Let's review the numbers in more detail. We'll first look at Q2 2021 revenues and profits where we saw continued strong sales and EPS growth led by strong revenue performance, primarily in our biologics and pharma market units. I will take you through the margin growth we saw in the quarter, as well as some balance sheet takeaways. And finally, we will provide an update to our 2021 guidance. First up, Q2. Our financial results are summarized on Slide 8, and the reconciliation of non-U.S. GAAP measures are described in Slides 16 to 20. We recorded net sales of $723.6 million, representing organic sales growth of 30.6%. COVID net related revenues are estimated to have been approximately $117 million in the quarter. These net revenues include our assessment of components associated with vaccines, treatment and diagnosis of COVID-19 patients, offset by lower sales to customers affected by lower volumes due to the pandemic. Looking at Slide 9, Proprietary Products sales grew organically by 39.3% in the quarter. High-value products, which made up more than 70% of Proprietary Products sales in the quarter, grew double digits and had solid momentum across biologics and pharma market units throughout Q2. Looking at the performance of the market units, the biologics market unit delivered strong double-digit growth. We continue to work with many biotech and biopharma customers who are using West and Daikyo high-value product offerings. The generics market unit experienced low single-digit growth led by sales of FluroTec components. Our pharma market units saw strong double-digit growth with sales led by high-value products, including Westar and NovaPure components. And Contract Manufacturing had low single-digit organic sales growth for the second quarter, led once again by sales of diagnostic and healthcare-related injection devices. We continue to see improvement in gross profit. We recorded $315.1 million in gross profit, 120 million or 61.5% above Q2 of last year. And our gross profit margin of 43.5% was a 650 basis point expansion from the same period last year. We saw improvement in adjusted operating profit with $211.2 million recorded this quarter compared to 106 million in the same period last year or a 99.2% increase. Our adjusted operating profit margin of 29.2% was a 910 basis point increase from the same period last year. Finally, adjusted diluted EPS grew 97% for Q2. Excluding stock-based compensation tax benefit of $0.09 in Q2 2021 and 2020, EPS grew by approximately 104%. So let's review the growth drivers in both revenue and profit. On Slide 10, we show the contributions to sales growth in the quarter. Volume and mix contributed $152.2 million or 28.9 percentage points of growth, including approximately $117 million of volume driven by COVID-19-related net demand. Sales price increases contributed $9 million or 1.7 percentage points of growth. And changes in foreign currency exchange rates increased sales by $35.2 million or an increase of 6.7 percentage points. Looking at margin performance. Slide 11 shows our consolidated gross profit margin of 43.5% for Q2 2021, up from 37% in Q2 2020. Proprietary Products second-quarter gross profit margin of 49.8% was 700 basis points above the margin achieved in the second quarter of 2020. The key drivers for the continued improvement in Proprietary Products gross profit margin were favorable mix of products sold, driven by growth in high-value products, production efficiencies and sales price increases, partially offset by increased overhead costs inclusive of compensation. Contract Manufacturing second-quarter gross profit margin of 16.7% was 230 basis points below the margin achieved in the second quarter of 2020. The 2020 margin included approximately 180 to 200 basis points of positive impacts from one-time benefits. Now let's look at our balance sheet and review how we've done in terms of generating more cash. On Slide 12, we have listed some key cash flow metrics. Operating cash flow was $233.1 million year-to-date, an increase of $27.9 million compared to the same period last year, a 13.6% increase. Operating cash flow in the period was adversely impacted by our working capital increase, as well as timing of tax payments. Our 2021 year-to-date capital spending was $111.6 million, 42.4 million higher than the same period last year. Working capital of approximately $1 billion at June 30th, 2021, increased by 134.1 million from December 31, 2020, primarily due to higher accounts receivable from increased sales. Our cash balance at June 30th of $576.2 million was 39.3 million less than our December 2020 balance. The decrease in cash is primarily due to our share repurchase program and higher capex in the period, offset by our positive operating results. Turning to guidance. Slide 13 provides a high-level summary. Full-year 2021 net sales are expected to be in a range of 2.76 billion and $2.785 billion compared to prior guidance range of 2.63 billion to $2.655 billion. This guidance includes estimated net COVID incremental revenues of approximately $430 million. There is an estimated benefit of $80 million based on current foreign exchange rates. We expect organic sales growth to be approximately 24 to 25%. We expect our full-year 2021 reported diluted EPS guidance to be in a range of $8.05 to $8.20 compared to a range of $6.95 to $7.10. As we continue to expand our HVP manufacturing capacity at our existing sites to meet anticipated core growth and COVID vaccine demand, we are raising our capex guidance to 265 to $275 million compared to our prior guidance of 230 to $240 million of capex. There are some key elements I want to bring your attention to we review our guidance. Estimated FX benefit on EPS with an impact of approximately $0.27 based on current foreign currency exchange rates compared to a prior estimated benefit of $0.23. And our guidance excludes future tax benefits from stock-based compensation. So to summarize the key takeaways for the second quarter. Strong topline growth in Proprietary, gross profit margin improvement, growth in operating profit margin, growth in adjusted diluted EPS and growth in operating cash flow delivering in line with our pillars of execute, innovate and grow. I'd now like to turn the call back over to Eric.Eric Green -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Bernard. Summarized on Slide 14. Our mission to improve patient lives drives our passion to provide leading-edge, primary containment and delivery technology for our customers. Our market-led strategy is delivering as evident in our leading participation rate in new approvals and a role in support of COVID-19. Our global operations team is executing with the efficiencies and improvements in service and quality to meet increased demand, and we're continuing to accelerate capital spending across our operations to meet current and anticipated future growth. In summary, the first half of the year has been exceptional. We remain well positioned with the strength of our core business and are confident in the long-term horizon of continued organic sales growth and margin expansion. We are proud to be the trusted partner for our customers across the globe and ensure the safe delivery of treatments to patients. Erica, we're ready to take questions. Thank you. 