  OperatorGreetings, and welcome to First Republic Bank's first quarter 2022 earnings conference call. Today's conference is being recorded. [Operator instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mike Ioanilli, vice president and director of investor relations. Please go ahead.Michael Ioanilli -- Vice President and Director Investor Relations Thank you, and welcome to First Republic Bank's first quarter 2022 conference call. Speaking today will be Jim Herbert, founder and executive chairman; Mike Roffler, CEO and president; Mike Selfridge, chief banking officer; Bob Thornton, president of private wealth management; Olga Tsokova, chief accounting officer and acting chief financial officer. Before I hand the call over to Jim, please note that we may make forward-looking statements during today's call that are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. For a more complete discussion of the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking statements, see the bank's FDIC filings, including the Form 8-K filed today, all available on the bank's website. And now I'd like to turn the call over to Jim Herbert.Jim Herbert -- Founder and Executive Chairman Thank you, Mike. Good morning, everyone. I'd like to make a few introductory comments before I turn this over to the teams. Let me start by saying I am very pleased that the board of directors has appointed Mike Roffler as CEO. Mike joined us more than a decade ago prior to the management buyback of the bank. His leadership contributions have been felt far beyond his previous role as chief financial officer. Mike truly embodies our service culture and growth mindset. Most importantly, this appointment ensures the continuity of our very differentiated service-based business model. Mike and our experienced leadership team have a deep understanding of what makes First Republic uniquely successful, including the empowerment of our colleagues, our steadfast focus on safety and stability, and our dedication to extraordinary client service. This model has delivered consistently profitable results and strong steady growth for 36 years through a very wide range of economic and geopolitical environments. In my new role as executive chairman, I look forward to leading the board, engaging with our largest clients and shareholders, while focusing on our strategy, and corporate culture, and supporting Mike and the rest of the team as they carry the First Republic model forward. As you can see from today's terrific earnings results, the continuity of our culture and business model continues to deliver consistent, very good results. Now let me turn the call over to Mike.Mike Roffler -- Chief Executive Officer and President Thank you very much, Jim. It is an honor and privilege to serve as First Republic's CEO. We have many opportunities in front of us, and I look forward to partnering with Jim, the board of directors, our leadership team, and our colleagues to continue the growth and success of First Republic. Now let me turn to this quarter's results. As Jim mentioned, it was a terrific first quarter across the board. Loans, deposits, and wealth management assets were all up significantly from last year. In terms of loan originations, this was our best quarter ever. At the same time, credit quality remained very strong. Nonperforming assets were only eight basis points at quarter-end, and we actually had net recoveries during the quarter. Exceptionally strong credit has been a hallmark of First Republic since our founding, and it will continue to be going forward. We are pleased to raise our quarterly dividend for the 11th consecutive year. The consistency of our dividend is indicative of our strength and stability and our continued positive outlook. Year over year, total loans outstanding were up 19.7%, total deposits have grown 27%, and wealth management assets were up 25%. This strong growth in turn led to strong financial performance. Year over year, total revenues have grown 23%, net interest income is up 22%, while net income was up 20%, and tangible book value per share has increased more than 14%. Importantly, our Tier 1 capital was up 26%. As you recall, we added $2.8 billion of net new capital in 2021 in anticipation of our growth. In addition to this strong financial performance during the quarter, we also successfully completed our core conversion, the largest technology project in the bank's history. Strategically, our new core system lays the foundation for continued growth, by further enabling digital banking innovation, driving the scalability of the entire enterprise in support of our bankers and wealth professionals, and enhancing client customization and security. As important, the system strengthens our regulatory and operational infrastructure as we continue to grow. The core conversion was a true team effort that points to the highly collaborative nature of First Republic. I want to thank all of our colleagues for a job very well done. While this major effort is behind us, we continue to invest in technology to serve our clients and empower our colleagues. During the quarter, we also released our 2021 Net Promoter Score, or NPS, an independent measure of client satisfaction. We are very pleased that our overall NPS increased by six points to 79, our highest level ever and significantly higher than the U.S. banking industry average of 34. Our consistently high scores increased across every region, every line of business, and every generation of clients. Additionally, the more clients do with us, the more satisfied they are. For clients who consider us their primary bank or lead bank, our NPS increased to 88, the highest level ever. Quite importantly, nearly two-thirds of our clients now consider us their lead bank. Our improved NPS even during the pandemic demonstrates the strength of our client-centric model under challenging conditions. It is a testament to the dedication of our team and the effectiveness of our technology investment in recent years. It is clear that the more challenging the environment, the more client service is valued. As we look ahead to the rising rate environment, First Republic remains well-positioned. Our balance sheet is strong, and our service model continues to thrive. Demand for client service is not cyclical. Overall, it was a great quarter. Now I'll turn the call over to Mike Selfridge, chief banking officer.Mike Selfridge -- Chief Banking Officer Thank you, Mike. Let me begin with an update on lending. It's been a very strong start to the year. Loan origination volume for the first quarter was a record $17.8 billion. Single-family residential volume was very strong at $8.4 billion, our second-highest quarter ever. Single-family volume accounted for nearly half of our total volumes during the quarter. Multifamily volume for the quarter was also very strong at $1.7 billion, also our second highest quarter ever. This robust lending activity during the quarter highlights the strength of our markets and our clients. This is further reflected in our loan pipeline, which is significantly higher compared to the same time last year. We continue to expect mid-teens loan growth for the full year of 2022. In terms of credit, we continue to maintain our conservative underwriting standards. Our average loan-to-value ratio for all real estate loans originated during the quarter was just 57%. Turning to business banking, it was a very successful quarter. Business loans and line commitments, excluding PPP loans, were up 18% year over year. During the quarter, the utilization rate on capital call lines of credit decreased slightly to 40%. This remains at the higher end of the historical utilization range. Now let me turn to funding. Overall, it was another very successful quarter of deposit growth. Deposits were up 3.7% from year-end and 26.7% year over year. We continue to maintain a diversified deposit funding base. Checking deposits represented 70% of total deposits at quarter-end, and business deposits represented 60% of total deposits at quarter-end. The average rate paid on all deposits for the quarter was just five basis points, in line with the prior quarter. This led to an overall funding cost of just 11 basis points, down one basis point from the last quarter. Our strategy of acquiring and growing the next generation of client relationships, which began over a decade ago, continues to be very effective. For example, year-over-year households acquired through our personal line of credit and professional loan programs were up 15%, and we've acquired more than 5,000 such households in the last 12 months. Clients who came to First Republic through these programs now represent fully one-third of our total consumer borrowing households. I would note these ktwo programs are more than self-funded with deposits. Our next-generation client base has grown. We've also continued to develop the next generation of relationship managers. These internally trained relationship managers now make up over one-quarter of all relationship managers. As Mike mentioned, our model is performing quite well and continues to drive our safe, stable and organic growth. Now I'd like to turn the call over to Bob Thornton, president of private wealth management.Bob Thornton -- President of Private Wealth Management Thank you, Mike. Our Wealth Management business continues to perform very well despite market volatility. Year over year, assets under management grew 25%. During the first quarter, our investment management business had a record net client flow -- inflow of $4.9 billion. Our overall AUM decreased a modest 2% during the quarter due to market depreciation. Wealth Management fee revenue for the first quarter was $221 million, up 39% year over year. We remain very focused on serving our clients with financial planning, brokerage, trust, insurance, and foreign exchange services in addition to investment management. This comprehensive approach benefits our clients while also diversifying our fee revenue with services that are less subject to market fluctuations. We also continue to focus on deepening relationships with our wealth management clients by meeting their banking needs. Deposit sourced from our wealth management colleagues increased 28% year over year and now represent 14% of total bank deposits. Our integrated banking and wealth management model has continued to make First Republic an attractive destination for very successful wealth professionals. Since the start of the year, we've welcomed three new wealth management teams to First Republic. Overall, our wealth management business continues to perform very well despite the broader market volatility. Times like these are a great opportunity to demonstrate our exceptional service and acquire new households. Now I'd like to turn the call over to Olga Tsokova, acting chief financial officer.Olga Tsokova -- Chief Accounting Officer and Acting Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Bob. With a consistent focus on credit, capital and liquidity, we continue to operate in a safe and sound manner. Our credit quality remains excellent. As Mike mentioned, during the first quarter, we had net recoveries of approximately $300,000. Our provision for loan losses for the quarter was $10 million. This modest provision reflects our underwriting discipline and excellent credit track record as well as our portfolio mix. Our capital position remains very strong. At quarter-end, our Tier 1 leverage ratio was 8.7%. This reflects the benefits from five successful capital results in 2021, totaling $2.8 billion on a net basis. Liquidity also remains very strong. High-quality liquid assets were 16% of average total assets for the first quarter. Our net interest margin was 2.68% for the first quarter, in line with our guidance. We continue to expect our net interest margin to be in the range of 2.65% to 2.75% for the full year 2022. Importantly, net interest income was up a very strong 22% year over year. This is due to the robust growth in earning assets and a stable net interest margin. Our efficiency ratio was 62% for the first quarter. We are pleased to maintain a stable efficiency ratio as we continue to invest in the business. We continue to expect the efficiency ratio to be in the range of 62% to 64% for the full year 2022. Our effective tax rate was 22.9% for the first quarter. We now expect the effective tax rate for the full year 2022 to be in the range of 21% to 22%. This slight increase is due to reduced tax benefits from the vesting of stock-based awards. Overall, the year is off to a very strong start, reflecting the consistency of our model. And now I'll turn the call back over to Mike Roffler.Mike Roffler -- Chief Executive Officer and President Thank you, Jim, Mike, Bob, and Olga. We've had a great start to the year. For over 36 years, First Republic's business model has been grounded in conservative credit, strong capital and liquidity, colleague empowerment, and most importantly, an extraordinary level of client service. This foundation remains unchanged. Our model is as strong as ever, and our entire team remains focused on executing each and every day. Now we'd be happy to take your questions. 