
OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Accenture Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2021 Earnings Conference Call.[Operator Instructions] As a reminder, today's call is being recorded.I would now like to turn the conference over to our host, Angie Park, Managing Director and Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Angie Park -- Managing Director and Head of Investor RelationsThank you, operator, and thanks everyone, for joining us today on our fourth quarter and full fiscal 2021 earnings announcement. As the operator just mentioned, I'm Angie Park, Managing Director, Head of Investor Relations. On today's call, you will hear from Julie Sweet, our Chair and Chief Executive Officer; and KC McClure, our Chief Financial Officer.We hope you've had an opportunity to review the news release we issued a short time ago. Let me quickly outline the agenda for today's call. Julie will begin with an overview of our results, KC will take you through the financial details, including the income statement and balance sheet along with some key operational metrics for both the fourth quarter and full fiscal year, Julie will then provide a brief update on our market positioning before KC provides our business outlook for the first quarter and full fiscal year 2022. We will then take your questions before Julie provides a wrap-up at the end of the call.Some of the matters we'll discuss on this call, including our business outlook are forward-looking and as such are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to, those factors set forth in today's news release and discussed in our annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and other SEC filings. These risks and uncertainties could cause the actual results to differ materially from those expressed in this call. During our call today, we will reference certain non-GAAP financial measures, which we believe provide useful information for investors. We include reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures where appropriate to GAAP in our news release or in the Investor Relations section of our website at accenture.com. As always, Accenture assumes no obligation to update the information presented on this conference call.Now let me turn the call over to Julie.Julie Sweet -- Chair and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Angie, and everyone, for joining us. Before diving into our results, thank you to our 624,000 incredibly talented people around the world, including over 8,500 Managing Directors. This past fiscal year, your hard work and dedication to creating value that matters for our clients with unwavering, despite the ongoing and sometimes quite extreme challenges of COVID, we've had a truly extraordinary year as reflected in our outstanding financial results and in the 360 degree value we delivered beyond our financials, from the over 120,000 promotions and over 31 million training hours, an increase of 40% for our people, to increasing our workforce by approximately 118,000 people, creating significant employment opportunities in our communities, to achieving 46% women on our way to our goal of gender parity by 2025, to our top 3 ranking in the Refinitiv Global Diversity and Inclusion Index for the fourth consecutive year, to the number one position with our largest ecosystem partners, to the exciting accomplishment of 50% renewable energy now powering our offices and centers globally, to the donation of $54 million in COVID surge relief.In December, we will publish our first ever annual 360 degree value report to more fully describe the FY'21 value we created in all directions, and will report against three additional key ESG frameworks, SASB, TCFD and WEF IBC. We believe that the trust we have from our clients and partners, our continuous innovation and our ability to consistently attract the best people, including the 56,000 net new hires this past quarter are directly linked to our commitment to measuring our success by how well we create this 360 degree value for all our stakeholders, clients, people, partners, shareholders and communities, and on our culture of shared success. Here are some key financial highlights of the year which position us strongly as we begin FY '22.FY'21 demonstrated our leadership in helping our clients achieve compressed transformation with 72 clients, with bookings greater than $100 million compared to 53 last year and 229 Diamond clients, our largest client relationship compared to 216 last year. With the 20% increase in bookings to $59 billion, we have strong momentum across all dimensions of our business, across geographic markets, industries and services, reaching revenues of $50.5 billion, a significant milestone, representing 11% growth, we added $6.2 billion in revenue this year, gaining significant market share with 40 basis points of operating margin expansion, demonstrating yet again our ability to grow profitably and at scale. We achieved this profitable growth while investing at a higher level than ever before with $4.2 billion in acquisitions, $1.1 billion in R&D and assets platforms and Industry solutions, including growing our portfolio of patents and pending patents to more than 8,200, and total training investment of $900 million. And according to Brandz, our brand value increased 56% to over $64 billion, ranking us number 27 on the prestigious Brandz's top 100 most Valuable Global Brands list.Finally, I want to highlight cloud and our ability to move with agility to serve our clients needs and capture momentum in the market. At the beginning of FY'21 after investing in cloud for a decade, we saw that the pandemic would dramatically accelerate our clients move to the cloud. More than technology, the move to the cloud would be about the adoption of a new operating system for the future enterprise, a dynamic continuum of capabilities from public to edge to everything in between, opening up radically new ways for companies to work, compete and drive value. Just over one year ago, we created Accenture Cloud First to capitalize on this momentum, bringing together all of our capabilities from migration to cloud native development, data AI, industry talent and change. Accenture Cloud First was the biggest driver of our overall cloud business growth from $12 billion to $18 billion, a 44% increase. KC, over to you.KC McClure -- Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Julie, and thanks to all of you for joining us on today's call. We were very pleased with our results in the fourth quarter, which completes an outstanding year for Accenture, and reflect broad based momentum across all dimensions of our business. Once again, our results reflect our relentless focus to deliver across our three key imperatives for driving superior stakeholder value.So let me begin by summarizing a few of the highlights of the quarter. Revenue growth of 21% in local currency at the top end of our guided range reflects double-digit growth across all markets, all industry groups, and all services. We also continue to extend our leadership position at an accelerated pace with growth significantly above the market. Operating margin was 14.6%, an increase of 30 basis points for the quarter, reflecting a 40 basis points of expansion for the full year.We delivered this expansion while investing significantly in our business and in our people to position us for long-term market leadership. We delivered very strong EPS of $2.20, which represents 29% growth compared to adjusted EPS last year. And finally, we delivered free cash flow of $2.2 billion, which was driven by continued strong growth and profitability.Now let me turn to some of the details. New bookings were $15 billion for the quarter with a book-to-bill of 1.1 Consulting bookings were $8 billion with a book to bill of 1.1. Outsourcing bookings were $7.1 billion with a book to bill of 1.2. We were very pleased with our new bookings, which represents 7% growth in U.S. dollars with 18 clients with bookings over $100 million. We were also pleased with the strength of bookings across all services with a book-to-bill of 1 in strategy and consulting, 1.2 in technology services, and 1.1 in operations.Turning now to revenues. Revenues for the quarter were $13.4 billion, a 24% increase in U.S. dollars and 21% in local currency, slightly above our FX adjusted range, as the FX tailwind was 3% compared to the 4% estimated last quarter. Consulting revenues for the quarter were $7.3 billion, up 29% in U.S. dollars and 25% in local currency. Outsourcing revenues were $6.1 billion, up 19% in U.S. dollars and 16% in local currency. Taking a closer look at our service dimensions. Strategy and consulting, technology services and operations, all grew very strong double digits.Turning to our geographic markets. In North America, revenue growth was 22% in local currency, driven by double-digit growth in consumer goods, retail and travel services, software and platforms and public service. In Europe, revenues grew 18% in local currency, led by double-digit growth in consumer goods, retail and travel services, industrial, and banking and capital markets.Looking closer at the countries, Europe was driven by double-digit growth in the U.K., Germany, France and Italy. In growth markets, we delivered 21% revenue growth in local currency, driven by double-digit growth in consumer goods, retail and travel services, banking and capital markets and high-tech. From a country perspective, growth markets was led by double-digit growth in Japan, Australia and Brazil.Moving down the income statement. Gross margin for the quarter was 33.3% compared with 31.8% for the same period last year. Sales and marketing expense for the quarter was 11.3% compared with 10.6% for the fourth quarter last year. General and administrative expense was 7.4% compared to 6.8% for the same quarter last year. Operating income was $2 billion in the fourth quarter, reflecting a 14.6% operating margin, up 30 basis points compared with Q4 last year.As a reminder, in Q4 last year, we recorded an investment gain that impacted our tax rate and increased EPS by $0.29 for the quarter. The following comparisons exclude this impact and reflect adjusted results. Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 25% compared with an adjusted effective tax rate of 28.4% for the fourth quarter last year. Diluted earnings per share were $2.20 compared with adjusted EPS of $1.70 in the fourth quarter last year.Days service outstanding were 38 days compared to 36 days last quarter and 35 days in the fourth quarter of last year. Free cash flow for the quarter was $2.2 billion resulting from cash generated by operating activities of $2.4 billion, net of property and equipment additions of $236 million. Our cash balance at August 31st was $8.2 billion compared with $8.4 billion at August 31st last year.With regards to our ongoing objective to return cash to shareholders. In the fourth quarter, we repurchased or redeemed 3 million shares for $915 million at an average price of $305.61 per share. Also in August, we paid our fourth quarterly cash dividend of $0.88 per share for a total of $558 million. And our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.97 per share to be paid on November 15th, a 10% increase over last year and approved $3 billion of additional share repurchase authority.Now I would like to take a moment to summarize our outstanding year. We are extremely pleased with the performance of our business in fiscal year '21, greatly exceeding all aspects of our original outlook that we provided last September. We delivered $59 billion in new bookings, a 20% increase in U.S. dollars over last year, which positions us well as we begin fiscal year '22. Revenues increased a record $6.2 billion, hitting the $50 billion mark, reflecting growth of 11% in local currency for the full year. This result which is more than double the revenue growth we anticipated at the beginning of the year showcases our agility and ability to quickly scale to deliver value and outcomes for our clients.Operating margin of 15.1% reflected a 40 basis point expansion over fiscal year '20, above the top end of our original guided range even after making continued significant investments in our business and our people. Adjusted earnings per share were $8.80, reflecting 18% growth over adjusted FY '20 EPS and was well above our revenue growth. As a reminder, we adjusted earnings in both years to exclude gains on investment. Free cash flow of $8.4 billion was significantly above our original guided range, reflecting a free cash flow to 0 of 1.5, driven by strong profitability.And finally, we significantly exceeded our original guidance for capital allocation by returning $5.9 billion of cash to shareholders, while investing roughly $4.2 billion across 46 acquisitions to acquire critical skills and capabilities in strategic high growth areas of the market. So again, FY '21 was truly an outstanding year. Momentum continues into fiscal '22 and we are laser-focused on capturing the market opportunities, coupled with a disciplined execution that you and we expect of us. Now let me turn it back to Julie.Julie Sweet -- Chair and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, KC. Turning to the demand environment. Compressed transformation underpinned by cloud and digital continues to drive strong double-digit growth across our business, including for Applied Intelligence, Cloud, Industry X, Intelligent Operations, Interactive, Intelligent platform services, security and transformational change management.Technology is the single biggest driver of change in companies today and the depth, breadth and scale of our technology capabilities across our services is unmatched. We see the demand environment shaping up for FY '22 to be more of the same, while digital leaders second seeking to widen their competitive advantage and the companies seeking to leapfrog their cloud and digital transformation are driving momentum in our business. The vast majority of companies are early in their transformation and whether digital leader, leapfrog, laggard or in between, all face multi-year journeys ahead of them because the replatforming in the cloud and use of new technologies across the enterprise is a once in a digital era profound transformation.Simultaneously, we have ongoing exponential technology change that is accelerating and will create new opportunities, disruptions and change for our clients. In addition, growth in parts of our business are by their very nature continuously evolving. For example, Interactive, now a $12.5 billion dollar business growing 15%, continues to set a new standard for customer experience, connection, sales and marketing at the intersection of data, creativity and technology, and is tied to the ever changing needs and preferences of B2C and B2B customers. Similarly, security, now a $4.4 billion business growing 29% is driven by needs related to an ever expanding digital threat landscape, and with our managed services is providing much needed protection and talent to our clients.Our clients value the depth and breadth of our services for the entire enterprise, across strategy and consulting, interactive, technology and operations, and industry and functional expertise across 13 industries, plus the ability to deliver tangible outcomes as well as our strong track record of investing ahead of our clients to anticipate their needs, needs drive our next wave of growth, such as our early moves in digital cloud and security, they remain entire parts of the enterprise for which digitization and the move to the cloud has only just begun. In particular, both the things companies make and the way they make things are being dramatically changed by technology and that is the focus of our Industry X business, which we believe is the next big digital frontier. In fact, a 2021 Gartner survey of Board of Directors indicates that 93% expect that the number one business priority that will see transformational improvement from digital technology is manufacturing, distribution and supply chain.We have invested for nearly a decade in Industry X and are now at approximately $5 billion in revenue growing 36%. We look forward to welcoming the 4,200 industry leading engineers and consultants of umlaut when the acquisition closes in October. Similarly, sustainability is a critical area for which technology is still evolving. We believe that every business must be a sustainable business and yet companies are at very early stages of figuring out how to make this shift. Last year, building on years of investment and experience, we launched our sustainability services under our new Chief Responsibility Officer and Global Sustainability Services lead.We have continued to accelerate our focus in this expanding and changing market and are proud of the work we are doing with leading partners like Mastercard, as we enhance its ability to track and analyze the carbon emissions of their suppliers and help decarbonize the U.K. Energy system with clients such as National Grid.We do see a shift in the nature of the demand for our managed services across IT, security and operation, with these services emerging is one of our most strategic differentiator as companies simultaneously see greater resilience, chase a war for talent, the need to rapidly digitize and cost pressures strategic managed services are increasingly a C-suite priority, with Accenture as the trusted partner of choice and increasingly integrated as a part of their talent strategy, table stakes from managed services, our efficiency, resiliency and reliability.We further differentiate in our managed services because they are uniquely informed by our strong strategy and consulting capabilities and deep industry and functional expertise, and they benefit from our strong level of investment for digital platforms, like SynOps and myWizard and the seamless integration with our ecosystem partners as well as due to the incredible pool of talented people our clients can access quickly when partnering with us. For example, we are partnering with Olympus, a leading manufacturer of optical and digital precision technology to help them drive their transformation to become a global medical technology company. As part of this partnership, we have acquired their Japanese IT subsidiary company, which we will transform to deliver significant IT cost savings to Olympus, as well as upskill their people, combining their knowledge with our talent and technology to lead Olympus's digital transformation.Now, let me bring to life some more of the demand we are seeing. All of these examples bring together the diverse capabilities across Accenture to create tangible value. We are a leader in cloud because we're able to serve our clients across the cloud continuum and create business value. We are partnering with Kubota, a Japanese multinational company providing solutions, leveraging a diverse range of products, technologies and services in the fields of food, water and the environment to accelerate Kubota's digital transformation by creating solutions that will enhance the productivity and safety of food, promote circularity of water resources and waste, and improve urban and living environments, we will help create innovative sustainability solutions and a platform applying leading edge digital technology, including AI and IoT. Diverse data held across the group will be centralized for easing maintenance and use. We're also modernizing, replacing or migrating legacy applications to the cloud and strengthening their global computer security incident response team.We are partnering with [Indecipherable] a US-based global manufacturing services company to further enhance their IT infrastructure capabilities to providing infrastructure managed services for digital workplace, network cloud and data center support. We're helping Fennia, a Finnish insurer offering casualty, motor and health and accident services to implement a cloud-based policy administration system to improve customer service using data and automation to make sales, claims, payments and policy management processes more user friendly. This will allow the company to quickly respond to changing market and customer demands and meet its goal of providing the best customer experience in the industry.Compressed transformation is occurring across industries. We're partnering with Unilever, one of the world's largest consumer goods companies in their digital transformation. Together, we are setting a new industry standard by reinventing technology delivery with cutting-edge automation, delivering cloud migration at scale, the largest ERP migration to the cloud and the industry and shifting to technology solutions that support their growth strategy. With McCormick, a global leader in flavor in the food industry, where we are partnering on a strategic transformation program, encompassing finance, supply chain, logistics and plant maintenance.The new cloud-based platform and innovative data driven approach will help standardize processes, increase efficiencies and support their goal of doubling in size quickly. We're helping a European financial institution build the bank of the future and helping them become a next level innovator, one that is leveraging technology and sustainability to transform multiple parts of their business, drive hyper personalized customer experience and create new lines of business like wealth management and insurance, which is expected to triple digital sales by 2023 and improve their already stellar cost to income ratio, at the same time we're helping them deliver on their ESG initiatives, including inclusive financing, green software and carbon data free data centers.At Accenture, we're enabling new experiencing growth and cost transformation across the enterprise and across industries, and a key enabler to these innovative scaled service is the power of our operations capabilities. We are helping Open Fiber, an Italian telecommunications company design and orchestrate construction of an ultra broadband network, which will deliver fiber to 20 million households across Italy. Digitization and automation will help the construction site to proceed faster and more efficiently.With Interactive, we're helping MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group, Europe's leading consumer electronics retailer transform their digital content capabilities with a state-of-the-art marketing operation. Automation and data insights enabled by SynOps will help deliver more engaging and personalized content while driving millions in savings.Our industry expertise continues to be a core competitive and managed, allowing us to reap deep industry and cross industry knowledge enterprise wide for our clients. I want to recognize in particular our software and platform industry, which is approximately $4 billion in revenue. In Q4, this group celebrated 20 consecutive quarters of double-digit growth, serving as a leading partner to our clients in this hyper-growth industry.KC, back to you.KC McClure -- Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Julie. Now let me turn to our business outlook. For the first quarter of fiscal '22, we expect revenues to be in the range of $13.9 billion to $14.35 billion. This assumes the impact of FX will be about positive 0.5% compared to the first quarter of fiscal '21 and reflects an estimated 18% to 22% growth in local currency.For the full fiscal year '22 based upon how the rates have been trending over the last few weeks, we currently assume the impact of FX on our results in U.S. dollars will be approximately negative 0.5% compared to fiscal '21. For the full fiscal '22, we expect our revenue to be in the range of 12% to 15% growth in local currency over fiscal '21, which includes an inorganic contribution of about 5% as we continue to expect to invest about $4 billion in acquisitions.For operating margin, we expect fiscal year '22 to be 15.2% to 15.4%, a 10 basis point to 30 basis point expansion over fiscal '21 results. We expect our annual effective tax rate to be in the range of 23% to 25%. This compares to an adjusted effective tax rate of 23.1% in fiscal '21. For earnings per share, we expect full year diluted EPS for fiscal '22 to be in the range of $9.90 to $10.18, or 13% to 16% growth over adjusted fiscal '21 results. For the full fiscal '22, we expect operating cash flow to be in the range of $8.2 billion to $8.7 billion, property and equipment additions to be approximately $700 million, and free cash flow to be in the range of $7.5 billion to $8 billion. Our free cash flow guidance reflects a very strong free cash flow to net income ratio of 1.1 to 1.2. Finally, we expect to return at least $6.3 billion through dividends and share repurchases as we remain committed to returning a substantial portion of cash to our shareholders.With that, let's open it up so that we can take your questions. Angie?Angie Park -- Managing Director and Head of Investor RelationsThanks, KC. I would ask that you each keep to one question and a follow-up to allow as many participants as possible to ask a question. Operator, would you please provide instructions for those on the call.