  OperatorGood morning, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the AbbVie first quarter 2022 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time. I would now like to introduce Ms. Liz Shea, vice president, head of investor relations.Liz Shea -- Vice President of Investor Relations

 



 Good morning, and thanks for joining us. Also on the call with me today are Rick Gonzalez, chairman of the board and chief executive officer; Rob Michael, vice chairman, finance and commercial operations and chief financial officer; Jeff Stewart, executive vice president, chief commercial officer; and Tom Hudson, senior vice president, R&D and chief scientific officer. Joining us for the Q&A portion of the call are Carrie Strom, senior vice president and president, global allergan aesthetics; Neil Gallagher, vice president and chief medical officer; and Roopal Thakkar, vice president, global regulatory affairs. Before we get started, some statements we make today may be considered forward-looking statements for purposes of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. AbbVie cautions that these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. Additional information about these risks and uncertainties is included in our SEC filings. AbbVie undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements, except as required by law. On today's conference call, non-GAAP financial measures will be used to help investors understand AbbVie's business performance.These non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled with comparable GAAP financial measures in our earnings release and regulatory filings from today, which can be found on their website. Following our prepared remarks, we'll take your questions. So with that, I'll now turn the call over to Rick. Rick Gonzalez -- Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thank you, Liz. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. I'll briefly comment on our overall performance, then Jeff, Tom and Rob will review our first quarter business highlights, pipeline progress and financial results in more detail. I'm pleased with the excellent start to 2022. It further reinforces our confidence in the long-term fundamentals of the business. We reported adjusted earnings per share of $3.16, exceeding our expectations. Total net revenue of more than $13.5 billion was up 5.4% on an operational basis, also above our expectations. These results demonstrate strong momentum across several key products and portfolios, including robust double-digit operational revenue growth from Skyrizi, Rinvoq, Neuroscience and Aesthetics. Skyrizi is performing exceptionally well. We are achieving impressive market share gains in psoriasis, which remains a significant market opportunity. Skyrizi's recent launch in psoriatic arthritis as well as the anticipated regulatory approval in Crohn's disease should also serve as important growth drivers over the long term. Rinvoq is also contributing compelling sales growth. Subscription trends in RA have recently stabilized as we expected and we are making excellent progress repositioning the brand as the leading second-line agent based on the robust data generated across our broad development programs. The early launch trends for Rinvoq in both atopic dermatitis and psoriatic arthritis are highly encouraging, with commercial access and paid prescriptions expected to ramp significantly over the coming months. We anticipate that these two new indications, along with the recent U.S. approval in ulcerative colitis, should add substantial revenue growth for Rinvoq over the long term.

 



 Neuroscience remains an exciting opportunity for our company. Vraylar continues to have strong momentum across our currently approved indications and the pending regulatory approval in major depressive disorder represents a significant upside to current projections. In migraine, our portfolio of distinct therapies with Ubrelvy, Qulipta and Botox Therapeutic is demonstrating robust double-digit sales growth. With the migraine market anticipated to roughly double in size over the next several years, there is significant headroom for continued revenue growth with these compelling therapies. Aesthetics is once again exceeding expectations. The category continues to grow robust double digits, especially in toxins and fillers, where there is substantial opportunity for further market penetration. Our commercial team is executing at a high level with targeted promotion and enhanced digital services, including our Alle loyalty program driving strong market share performance across our major brands. In summary, this is an exciting time for AbbVie, and I'm extremely pleased with the evolution and momentum of our diverse portfolio. We're making excellent progress with the launches of several new products and indications, which will collectively add meaningful revenue for AbbVie as commercial access ramps for each of these opportunities over the remainder of this year. We're off to another exceptional start, and our long-term growth prospects remain strong. I'd now like to take a brief moment to thank Mike Severino for his contributions to the success of AbbVie over the last eight years. As you know, Mike has decided to leave AbbVie at the end of May to pursue another career opportunity, and we wish him all the best. I'd also like to take this opportunity to formally introduce to you Tom Hudson. Tom joined AbbVie back in 2016 as the head of discovery and early development. In 2018, Tom undertook responsibilities for AbbVie's entire discovery organization. Then in 2019, was promoted to the Head of AbbVie R&D and chief scientific officer, where he assumed responsibility for all of AbbVie's R&D. Tom has an impressive background as a clinical scientist. His medical specialty is in clinical immunology and allergy. Tom played a critical role in the human genome project while working at both the Whitehead Institute and MIT, where Tom led the team that mapped the human genome. Tom was also instrumental in the international half map project to refine the genetic architecture of the human genome. Tom went on to further lead the Ontario Institute for Cancer Research, which included discovery and translational cancer research with a clinical network of more than 1,000 investigators. Tom will be providing an update on our continued pipeline progress to you later in the call. But first, I'll turn the call over to Jeff for additional comments on our commercial highlights. Jeff?Jeff Stewart -- Executive Vice President, Commercial Operations Thank you, Rick. We continue to demonstrate strong commercial execution across our therapeutic portfolio. I'll start with Immunology, which delivered global revenues of more than $6.1 billion, reflecting growth of 8.1% on an operational basis. Humira global sales were approximately $4.7 billion, down 1.8% on an operational basis with low single-digit revenue growth in the U.S., offset by biosimilar competition across international markets, where revenues were down 17.9% operationally. Skyrizi global revenues were $940 million, reflecting positive momentum in both approved indications. In psoriasis, Skyrizi is demonstrating impressive market share gains globally. Skyrizi now accounts for approximately 23% of the total prescription share in the U.S. biologic market. Skyrizi's in-play psoriasis share, which includes both new and switching patients, also remains very, very strong and now reflects roughly 40% patient share in the U.S. and a clear No.1 leadership position. Skyrizi is performing exceptionally well internationally, where we have now achieved approximately 10% psoriasis share across our top 12 markets as well as in-play share leadership in more than 20 key countries. While we were early in our launch in psoriatic arthritis, we are encouraged by the uptake in this indication. In the dermatology segment, Skyrizi has already achieved in-play patient share of more than 10% in the U.S. Internationally, Skyrizi PSA is now approved in 45 countries, with reimbursement expected to increase throughout the year. Importantly, we are also preparing for the launch of Skyrizi in Crohn's disease, which represents another important long-term growth driver with approval decisions anticipated this year. Turning now to Rinvoq, which delivered global sales of $465 million, demonstrating continued strong growth. As anticipated, we have seen an impact on new patient starts following the label update and Rinvoq prescriptions have now stabilized in the U.S., with in-play market share currently 12% in RA. We expect growth in the second line plus RA setting going forward where our field force is now focused on leveraging compelling data from two important Phase III trials. First, SELECT-CHOICE, which demonstrated Rinvoq's superiority versus ORENCIA across key efficacy parameters, including clinical remission in previously treated RA patients. And second, the open-label extension of SELECT-COMPARE which demonstrated that many RA patients with an inadequate response to Humira are able to achieve remission after switching to Rinvoq. Early feedback suggests this updated Rinvoq RA messaging is resonating very well with healthcare practitioners. Internationally, Rinvoq share continues to ramp in RA with a total market share of approximately 5.5% across key geographies. We are also making excellent progress with Rinvoq's newly launched indications, including atopic dermatitis, psoriatic arthritis and ulcerative colitis. Managed care access is expected to ramp strongly for each of these indications over the coming months. As we build access, initial prescriptions are covered by our BRIDGE program. which provides free patients or free goods to patients until formulary coverage is established. As a reminder, the volume from our BRIDGE program is not captured in third-party prescription data. I'll start with atopic dermatitis. We are seeing new patient starts accelerating as we build access. When you include prescriptions from our Bridge program, Rinvoq total in-play AD share is already in the mid-teens. So we are pleased with the early adoption and repeating prescribers. As an oral option that provides significant skin clearance and itch relief, we believe Rinvoq has a strong differentiated position in this highly underpenetrated AD market. In PSA, we are seeing a nice uptake in Rinvoq's in-play share, especially in the room segment, where the severity of joint or skin manifestations of the disease can vary significantly by patients. And importantly, we have also launched Skyrizi in the room PSA segment this quarter, giving us two very compelling therapies to address the wide range of PSA patient types, regardless of how their symptoms present. We have also launched our first indication in the IBD segment, Rinvoq for ulcerative colitis, where we are seeing a significant long-term opportunity in the second-line plus setting. Nearly 50% of UC patients are currently on or have used TNF therapy, so the addressable patient population is substantial. Given the strong benefit risk in this indication, we believe Rinvoq will be a welcome therapeutic option for UC patients and physicians. Turning now to hematologic oncology. Global revenues were more than $1.6 billion, down 0.6% on an operational basis. Imbruvica global revenues were approximately $1.2 billion, down 7.4%. There are two factors impacting our Imbruvica results. First, we are seeing greater market share erosion in new patient starts than originally anticipated from newer therapy, including other BTK inhibitors, as well as our own Venclexta. Second, we continue to see higher-than-expected COVID suppression on new patient starts in CLL, which as a treat-to-progression therapy, has impacted the total BTK treated patient market. Our guidance assumes a market recovery over the course of this year, but it's too early to determine exactly how this may play out given the continued impact from recent COVID variant. Despite these dynamics, Imbruvica remains the market-leading therapy for total patients across CLL and several other major blood cancers. Based on the magnitude of clinical data and real-world evidence generated for Imbruvica, showing sustained disease control, as well as overall patient survival, we are confident it will continue to be a meaningful product for AbbVie over the long term. Venclexta, however, is helping to offset some of the headwinds facing Imbruvica. Global sales were $473 million, up 21.1% on an operational basis. In the U.S., Venclexta's the clear market share leader in frontline AML among patients who are ineligible for intensive induction chemotherapy and recently achieved leading new patient share in second line plus PLL. We are also seeing robust momentum internationally with strong performance across all approved indications. Additionally, we continue to make excellent progress building out our heme on portfolio with several compelling late-stage assets, such as epcoritamab for B-cell malignancies, navitoclax for myelofibrosis and ABBV-383 for multiple myeloma, expected support expected to support sustainable long-term growth. Turning now to Neuroscience, where revenues were approximately $1.5 billion, up more than 20% on an operational basis, including robust double-digit growth from Vraylar, Botox Therapeutic and Ubrelvy. Ubrelvy is performing very well and continues to be the market-leading oral CGRP treatment for acute migraine, with sequential demand growth observed. Qulipta is also demonstrating exceptional uptake in migraine prevention, with recent total prescriptions performing ahead of comparable branded launches. Qulipta is now capturing nearly 25% on of the new-to-brand share in the U.S. preventative CGRP class when we consider both paid and bridge volume. We expect commercial access to continue to ramp strongly over the remainder of the year. Qulipta has also recently demonstrated positive results from a registration-enabling study for the preventative treatment of chronic migraine, which we plan to submit to the agency for potential expanded use in the U.S. as well as to support regulatory applications across the international markets. This indication, if approved, will provide added differentiation for Qulipta as the only oral CGRP therapy for the preventative treatment of both episodic and chronic migraine. In our other notable therapeutics, Eye Care revenues of $771 million were down 2.8% on an operational basis with recent generic competition for Restasis unfavorably impacting our results. Mavyret sales were $380 million, down 4.6% on an operational basis as treated patient volumes remain depressed compared to pre-COVID levels. So overall, I'm extremely pleased with our execution across the therapeutic portfolio, including the progress we are making with recent new product launches. We remain on track to deliver strong revenue growth once again in 2022. And with that, I'll turn the call over to Tom for additional comments on our R&D program. Tom?Tom Hudson -- Senior Vice President, Research and Development and Chief Scientific Officer Thank you, Jeff. I'll start with immunology. We recently received FDA approval for Rinvoq in ulcerative colitis, a disease where there continues to be a significant unmet need for therapies that can provide high response rates and drillable remission. In our UC development program, Rinvoq demonstrated some of the highest rates of remission and endoscopic improvements seen in Phase III studies. Importantly, Rinvoq also provided durable responses sustained through one year of treatment. Given the strong benefit risk profile, we believe Rinvoq will be an important new medicine for patients. Our regulatory applications for Rinvoq in UC remain under review in Europe and Japan, with approval decisions expected in the second half of this year. Also in the area of inflammatory bowel disease, we recently reported positive top line results from the second Phase III induction study for Rinvoq in Chron's disease. Similar to results from the first induction trial, in this induction study, Rinvoq demonstrated a very strong impact on the disease as measured by clinical remission and endoscopic response. We expect to see results from the Phase III maintenance study later in the quarter with our regulatory submissions for Rinvoq and Crohn's disease expected in the third quarter and approval decisions anticipated in 2023. Rounding out Rinvoq's development programs in rheumatology, we also have regulatory applications under review in ankylosing spondylitis and nonradiographic axial SpA. We expect an FDA approval decision in the second quarter for AS and decisions in the fourth quarter for non-radiographic axial SpA. Moving to Skyrizi, where in the quarter, we announced an update regarding our regulatory application for Crohn's disease in the U.S. Following an FDA request for additional information primarily related to the on-body injection device used for maintenance dosing, we provided additional data for the device from an ongoing real life use study, which showed that patients can safely and effectively use the on-body device to self-administer Skyrizi. After responding to the agency's request, we received a three-month extension of our Skyrizi submission in Crohn's disease. We remain confident in a strong benefit risk profile for Skyrizi in Crohn's disease and we now expect a decision in June. Moving now to our oncology portfolio, where we continue to make excellent progress across all stages of our heme and solid tumor pipeline. We recently announced positive top line results from the first expansion cohort of the Phase II study, evaluating epcoritamab in patients with aggressive B-cell lymphoma who have received at least two prior lines of therapy. Epcoritamab performed extremely well as a monotherapy in these heavily pretreated and high-risk patients, demonstrating an overall response rate of 63% with a median duration of response of 12 months. These results are particularly encouraging given that nearly 40% of patients had failed CAR-T therapy. We plan to discuss these results with regulatory agencies about the potential to support submission for accelerated approval in the second half of this year. We continue to make good progress with the indication expansion programs for Venclexta and remain on track to see results from the Phase III CANOVA trial in relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma patients with a t1114 mutation in the second half of this year. In our Venclexta MDS program, based on feedback from the FDA, we have recently modified our regulatory strategy and now intend to submit data from our ongoing Phase III program. Venclexta remains under breakthrough therapy designation for MDS and we continue to have a high degree of enthusiasm for Venclexta in this indication. We expect data readout from the Phase III study and our regulatory submission for MDS in 2024. In neuroscience, the FDA recently accepted our application for Vraylar as an adjunctive treatment for major depressive disorder. Based on the strong benefit-risk profile demonstrated in our clinical program, we believe Vraylar will be an important new therapy in this patient population, and we look forward to bringing this new treatment option to patients suffering from major depressive disorders. In the area of migraine, we recently reported positive top line results from a Phase III study evaluating Qulipta for the prevention of chronic migraine. Qulipta performed very well in this study with both doses meeting the primary and all secondary endpoints, demonstrating Qulipta's ability to significantly reduce migraine days for patients suffering from chronic migraine. This summer, we plan to submit our regulatory application to the FDA for Qulipta in chronic migraine and also plan to submit data from our Phase III studies in both chronic migraine and episodic migraine to support regulatory applications in markets outside the U.S. In our cystic fibrosis program, we recently completed an interim analysis of a Phase II proof-of-concept study evaluating our triple combination therapy. The results -- the efficacy results from this interim analysis did not meet our prespecified criteria for advancing this triple therapy in development. This study was designed with a 28-day run-in treatment period with a dual combination therapy containing our C1 corrector and potentiator followed by a 28-day treatment period with a triple combination, which included the addition of our C2 corrector, ABBV-119. This allowed us to independently assess the therapeutic potential of our C2 corrector. The results showed that the addition of 119 did not provide a meaningful improvement in FEV1 or reduction in sweat chloride concentration over our dual combination therapy. During the run-in treatment period, we were able to again assess the efficacy of our dual therapy, which performed well providing efficacy consistent with results for the existing dual accommodation therapy. So based on the performance of our dual therapy, we plan to continue our CF program. We have an additional C2 corrector, ABBV-576 in Phase I studies that we plan to advance into a new triple therapy with our existing C1 corrector and potentiator. 576 is structurally distinct from our previous C2 corrector 119 and has a better PK profile and provides higher drug exposure, which has the potential to deliver better efficacy. Our plan is to begin a Phase II study for this new triple combo by early next year. And in aesthetics, we recently began the Phase III program for our short-acting toxin in Gabelo lines. This novel toxin is designed to provide rapid onset of action and a short duration of effect, which would lower the barrier for adoption for certain segment of consumers. We expect to see data from this program next year with regulatory applications also anticipated in 2023. So in summary, we've continued to make significant progress with our pipeline to start the year, and we look forward to many more data readouts, regulatory submissions and approvals throughout the remainder of 2022. With that, I'll turn the call over to Rob for additional comments on our first quarter performance and financial outlook. Rob?Rob Michael -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Tom. AbbVie's first quarter results demonstrate the strength of our broad portfolio, including double-digit growth from Skyrizi, Rinvoq, Venclexta, neuroscience and aesthetics. We also continue to deliver strong P&L performance, with another quarter of robust operating margin expansion while fully funding the business for long-term growth. We reported adjusted earnings per share of $3.16, reflecting growth of 9.3%, compared to prior year and $0.04 above our guidance midpoint. This includes an $0.08 unfavorable impact of acquired IPR&D expense that was not factored into our original guidance. Total net revenues were more than $13.5 billion, up 5.4% on an operational basis, excluding a 1.3% unfavorable impact from foreign exchange. Net revenues came in above our guidance despite the entry of generic competition for Restasis. The adjusted operating margin ratio was 51.4% of sales, an improvement of 150 basis points versus the prior year. This includes adjusted gross margin of 84.5% of sales, adjusted R&D investment of 10.9% of sales, acquired IPR&D expense of 1.1% of sales, and adjusted SG&A expense of 21.1% of sales. Net interest expense was $539 million, and the adjusted tax rate was 12.1%. Turning to our financial outlook. We are updating our full-year adjusted earnings per share guidance to include the $0.08 for acquired IPR&D expense that was incurred during the first quarter. As a result, we now expect full year adjusted earnings per share between $13.92 and $14.12. This earnings per share guidance does not include an estimate for acquired IPR&D expense that may be incurred beyond the first quarter. We now expect net revenues of approximately $59.4 billion. At current rates, we expect foreign exchange to have a 1.4% unfavorable impact on full year sales growth. This revenue guidance includes updated Restasis sales of approximately $400 million. Moving to the P&L. We now expect adjusted gross margin of 84.5% of sales, adjusted SG&A expense of $12.5 billion and an adjusted operating margin ratio of 51.8% of sales. Turning to the second quarter. We anticipate net revenues of approximately $14.6 billion. At current rates, we expect foreign exchange to have a 1.5% unfavorable impact on sales growth. We expect adjusted earnings per share between $3.38 and $3.42. This guidance does not include acquired IPR&D expense that may be incurred in the quarter. In closing, we are off to an excellent start to the year with strong performance across multiple areas. We are making significant progress with new product launches and the pipeline, underscoring our confidence in AbbVie's long-term growth outlook. With that, I'll turn the call back over to Liz.Liz Shea -- Vice President of Investor Relations Thanks, Rob. We will now open the call for questions. [Operator instructions] Operator, we'll take the first question, please. 