
OperatorGood morning, and welcome to the ICE First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to turn the conference over to Mary Caroline O'Neal, Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Mary Caroline O'Neal -- Director of Investor Relations

 



Good morning. ICE's First Quarter 2021 Earnings Release and Presentation can be found in the Investors section of the ice.com. These items will be archived and our call will be available for replay. Today's call may contain forward-looking statements. These statements, which we undertake no obligation to update, represent our current judgment and are subject to risks, assumptions and uncertainties. For a description of the risks that could cause our results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements please refer to our 2020 Form 10-K, First Quarter Form 10-Q and other filings with the SEC. In our earnings supplement, we refer to certain non-GAAP measures. We believe our non-GAAP measures are more reflective of our cash operations and core business performance. You'll find a reconciliation to the equivalent GAAP term in the earnings materials. When used on this call, net revenue refers to revenue net of transaction-based expenses and adjusted earnings refers to adjusted diluted earnings per share.Throughout this presentation, unless otherwise indicated, references to revenue growth are on a constant currency basis. Please see the explanatory notes on the second page of the earnings supplement for additional details regarding the definition of certain items. With us on the call today are Jeff Sprecher, Chairman and CEO, Scott Hill, Chief Financial Officer; Warren Gardiner, incoming Chief Financial Officer; Ben Jackson, President; and Lynn Martin, President of Fixed Income and Data services.I'll now turn the call over to Scott.Scott Hill -- Chief Financial Officer

 



Thanks, Mary Caroline. Congratulations on your new role, truly well deserved. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. I'll begin on Slide four with some key highlights from our first quarter results. First quarter revenues, operating income, adjusted net income and adjusted earnings per share were all the best in the history of our company. Adjusted earnings per share of $1.34 increased 7% compared to our previous record of $1.25, which we achieved in last year's first quarter. Record total first quarter revenues of $1.8 billion were up 4% year-over-year on a pro forma basis. Total transaction revenues declined slightly versus an unprecedented backdrop a year ago. Importantly though, total recurring revenues, which represent about half our business, increased by 9% with all three of our business segments contributing to the strong year-over-year growth. First quarter adjusted operating expenses totaled $729 million, including $30 million related to Bakkt. Without the additional $7 million of Bakkt investments, we would have been toward the lower end of our original guidance. We expect that Bakkt's merger with Victory Park SPAC will be completed toward the end of this quarter. We expect second quarter adjusted operating expenses to be in the range of $742 million to $752 million, including approximately $35 million of additional expense related to Bakkt. Incorporating the additional Bakkt expenses into our full year guidance as well as slightly higher-than-expected FX, which will be more than offset by higher revenues, we now expect full year adjusted expenses to be in the range of $2.88 billion to $2.93 billion.First quarter free cash flow totaled over $700 million. We used this strong cash generation to grow our dividend payout by 12% even as we reduced our leverage to 3.8 times EBITDA by quarter's end. In addition, during April, we elected to sell our 1.4% stake in Coinbase, which generated over $1.2 billion in gross proceeds and approximately $900 million net of taxes. Assuming those proceeds have been used to reduce debt at the end of the first quarter, our pro forma leverage would have been closer to 3.6 times compared to 4.2 times when we acquired Ellie Mae just over six months ago. Now let's move to Slide 5, where I'll provide an overview of the performance of our Exchange segment. First quarter revenues totaled $974 million, including transaction revenues of $653 million, the second best quarter in our company's history. This strong performance was driven by our energy, interest rate and cash equities businesses. Importantly, open interest, which we believe is the best indicator of long-term growth is up 13% versus the end of 2020, including 5% growth in our energy open interest and 26% growth across our financial futures and options complex. Recurring revenues, which include our exchange data services in NYSE listings, increased 5% year-over-year, driven by continued strong equity capital market trends and NYSE share of industry SIP revenues. Looking to the second quarter, we expect recurring revenues in our Exchange segment to be between $315 million and $320 million.Turning now to Slide 6. I'll discuss our Fixed Income and Data Services segment. First quarter revenues totaled $468 million, 6.5% growth in our recurring revenues, which account for nearly 90% of total segment revenues more than offset a year-over-year decline in transaction revenues. Fixed Income data and analytics, which includes both our leading pricing and reference data and index businesses, increased by 7%. Other data and network services grew 6%, driven by continued customer demand for additional network capacity. Looking to the second quarter, we expect recurring revenues to improve sequentially and to be in a range of $401 million to $406 million. This outlook is supported by ASV entering the second quarter at $1.6 billion, up over 5% year-over-year. Looking to the balance of 2021 and consistent with the guidance provided during our fourth quarter earnings call, we continue to expect recurring revenues in our Fixed Income and Data Services business to grow 5% to 6% for the full year. Let's go next to Slide 7, where I'll discuss our Mortgage Technology segment. Please note that my comments on revenue growth are on a pro forma basis. Mortgage Technology revenues grew 61% year-over-year in the first quarter. First quarter transaction revenues increased 84% year-over-year. Favorable financing conditions, accelerating millennial homeownership trends and demand for digital workflow tools, such as our origination technology, closing solutions and analytics, all contributed to our strong results. Recurring revenues, once again, improved sequentially and increased 32% versus the prior year. Increased adoption in new customers of both our origination technology and analytics continued to expand our subscription base. We expect recurring revenues in the second quarter to again increase sequentially to a range between $128 million and $133 million, representing around 30% growth versus the prior year.As a note, in an effort to improve transparency and better align our reporting with our targeted addressable markets, we are now reporting closing solutions as a single business line. These revenues will include both our eClosing initiatives and revenues from merge registrations. Our closing solutions today already represent over 20% of a $1 billion addressable market. In addition, we've moved our network revenues into our origination technology business line. This business, today, represents around 20% of the $4 billion underwriting and processing TAM that we highlighted during the Ellie Mae deal call. In summary, 2021 is off to a strong start. We once again grew revenues, operating income, free cash flow and adjusted earnings per share. At the same time, we continue to invest in our business to meet the needs of our customers. As a result, we've set the stage for continued top and bottom line growth and enhance shareholder returns in 2021 and beyond. Warren and the team will handle Q&A today. But before I hand it to Ben, I want to congratulate Warren on his new role and wish him great success. I also want to thank Jeff for the opportunity, he gave me 14 years ago, to help build this great business that he started.

 



And finally, I want to thank all my ICE colleagues. It's been an honor and a privilege to work alongside you as a part of the ICE team. Ben, over to you.Benjamin Jackson -- PresidentCongratulations to you, Scott. Thank you, and good morning to everyone on the call. Please turn to Slide 8. As we begin to emerge from the COVID-19 pandemic and the highly volatile environment we experienced in 2020, our customers continue to rely on our global energy markets to navigate uncertainty and manage risk. And importantly, it's our network expertise and investment in technology that enables us to deliver innovative customer solutions and capture the growth opportunities provided by secular trends, such as the growing complexity of energy markets alongside the energy transition. In our oil markets, Brent Crude serves as the cornerstone of a global network that includes key benchmarks such as WTI, Gasoil, RBOB Gas and most recently, Murban crude oil. By leveraging our global network, the launch of ICE Futures Abu Dhabi, or IFAD, has enabled, for the first time, participants to come together and contribute to the price formation of Murban, an important benchmark for oil flowing through to Asia. In just its first month, Murban, along with related derivatives has traded over 150,000 contracts across 49 firms with growing open interest now over 45,000 lots making it one of the most successful Futures launches in our industry's history. Natural gas continues to globalize, a trend we began investing in nearly a decade ago through our acquisition of Endex. Today, our European TTF and Asian JKM gas complexes continue to grow and reach important milestones, as they evolve into global gas benchmarks. In the first quarter, the number of participants in each market grew double digits year-over-year and TTF Futures reached record volumes. In addition, open interest trends remained strong, up 18% and 14% year-over-year for TTF Futures and JKM, respectively.This strength along with growing exchange market share and new product development continues to underscore the significance of our contracts to the price formation of global natural gas. In our environmental markets, price appreciation in European emissions drove the ICE global carbon index to record levels in the first quarter. Market-based mechanisms, such as our cap and trade offering, are critical to enabling the price transparency that is required to properly attribute a cost to pollution and ultimately help our customers reach their emissions goals in a cost-effective manner. We recognize the importance of carbon price transparency over 10 years ago, acquiring the Climate Exchange in 2010. And we have seen our environmental volumes and open interest grow nearly double digits on average every year since. By combining the network and liquidity of our global energy complex with our leading environmental complex, we are well positioned to help our customers navigate this evolution across global energy markets. Moving to our Fixed Income business. As fixed income markets electronify and passive investing grows, our comprehensive Fixed Income data platform continues to deliver compounding revenue growth. Our quality end-of-day and real-time evaluated prices provide mission-critical price transparency for nearly three million securities per day.Additionally, our flexible delivery solutions enable customers to consume data in a variety of ways, which they are increasingly demanding as they seek more efficient workflow solutions. Our proprietary price evaluations, along with our broad suite of reference data, serve as the foundation for many innovative solutions, such as our rapidly growing index franchise, a business we built through both organic and inorganic investment, including our acquisitions of IDC and the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Index platform. In the first quarter, we not only saw multiple ETF sponsors switch their benchmark provider to ICE data indices, but we also saw growth in the use of our custom index solutions across the U.S., Europe and Asia Pacific. This strength, once again, drove double-digit revenue growth in our Index business and is a testament to the value of our comprehensive index and broader Fixed Income data and analytics offering. Similar to the playbook, we operate across our global energy and Fixed Income businesses, in Mortgages, we are leveraging technology, data and our network expertise to build innovative solutions that drive workflow efficiencies. With the touch point to nearly every market participant, we have connectivity to a customer base in need of the automation that our digital solutions provide.As customers increasingly seek these efficiencies across the very manual loan origination process, our leading origination technology, known as Encompass, provides valuable digital solutions that can reduce both the time and cost required to originate a loan. Combined with our unique network of proprietary and third-party services, we are well positioned to lead the transformation of an industry that is moving analog to digital, an opportunity that we think has an addressable market of $4 billion in the origination and processing space alone. In the second quarter, we launched our Encompass eClose offering, a product we were able to rapidly bring to market by quickly integrating Simplifile's closing solutions into our leading origination platform. Our new eClose offering is a leading-edge solution that will provide a true end-to-end electronic closing for U.S. mortgages by decreasing operational costs for lenders, creating additional efficiencies for settlement agents, streamlining the sale of loan to investors and, importantly, greatly improving the overall borrower experience. We are encouraged by the early demand and remain focused on building out our closing solutions within this $1 billion addressable market. Another example of innovation that we are delivering to the mortgage industry is within our data and analytics business. We know from our experience across futures, equities and fixed income networks that data fuels automation.And the mortgage origination process is no different. Through our AIQ offering, customers can leverage our artificial intelligence and machine learning tools to drive significant efficiency gains. Analytics such as our credit analyzers and income analyzers, leverage automated document recognition and data extraction technology to reduce the manual staring compare work that exists across the mortgage workflow today. And at less than $100 million in revenue, in our Mortgage Data and Analytics business, is well positioned to increasingly capture share of what we believe is a $4 billion addressable market. Importantly, the demand we are seeing for solutions like our eClose and our data and analytics gives us confidence that we can grow through business cycles. And as a result, grow a business that at $1.2 billion today in revenue is only a fraction of the $10 billion addressable market that is in the early days of an analog to digital conversion.And with that, I'll now turn the call over to Jeff.Jeffrey Sprecher -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Intercontinental Exchange Chairman, New York Stock ExchangeThank you, Ben, and thank you all for joining us this morning. Please turn now to Slide 9. In the first quarter, we once again grew revenues, grew adjusted operating income and grew adjusted earnings per share, delivering the best quarter in our company's history. And remarkably, we did this against last year's record-breaking volumes and volatility, which was largely driven by the onset of the global COVID-19 pandemic. Our results are a testament to the value of our data, technology and the strength of our strategic business model. The compounding growth of our subscription-based services, combined with our diverse transaction-based businesses means that our growth is not tied to one economic cycle, to one geography or to one asset class. Rather, it means growth on top of growth through all rate environments, across asset classes and around the world. Over the past 20 years, ICE has continually evolved to meet the needs of our customers and provide value for our stockholders. And for the past 14 years, I've had the privilege of working alongside Scott Hill as our growth story has unfolded. ICE has completed dozens of deals and made thousands of strategic decisions that have been rooted in the information and the quality metrics that were ingrained in our culture by Scott. Scott not only provided financial leadership for the company, but he's played a vital role in providing strategic vision. He championed our unique culture, and he's mentored younger generations of leaders. And so I want to thank Scott for his contribution, for his dedication and for his leadership. And I want to wish him our best as he moves on to tackle the difficult life of ranching in Texas.Scott will officially transition next month, and he'll remain an advisor and a mentor to ensure a smooth transition as Warren Gardiner assumes the duties of CFO. Warren's has worked closely with Scott over the last four years and covered our sector as a senior research analyst for many years prior to this. Warren's knowledge of our business and our industry will help us to continue to build on the foundation that's been established by Scott, and continue a track record of growth. I also want to welcome MC as our new Investor Relations Head. Let me say thank you to our customers for their business and their trust in the quarter. And I want to thank my colleagues at ICE for their contribution to delivering the best quarter in our company's history.With that, I'll now turn the call back over to our moderator, Chad, to conduct the question-and-answer session, which will run until 9:30 Eastern time.