  OperatorGood morning. My name is Shelby and I'll be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to Royal Caribbean Group's business update and third quarter 2021 earnings call. [Operator instructions] I would now like to introduce chief financial officer, Mr. Jason Liberty. Mr. Liberty, the floor is yours. Jason Liberty -- Chief Financial Officer

 



 Good morning, everyone and thank you for joining us today for our business update and third quarter earnings call. Joining me here in Miami are Richard Fain, our chairman and chief executive officer; Michael Bayley, president and CEO of Royal Caribbean International; and Michael McCarthy, our vice president of investor relations. During this call, we will be referring to a few slides, which have been posted on our investor website, www.rclinvestor.com. Before we get started, I'd like to refer you to our notice about forward-looking statements, which is on our first slide. During this call, we will be making comments that are forward-looking. These statements do not guarantee future performance and do involve risks and uncertainties. Examples are described in our SEC filings and other disclosures. Please note that we do not undertake to update the information in our filings as circumstances change.Also, we will be discussing certain non-GAAP financial measures, which are adjusted as defined and a reconciliation of all non-GAAP historical items can be found on our website. Richard will begin the call by providing a strategic overview and update on the business. I will follow up with a recap of our third quarter results. I will then provide an update on our latest actions and on the current booking environment. We will then open up the call for your questions. Richard?  

 



Richard Fain -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Jason and good morning, everyone. As always, it's a pleasure to give an update on what's happening within the Royal Caribbean Group. It's certainly been a horrible year and a half, looking at our financial statements and seeing that sea of red ink is painful, but we are pleased to be looking at such a positive forward path. The reason we've gotten through this awful period of COVID as well as we have is because we've had our eye firmly on where we needed to go rather than on where we were at any given moment. The same approach is serving us well as we look to the coming months. Before I comment on our position going forward, I have to express my admiration for and appreciation of the men and women of the Royal Caribbean Group, who have worked so hard, so diligently throughout this difficult time. The pandemic has cost us all dearly, but our people stepped up to the plate and work so hard to get us through this period. They invented amazing protocols to protect our crew members and our guests. They put in place financing arrangements with a deft hand and they have taken care of themselves, their coworkers and their families under some of the most trying circumstances any of us have ever experienced. To them, I say thank you. You are all true heroes. Now, the pandemic is not yet fully behind us.

 



 It's still very present, but scientists have given us a good answer to this nightmare with effective vaccines and remarkable treatments. The Delta variant caused a temporary slowdown in our bookings, especially close in, but our trajectory for recovery remains very much intact. In this call, I intend to focus on where we're going rather than where we've been. We are all tired of talking about COVID-19. Every conversation doesn't need to start with a description of the trauma we've experienced. Every discussion doesn't need to dwell on how awful it's been. Fortunately, the path forward appears clear and very positive for our company and for our industry. For some time now, we have said that we hope to take advantage of the special features of cruising and make cruising one of the safest places on earth to spend your vacation. The numbers are now coming in and our objective appears to be validated. Our strategy has been to get the flywheel spinning. For over 18 months, our guests have had to deal with cancellations, interruptions, confusing rules and changing protocols. These constant changes have added uncertainty. Thankfully, today, we're operating almost normally. Our published itineraries are being delivered on a consistent basis. Two-thirds of our ships are already operating and virtually, everything will be back to normal in our core markets before the end of this year. Our goal is to start the new year with smooth, steady, consistent operations that will give our guests comfort and give travel advisors the confidence to book future cruises. Like the pilot of a plane during takeoff, prioritizing speed over altitude, we have prioritized spreading the wealth. We have prioritized starting up more ships even with lower loads per vessel rather than trying for higher load factors on fewer ships. We have been executing this in a financially and medically prudent manner. January is the start of wave period and our goal is to have our core markets operating normally as quickly as possible. That will put us in an excellent position to have a good wave period. Our bookings are already showing that the public has a great deal of pent-up demand and is eager to travel again. We have a long period of poor bookings to make up for, but current booking trends give us a high level of confidence for 2022, especially from the summer on. We're not back to normal. However, predictions of a dramatic different new normal do not appear to be bearing out. Once we board a ship, cruises today are remarkably similar to cruises before the pandemic. There are some changes, but most of these are not visible to the public and the remaining ones are likely to be temporary. Satisfaction level among those who are cruising today is the highest in our company's history and their onboard spending is also unparalleled. The recent announcement by the CDC that they intend to eliminate the prescriptive conditional sale order in January is very welcome. Our own requirements and protocols are stricter than the CSO anyhow. So the confidence though that they are demonstrating by the CDC's actions will help give confidence to the market. Now while we are very encouraged about the strong bookings that we've been seeing, we do appreciate that we are still not in a normal travel environment. We are emerging from a period of lower-than-usual bookings and our international sourcing, which has historically been the strength of the group, has been confusing due to the constantly changing travel restrictions and is just now starting to build back. The image of the cruise industry from the early days of the pandemic is also weighing on the minds of consumers, albeit much, much less than previously. There's also a special story about what's happening in Asia and how that affects the Royal Caribbean Group. China was one of the fastest-growing markets and we believe will continue to be an important part of our strategy going forward. However, as you know, China is essentially closed to international travel today and that includes cruise travel. We do not expect China to reopen until at least the Olympics in Beijing are over. Another important market for us is Australia. Australia's approach to containing the pandemic has been based on isolation. They are now rapidly switching to the vaccines as a way of controlling the disease. We do not expect Australia to open the cruise travel until the spring. But since this summer season doesn't start until our next winter anyhow, we're not counting on much from Australia until the end of next year. Against this background, our ability to predict a profitable 2022 is strong evidence of how quickly our future can get better. We are encouraged to see the return to profitability and strong cash flows as a rapid turnaround, rather than a slow, steady progression. It is unusual actually for us to provide any indication of next year's results this early, but we understand the need to have a frame of reference going forward and we wanted to be constructive in that regard. Obviously, there are a large number of factors that could shift us off this trajectory, including worsening spread of the disease, a new variant, inflation, etc. But on the current trajectory that we are seeing, we believe we can prudently predict at least this level of profitability and cash flow. I'd also like to touch on two other subjects that are of interest to any company, human capital and supply chain issues. Our people have been the strongest driver of our performance throughout our history. So we watch this area very carefully and we are concerned by reports of labor shortages, especially in the hospitality arena. Fortunately, our shipboard jobs are seen as very attractive by crew members around the world. So that has not been a serious problem as we restart and we do not expect that it will become one. Similarly, onshore, we have long been seen as a desirable place to work and while the current situation is something every businessperson should watch closely, we do not expect it to interfere with our ability to operate successfully. Supply chain issues are impacting everyone and we're no exception. Fortunately, we have traditionally hedged our bets by buying key supplies forward and this is cushioning us from the current volatility. Looking forward, we expect these contracts plus our purchasing power, plus our ingenuity to give us protection. Now while this pandemic has been all consuming, we have not been idle on other fronts either. The need to be a good corporate citizen, to behave in a way that we can all be proud of has remained an important part of our thought process even during this timeframe. Over the last few months, we've announced a significant number of highly significant steps forward on the environmental side of our ESG aspirations. A few weeks ago, we announced that the new Silversea ship, called Project Evolution, will contain some of the most advanced environmental features of any cruise ship on the water or in the construction docks. It will be a multi-fuel vessel capable of burning initially lower carbon producing LNG and later as they develop the noncarbon-based fuels, we'll work off of those. In addition, it will have fuel cell technology, not as a demonstration project, but it's a significant part of the energy capability of the vessel. As a result, it will be able to operate 100% of its hotel load purely on these emission-free fuel cells. That means not only will the ship need to use its engines in port, but it can do so without even having to plug into shore power. This requires an amazing concentrated effort to develop the technology in conjunction with Meyer Werft and others. In addition, it will use waste-to-energy technology to convert rubbish to energy and use advanced supply chain techniques to reduce the carbon generated during the construction process. An even bigger announcement this week was our disclosure of our new project called destination net zero. This is an ambitious project to eliminate our carbon footprint by 2050. By signing up for the science-based target initiative, we are not only setting a goal for the distant future, but also establishing the interim milestones that will allow us to get there with confidence. It's also interesting to look at the last 19 months and take note that during this period, we've taken delivery of five spectacular new vessels. And during the next nine months, we will accept delivery of three more. In fact, over the next fortnight, we will be naming two of these ships here in South Florida. We have not remained idle. Before I turn it back to Jason, I'd like to reiterate my appreciation for in admiration of the people of the Royal Caribbean Group who have gone above and beyond, not only to get us through the pandemic in far better shape than anyone would have expected but have also prepared us to look forward to the future with confidence and yes, even excitement. With that, I turn it back to Jason. Jason? Jason Liberty -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Richard. Before I begin my remarks, I also want to echo Richard's comments regarding our incredible teams. The people at the Royal Caribbean Group are at strongest competitive advantage, powering our resurgence and delivering, again, the world's best vacations. I want to thank every member of the Royal Caribbean family for their ongoing and exceptional efforts in the incredible service and memorable experiences you provide to our guests every single day. I will now turn to discuss our performance for the third quarter. This morning, we reported an adjusted net loss of $1.2 billion or a loss of $4.91 per share for the third quarter of 2021. It's important to note that while these results may be below some of the Street estimates, our third quarter results and related cash burn were better than our internal expectations, driven by better costs and better onboard revenue performance. Onboard revenue strength contributed to a 12% increase in total revenue per passenger cruise day, compared to the third quarter of 2019. In line with our expectations, our occupancy for the quarter was 36%, with sequential improvements from one month to the next. From the very beginning of our restart, we talked about several tenets that would be the basis of our ramp-up. The first was ensuring the health and safety of our guests and crew, the second was that we wanted to ensure that the vacation experience matched or exceeded our guest's expectations and the third was bringing the fleet up in a financially prudent way. So far, we have delivered on all three of these tenets. We've carried over 500,000 guests since the restart and have only had 150 COVID positive cases among these 500,000 people. In addition to providing safe vacations, we are also clearly exceeding our guest expectations with Net Promoter Scores well above all-time highs. And once beyond the initial start-up period, load factors on our core itineraries averaged 44% and all of those ships were cash flow accretive. The last point I would like to make is that while we now have more than 65% of our capacity up and running, leading the industry by far on a relative basis, we are continuing to manage our load factors to ensure that we stay true to our healthy return to service tenets, as well as retaining price integrity. Now, I'd like to discuss capacity and load factor expectations over the upcoming period. For the fourth quarter, a little over two-thirds of our capacity will be sailing core itineraries beyond the initial start-up period. As such, our overall load factors will continue to trend of increasing from one month to the next and are expected to be in the range of 60% and 65% in the fourth quarter. In addition, we do expect our fleet on our core itineraries to generate direct profit. Given our healthy return to service tenets and our focus on price integrity, we expect our load factors in 2022 to continue to steadily increase month-by-month and return to historic levels in the summer. From a capacity standpoint, we expect that 50 of our 61 ships who have returned to service by the end of this year. By the end of Q1 2022, we expect about 85% of our capacity to be operating with 100% back in service in the spring in time for the lucrative summer season. While we are offering cruises in the vast majority of our key destinations, we continue to closely monitor both China and Australia and anticipate those markets will start opening in the spring. This timing could influence the return dates of a few of our ships. As to our balance sheet, we ended the third quarter of 2021 with $4 billion in liquidity. During the third quarter, we continued our efforts to manage and improve our balance sheet. To that end, we successfully issued $1 billion in senior unsecured notes at five and a half percent due in 2026. These proceeds were used to replenish capital as a result of the redemption of 40% of the 11 and a half percent senior secured notes that were due in 2025. This redemption will result in a full year interest savings of $51 million. As we discussed on other calls during the pandemic, we have taken and continue to take numerous actions to reshape our cost structure with a focus on further improving our leading pre-COVID margins. These actions include getting rid of older tonnage and adding more leading, high-yielding and cost-efficient hardware to our fleet. While these actions will improve our cost structure and margin profile, we do anticipate the recent inflationary pressures and some transitory cost related to healthy return to service will weigh on next year's earnings. Now, I'll give you an update on our 2022 sailings. At a macro level, we've seen a sequential improvement and new bookings from one quarter to the next. Bookings during Q2 were higher than Q1 and bookings during Q3 were higher than Q2. This Q3 improvement took place despite the long demand in August that corresponded with the rise in the Delta variant. September was a great booking month overall with new bookings for 2022, more than 60% higher than Q2 average. The momentum has continued for all three of our brands and bookings so far in October have been significantly better than September. Bookings from our two biggest markets, the U.S. and the U.K., have been improving from one week to the next and are now exceeding 2019 levels. We have now restarted our brands marketing programs, which are generating strong results and preparing us nicely for 2022 and 2023. From a cumulative standpoint, our book load factors remain within historical ranges, driven by strong booking levels for the second quarter of 2022 forward. Load factors in the first quarter are lower than historical levels but are aligned with our anticipated load factor ramp-up. Our booked APDs are up significantly, both including and excluding the negative impact of FCCs for the full year and for each quarter of 2022. As always, trends do differ a little by itinerary with our core summer products and a stronger volume position than other itineraries. Our customer deposit balance is now $2.8 billion, an improvement of about $400 million over the past quarter, despite the significant quarter-over-quarter increase in revenue recognition, which reduces the customer deposit balance. Our customer deposit balance is less than 15% lower than it was at the end of September 2019, for the three brands with almost the entire difference driven by Q4 2021 sailings. Our customer deposit balance related to bookings in Q2 forward sailings for all three brands is higher than at the same time in 2019. Approximately, 35% of our customer deposit balance is related to FCCs. Of the FCCs, approximately 45% of them have been redeemed thus far. Now, considering everything I just said about the booking environment and costs, I would like to discuss our very early view of 2022. The Royal Caribbean Group possesses the best brands in their segments, the most innovative fleet in the industry, wholly owned destination experiences like Perfect Day at CocoCay that are second to none, a nimble and effective global sourcing footprint and most of all, the very best team both at sea and on land. This incredible and unique set of assets have helped us effectively manage through the pandemic and is now helping us accelerate out of it. As such, while it's still too early to provide guidance for the next year, we currently anticipate the group generating positive EBITDA starting in the spring of 2022 and positive earnings for the full year of 2022. With that, I will ask our operator to open up the call for a question-and-answer session. 