
OperatorGood day and welcome to the Dollar Tree, Inc. First Quarter Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]At this time, I'd like to turn the conference over to Mr. Randy Guiler, VP, Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Randy Guiler -- Vice President of Investor Relations

 



Thank you, Stephanie. Good morning and welcome to our call to discuss Dollar Tree's first fiscal quarter 2021. With me on today's call will be our President and CEO, Mike Witynski; and our CFO, Kevin Wampler.Before we begin, I would like to remind everyone that various remarks that we will make about expectations, plans and prospects for the Company constitute forward-looking statements for the purposes of the Safe Harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors included in our most recent press release, most recent 8-K, 10-Q and annual report, which are on file with the SEC.We have no obligation to update forward-looking statements and you should not expect us to do so. Following our prepared remarks, we will open the call to your questions. Please limit your questions to one and one related follow-up.I will now turn the call over to Mike Witynski, Dollar Tree's President and Chief Executive Officer.

 



Michael A. Witynski -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Randy. Good morning, everyone. Our record first quarter performance reflects the progress we continue to make on numerous initiatives to provide even greater value and convenience to our shoppers. Dollar Tree delivered its strongest quarterly same-store sales since 2017, while improving its operating margin by 290 basis points. Family Dollar effectively cycled a 15.5% comp sales increase from the prior year by driving its best post-merger quarterly operating profit. Combined, the enterprise produced positive same-store sales against a tough 2020 comparison, and a 220 basis point improvement in operating margin driven by higher gross margins and better expense leverage. Overall, a very solid start to the year.During the initial post-merger years, much of the Company's energy and focus was dedicated to integration-related projects such as stabilizing and restructuring the organization, improving store maintenance, harmonizing our technology, designing and testing store formats, optimizing our real estate portfolio, elevating the operational execution in our stores, offering improved assortments and value and ultimately consolidating our store support centers.These priorities were critical as we prepared the combined business for long-term profitable growth. Now over the last 18 months, we have transitioned to an aggressive approach under one aligned leadership team, dedicating our major efforts to customer focus initiatives with clarity, focus and speed. Examples of the innovation efforts are our brick and mortar initiatives include refining and growing our Dollar Tree Plus! multi-price initiative, continuing to evolve and improve the H2 store format with expanded home, seasonal and other discretionary categories, introducing the new combo stores for rural markets, testing fresh produce and frozen meat products in select stores, initiating self-checkout in smaller number of stores.

 



And on our digital and omni-channel initiatives, they include launching FamilyDollar.com as a selling site, partnering with InstaCart for same-store delivery, which expands our customer reach and creating our new retail media network, the Chesapeake Media Group. I'm enthusiastic about the long-term impact of these actions designed to drive shopper satisfaction and loyalty. Giving us the ability to meet the evolving needs of our shoppers better than any other company can, especially inside the beltway and in rural America. I will share more details -- more detailed update on these exciting initiatives later on in the call.But for now, for the quarter, our Dollar Tree segment delivered its best quarterly same-store sales since Q3 of 2017. The 4.7% comp increase was comprised of a 9.5% increase in ticket, partially offset by a 4.4% decline in traffic. Notably, we saw double-digit increase in traffic in April, which represented our best monthly comp traffic increase in years. From a cadence perspective, March was the strongest comp month with stronger pre-Easter sales compared to the prior year, followed by April. February was slightly negative as we lost more than 2,500 store days due to closures related to storms through Texas and Central US.Gross margin improved 180 basis points from the prior year, as we saw record sell through on seasonal merchandise, including Valentine's Day, Easter and Easter Candy. Compared to the prior year's quarter, the discretionary mix as a percentage of net sales increased 710 basis points to 52.3%. Categories performing well included crafts, party, our Easter seasonal toys and floral.Our inventory turn improved 22 basis points for the quarter. Our merchant teams continues to source great products that provide wonderful value at the margins we need. With the product already purchased for the back half of the year, I am thrilled with the discretionary back to school, crafts, holiday and seasonal assortments that will be hitting store shelves within the next few months. As COVID restrictions ease and customers continue to gather with friends and family for celebrations, we plan to fulfill that need with our compelling mix with even more exciting discretionary items at the Dollar price point that our shoppers well.Family Dollar highlights for the quarter include its best post-merger quarterly operating profit at $211.4 million. Let me repeat that. Family Dollar achieved its best post-merger quarterly operating profit at $211.4 million. Cycling a very strong 15.5% comp from the prior year, same-store sales came in at a decline of 2.8% equating to a positive 12.7% on a two-year stack. Average ticket was up over 11% and traffic cycling the initial pandemic-related demand for the consumables from a year ago was down nearly 13% for the quarter. The Family Dollar merchants continue to do a terrific job, refining the assortment to deliver meaningful value that is resonating with our shoppers. The discretionary side of the business saw a 14.7% comp increase. Consumable comp, again, cycling unprecedented demand from last year, it was down 7.7%.Regarding Family Dollar's comp cadence through the quarter, February was the strongest comp followed by April. March was cycling a 20 plus comp from the prior year. From a category perspective, the strong performers were primarily on the discretionary side of the business, including party, apparel, home decor, beauty care and floral. We continue to see encouraging results for stores added fresh produce and frozen meats to their assortment in late 2020.We are seeing materially higher average tickets, when a basket contains produce or meats. I am excited to share that we will continue to expand on this initiative in 2021 and beyond, as we are focused on meeting the needs of shoppers in all markets. On the previous earnings call, I spoke to the fact that Family Dollar customer satisfaction survey scores had improved three consecutive quarters across each of the four key categories, store cleanliness, product assortment, customer service and speed of checkout. Credit to our field leadership and our merchant and operations teams, each of those scores improved again for the first quarter, making it four quarters in a row. Increasing store productivity at Family Dollar has been a critical component of the turnaround.In addition to all the sales and traffic driving initiatives that have been increasing average sales per store, we believe Family Dollar is squarely positioned to continue serving more customers and gaining market share with its compelling discretionary mix. Especially as Family Dollar shoppers are benefiting from stimulus dollars, increase in that participation, child tax credits and earning higher wages.Now regarding Dollar Tree Canada, the team had a strong quarter one. From an operating income standpoint, the Canada team exceeded their budget despite challenges to sales in April related to increased COVID restrictions. From a real estate perspective, we completed 575 projects, including 106 new stores, 36 relocations, 414 Family Dollar H2 renovations, 19 store closures. We ended the quarter with 15,772 stores.Before I hand it over to Kevin, I want to let you know that in April, we released our updated corporate sustainability report. The report is available on the homepage at our website dollartree.com. I'm very proud of the team's progress related to our ESG program in fiscal 2020. Accomplishments included that we conducted a detailed assessment of our impact on the environment and measured our carbon footprint to establish an initial baseline.We developed our first generation of climate goals aimed to reducing emissions and increase the use of renewable energy. We participated in the chemical footprint project for the second consecutive year. We partnered with ADT Commercial for comprehensive and innovative security solutions and we formed our diversity equity inclusion executive council. And lastly, we launched our inaugural Choose to Give workplace giving campaign. We will remain steadfastly committed to improvement, especially is related to our ESG goals and initiatives designed to minimize corporate sustainability risks, while reducing cost and driving efficiencies.I will go into more detail on several of our initiatives after Kevin's speech to the Q1 performance and our outlook. Kevin?Kevin S. Wampler -- Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Mike, and good morning. For the first quarter, consolidated net sales increased 3% to $6.48 billion, comprised of $3.32 billion of Dollar Tree and $3.16 billion of Family Dollar. Our enterprise same-store sales increased 0.8% or 0.9% when adjusted for Canadian currency fluctuations. Comps for the Dollar Tree segment increased 4.7% or 4.8% when adjusted for the Canadian currency fluctuations.Family Dollar same-store sales decreased 2.8% cycling the very strong 15.5% increase in the prior year's first quarter. Overall, gross profit for the enterprise increased 9.4% to $1.96 billion. Gross margin improved 180 basis points to 30.3%. Gross profit margin for the Dollar Tree segment improved 180 basis points to 33.7% when compared to the prior year's quarter.The factors impacting the segment's gross margin performance included merchandise costs including freight improved 85 basis points, improvements in merchandise mix were partially offset by increased freight costs and slightly lower mark-on, a 50 basis point improvement in shrink, resulting from favorable inventories and a decrease in the shrink accrual rate, a 30 basis point improvement in markdowns related to improved sell-through of Easter related products compared to the pandemic affected prior year, and 25 basis points of leverage on occupancy costs from the stronger comp sales. These improvements were partially offset by distribution costs, which increased 10 basis points, primarily due to higher payroll and depreciation costs.Gross profit margin for the Family Dollar segment improved 140 basis points to 26.8% in the first quarter. The year-over-year improvement was due to the following. Merchandise costs including freight improved 85 basis points related to merchandise mix and initial mark-on, which were partially offset by higher freight costs. Shrink improved 60 basis points based on favorable inventory results.Distribution costs improved 20 basis points compared to the prior year quarter. These improvements were partially offset by deleverage and occupancy cost based on the comparable store sales declined in the first quarter. Consolidated selling, general and administrative expenses improved 40 basis points to 22.3% of total revenue compared to 22.7% in Q1 last year. For the first quarter, the SG&A rate for the Dollar Tree segment as a percentage of total revenue improved 110 basis points to 21.6% when compared to the prior year's quarter.Payroll cost improved 110 basis points, primarily due to decreased COVID-19 related store payroll costs and leverage related to the comp store sales increase. Other SG&A decreased by 5 basis points, resulting from lower store supply expense partially offset by increased inventory service expense. Store facility costs increased 10 basis points due to higher repairs and maintenance costs.Family Dollar, the first quarter SG&A rate as a percentage of total revenue was 20.2% compared to 19.9% in the prior year's quarter. Store facility costs increased 25 basis points, driven mainly by higher snow removal costs. Other SG&A expenses increased 20 basis points, and depreciation and amortization expense increased 5 basis points, both due to deleverage on the comp sales.Payroll cost decreased 25 basis points, primarily due to decrease COVID-19 related store payroll costs, partially offset by deleverage related to the comp store sales decline. Corporate and support expenses as a percentage of total revenue were essentially flat compared to the prior year's quarter. Operating income increased 42.1% to $519.9 million compared with $365.9 million in the same period last year and operating income margin was 8% in the first quarter compared to 5.8% in the prior year's quarter.The first quarter of 2021 included total incremental operating costs of $7.4 million for COVID-19 related expenses compared to $73.2 million in the first quarter of 2020. Non-operating expenses totaled $33 million, which was comprised of net interest expense. Our effective tax rate was 23.1% compared to 23.9% in the prior year's first quarter.Company had net income of $374.5 million or $1.60 per diluted share. This compared to net earnings of $247.6 million or $1.04 per share in the prior year's quarter. Our combined cash and cash equivalents at quarter end totaled $1.47 billion compared to $1.42 billion at the end of fiscal 2020. Outstanding debt as of May 1 was $3.25 billion.In Q1, we repurchased approximately 2.15 million shares for $250 million. We currently have $2.15 billion remaining on our share repurchase authorization. Inventory for Dollar Tree at quarter end increased 13.5% from the same time last year, while selling square footage increased 4.1%. Inventory per selling square foot increased 9%. This includes a significant increase in goods and transit year-over-year, excluding this increase inventory per selling square foot would be down 1.7%.Inventory for Family Dollar at quarter end increased 11.9% from the same period last year, while selling square footage increased 1.9%. Inventory per selling square foot increased 9.8%. Capital expenditures were $224.9 million in the first quarter versus $235.8 million in Q1 of last year. For fiscal 2021, we expect that consolidated capital expenditures will be approximately $1.2 billion consistent with our initial 2021 outlook.Depreciation and amortization totaled $172.7 million for Q1 compared to $165.5 million in the first quarter of last year. For fiscal 2021, we continue to expect consolidated depreciation and amortization to range from $720 million to $730 million. Our outlook for the remainder of 2021 includes the following assumptions. We are forecasting a low single-digit consolidated comparable sales increase for the year. We expect the COVID expense run rate for Q2 through Q4 to be consistent with Q1 at approximately $7.5 million per quarter.As noted in our March earnings call, minimum wage increases in states and localities will increased store payroll by $45 million to $50 million for the year. Additionally, we expect pressure on wages due to the current shortage of workers available for our stores and distribution centers. With regards to freight, the market conditions have continued to deteriorate since our update in March. We are now expecting cost to be significantly higher than is projected our -- led by import freight due to the continued disruption in the global supply chain from equipment shortages and capacity issues.Freight costs in the remaining three quarters of fiscal 2021 are projected to be $0.70 to $0.80 per diluted share higher than the comparable period in 2020. These additional costs will have the biggest effects on Q2 and Q3. These disruptions affect the timing of inventory receipts, it could affect sales and mix. We expect shrink will continue to be a tailwind as we go through the year. Higher sales, lower store inventory levels and better process is continue to drive better results. Net interest expense is expected to be approximately $34 million in Q2 and approximately $137 million for fiscal 2021. For fiscal 2021, we expect net income per diluted share will range between $5.80 and $6.05.Our outlook assumes a tax rate of 23.7% for the second quarter and 23.4% for fiscal 2021. And weighted average diluted share counts are assumed to be 232.9 million shares for Q2 and 233.3 million shares for the full year. Our outlook does not include any additional share repurchases.And I'll now turn the call back over to Mike.Michael A. Witynski -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Kevin. Through 2020 and into 2021, we have demonstrated great momentum in our business. I believe this is attributed to all the work and developing great strategic store formats. Refining our assortments and accelerating many key sales and traffic driving initiatives, we have a resilient business model and we are and what I believe is the most attractive sector in retail, value and convenience is more important to the customer now than ever before.Unlike most retailers, we are currently faced with higher freight costs, both international and domestic, worker shortages and uncertainty related to inflation. These are issues -- these issues are rising as COVID abates and they are not systemic to Dollar Tree and not expected to be permanent. In fact, we believe we have increased the long-term earnings potential for both banners. As always, we are working hard to adapt and react and navigate the business based on the current environment. I have great confidence in our team, and I'm extremely proud of their commitment, dedication and focus.Now, I'd like to provide an update on several of our key initiatives. We incorporated the Dollar Tree Plus! multi-price assortment and to an additional 128 Dollar Tree stores in Q1, bringing the total to more than 240 store locations by quarter end and the offering is currently just over 280 stores. Feedback from shoppers on the compelling offering has been extremely well received and very favorable. The Dollar Tree Plus! assortment has expanded into select stores in Colorado, as well as states in the Southeast, such as Georgia, Alabama, Louisiana and the Carolinas. The newest generation is seeing sales lift of more than double prior versions, which is why it's been so important for us to evolve and refine before a larger rollout.We are committed to reaching our 500 store target, although the timing may shift beyond August, due to the stronger than forecasted sell-through and the inventory availability. We will definitely continue to expand Dollar Tree Plus! in fiscal 2022. More details about the expansion will be provided later this year.Last quarter, we introduced our newest strategic store format, our combination or combo store. We continue to be extremely pleased with the performance of these stores. At quarter end, we had 61 combo stores in rural communities. Of which, 34 are new stores, 19 are renovated stores and 8 are relocation or expansions.We continue to experience a 20% comp lift in renovated combo stores. The new stores are exceeding their performance. The combo store leverages both Dollar Tree and Family Dollar brands to serve small towns across the country. The store combines Family Dollars great value and assortment with Dollar Tree's thrill of the hunt at a $1 price point. Creating a new store format targeted for populations ranging from 3,000 to 4,000 people. Remember, these are markets where we would have traditionally not open a Dollar Tree store alone. We will open more than 100 combo stores this year and are in the process of building a strong pipeline for fiscal 2022 and beyond.You can get more information at familydollar.com/combostores. We continue to be very pleased with our partnership with InstaCart. We are offering InstaCart in more than 6,000 Family Dollar stores across 47 markets. During the quarter, approximately 5,500 of these stores had at least one order and 96% of those stores had multiple orders. We are seeing a materially higher average ticket as well as higher gross margin on these transactions. Sales continued at a healthy pace on a weekly basis. As expected, we've seen a softening in the growth trajectory, as vaccinations are on the rise and more shoppers are comfortable visiting our retail store locations.Last month, we introduced our new retail network, the Chesapeake Media Group. This new platform provides our shoppers with compelling content never seen before on Family Dollar digital space. We serve 95 million weekly digital impressions and have approximately 14 million subscribers to our digital Smart Coupon program. We currently have commitments from our largest CPG brands for more than 40 campaigns. These engagements are coming to life through ad placement on the Family Dollar app and familydollar.com, email and social media, influencing purchase decisions in real time.We believe the Chesapeake Media Group will enhance the opportunity to further drive loyalty and store traffic for Family Dollar, while increasing by in partner awareness and product sales, ultimately, driving market share gains for Family Dollar. These are just a few examples of our ability to act with more speed, clarity and focus. On initiatives, since many of the integration priorities are now behind us.I could not be more excited about the opportunities ahead of us, especially, the H2 combo store formats and our Dollar Tree Plus! initiative. As an organization, we are certainly in a much better position to be aggressive and drive innovation. Looking forward, we believe our strategic store formats, our store growth plans Dollar Tree Plus! and many key sales and traffic driving initiatives, along with our robust balance sheet will enable us to drive long-term value for our stakeholders.Operator, we are now ready to take questions.Thanks, Kevin. Through 2020 and into 2021, we have demonstrated great momentum in our business. I believe this is attributed to all the work and developing great strategic store formats. Refining our assortments and accelerating many key sales and traffic driving initiatives, we have a resilient business model and we are and what I believe is the most attractive sector in retail, value and convenience is more important to the customer now than ever before.Unlike most retailers, we are currently faced with higher freight costs, both international and domestic, worker shortages and uncertainty related to inflation. These are issues -- these issues are rising as COVID abates and they are not systemic to Dollar Tree and not expected to be permanent. In fact, we believe we have increased the long-term earnings potential for both banners. As always, we are working hard to adapt and react and navigate the business based on the current environment. I have great confidence in our team, and I'm extremely proud of their commitment, dedication and focus.Now, I'd like to provide an update on several of our key initiatives. We incorporated the Dollar Tree Plus! multi-price assortment and to an additional 128 Dollar Tree stores in Q1, bringing the total to more than 240 store locations by quarter end and the offering is currently just over 280 stores. Feedback from shoppers on the compelling offering has been extremely well received and very favorable. The Dollar Tree Plus! assortment has expanded into select stores in Colorado, as well as states in the Southeast, such as Georgia, Alabama, Louisiana and the Carolinas. The newest generation is seeing sales lift of more than double prior versions, which is why it's been so important for us to evolve and refine before a larger rollout.We are committed to reaching our 500 store target, although the timing may shift beyond August, due to the stronger than forecasted sell-through and the inventory availability. We will definitely continue to expand Dollar Tree Plus! in fiscal 2022. More details about the expansion will be provided later this year.Last quarter, we introduced our newest strategic store format, our combination or combo store. We continue to be extremely pleased with the performance of these stores. At quarter end, we had 61 combo stores in rural communities. Of which, 34 are new stores, 19 are renovated stores and 8 are relocation or expansions.We continue to experience a 20% comp lift in renovated combo stores. The new stores are exceeding their performance. The combo store leverages both Dollar Tree and Family Dollar brands to serve small towns across the country. The store combines Family Dollars great value and assortment with Dollar Tree's thrill of the hunt at a $1 price point. Creating a new store format targeted for populations ranging from 3,000 to 4,000 people. Remember, these are markets where we would have traditionally not open a Dollar Tree store alone. We will open more than 100 combo stores this year and are in the process of building a strong pipeline for fiscal 2022 and beyond.You can get more information at familydollar.com/combostores. We continue to be very pleased with our partnership with InstaCart. We are offering InstaCart in more than 6,000 Family Dollar stores across 47 markets. During the quarter, approximately 5,500 of these stores had at least one order and 96% of those stores had multiple orders. We are seeing a materially higher average ticket as well as higher gross margin on these transactions. Sales continued at a healthy pace on a weekly basis. As expected, we've seen a softening in the growth trajectory, as vaccinations are on the rise and more shoppers are comfortable visiting our retail store locations.Last month, we introduced our new retail network, the Chesapeake Media Group. This new platform provides our shoppers with compelling content never seen before on Family Dollar digital space. We serve 95 million weekly digital impressions and have approximately 14 million subscribers to our digital Smart Coupon program. We currently have commitments from our largest CPG brands for more than 40 campaigns. These engagements are coming to life through ad placement on the Family Dollar app and familydollar.com, email and social media, influencing purchase decisions in real time.We believe the Chesapeake Media Group will enhance the opportunity to further drive loyalty and store traffic for Family Dollar, while increasing by in partner awareness and product sales, ultimately, driving market share gains for Family Dollar. These are just a few examples of our ability to act with more speed, clarity and focus. On initiatives, since many of the integration priorities are now behind us.I could not be more excited about the opportunities ahead of us, especially, the H2 combo store formats and our Dollar Tree Plus! initiative. As an organization, we are certainly in a much better position to be aggressive and drive innovation. Looking forward, we believe our strategic store formats, our store growth plans Dollar Tree Plus! and many key sales and traffic driving initiatives, along with our robust balance sheet will enable us to drive long-term value for our stakeholders.Operator, we are now ready to take questions.