  OperatorGood afternoon, and welcome to Skyworks Solutions third-quarter fiscal year 2021 earnings call. This call is being recorded. At this time, I will turn the call over to Mitch Haws, investor relations for Skyworks. Mr. Haws, please go ahead.Mitch Haws -- Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Rachel. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to Skyworks' third fiscal quarter 2021 conference call. With me today are Liam Griffin, our chairman, CEO, and president; and Kris Sennesael, our chief financial officer. Before we begin, I would like to remind everyone that our discussion will include statements relating to future results and expectations that are or may be considered forward-looking statements. Please refer to our earnings release and recent SEC filings, including our annual report on Form 10-K for information on certain risks that could cause actual outcomes to differ materially and adversely from any forward-looking statements made today. Additionally, the results and guidance we will discuss include non-GAAP financial measures consistent with our past practice. Please refer to our press release within the investor relations section of our company website for a complete reconciliation to GAAP. With that, I'll turn the call to Liam.Liam Griffin -- Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and President Thanks, Mitch, and welcome, everyone. Skyworks delivered record third-quarter results with strong year-over-year growth in both revenue and earnings per share. Further, the completion of our acquisition of the infrastructure and automotive business of Silicon Labs, we have significantly expanded our market opportunity while accelerating our top and bottom-line growth. Here are a few highlights.

 



 In the quarter, we delivered revenue of $1.116 billion, 52% above Q3 of last year. We posted a new Q3 record for earnings with EPS of $2.15, above consensus and representing a year-over-year increase of 72%. And given our strong and predictable cash generation, we announced a substantial increase to our quarterly dividend. Looking ahead, we expect continued momentum as we execute on strong design wins with our mobile and broad market customers, levered by the performance gains of 5G. We are seeing a tipping point with 5G acting as the catalyst transforming entire industries from telemedicine and autonomous driving to factory automation and intelligent energy management. By increasing efficiency, these 5G-enabled applications are also lowering carbon footprints and driving renewable energy. Skyworks is at the center of this unique technological shift and its reliance on wireless connectivity, with innovative solutions developed over 20 years and across multiple technology transitions. The combination of our innovative solutions, broad customer reach and unrivaled manufacturing scale drove another quarter of strong design win execution. In mobile, we expanded the reach of our Sky5 portfolio, powering upcoming smartphone launches at tier one manufacturers, including Google, Oppo, Vivo, Xiaomi, among others. In IoT, we secured wins across a diverse set of customers. Specifically, we delivered WiFi front-end modules to Facebook for their new portal launch, captured design wins at Peloton, supporting home fitness applications, partnered with Linksys on their newest WiFi 6E mesh network system and ramped additional advanced WiFi platforms at Altice, Charter Communications, and Aruba Networks. We also launched connected home and security solutions at Honeywell and shipped cognitive audio platforms to Samsung and Vizio for their home theater systems. In wireless infrastructure, we continue to leverage our small cell and advanced MIMO expertise in support of multiple tier one OEMs. And finally, in automotive, we strengthened our position across the global ecosystem with our integrated solutions, enabling advanced telematics for leading auto manufacturers. In summary, Skyworks' trusted technologies play a pivotal and essential role in the way we live, work, play and educate, enabling ubiquitous, reliable, ultra-fast connections, positioning our business for continued growth. Skyworks' success is underpinned by unique strengths, including our highly integrated connectivity engines, powering applications across an increasingly diverse array of customers in multiple high-growth end markets.

 



 A differentiated manufacturing footprint, levering strategic technologies, from high-performance filters to custom gallium arsenide and advanced packaging. And finally, along with our seasoned and diligent workforce, we maintain deep collaborative relationships with our customers. These advantages will be further enhanced by the acquisition of the I&A business. This combination immediately broadens our product portfolio, augments our engineering prowess and expands our market reach while diversifying revenue and enhancing profitability. With that, I will turn the call over to Kris for a discussion of Q3 and our outlook for Q4.Kris Sennesael -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Liam. Skyworks posted another quarter of strong financial results, delivering record Q3 revenue of $1.116 billion, exceeding the mid-point of our guidance. Total revenue grew 52% year over year, demonstrating exceptional performance across both mobile and growth markets. Mobile revenue grew 52% year over year as we capitalized on technology-rich content powering an impactful set of 5G customers -- in parallel, broad markets revenue was up 50% year over year, benefiting from strong demand for IoT solutions, including WiFi 6 and 6E and smart audio, as well as emerging use cases in industrial and automotive markets. Gross profit in the quarter was $565 million, resulting in a gross margin of 50.6%, up 50 basis points year over year. Operating expenses were $161 million or 14.5% of revenue, demonstrating spending discipline while continuing our strategic investments to drive growth. We generated $403 million of operating income, translating into an operating margin of 36.1%, a 480-basis-point improvement over Q3 of last year. Other expense was $3 million, reflecting a partial quarter of interest expense associated with the recently completed acquisition of the infrastructure and automotive business of Silicon Labs. Our effective tax rate was 10.4%, resulting in net income of $359 million or a net income margin of 32.1%. Execution on top and bottom line growth while expanding gross and operating margins drove record Q3 diluted earnings per share of $2.15 beating the guidance by $0.02 and an increase of 72% when compared to fiscal Q3 of 2020. Turning to the balance sheet and cash flow. Third fiscal quarter cash flow from operations was $273 million, capital expenditures were $115 million, and we paid $83 million in dividends. We ended the quarter with a net cash position of $1.5 billion with $3 billion in cash and investments and $1.5 billion in debt. Moving to our outlook now for Q4 of fiscal 2021. Based on continued robust demand for connectivity solutions in mobile and broad markets and the inclusion of a partial quarter of revenue from the recently completed acquisition, we expect continued growth into the September quarter. Specifically, in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2021, we anticipate revenue to be between $1.27 billion and $1.33 billion, with non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $2.53 at the mid-point of our revenue range. This represents revenue growth of 36% and non-GAAP diluted earnings-per-share growth of 37% compared to the fourth fiscal quarter of 2020. Exclusive of acquisition related revenue, we expect double-digit, sequential growth in both mobile and broad markets. Gross margin is projected to be in the range of 51% to 51.5%. And we expect operating expenses to be between $180 million and $183 million. Below the line, we anticipate roughly $11 million in other expense, reflecting the interest expense associated with the acquisition financing. We expect a tax rate of approximately 10.5% and a diluted share count of approximately 167.5 million shares. And lastly, given our conviction in Skyworks' strategic outlook and predictable strong cash generation, today, we also announced a 12% increase to our quarterly dividend to $0.56 per share. And with that, I'll turn the call back over to Liam.Liam Griffin -- Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and President Thanks, Kris. Skyworks is clearly on track to deliver record financial results for fiscal 2021. As mentioned, the addition of the I&A business further propels our expansion into strategic growth segments. And with a widening array of usage cases, the proliferation of 5G is driving significant momentum for Skyworks. Our powerful generation -- cash generation capabilities, technology-centric operational scale, and global reach are fueling a robust design win pipeline. And finally, the strength of our balance sheet allows us the flexibility to invest to win while delivering consistent shareholder returns. That concludes our prepared remarks. Operator, let's open the line for questions. 