  OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to Halliburton's first quarter 2022 earnings call. Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to David Coleman, head of investor relations. Please go ahead, sir.David Coleman -- Head of Investor Relations Good morning, and welcome to the Halliburton first quarter 2022 conference call. As a reminder, today's call is being webcast and a replay will be available on Halliburton's website for seven days. Joining me today are Jeff Miller, chairman, president, and CEO; and Lance Loeffler, CFO. Some of our comments today may include forward-looking statements reflecting Halliburton's views about future events.

 



 These matters involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual financial results to materially differ from our forward-looking statements. These risks are discussed in Halliburton's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021, recent current reports on Form 8-K, and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason. Our comments today also include non-GAAP financial measures.Additional details and reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in our first quarter earnings release or in the quarterly results and presentations section of our website. After our prepared remarks, we ask that you please limit yourself to one question and one related follow-up during the Q&A period in order to allow time for others who may be in the queue. Now I'll turn the call over to Jeff. Jeff Miller -- President, Chairman, and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, David, and good morning, everyone. I am pleased with Halliburton's first quarter results. Our performance demonstrates the resilience of our unique strategy in action and the importance of our competitive positioning, both in North America and international markets. Here are some highlights from the first quarter.

 



 International revenue grew 15% compared to the first quarter of 2021, with activity accelerating across all international markets. Strong growth in Latin America and Middle East Asia offset the winter weather impacts in Europe. In North America, revenue grew 37% year on year with the acceleration of both drilling and completions activity. Higher utilization in March and net pricing gains drove margin expansion despite the weather and sand disruptions earlier in the quarter. Our completion and production division revenue grew 26% compared to the first quarter of 2021 on activity increases in North America, Africa, and the Middle East, while operating income increased 17% despite transitory US land sand delivery disruptions. Our drilling and evaluation division grew revenue 22% year on year, while margins expanded 440 basis points and started the year at 15% for the first time since 2010. This exceptional performance was largely driven by the strength of our directional drilling and project management businesses. We added three new companies to Halliburton Labs, our clean energy accelerator. This brings the total number of program participants and alumni to 15 companies. Halliburton Labs allows us to actively participate in the future of clean energy value chains. Finally, we retired $600 million of our $1 billion of debt maturing in 2025 and nearly tripled our quarterly dividend to $0.12 per share. These actions strengthen our balance sheet and reflect our commitment to return cash to shareholders. Before we continue, I want to provide a few comments about the current situation in Ukraine and Russia. This is a tragedy on many dimensions and for us especially for our people in both countries. As we've all seen, governments in the European Union, the United States, Switzerland, and other countries swiftly enacted far-reaching sanctions on new investment and export controls on goods, supplies, and technologies to Russia. In compliance with sanctions and consistent with our strategy for profitable international growth, we announced that we would begin steps toward a wind-down of our Russian operations, and we remain active in that process.

 



 Russia accounts for about 2% of our business. Sanctions and export compliance impact everyone in the oil field and operations and supply chains in Russia are at best challenged. The situation is far too early and evolving to say more. Moving on to our macro outlook. We expect oil and gas demand will grow over the near and medium-term driven by economic expansion, energy security concerns, and population growth. At the same time, supply remains under the structural threat of scarcity. While the war in Ukraine has created a short-term dislocation in commodity markets, the fundamental supply tightness existed before this geopolitical conflict. Current oil supply, tightness, and commodity price levels strengthen my confidence in the accelerating multi-year upcycle and very busy years ahead for Halliburton.  In addition, I expect an important change in our customers' behavior and priorities will provide structural support to oil prices throughout this upcycle. I believe supply dynamics have fundamentally changed due to investor return requirements, public ESG commitments, and regulatory pressure, which make it more difficult for operators to commit to long cycle hydrocarbon investments and instead drive investment flexibility through short cycle barrels. The pursuit of increased investment flexibility leads operators to prioritize short-cycle projects, development over exploration, tiebacks versus new infrastructure, and shale rather than deepwater. Clearly, there are important exceptions where successful long-term projects will be developed, but painting with a broad brush, I believe most investments will be directed primarily toward short cycle activity in the near and medium-term. The result of this focus is an industrywide increase in the level of investment flexibility for operators and the subsequent support to commodity prices. With short cycle barrels, companies make investment decisions annually and can respond more quickly to commodity price signals. As a result, when investment stops, production at a minimum doesn't grow. And in the case of unconventionals, it quickly declines. For example, when the pandemic drove the collapse of oil demand two years ago, US shale companies swiftly reduced activity and production declined by 2 million barrels in nine months. In contrast, long cycle projects have two key elements a long time horizon and a large upfront capital investment. Once these projects begin, investment continues and production cannot quickly respond to price signals. This tends to result in market oversupply. The pivot to short cycle barrels creates the opposite effect a perpetual threat of undersupply that is supportive of the commodity price. I believe this pivot to short cycle barrels is great for Halliburton and sets up fantastic conditions for us to outperform. Short cycle activity results in higher relative capital spending by operators aimed directly at the wellbore for services Halliburton provides, as opposed to infrastructure investments required for long-cycle projects. Our strong technology portfolio and market footprint match this activity globally. Halliburton works, innovates, and invests where it matters most for our customers. And finally, Halliburton's value proposition to collaborate and engineer solutions to maximize asset value for our customers explicitly focuses on helping operators maximize returns and cash flow. This makes Halliburton uniquely relevant to this environment. Our five strategic priorities are clear and effective and will drive our behavior in this upcycle. First, we focus on profitable growth and our strong international franchise. Second, we maximize value and cash flow in North America. Third, we accelerate the deployment and integration of automation and digital technologies. Fourth, we drive increased capital efficiency in all parts of our business. And fifth, we actively participate in advancing a sustainable energy future. As demand for Halliburton's services increases both internationally and in North America, we will execute on our five strategic priorities to deliver industry-leading returns and strong free cash flow for our shareholders. As I look across the international markets, I continue to believe our customers' international spending will increase by mid-teens this year. Here are some leading indicators. First, we started with revenues in the first quarter, much higher compared to the same period of last year. Second, our completion to order book increased 50% year on year in the first quarter, which represents work generally delivered within the current year. And third, we have a strong pipeline of new projects scheduled to start in the second half of this year, particularly in the Middle East. We expect international activity to gain momentum in the second quarter, led by the Middle East and Latin America, and further accelerate in the second half of the year. More importantly, our strong first quarter drilling and evaluation division margins demonstrate our focus on profitable international growth. Beyond the shift to short cycle barrels already discussed, we expect this international upcycle to be structurally different from prior cycles, and Halliburton's international business is poised to benefit from it. Here's why, national oil companies and independents comprise a larger portion of the international customer set as a result of divestitures in the last few years, many international assets now have new owners who require a more collaborative service provider to help unlock remaining reserves and maximize value. Halliburton's collaborative approach, broad technology portfolio, local expertise, and reliable execution help customers achieve their efficiency and production objectives. Halliburton's execution of our technology roadmap has completely transformed our competitiveness in drilling and evaluation. We enter this upcycle with the best product portfolio in our history, and we see increased customer demand for our high-end technology and a recognition of its value. For example, Halliburton recently deployed our new Strata examiners wireline imaging service for multiple customers in Norway and Morocco. Strata examiners helped operators acquire more accurate well data in oil and synthetic-based muds, better evaluate production potential, and save rig time with log-down capability and increased logging speed. Another example is the latest addition to our logging while drilling suite, the StrataStar azimuthal resistivity service for thin enter bedded formations. Similar to our premium EarthStar service, the StrataStar combines high-fidelity downhole sensors with powerful digital inversion capabilities. Multiple customers in the Middle East, Latin America, US, and Canada use it for faster, more accurate reservoir characterization to precisely place wells in the most productive zones and maximize asset value. We also see a slight uptick in offshore exploration activity, albeit from a historically low base. Halliburton's increased competitiveness in drilling and evaluation resulted in a doubling of our contract win rate in global exploration work over the last two years, and we expect to benefit from any additional growth in this higher margin market different from prior cycles. Halliburton's investments in specialty chemicals and artificial lift create unique growth opportunities as we expand the international footprint of these businesses. Last month, I attended the opening of our new chemical reaction plant in Saudi Arabia. Multiple years in the making, this world-class facility establishes our chemical manufacturing footprint in the Eastern Hemisphere. It is our launchpad for profitable growth in the specialty chemicals industry in the Middle East and beyond. This quarter it will start manufacturing products for our production chemicals contract with a large IOC in Oman and chemicals for our own product service lines. Several years ago, I described digitalization as one of the defining trends in our industry for this decade. Today, digital innovations permeate all segments of the oilfield services market. At Halliburton, our strategy to drive digital and automation creates technological differentiation, contributes to higher international margins, and drives internal efficiencies and cost savings. Here are some examples. On an integrated drilling project in Southeast Asia, Halliburton deployed well construction 4.0. Our approach to the digital transformation of well construction. It improved the rate of penetration by about 40% on initial wells and reduced rig site personnel by 21%. On an integrated project in the Middle East, we combine data science, smart bits, drilling automation, and project management services for a more than 40% reduction in average well delivery time. We also deploy our digital solutions to advance a sustainable energy future. In the first quarter, energy entered Halliburton to assess the carbon storage potential of the Prinos basin in Greece. We will use our decision space 365 cloud applications to perform long-term plume modeling, characterize the storage complex and create a conceptual development plan with performance modeling. We expect to deliver steady, profitable growth in the international markets for the rest of this year. Increased activity and equipment tightness continues to sharpen our pricing discussions with customers. Pricing is increasing on current contract extensions. In the first quarter, the percentage of contract extensions exercised almost doubled compared to the same period last year, as operators generally prefer to extend existing contracts rather than bid work in an inflationary market. Pricing is also increasing on newer. Turning to North America, we see market tightness across all service segments. In the first quarter, the average US rig count increased 14% sequentially and is up 62% year on year. Additionally, frac activity surged in March after winter weather, and supply chain disruptions occurred earlier in the quarter. Halliburton's hydraulic fracturing fleet remains sold out and the overall market appears all but sold out for the second half of the year. The market today presents several positive elements previously absent in North America, and they give me confidence in the continued strength of this market over the coming years. First, in the largest service segment in North America, the hydraulic fracturing market structure has improved. Today, the largest four pressure-pumping companies account for about two-thirds of the market. Second, I believe that poor service industry returns over many years in North America ultimately resulted in a closed-loop capital system because access to meaningful outside capital doesn't exist today. Market participants must generate their own cash in order to reinvest and grow their businesses. Broad-based profitability improvements are required to fund growth, not just what appears to be good economics on a single incremental fleet. Finally, I see greater differentiation in hydraulic fracturing equipment types. In prior cycles, fleets were relatively the same. Today, all equipment is not created equal. Significant operational, environmental and pricing differences exist, ranging from electric fleets at the top, dual fuel and Tier 4 diesel in the middle, and finally, Tier 2 diesel equipment at the bottom. We have a terrific fleet composition. Halliburton is the leader in low emissions frac equipment. Our Zeus eFleet has committed contracts, earns attractive returns, and delivers improved performance. Another technology that sets Halliburton apart from the rest of the hydraulic fracturing market is our SmartFleet intelligent fracturing system. Customers are adopting this groundbreaking technology, and it has moved from pilot to campaign mode. We are deploying it for multiple operators across different basins and expect a six-fold increase in the number of stages completed with SmartFleet this year. Tightness in North America is not just in hydraulic fracturing equipment. It exists across the whole oil and gas value chain, and spare parts, engines, electronics, and many other inputs cost more and are sometimes not immediately available. While we generally pass these increased costs on to operators, we also have effective solutions that minimize this operational impact and provide reliable execution for our customers. For example, our sophisticated supply chain organization responded by sourcing sand from Wisconsin when local mines were down in the Permian. In trucking, our collaboration with Vorto provides us with real-time information on the market-clearing price for drivers, and allows us to manage inflation, and significantly reduces logistics-related nonproductive time. Years of low pricing and low returns impacted the North American oilfield services sector and the larger supply chain that supports our industry. Sustainably improved pricing is required to avoid future supply chain disruptions and to invest in the equipment, people, and technology necessary to deliver production growth. I believe our customers understand this. Against this backdrop, we see a long runway for ongoing net pricing improvement across all of our product service lines in this recovery. Halliburton is focused on maximizing value in North America for us. This is a margin cycle, not a build cycle. Last quarter, I shared with you my view that North American customer spending would grow more than 25% year on year. Today, as I look at a combination of customer activity, and inflation, my outlook has improved and I now expect North American spending to increase by over 35% this year. With respect to the activity, over 60% of the US land rig count sits with private companies, and they keep growing. While public E&P remains committed to its activity plans. Activity and demand for our services are increasing both internationally and in North America, with our unique value proposition, clearly defined strategic priorities, and global presence. I expect Halliburton will deliver profitable growth, solid free cash flow, and industry-leading returns and outperform as this upcycle accelerates. Now I will turn the call over to Lance to provide more details on our first quarter financial results. Lance?Lance Loeffler -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Jeff, and good morning, everyone. Let me begin with a summary of our first quarter results compared to the first quarter of 2021. Total company revenue for the quarter was $4.3 billion, an increase of 24%. Adjusted operating income was $533 million or a 44% increase compared to the operating income of $370 million in the first quarter of 2021. These results were primarily driven by increased activity across all regions and improved pricing in North America. In the first quarter, we recorded pre-tax charges of $64 million. Of these impairments and other charges totaling $22 million, including 16 million of receivables related to the write-off of all of our assets in Ukraine. The remainder of the charges totaled $42 million and was related to the redemption premium and unamortized expenses associated with the early retirement of $600 million of our 2025 senior notes. Now let me discuss our division results in more detail, starting with our completion and production division. Revenue was $2.4 billion, an increase of 26% while operating income was $296 million, or an increase of 17%. These results were primarily driven by increased pressure pumping services and artificial lift activity in the Western Hemisphere. Higher completion tool sales throughout the Western Hemisphere in the Middle East. Increased cementing activity in Africa and Middle East Asia and improved well intervention services in North America land and the Eastern Hemisphere. These improvements were partially offset by lower activity across multiple product service lines in Europe and lower completion tool sales throughout Asia. In our drilling and evaluation division, revenue was $1.9 billion, an increase of 22%, while operating income was $294 million, or a 72% increase. These results were due to increased drilling-related services globally, improved wireline activity in North America land, Latin America, and the Middle East increased testing services internationally, and higher project management activity in Latin America, India, and Oman. Partially offsetting these increases were lower project management activity in Iraq, as well as lower fluid services in the Caribbean, Brunei, and Mozambique. Moving on to our geographic results. In North America, revenue increased by 37%. This increase was primarily driven by improved pressure pumping activity and drilling-related services in North America land, hire stimulation, artificial lift, and drilling-related activity in Canada, and higher completion tool sales in the Gulf of Mexico. These increases were partially offset by reduced fluids services in the Gulf of Mexico. Turning to Latin America, revenue increased 22% due to improved activity across multiple product service lines in Brazil, Argentina, and Mexico. Increased well construction services in Colombia, higher completion tool sales in Guyana, improved project management activity in Ecuador and Colombia, increased testing services and wireline activity across the region, and increased artificial lift activity in Ecuador. Partially offsetting these increases were reduced fluid services in the Caribbean and lower project management and stimulation activity in Mexico. In Europe, Africa, CIS revenue increased by 7%. This improvement was primarily driven by higher activity across multiple product service lines in Egypt. Increased drilling-related activity in Azerbaijan. Increased well intervention and testing services across the region. Improved well construction services in West Africa and higher completion tool sales and cementing activity in Angola. These increases were partially offset by reduced activity across multiple product service lines in the United Kingdom, reduced well construction services and completion tool sales in Norway, and decreased fluid services in Mozambique. In the Middle East Asia region, revenue increased 17%, primarily resulting from improved well construction services in Saudi Arabia and Oman, increased wireline activity and completion tool sales in the Middle East, and increased testing services across the region. These increases were partially offset by reduced project management activity in Iraq, lower completion tool sales throughout Asia, decreased fluid services in Brunei, and lower stimulation activity in Bangladesh. Our corporate and other expenses for the quarter totaled $57 million, and I expect that to serve as a good quarterly run rate for the remainder of the year. Net interest expense for the quarter was $107 million. I expect this level of interest expense to drift slightly lower in the second quarter as a result of a full quarter impact of our reduced debt balance. Our normalized effective tax rate for the first quarter was approximately 21%. Based on our anticipated geographic earnings mix, we expect our second quarter effective tax rate to be approximately 24%. Capital expenditures for the quarter were $189 million. Our expected capex spend for the full year remains at approximately $1 billion. And we anticipate that our remaining capital expenditures will increase quarter over a quarter into the end of the year. Our first quarter cash flow from operations and free cash flow were a use of cash of $50 million and $183 million, respectively. These results were primarily driven by investment in working capital, consistent with our strong activity growth. As is typical for our business in an upcycle, we expect our cash flow to be back-end loaded for the year. We still expect to generate strong free cash flow for the remainder of 2022. Finally turning to our near-term operational outlook, let me provide you with some comments on how we see the second quarter unfolding. In our drilling and evaluation division, we expect the seasonal revenue decline in software sales to be offset by further improvements in global drilling activity. Therefore, second-quarter revenue is anticipated to grow low to mid-single digits as a result of the fall in software sales, we expect D&E margins to decline 125 to 175 basis points. In the completion and production division, activity is accelerating globally and scarcity will drive pricing in North America in the second quarter. As such, we expect second quarter revenue to grow in the mid-teens and margins to improve 350 to 400 basis points. I'll now turn the call back over to Jeff. Jeff?Jeff Miller -- President, Chairman, and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Lance. Let me summarize what we've talked about today. We believe that this accelerating multi-year upcycle is different and more sustainable than prior cycles due to operators' focus on short-cycle barrels. Halliburton's strategic priorities are clear and effective and drive outperformance. Our technology, portfolio, and market presence mean that we are poised for profitable growth in the international markets. In the tight North American market, we remain focused on maximizing value and improving returns. And finally, I expect Halliburton to continue to deliver profitable growth, strong free cash flow, and industry-leading returns in this upcycle. And now let's open it up for questions. 