
OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the ANSYS Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. With us today are Ajei Gopal, President and Chief Executive Officer; Nicole Anasenes, Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President of Finance; and Kelsey DeBriyn, Vice President, Investor Relations. [Operator Instructions]At this time, I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms. DeBriyn for opening remarks. Please go ahead.Kelsey DeBriyn -- Vice President of Investor Relations

 



Good morning, everyone. Our earnings release, the related prepared remarks document and the link to our third quarter Form 10-Q have all been posted on the homepage of our Investor Relations website. They contain the key financial information and supporting data relative to our third quarter financial results and business update as well as our Q4 and updated fiscal year 2021 outlook and the key underlying quantitative and qualitative assumptions.Today's presentation contains forward-looking information. Important factors that may affect our future results are discussed in our public filings with the SEC, all of which are available on our corporate website. We note that uncertainty regarding the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our performance could cause actual results to differ materially from our projections.Forward-looking statements are based upon our view of the business as of today, and ANSYS undertakes no obligations to update any such information. During this call, we will be referring to non-GAAP financial measures unless otherwise stated. A discussion of the various items that are excluded and reconciliations of GAAP to the comparable non-GAAP financial measures are included in our earnings release materials.I would now like to turn the call over to our President and CEO, Ajei Gopal, for his opening remarks. Ajei?

 



Dr. Ajei S. Gopal -- President and Chief Executive OfficerGood morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us. Q3 was another excellent quarter for ANSYS, where we beat our financial guidance across all key metrics. With strong ACV growth in the quarter, I'm delighted that year-to-date, we're on a stated goal of double-digit ACV growth with tuck-in acquisitions. Our accomplishments thus far in 2021 are further evidence of the success of our strategy of making simulation pervasive across the product life cycle, our multiphysics product leadership and our strong customer relationships.Those factors, combined with customers' continued investment in R&D initiatives are driving demand for ANSYS' multiphysics solutions. With a robust deal pipeline and momentum in the business bolstering our confidence, we are raising our full year financial guidance above and beyond the impact of our strong Q3 top line performance. Nicole will have the details in a few minutes. From vertical and geographical perspective, our Q3 results came in as expected. The high-tech and semiconductor, aerospace and defense, and automotive and ground transportation sectors were again our largest contributors.Looking at our major geographies, the Americas again led the way, followed by Asia Pacific. We expect each region to have its largest quarter in Q4 with this quarterly skew to be more pronounced in Q4 for Europe. One of Q3's highlights was a three-year $58 million agreement with a North American high-tech customer. From an ACV perspective, this deal was the second largest multiyear contract in our history. This customer was already using solutions from across the ANSYS multiphysics portfolio and is now expanding its number of simulation users. It is using ANSYS for diverse applications, ranging from ensuring the reliability of radio frequency systems to meeting sustainability goals across this product line and to chip package system analysis for power and signal integrity.

 



Another key deal in Q3 was a multiyear agreement with Seagate Technology, a leader in mass data storage solutions. Seagate is a longtime ANSYS customer, and this new contract broadens the company's use of multiphysics simulation to address next-generation product challenges faced by its global customer base. For example, Seagate is using ANSYS multiphysics products to assess thermal effects and acoustics to create a seamless workflow to enable higher capacity hard drives and to streamline process integration for heat-assisted magnetic recording.The company also now has access to our optical suite of products to drive further innovation. As we have discussed, our small- and medium-sized customers, or SMBs, were disproportionately affected by the pandemic. However, during the last few quarters, we are seeing a recovery, and SMB customers have increased their investment in ANSYS simulation. Our ongoing increase in sales from our SMB customers give me further confidence as we plan for Q4 and beyond. During these calls, I typically give you some insights into various aspects of the ANSYS business.In the past, I discussed our best-in-class electromagnetic solutions, our unparalleled product scalability and the extreme accuracy of our structural solutions. As you heard me discuss with Seagate, optical simulation is becoming increasingly important for our customer base. In fact, in Q3, about 5% of our agreements included an optical simulation product in the order. Given that as well as our recent closing of the ZMAX acquisition, I would like to spend some time today discussing our offerings for optical simulation.Three years ago, ANSYS did not have any optical simulation products in our portfolio. Today, though, companies can rely on ANSYS for an end-to-end solution, spanning the gamut from photons to electrons based on three product lines. The first, ANSYS Lumerical, empowers users to design and analyze integrated photonic components and systems and model challenging product problems, including interacting optical, electrical and thermal effects. The second product line, ANSYSPIoS, simulates the system's optical performance and evaluates the final illumination effect by enabling high-fidelity visualization based on human vision and camera-sensing capabilities.Third is our recent acquisition of ZMAX, which enables customers to accurately model the behavior of light through complex optical lens systems. Instead of working independently as a siloed offering, our optical simulation suite operates as part of a complete multiphysics workflow. Taken together, the ANSYS optical solution is used for a diverse set of applications ranging from camera and LiDAR arrays found in autonomous vehicles to telecommunications and mobile phone cameras to medical equipment and other visual aids.For example, in Q3, Sandia National Labs signed an agreement leading to expanded use of Lumerical technologies. Sandia develops leading-edge integrated photonic and nanophotonic solutions for quantum computing, imaging and sensing. The lab uses Lumerical tools to design, model and simulate custom photonic components and their behavior in a circuit environment. In the automotive sector, industry leader Ford uses ANSYS products, including SPEOS and the ANSYS vehicle headlight solution in the styling and design of its predictive smart headlamps and to optimize and validate headline performance.Our headlight solution features real-time physics-based optical simulation and driver-in-the-loop functionality to replicate the physical world with a high degree of predictive accuracy. Automotive giant Mazda is also increasing its use of SPEOS for internal and exterior lighting, head-up displays and cameras, thanks to a sales agreement in Q3. In Aerospace and Defense, an ANSYS customer is using all three of our optical product lines across multiple applications. The customer relies on Lumerical for creating photonics integrated circuits.It uses SPEOs for detecting radiation leaks from aircraft enclosures and this customer is also using ZMAX to study lens deformation. While still new to our portfolio and a relatively small contributor to our overall financial results, these optical solutions fit squarely into our go-to-market motion, and our sales team understands how to market these products. Based on the ANSYS strategy of pervasive simulation, our optical customers can easily access products across our portfolio to perform true multiphysics analysis.We saw an excellent example of that with another aerospace and defense customer that was challenged with a wing camera that was capturing blurry images. By using a combination of ANSYS optical and ANSYS fluids products, the customer was able to correct the problem and deliver crisp images even at extreme speeds in bad weather. Moving to our partners. I'm excited that we are expanding our relationship with Autodesk by embedding ANSYS' electromagnetic simulation capabilities to explore and validate printed circuit board designs within the Fusion 360 workflow.This first-of-a-kind Autodesk Fusion 360 extension will enable CAD users to perform near real-time PCB analyses and to retrieve real-time insights into their electromagnetic performance to accelerate the development of next-generation products. We have also expanded connectivity of ANSYS Twin Builder to industrial control systems through Rockwell Automation's enhanced Studio 5000 simulation interface. Users can connect digital twins to emulated controllers to optimize production at the design stage or physical controllers to enhance equipment performance in real time, for example, in predictive maintenance.I am pleased that we have expanded our partnership with TSMC to create a comprehensive thermal analysis solution for multi-die semiconductor designs. Using ANSYS RedHawk-SC electrothermal and ANSYS ice back along with TSMC's silicon stacking and advanced packaging technologies, users can analyze complete chip and package systems with high-fidelity results. We are also collaborating with Fujitsu to enable more sustainable product development for our customers.ANSYS Dyna now supports Fujitsu's energy-efficient prime HPC supercomputers which will help customers reduce energy consumption and costs by offloading simulation workloads to a more energy-efficient machine. Keeping with our environmental, social and governance initiatives for a moment, we recently published our simulation product handprint for autonomous vehicles. This report illustrates the role that simulation plays in the development of autonomous vehicles, including in sensors, automated driving software and safety testing.Using simulation to develop autonomous vehicles will lead to significant societal and environmental benefits, ranging from a drop in traffic fatalities to a reduction in emissions. We have also submitted our initial report with the Climate Disclosure Project and expect results by the end of the year. Similarly, we have begun working on our reports to the task force on climate-related financial disclosures, which focuses on governance, strategy, risk management and metrics and targets.In summary, Q3 was another remarkable quarter for ANSYS. We beat guidance across all key financial metrics and have met our goal of delivering double-digit growth year-to-date. We are also expanding our product leadership in our core solutions as well as an important emerging areas such as optical simulation. These factors, combined with a strong Q4 sales pipeline and outstanding execution, give me further confidence in our ability to meet our newly increased outlook for 2021.And with that, I'll turn the call over to Nicole. Nicole?Nicole Anasenes -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Ajei. Good morning, everyone. Let me take a few minutes to add some additional perspective on our third quarter financial performance and provide context for our outlook and assumptions for Q4 and 2021. The third quarter demonstrated the strength of our business as we delivered robust growth during the quarter. ACV was strong and in line with our expectations, while revenue, operating margin and EPS exceeded the high end of our Q3 guidance, driven by the mix of license types sold in the quarter. both our large enterprise customers and SMB customers performed well.And our growth during the quarter was broad-based. Now let me discuss some of our Q3 financial highlights. Q3 ACV was $365.4 million and grew year-over-year 20% or 19% in constant currency. We saw strong performance across customer types, geographies and industries. ACV from recurring sources represented 76% of the total. Q3 total revenue was $445.4 million and grew 21% or 20% in constant currency, which, as I mentioned, exceeded the high end of our guidance driven by license mix.Q3 revenue growth was also wide ranging across customer types and industries. For the first three quarters of 2021, we had strong top line performance with ACV and revenue both growing double digits at 17% and 19%, respectively. As Ajei mentioned, for both Q3 and Q3 year-to-date, we are executing against our business model of double-digit growth, including tuck-in M&A. We closed the quarter with a total balance of GAAP deferred revenue and backlog of $899.5 million. During the quarter, we continued to manage our business with fiscal discipline.This yielded a solid third quarter gross margin of 89.9% and an operating margin of 39.7%, which was better than our Q3 guidance. Operating margin was positively impacted by revenue performance from license mix as well as the timing of investments. The result was third quarter EPS of $1.59, which was also above the high end of our guidance. Similar to operating margin, EPS benefited from strong revenue results from license mix and the timing of investments. Our effective tax rate in Q3 was 19%, the tax rate we expect for the fourth quarter of 2021.Our cash flow from operations in Q3 totaled $157.8 million, which benefited from strong collections, primarily driven by robust Q2 growth, favorable timing of intra-quarter sales and a reduction in the percent of receivables past due. We ended the quarter with $1.814 million of cash and short-term investments on the balance sheet. In line with our capital allocation priorities, we repurchased approximately 97,000 shares during the quarter for around $36 million. We have 2.7 million shares available for repurchase under the current authorized share repurchase program.Additionally, on October 1, we acquired ZMAX for a purchase price of $399.1 million net of cash acquired. Now let me turn to the topic of guidance. We continue to build confidence in our outlook for the year, given the improved deals pipeline we see in the fourth quarter. As a result, we are initiating guidance for Q4 and increasing our ACV revenue, operating margin, EPS and operating cash flow outlook for the full year. This raise reflects the strong financial performance in the third quarter and the increased momentum of our sales pipeline going into the fourth quarter.For the fourth quarter, we expect revenue in the range of $614.9 million to $654.9 million, operating margin in the range of 44.5% to 47% and EPS in the range of $2.48 to $2.81. As I mentioned, for the full year, we are raising our ACV revenue, operating margin, EPS and operating cash flow outlook. We are increasing our full year ACV outlook to be in the range of $1.825 billion to $1.860 billion. This represents growth of 12.9% to 15.1% or 12.6% to 14.7% in constant currency. Our Q4 and full year 2021 guidance is based on continued momentum in the business and a Q4 pipeline that has accelerated since our August guidance.It does not include a repeat of the outside spending behavior we saw in December 2020 after vaccines were announced. The raise also incorporates approximately $6 million to $8 million of contribution from ZMAX in Q4, and which is offset by approximately $6 million to $8 million of currency headwind. As a result, we are raising the midpoint of our ACV guidance by $20 million, which translates to an increase of 1.5 points of constant currency growth compared to our August guidance.We expect revenue to be in the range of $1.885 billion to $1.925 billion which is growth of 11.2% to 13.5% or 10.6% to 12.9% in constant currency. This raise reflects our strong Q3 revenue performance driven by license mix as well as the incremental organic revenue from the momentum of our Q4 pipeline. Like ACV, our increased revenue incorporates approximately $6 million to $8 million contribution from ZMAX, which is offset by approximately $6 million to $8 million of currency headwinds.As a result, we are raising the midpoint of our revenue guidance by $40 million, which translates to constant currency growth of three points higher than the midpoint of our August guidance. As you know, ASC 606 introduces revenue growth volatility within the quarters. However, on a full year basis, revenue growth is less volatile. In the fourth quarter of 2021, we expect the revenue growth rate to be impacted by the year-over-year compare and mix of license types sold in the fourth quarter 2020 versus our current 2021 fourth quarter pipeline.We are increasing our full year operating margin and now expect operating margin to be in the range of 40.5% to 41.5%. Additionally, we are increasing our full year EPS and now expect EPS to be in the range of $7.05 to $7.38. This increase incorporates our Q3 performance and is offset by approximately $0.05 of currency headwinds. It is worth noting that some of our strong Q3 EPS performance was driven by the timing of investments that moved from Q3 to the fourth quarter of the year. Now let me turn to our full year operating cash flow guidance.We are increasing our 2021 outlook to a range of $505 million to $535 million. This increase is driven by stronger collections expected during the year and is partially offset by approximately $3 million to $5 million of currency headwind. Further details around specific currency rates and other assumptions that have been factored into our Q4 and 2021 guidance are contained in the prepared remarks document. Consistent with our standard practice, we will provide detailed 2022 guidance once we finalize our 2022 planning process and close out 2021.I would like to thank the ANSYS team for their outstanding execution during the quarter, which drove our robust Q3 financial performance and continued momentum going into our last quarter of the year. We once again delivered a strong quarter, which coupled with our recurring business model and growing sales pipeline demonstrated the strength of the ANSYS business. We are well positioned to deliver on our 2021 outlook as well as our longer-term financial objectives.Operator, we will now open the phone lines to take questions.