
OperatorGood day, everyone. Welcome to the Verisign's Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. Today's conference is being recorded. Recording of this call is not permitted unless preauthorized. Thank you. At this time, I'd like to turn the conference over to Mr. David Atchley, Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Treasurer. Please go ahead, sir.David Atchley -- Vice President , Treasury & Investor RelationsThank you, operator. Welcome to Verisign's Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. Joining me are Jim Bidzos, Executive Chairman and CEO; Todd Strubbe, President and COO; and George Kilguss, Executive Vice President and CFO. This call and presentation are being webcast from the Investor Relations website, which is available under About Verisign on verisign.com. There, you will also find our earnings release. At the end of this call, the presentation will be available on that site, and within a few hours, the replay of the call will be posted. Financial results in our earnings release are unaudited, and our remarks include forward-looking statements that are subject to the risks and uncertainties that we discuss in detail in our documents filed with the SEC, specifically the most recent report on Form 10-K. Verisign does not update financial performance or guidance during the quarter, unless it is done through a public disclosure. The financial results in today's call and the matters we will be discussing today include GAAP results and two non-GAAP measures used by Verisign: adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow.

 



GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation information is appended to the slide presentation, which can be found on the Investor Relations section of our website available after this call. Jim and George will provide some prepared remarks. And afterward, we will open the call for your questions. With that, I would like to turn the call over to Jim.D. James Bidzos -- Chairman of the Board & Chief Executive OfficerThanks, David, and good afternoon, everyone. I'm pleased to report another solid quarter of operational and financial performance for Verisign. During the quarter, we continued to deliver strong financial results while maintaining, investing in and evolving our critical internet infrastructure and complying with the high operational standards required by our ICANN agreements. Our critical infrastructure enables us to reliably and accurately provide the domain name system navigation service, which people around the world depend on for commerce, education, healthcare and person-to-person connection. During the third quarter, we processed 10.7 million new registrations, and the domain name base increased by 1.48 million names. At the end of September, the domain name base in.com and.net totaled 172.1 million, consisting of 158.6 million names for.com and 13.5 million names for.net. with a year-over-year growth rate of 5.1%. Although renewal rates are not fully measurable until 45 days after the end of the quarter, we believe that the renewal rate for the third quarter of 2021 will be approximately 75%.This preliminary rate compares to 73.7% achieved in the third quarter of 2020 and 75.4% last quarter. For the full year 2021, we now expect a domain name base growth rate of between 4.7% and 5.5%. This narrower range reflects the current pace of new additions to the base and our outlook for the remainder of the year. Our financial and liquidity position remained stable with $1.2 billion in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at the end of the quarter. Share repurchases during the third quarter totaled $172 million for 785,000 shares. At quarter end, $565 million remained available and authorized under the current share repurchase program, which has no expiration. We continually evaluate the overall liquidity and investing needs of the business and consider the best uses for our cash, including potential share repurchases. As it relates to.web, and as we stated last quarter, after the final IRP decision was issued in May, Afilias filed in June an application requesting that the IRP panel interpret and amend its final decision.

 



The briefing on this application was completed in September, and the panel has now taken the matter under advisement without oral argument, which means we're just waiting for the IRP panel to respond. Verisign believes Afilias' application is without merit, and we continue to expect the panel to rule on it in the fourth quarter of 2021. As we have said before, we continue to look forward to becoming the.web registry operator and establishing it as an additional option for businesses and individual end users worldwide. And now I'd like to turn the call over to George.George Kilguss III -- Executive Vice President & Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Jim, and good afternoon, everyone. For the quarter ended September 30, 2021, the company generated revenue of $334 million, up 5.1% from the same quarter in 2020 and delivered operating income of $221 million, up 7.1% from the $207 million in the same quarter a year ago. Operating expense totaled $113 million compared to $116 million last quarter and $111 million in the third quarter last year. Operating margin in the quarter was 66.2% compared to 64.7% last quarter and 65% in the same quarter a year ago. Net income totaled $157 million compared to $171 million a year earlier, which produced diluted earnings per share of $1.40 in the third quarter this year compared to $1.49 for the same quarter last year. As noted in our earnings release, net income for the third quarter of last year included previously unrecognized tax benefits of $24 million, which increased diluted earnings per share by $0.21.Operating cash flow for the third quarter was $260 million and free cash flow was $245 million compared with $140 million and $125 million, respectively, for the third quarter of 2020. Cash flow this quarter benefited from an increase of $45 million of deferred revenue, which was primarily related to early domain name renewal activity before the.com price increase went into effect. The main impact of these early renewals is the pulling forward of cash flow from future quarters into the third quarter of this year. Additionally, comparing year-over-year third quarter cash flow, last year's third quarter cash flow was lower due to the permitted deferral of approximately $52 million of U.S. federal tax payments from the second quarter to the third quarter of 2020. I'll now discuss our updated full year 2021 guidance. Revenue is now expected to be in the range of $1.325 billion to $1.330 billion. This narrowed revenue range reflects the updated domain name base growth rate expectation of between 4.7% and 5.5% that Jim mentioned earlier.

 



The operating margin is now expected to be between 64.8% and 65.3%. This range reflects our expectation of incremental spend on marketing programs and continued investment in our operational infrastructure and personnel during the fourth quarter. Interest expense and nonoperating income net is still expected to be an expense of between $83 million to $87 million. Capital expenditures are now expected to be between $55 million and $60 million. And the GAAP effective tax rate is still expected to be between 20% and 23%. We expect the cash tax rate for 2021 to also be within the same guidance range. In summary, Verisign continued to demonstrate sound financial performance during the third quarter, and we look forward to continuing our focused execution. Now I'll turn the call back to Jim for his closing remarks.D. James Bidzos -- Chairman of the Board & Chief Executive OfficerThank you, George. Before we open the call for your questions, I would like to touch on some other things that we continue to do here at Verisign. I've updated you in previous earnings calls on our commitment to responsible corporate citizenship principally through our Verisign Cares program. During the third quarter, we established three new partnerships under the Verisign Cares workforce retraining initiative. This greatly increases both the number of individuals we can help and our geographical coverage. Combined, our partners now reach dollars in 17 states plus the District of Columbia with remote options accessible throughout the U.S., and our partner organizations have expansion plans of their own, which we're pleased to support.We're delighted to note that our launch partner for this initiative, Virginia Ready, recently passed the milestone of 3,000 scholars who have graduated from their program. And as a reminder, the objective of the Verisign Cares program is to address pressing economic and social needs in the communities in which we live and work. We instituted this workforce retraining initiative in 2020 to provide individuals whose employment has been adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic with access to training and other assistance to help them pivot into the technology sector. You can learn more about these efforts on blog.verisign.com. And now we'll open the call for your questions. Operator, we're ready for the first question.