  OperatorGood afternoon, and welcome to the Equinix first quarter earnings conference call. All lines will be on able-to-listen-only until we open for questions. Also, today's conference is being recorded. If anyone has objections, please disconnect at this time. I would now like to turn the call over to Chip Newcom, director of investor relations. Sir, you may begin.Chip Newcom -- Director of Investor Relations Good afternoon, and welcome to today's conference call. Before we get started, I would like to remind everyone that some of the statements that we will be making today are forward-looking in nature and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may vary significantly from those statements and may be affected by the risks we've identified in today's press release and those identified in our filings with the SEC, including our most recent Form 10-K filed on February 18, 2022. Equinix assumes no obligation and does not intend to update or comment on forward-looking statements made on this call. In addition, in light of Regulation Fair Disclosure, it is Equinix's policy not to comment on its financial guidance during the quarter, unless it is done through an explicit public disclosure. In addition, we will provide non-GAAP measures on today's conference call. We provide a reconciliation of those measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures and a list of the reasons why the company uses these measures in today's press release on the Equinix investor relations page at www.equinix.com. We have made available on the IR page of our website a presentation designed to accompany this discussion, along with certain supplemental financial information and other data.We would like to also remind you that we post important information about Equinix on the IR page from time to time and encourage you to check our website regularly for the most current information available. With us today are Charles Meyers, Equinix's CEO and president; and Keith Taylor, chief financial officer. Following our prepared remarks, we will be taking questions from sell-side analysts. In the interest of wrapping this call up under an hour, we'd like to ask these analysts to limit any follow-on questions to one. At this time, I'll turn the call over to Charles. Charles Meyers -- Chief Executive Officer and President Thanks, Chip. Welcome to the call. Good afternoon, everybody, and welcome also to all of you to our first quarter earnings call. We had a great start to 2022, delivering the best net booking performance in our history, fueled by strong demand across all three regions, robust net pricing actions, and near-record low churn, resulting in our 77th consecutive quarter of top-line growth, the longest such streak of any S&P 500 company. We executed more than 4,200 deals in the quarter across more than 3,100 customers, demonstrating both the scale and the consistency of our go-to-market machine. While there are a number of macroeconomic factors that we continue to proactively manage, including rising interest rates, inflation, and geopolitical conflict, the business continues to perform exceptionally well. And underlying demand for digital infrastructure continues to rise as enterprises across the globe and in diverse sectors prioritize digital transformation and service providers continue to innovate, distribute, and scale their infrastructure globally in response to that demand. Unfortunately, the war in Ukraine is still unfolding, and we continue to be part of the vigorous global response to that conflict. As stewards of key elements of the world's digital infrastructure, we're committed to doing our part in maintaining that infrastructure to support free and open communications and aid in humanitarian relief. While we do not have operations in Russia or Ukraine, our employees have shown incredible generosity supporting Ukrainian refugees, particularly our team in Poland. Looking more broadly at our responsibilities as a market leader. We continue to advance a bold future-first sustainability agenda that reflects our company's values across our environmental, social, and governance initiatives. We recently published our 2021 corporate sustainability highlights, and I'm pleased to report continued progress, including a 3.6% increase in representation of women at leadership levels and a 20% increase in the number of employees leveraging our well-being and our mental health benefits. We also continue to develop pathways and partnerships to enhance our diversity and create opportunities for historically underrepresented groups both inside and outside of Equinix. As we work to address the urgency of climate change, I'm also proud that Equinix is well on our way to meeting our science-based target commitments. In 2021, we achieved over 90% renewable energy coverage for our portfolio for the fourth consecutive year while also improving the energy efficiency of our facilities by over 5% as measured by average annual power usage effectiveness, or PUE. A focus on sustainability continues to be top of mind for customers and partners as they look to buy from and work with companies that have established ESG goals and commitments. As the world's digital infrastructure leader, we have a responsibility to harness the power of technology to create a more accessible, equitable, and sustainable future, and we will continue to focus on the important issues that impact our stakeholders and our business. Now turning to the results as depicted on Slide 3. Revenues for Q1 were $1.7 billion, up 10% over the same quarter last year. Adjusted EBITDA was up 5% year over year, and AFFO was better than our expectations, again due to strong operating performance. These growth rates are all on a normalized and constant-currency basis. Our data center services portfolio continues to extend our differentiated scale and reach with 43 projects underway across 29 metros in 20 countries, including new projects in Atlanta, Mumbai, Sydney, Tokyo, and Washington, D.C. as customers embrace our interconnected edge as a point of nexus for their hybrid and multicloud architectures and leverage our scaled digital ecosystems to enable and drive their digital agenda. According to IDC, by 2024, 65% of the Global 2000 will embed some sort of edge-first data stewardship, security, and network practices into their organization's digital business processes, and we're already seeing the impact with an amazing 89% of recurring revenues now coming from customers deployed in more than one metro. In April, we closed our acquisition of MainOne, extending platform Equinix into Nigeria, Ghana, and Ivory Coast, bringing our global coverage to 69 metros across 30 countries. Nigeria, in particular, is emerging as an innovative and dynamic player in the global digital economy, representing a significant opportunity for the expansion of digital services and a key first step in our long-term strategy to extend our carrier-neutral digital infrastructure platform across Africa. In the quarter, we also announced our upcoming expansion into Chile through the planned acquisition of multiple data centers from Entel, a leading Chilean telecommunications provider. Chile is the fourth largest economy in South America with the highest GDP per capita in the region. And Santiago is emerging as a technology hub, serving both regional cloud and content demand, as well as local enterprises. This transaction is expected to close in Q2 and will further solidify Equinix as the leading provider of digital infrastructure in Latin America. Turning to interconnection. Our industry-leading portfolio continues to outpace the broader business, growing 12% year over year on a normalized and constant-currency basis, driven by a healthy uptick in connections across our top ecosystem. We added an incremental 8,900 total interconnections in the quarter and now have over 428,000 total interconnections on the platform. Internet exchange saw peak traffic up 7% quarter over quarter and 25% year over year to greater than 24 terabits per second. And we continue to see expanding customer demand and accelerated growth across our digital services portfolio. Equinix Fabric saw its highest-ever virtual connection ads as customers employ an increasingly diverse set of end destinations and utilize Fabric for a variety of use cases across cloud networking and backbone connectivity. Equinix Metal and Network Edge also had strong quarters as enterprises leverage these services for a variety of virtual deployments, increasing agility and helping them to mitigate supply chain challenges. Metal has the most net customer adds to its service since its launch, with several key enterprise wins and a healthy backlog as our go-to-market partnerships with Dell, Pure Storage, and Mirantis all gained momentum. Shifting to our xScale initiative. In March, we closed our Australian JV with PGIM, which is expected to provide more than 55 megawatts of capacity in the Sydney market when closed and fully built out. And in April, we closed our South Korea JV with GIC, which is expected to provide more than 45 megawatts to the rapidly growing Seoul market. We currently have nine xScale builds under development with over 80 megawatts of incremental capacity, of which nearly two-thirds are already pre-leased. So now I'll cover some highlights from our verticals. Our network vertical had a great quarter with good momentum across all three regions and record channel activity with our key carrier partners. New wins and expansions included one of the largest ISPs in India, establishing network hubs in our Mumbai 1 and 2 IBS, a high-speed satellite broadband service for military and commercial markets, supporting its expansion into Australia; and Global Net, a specialty network expanding its footprint and upgrading connectivity to support its growing user. And enterprise continues to be our fastest-growing vertical, with a strong bookings quarter led by EMEA in the manufacturing and public sector subsegments. New wins and expansions included Technical, the creative services, and technology company within the media and entertainment industry, establishing regional technology hubs utilizing the full suite of Equinix's digital infrastructure services. The Global 40 bank choosing Equinix as their strategic partner, thanks to our robust digital offerings, connectivity to key financial institutions, and our sustainability strategy. And Party City, a global leader in the celebrations industry using Network Edge to enable cloud connectivity and allow private interconnection between sites as they continue with their digital transformation. We were also proud to work with a global money center bank who leveraged our advanced ecosystems to enable a critical connection to the National Bank of Ukraine, where the UNICEF could distribute funds to those that need it most as part of their humanitarian efforts. Our cloud and IT services vertical had solid bookings in the quarter, led by the infrastructure subset, while adding new cloud on-ramps in Dubai, Rio de Janeiro, and Stockholm. New wins and expansions included digital edge, a rapidly scaling global cloud hosting provider, who is expanding its infrastructure footprint across multiple regions as they add customers and products. And a leading SaaS company, leveraging Equinix for its distributed data and cloud strategy and expanding service portfolio. The broadcast and streaming subsegments anchored a solid quarter of content and digital media, including expansions of the Fortune 75 media conglomerates, expanding across platform Equinix to support streaming services and content production. A multinational consumer credit reporting company, enabling direct connectivity via Equinix to their financial services customers. And lastly, a global CDM expanding capacity and deploying network nodes in support of their edge compute strategy. And finally, our channel program again delivered its fourth consecutive quarter of record bookings, accounting for roughly 40% of bookings and 60% of new logos. Reseller and alliance partners accounted for over 75% of channel bookings as our partners continue to demonstrate tremendous leadership in helping customers quickly adopt new digital business models. Wins were across a wide range of industry verticals and digital first use cases with hybrid multicloud featuring prominently as the architecture of choice. We saw continued strength with strategic partners like AWS, Microsoft, Dell, and Telstra, including a significant win in France with AT&T, helping a security services company consolidate data centers and interconnect to their choice of cloud providers. We'd also like to recognize AT&T business as our partner of the year for 2021. Proud to have worked together to drive digital first outcomes on complex and transformational projects, including the Equinix and AT&T connected cloud initiatives, benefiting hundreds of customers across multiple industries. Now let me turn the call over to Keith and cover the results for the quarter.Keith Taylor -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Charles, and good afternoon to everyone. I do hope you're doing well. At Equinix, the team delivered another great quarter. We did better than anticipated. We experienced robust growth in the Americas and solid channel bookings, further expanding the universe of opportunity for our highly differentiated business, and enjoyed meaningful inter and intra-region activity, a reflection of we're selling well across our ever-expanding footprint. Interconnection activity remains high both in the physical and the virtual level. Interconnection revenues represent 19% of our recurring revenues and are growing faster than the overall business. Our platform strategy continues to deliver outside its value, further separating us from others in our space. We had strong growth from our digital services products and continued momentum in the most recent acquisitions in Canada, India, and Mexico. And our pipeline remains solid despite our record bookings. With a great start to 2022, we're raising our guidance across each of our core financial metrics. As we've said previously, we believe the diversity and scale of our business across sectors, markets, and customers puts us in a highly favorable position to capitalize on all trends digital, as well as manage the macro factors and volatility. We have no meaningful near-term exposure to rising interest rates. Our balance sheet strength continues to provide us with a strategic advantage while allowing us to access the capital markets at times that are attractive to us. With regards to supply chain and inflation, we continue to deliver projects against our return expectations with limited delays given our ability to access and secure critical infrastructure components. And while the energy markets remain volatile, our hedging policies are helping us navigate this unusual period. These factors, when combined with the momentum we're seeing in our marketplace, enable us to remain steadfast in our commitment to deliver top-line growth, strong and durable AFFO per share growth to our shareholders as well. Now let me cover the highlights for the quarter. Note that all growth rates in this section are on a normalized and constant-currency basis. As depicted on Slide 4, global Q1 revenues were $1.734 billion, up 10% over the same quarter last year and at the midpoint of our guidance due to better-than-expected MRR revenues, offset in part by the delayed timing of certain nonrecurring ex-scale fees. As we look forward, we expect a strong Q2 step-up in both recurring and nonrecurring revenues. As we've noted before, nonrecurring revenues attributed to customer installation work and SQL fee income are inherently lumpy and can move between quarters. Q1 revenues, net of our FX hedges, included a $2 million headwind when compared to our prior guidance rates. Total Q1 adjusted EBITDA was $800 million or 46% of revenues, up 5% over the same quarter last year at the high end of our guidance range due to strong operating performance and timing of spend, although it was impacted by the lower fees. Q1 adjusted EBITDA, net of our FX hedges, included a $1 million FX headwind when compared to our prior guidance rates and also includes $5 million of integration costs. Total Q1 AFFO was $653 million, above our expectations due to strong operating performance. Q1 global MRR churn was 1.8%, the lowest level of churn in recent history and a reflection of our disciplined strategy of selling the platform to the right customer with the right application into the right asset. For 2022, we now expect MRR churn to average at the lower end of our 2% to 2.5% per quarter range. Turning to our regional highlights, whose full results are covered on Slides 5 through 7. APAC was the fastest-growing region on a year-over-year normalized basis at 13%, followed by the Americas and EMEA regions at 10% and 9%, respectively. The Americas region had another great quarter with strong broad-based bookings led by our Chicago, Dallas, New York, and Washington, D.C. markets. Enterprises represented over half the region's bookings that we now -- and we saw record channel activity as businesses continue to leverage Platform Equinix to maximize their digital infrastructures flexibility and agility in the hybrid multi-cloud world. The region also saw a robust interconnection activity, adding 4,000 total interconnections and significant Internet exchange capacity led by our Sao Paulo market. Our EMEA region delivered its highest net bookings performance in three years with strong pricing and a healthy mix of retail activity with solid exports led by our Dubai, Istanbul, London, and Milan markets. In EMEA, sustainability is an ever-increasing focus for our customers and communities, and our local leadership team continues to work to position Equinix as the industry thought leader at both the local and regional levels. And finally, the Asia Pacific region had a solid quarter led by Australia, Japan, and Singapore businesses, with traction increasing across the region for our digital services. India had another great quarter, and we're investing behind our momentum in the market with our newly announced Mumbai 3 IBX project, as well as purchasing land for development in Chennai. And now looking at our capital structure, please refer to Slide 8. We ended the quarter with approximately $1.7 billion of cash, an increase over the prior quarter, largely due to strong operating cash flow, offset by growth capex and our cash dividend. Shortly after the quarter end, we completed our fourth green bond offering raising $1.2 billion to further our commitment to sustainability leadership. With this latest financing, Equinix has issued approximately $4.9 billion of green bonds, making our company the fourth largest global issuer in the investment-grade green bond market. In early April, we are also pleased to have Moody's upgrade Equinix to Baa2 in line with S&P and Fitch while expanding our leverage targets. We're very appreciative of the support we see from Moody's. And importantly, we're delighted with the increased financial flexibility we now have across all three rating agencies. Looking forward, as stated previously, we'll continue to take a balanced approach to funding our growth opportunities with both debt and equity, while creating long-term value for our shareholders. Turning to Slide 9. For the quarter, capital expenditures were approximately $413 million, including seasonally lower recurring capex of $24 million. Also in the quarter, we opened three new retail projects in two markets, Muscat and Singapore, have purchased land for development in Mexico City. Revenues from own assets increased to 60% of our total revenues. Our capital investments delivered strong returns, as shown on Slide 10. Our now 164 stabilized assets increased recurring revenues by 6% year over year on a constant-currency basis. Consistent with prior years, in Q1, we completed our annual refresh of IBX categorization. Our stabilized asset count increased by net six IBXs. These stabilized assets are collectively 87% utilized and generate a 27% cash-on-cash return on the gross PP&E invested. And please refer to Slides 11 through 15 for our updated summary of 2022 guidance and bridges. Do note our 2022 guidance includes the anticipated financial results from the MainOne acquisition, but does not include any results related to the pending Entel acquisition, which is expected to close in Q2. Starting with revenues for the full year 2022. We're very pleased with the momentum we're seeing in the organic business and excited to report that we now expect our revenues to increase on a normalized and constant-currency basis by 10% over the prior year. Relative to our prior guidance, we're increasing our revenues by approximately $90 million, which includes our improved operating performance and $50 million of revenues from MainOne. We expect 2022 adjusted EBITDA margins of approximately 46%, excluding integration costs, an increase of about $40 million compared to our prior guidance, which includes $20 million from MainOne. And we now expect to incur $25 million of integration costs in 2022. And given the operating momentum in the business, we're raising our underlying 2022 AFFO by $22 million to now grow between 8% and 10% on a normalized and constant-currency basis compared to the previous year, offset by the increased debt financing costs from the MainOne and Entel acquisitions. Note the MainOne is expected to be immediately accretive, and we expect the Entel acquisition to be accretive when closed. 2022 AFFO per share is expected to grow between 7% and 8% on a normalized and constant-currency basis. 2022 capex is now expected to range between $2.3 billion and $2.5 billion, including approximately $170 million of recurring capex spend and about $60 million of on-balance sheet xScale spend. So let me stop here. I'll turn the call back to Charles.Charles Meyers -- Chief Executive Officer and President Thanks, Keith. In closing, we had a tremendous start to the year. The demand backdrop for the business remains robust as enterprises across the globe continue to aggressively prioritize digital transformation and service providers expand their infrastructure globally in response to this demand. Data is being created, moved, manipulated, and stored at unprecedented levels. And the need to distribute infrastructure and position it in proximity to the broader digital ecosystem is fueling outsized demand for the distinctive value proposition and platform equities. Growth continues to outpace our Analyst Day expectations, thanks to strength across multiple simultaneous growth vectors for the business, expanding geographic reach, accelerating adoption of digital services, low churn, positive pricing trends, and strong channel execution. We continue to leverage our market-leading scale and expansive balance sheet to deliver new capacity, even in an increasingly challenging macro environment. And our bold future-first sustainability agenda guides and rallies our team as we collectively pursue our shared purpose to be the platform where the world comes together to create the innovations that enrich our work, our life, and our planet. We are delighted with the ongoing performance of the business, optimistic about the road ahead, and remain keenly focused on delivering distinctive and durable value to our customers and to you, our shareholders. So let me stop there and open it up for questions. 