
OperatorGood day, and welcome to the Qorvo, Inc. Q2 2022 Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded.At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Douglas DeLieto, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Douglas DeLieto -- Vice President of Investor Relations

 



Thanks very much, Todd. Hello, everybody, and welcome to Qorvo's fiscal 2022 second quarter earnings conference call. This call will include forward-looking statements that involve risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from management's current expectations. We encourage you to review the Safe Harbor statement contained in the earnings release published today as well as the risk factors associated with our business in our annual report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission because these risk factors may affect our operations and financial results. In today's release and on today's call, we provide both GAAP and non-GAAP financial results. We provide this supplemental information to enable investors to perform additional comparisons of operating results and to analyze financial performance without the impact of certain non-cash expenses or other items that may obscure trends in our underlying performance.During our call, our comments and comparisons to income statement items will be based primarily on non-GAAP results. For a complete reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures, please refer to our earnings release issued earlier today available on our website at qorvo.com under Investors. Joining us today are Bob Bruggeworth, President and CEO; Mark Murphy, Chief Financial Officer; Eric Creviston, President of Qorvo's Mobile Products Group; Philip Chesley, incoming President of Qorvo's Infrastructure and Defense Products Group; and James Klein, outgoing President of Qorvo's Infrastructure and Defense Products Group; as well as other members of Qorvo's management team.And with that, I'll turn the call over to Bob.Robert Bruggeworth -- Chief Executive Officer

 



Thank you, Doug, and welcome, everyone, to our call. The Qorvo team delivered an exceptional September quarter with revenue and EPS at all-time highs. Strength during the quarter was broad-based, across customers and supported by new product launches. In Mobile Products, the multiyear migration of 5G continues to drive RF content and integration trends. What began in top-tier flagship phones is now playing out in the mass market, where the RF content increase is greater on a percent basis than in flagship devices. Qorvo enjoys broad exposure to mass market designs at customers like Honor, OPPO, Pixel, Samsung, Vivo and Xiaomi as a preferred supplier with leading products and a robust technology road map, Qorvo is well-positioned as 5G devices and Android ecosystem contribute increasingly to the growth in the RF TAM.In other connectivity markets, ultra wideband adoption in smartphones is serving as the infrastructure for a growing ecosystem of ultrawideband-enabled devices. The opportunity set spans mobile, automotive and IoT markets, creating a strong foundation for growth over the coming years. In WiFi, the adoption of WiFi 6E and the performance limitations of smaller node CMOS-integrated PAs are driving the migration to chip onboard FEMs and iFEMs like ours. In WiFi and other markets, Qorvo's products and technologies are at the forefront of multiyear upgrade cycles, enabling new ecosystems and use cases and transforming the user experience. Now let's look at some of the quarterly highlights in our end markets, starting with mobile. For Guru [Phonetic], we commenced shipments of mid-high and ultrahigh band PADs, antenna tuners and multiple connectivity solutions to support the ramp of their recently announced Pixel 6 for an upcoming Korea-based 5G mass market smartphone platform, we received the first production orders for our mid-high and ultrahigh band PADs, WiFi FEMs and multiple high-performance discrete solutions. In mobile WiFi, we secured a WiFi 6 FEM design wins with multiple top-tier smartphone OEMs and began sampling WiFi 7 FEMs enabling higher data rates and improved performance. In Ultra-Wideband, Qorvo is advancing technologies for a diverse ecosystem of proximity aware connected devices.We secured an ultra wideband design win to enable real-time device tracking and other location-aware applications in home mesh networks, and we were selected to supply ultrawideband solutions for enterprise access points as well. We also expanded our engagement with a leading provider of consumer IoT products across a broad set of connected home devices, including smart speakers, point control fans and air conditioners. In automotive manufacturing, Qorvo was selected to supply ultrawideband and Zigbee solutions with ConcurrentConnect technology to an automaker in Korea, streamlining automation and manufacturing. In other connectivity markets, we began sampling a WiFi 6 iFEM covering 5.2 gigahertz and 5.6 gigahertz and featuring an integrated BAW filter. Qorvo's 5 gigahertz iFEMs enable higher capacity and improved efficiency and reduced form factor. In broadband, we begin sampling a triple output DOCSIS 3.1 amplifier module supporting network upgrades for major cable operators in the US and in Europe.In infrastructure, design win activity was strong across OEMs, including small cells and base stations. Wins included all of the RF transmit and receive path content, including BAW filters for 5G small cells at a major base station OEM. We see infrastructure markets picking up in 2022 with Qorvo SAM growing year-over-year. The SAM for Qorvo outside of China will post significant growth next year and support a strong double-digit CAGR through 2025. In Aerospace and Defense, we expanded our product portfolio with an industry-leading 125-watt S-band power amplifier module and a 1.8-kilowatt L-band radar pallet for commercial and defense radar applications. In RF-based biotechnology testing, we received our first commercial orders and commenced shipments of our Omnia antigen test platform.

 



During the quarter, the NIH RADx Variant Task Force conducted an external study that demonstrated the performance of our Omnia antigen test platform in effectively detecting COVID variants, including the Delta variant. Although this is a new market for us, we believe we bring a novel technology that offers unique and real value as the world moves to more testing protocols, including for flu AB and other seasonal pathogens. Our platform offers a unique combination of accuracy and speed at the point of care with improved process flow, including real-time wireless delivery of results. We have seen its benefits in our own operations as part of our protocol for our own internal testing. After the quarter closed, Qorvo acquired United Silicon Carbide, an innovator in silicon carbide power devices and a pioneer in silicon carbide JFETs. The combination will further differentiate Qorvo's power portfolio, enabling more highly integrated power device solutions and expand our addressable market to include higher voltage applications that demand maximum power efficiency such as electric vehicles, charging stations and renewable energy systems. We welcome Chris Sri [Phonetic] and his team and look forward to helping them accelerate the growth in their business.For Qorvo, our ability to deliver more power, more efficiently and using less current helped put us at the center of the digital transformation. We are eager to expand these competencies as global markets move to electrification and renewable energy. Qorvo's technology portfolio is best in class. Our product position is strong. Our end market exposure is expanding and we are operating very well. Yes, we are seeing constraints, and we are working closely with our customers and our partners. Mark will have more comments about the operating environment, and we look forward to discussions during your question and answers. Big picture, we see the industry working through this as it always has. For Qorvo, we see a business with unique competencies and expanding set of growth drivers, and we expect a continuation of double-digit growth over several years. Before handing the call over to Mark, I'm pleased to welcome Philip Chesley, as President of Qorvo's Infrastructure and Defense Products Group. Philip has a proven track record, growing global semiconductor businesses with experience in RF, power, data communications, automotive, industrial, aerospace and defense. We are very pleased Philip has joined Qorvo to lead our IDP team. I also want to thank James Klein. Since the formation of Qorvo, James and the team have more than doubled IDP revenue, while creating a recognized industry leader. We thank James for his many contributions to Qorvo and wish him the very best. James will remain with us through November to help ensure a smooth transition with the change in the IDP leadership.And with that, I'll hand the call over to Mark.Mark Murphy -- Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Bob, and good afternoon, everyone. In the September quarter, Qorvo delivered the strongest quarterly revenue and earnings in the company's history. Qorvo's revenue for the fiscal year 2022 second quarter was $1.255 billion, $5 million above the midpoint of our guidance and $195 million or 18% higher than last year's September quarter. When comparing September quarter numbers, recall that our fiscal year 2021 was a 53-week fiscal year, and the September quarter last year was a 14-week quarter versus this fiscal year's more typical 13-week quarter. Mobile Products revenue of $996 million was up 32% year-over-year on the continued growth of higher content 5G smartphones. Infrastructure and Defense Products revenue of $260 million was slightly below expectations due to reduced supply from outsourced assembly and test operations in Malaysia and elsewhere. As expected, IDP was down year-over-year due primarily to last year's strong infrastructure build-out and the 14-week quarter.We expect IDP to return to year-over-year growth in the December quarter and growth to accelerate in the March quarter. Non-GAAP gross margin in the September quarter was 52.4%, above the midpoint of our guidance despite supply chain disruptions that worsened through the quarter. Non-GAAP operating expenses in the second quarter were less than expected at $222 million or 17.7% of sales. The sequential and year-over-year increases in opex were driven by technology and product development expenses associated with key growth programs and recent acquisitions Non-GAAP operating income in the September quarter was $435 million and 34.7% of sales. This was the fourth consecutive quarter of operating margin over 33%. Non-GAAP net income in the second quarter was $385 million, and diluted earnings per share of $3.42 was $0.18 above the midpoint of our guidance.Cash flow from operations in the second quarter was $245 million. Our working capital includes an increase in payables associated with a long-term silicon supply agreement. The largest of these pads is a deposit, which we expect to recoup by the end of the agreement in calendar 2025. This agreement is structured -- this agreement is a structured way to advance our differentiated technology position and simplify our long-term planning. Furthermore, it's only one of a number of examples whereby Qorvo is building longer-term and more collaborative partnerships to provide our customers supply assurance and meet their product and technology needs. Concurrently, our customer relationships are broadening and strengthening allowing us to invest with more certainty. As we have indicated previously, the challenges the industry is currently experiencing are driving more constructive and longer-term relationships that we see enhancing the overall durability and value of the business.Capital expenditures in the September quarter were $47 million, lower than expected on spend timing and an earlier-than-expected reimbursement for a portion of our government-funded work on advanced packaging. Free cash flow was $198 million, and we repurchased $223 million of shares. Over the last two quarters, we've purchased $523 million of shares, which was 110% of our free cash flow. We continue to repurchase shares as our outlook is positive. Our free cash flow and ability to sustain investment in technology and growth is strong and our leverage remains low. On the balance sheet, cash and debt remained largely unchanged from the prior quarter at $1.2 billion and $1.7 billion, respectively. In the December quarter, our cash is projected to decline following payments associated with the previously mentioned agreement and with our acquisition of United Silicon Carbide. Now turning to our current quarter outlook. We expect revenue between $1.090 million and $1.120 million, non-GAAP gross margin between 52% and 52.5%, non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $2.75 at the midpoint of our guidance.Our December quarter revenue outlook reflects broadbased challenges in supply impacting mobile and IDP and near-term weakness in demand, principally in Asia. Starting with supply, we have several areas of constraint. Our external supply chain is still recovering from disruptions in September, including shutdowns in Southeast Asia. Beyond that, select materials, products and production capacity remain tight. These are industrywide issues affecting all suppliers, and our customers are challenged in producing matched sets for products. For example, in smartphones even where channel inventory for certain parts is healthy, customers lack silicon chips to produce phones. This, in turn, creates tech changes in demand that add to constraints on our own production as we work to adjust mix. Mix changes are part of our business, but in a normal environment, Qorvo can move swiftly to respond and capture demand. These supply driven gaps are making recent demand softness in select areas such as our Asia smartphone customers harder to quantify.We see the industry working through this situation with some supply effects beginning to moderate this quarter and supply/demand alignment improving more broadly through the March quarter. Given these supply and demand effects, we now see 5G smartphone volumes coming in below $550 million in calendar 2021. Qorvo's December forecasted revenue of $1.105 billion at the midpoint is down 12% sequentially and up slightly year-over-year. We forecast mobile revenue in the current quarter to be approximately $830 million at the midpoint, down 17% sequentially and flat year-over-year. In the March quarter, we expect mobile to be up slightly sequentially as the typical seasonal decline is offset by improved supply and demand. In IDP, we project revenue to increase in the December quarter to $275 million and the segment to return to year-over-year growth. We expect IEP to be over $300 million in the March quarter.Our December quarter gross margin guide of 52.25% at the midpoint is up versus the view we provided last quarter despite a more challenging supply demand environment than expected. We see our technology and product mix and operating and capital efficiency yielding a gross margin above 52% for the fiscal year. We expect the March quarter to be around 52%. We project non-GAAP operating expenses to increase slightly in the December quarter to approximately $224 million reflecting higher investments in core technologies and expanding capabilities in new businesses, including the addition of the United Silicon Carbide team. We now project our current quarter and full year non-GAAP tax rate to be between 8.5% and 9%. Capital expenditures are projected to exceed $70 million in the December quarter as we work to intersect demand and support long-term supply agreements with multiple customers. Currently, we are supply constrained and project to remain so through our fiscal year end.We continue to expand BAW and gaps capacity as well as biosensor production capacity to support our growth projections for fiscal 2023. In summary, we expect year-over-year revenue growth in the December quarter, though less than we had expected previously. The current supply challenges and near-term demand weaknesses -- weakness are acute but more temporary than durable. We expect supply effects to moderate starting this quarter and improved supply demand alignment early next calendar year. For full fiscal year 2022, we expect revenue growth over 15%, gross margin over 52 -- excuse me, we expect revenue growth over 15% and gross margin over 52% and operating margin of approximately 33%. Looking beyond this fiscal year, we expect double-digit growth to continue as Qorvo's premium technology, product portfolio and operating capability support 5G, WiFi, IoT, defense, power and other growth markets. Overall, we are investing to grow mobile and IPE at or above market.Looking at our business by end markets instead of operating segments helps highlight the strength of our portfolio and market position. On advanced cellular RF front ends for smartphones, Qorvo's technology and product breadth is world class. We expect this part of Qorvo's business near $3.3 billion this fiscal year to deliver high single-digit to low double-digit growth as increasing RF complexity and integration trends support years of content expansion. Next, looking at other connectivity beyond cellular solutions for smartphones, Qorvo enjoys exposure across multiple wireless protocols and serves industrial automation, connected home, automotive and other high-growth IoT markets. This fiscal year, connectivity solutions spread across our mobile and IDP segments combined to approximately $700 million and can grow in the strong double digits. Finally, defense, infrastructure and power solutions support multiple long-term secular growth drivers. These include the multiyear build-out of 5G infrastructure, increasing semiconductor spend in defense and worldwide demand for power semis driven by mega trends like electrification. We expect to sustain long-term double-digit growth in this business from a base of over $600 million this fiscal year.Our December quarter is off what we expected previously but still guided up year-over-year as is our view of the March quarter. We expect the business to strengthen through the second half of our fiscal year and contribute to a record full year performance, including earnings growth over 20%. Longer term, the outlook is bright. Qorvo is exceptionally well-positioned to deliver earnings and free cash flow growth, serving the large and growing need for more efficient power and greater connectivity.Now Todd, would please open the line for questions?