
OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by for Cigna's Second Quarter 2021 Results Review. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, ladies and gentlemen, this conference, including the question-and-answer session, is being recorded. We'll begin by turning the conference over to Ms. Alexis Jones. Please go ahead, Ms. Jones.Alexis Jones -- Lead Principal, Investor RelationsGood morning, everyone, and thank you for joining today's call. I'm Alexis Jones, Lead Principal for Investor Relations. With me on the line this morning are: David Cordani, our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Brian Evanko, Cigna's Chief Financial Officer. In our remarks today, David and Brian will cover a number of topics, including Cigna's second quarter 2021 financial results, as well as an update on our financial outlook for 2021.

 



As noted in our earnings release, when describing our financial results, Cigna uses certain financial measures, adjusted income from operations and adjusted revenues, which are not determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, otherwise known as GAAP. A reconciliation of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures, shareholders net income and total revenues, respectively, is contained in today's earnings release, which is posted in the Investor Relations section of cigna.com. We use the term labeled adjusted income from operations and adjusted earnings per share on the same basis as our principal measures of financial performance.In our remarks today, we'll be making some forward-looking statements, including statements regarding our outlook for 2021 and future performance. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations. A description of these risks and uncertainties is contained in the cautionary note to today's earnings release and in our most recent reports filed with the SEC.Before turning the call over to David, I will cover a few items pertaining to our financial results and disclosures. Regarding our results. In the second quarter, we recorded an after-tax special item charge of $9 million or $0.03 per share related to debt extinguishment costs incurred during the period. We also recorded an after-tax special item charge of $14 million or $0.04 per share for integration and transaction-related costs.As described in today's earnings release, special items are excluded from adjusted income from operations and adjusted revenues in our discussion of financial results. Additionally, please note that when we make prospective comments regarding financial performance, including our full year 2021 outlook, we will do so on a basis that includes the potential impact of future share repurchases and anticipated 2021 dividends, and excludes the impact of any business combinations or divestitures that may occur after today.

 



With that, I will turn the call over to David.David Cordani -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Alexis, and thank you to everyone for joining us on today's call. I am going to spend a few minutes talking about the current environment and the forces that are shaping it, the strength and durable nature of our model that enables us to capitalize on opportunities and continue to grow even in the most disruptive conditions, and how the strength and durability is fueling our short- and long-term success. Then Brian will share more details about our second quarter results as well as our outlook for the rest of the year. And we'll take your questions. So let's jump in.During the quarter, we delivered adjusted revenue of $43 billion and adjusted EPS of $5.24 per share, all while we continue to drive balanced capital deployment as we execute on M&A, share repurchase and our quarterly dividend plan. We achieved these results in a fluid and challenging environment.

 



As we continue to execute our strategy, we are confident in our ability to navigate these dynamic conditions. Our portfolio with three growth platforms enables us to create value for our clients and customers, and drive sustained business growth.During the quarter, the strength of our Evernorth business was clearly a standout. We are seeing high demand for Health Services programs, and we continue to invest in broadening our service offerings as well as our reach. Our sustained success validates our ability to be a trusted partner of choice for customers and clients as they manage many of the most challenging aspects of healthcare today. We do this by leveraging our portfolio that includes pharmacy solutions, benefit management solutions, care solutions and intelligence solutions.Evernorth is helping to improve access to care, keep costs down and deliver better outcomes as we serve our clients, patients and customers. And another quarter of Evernorth's strong revenue and earnings growth reinforces that our customers and clients value these capabilities.In Cigna Medical, we did see elevated medical cost pressure in the quarter as costs associated with direct COVID-19 care and the broader ramp-up of utilization levels exceeded our projections. Within this challenging environment, we continue to take proactive steps to ensure our customers have access to the care they need. This includes the elevated mental health services needed during these unprecedented times as well as continuing to work with our customers and patients to help navigate them to optimal site of care.During the quarter, we achieved customer growth in Cigna Medical in both our U.S. Commercial and Government business, and we continue to be on track for medical customer growth of at least 350,000 customers in 2021.Brian will share additional perspective on our results and outlook in his comments.Overall, our performance, which is strong through the first half of the year, reflects the resiliency of our business and the balanced profile within our organization. With our focus on driving performance during the remainder of the year, it's imperative that we understand and account for the challenges our customers and clients will face as well as the continued evolution of the healthcare landscape. At a macro level, the environment is marked by ongoing uncertainty for business, governments, communities around the world.For example, COVID vaccination levels have brought welcome relief to millions, yet only about half of the U.S. is fully vaccinated, and that percentage is much lower for the world's population. With the spread of the more contagious Delta variant, COVID infections and hospitalizations are on the rise in some regions, bringing renewed attention to travel restrictions and mask mandates.We see the economic recovery, while positive, has been uneven and varied among industries as companies continue to cope with supply chain disruption, emerging inflationary pressure and various issues impacting the workforce. More broadly, from a health perspective, federal and state policymakers continue to be actively engaged.And as we've previously discussed, we continue to see three primary forces of change shaping the healthcare landscape today and into future. Specifically, pharmacological innovation, including specialty pharmaceuticals, gene therapies, evolved oncology medications, vaccines and acceleration in biosimilars. Second, the recognition of the link between mental health and physical health continues to grow, especially accelerated in this COVID environment. And third, the rise of virtual care and other alternative access to care models are rapidly changing. Together, these macro dynamics are profoundly influencing buying behaviors and service innovation in healthcare.Now with respect to clients, we are seeing a renewed commitment of employer clients to providing healthcare benefits vital to helping them to both attract and retain talent as well as increase productivity by maintaining a healthy workforce. This includes, for example, adopting alternative side of care programs and access programs. We see an intensified need for affordability across all of our clients, including pharmacy services as demand surges for high-priced breakthrough drug therapies.We see a desire for more consultative solution-based services as many clients are confronting the convergence of social, physical and mental health issues in ways they have not experienced before.With respect to the individual customers and patients utilizing our service, we see that they are increasingly valuing their employee-based service models. They're benefiting from support services that help them tend to their emotional well-being, and they have growing demand for coordination of care, both in COVID and non-COVID events.Against this backdrop, we are delivering differentiated value for the benefit of our customers and clients with our capabilities that address their emerging and evolving needs. For example, we have had a strong focus on providing virtual services, broadening networks as well as coordinated clinical programs.In our Pharmacy Solutions, we've been answering the call for greater affordability as we continue to see the emergence of new and expensive pharmacological advancements. Evernorth's recent expansion of our industry-first comprehensive weight management program illustrates the benefit of a more coordinated approach.Patients can now receive treatment with Wegovy, a promising new therapy for obesity and other weight management medications. And now with MDLIVE fully operational within our Evernorth business, MDLIVE physicians, along with other Evernorth clinicians are available to help patients. This program expansion also includes personalized support services from health coaches, peer support groups and curated digital apps. This weight management effort is the latest addition to our Evernorth suite of SafeguardRx programs. As for impact in 2020, patients enrolled in SafeguardRx have saved more than $6 billion in aggregate.In Evernorth Care Solutions, we've experienced an increase in demand for our behavioral health solutions from customers and clients as well. In the past 1.5 years, it has brought heightened stress and other personal challenges, and we see many more people reaching up for health and services. Clients now more broadly understand that someone with a chronic condition is more likely to have a mental health or substance abuse related illness, and individuals are feeling the additional mental and physical challenges associated with pandemic.With our market-leading health capabilities, we are driving more value to our Evernorth and Cigna Medical clients and customers by providing the tools and services they need to address their mental well-being and deliver better sustained long-term outcomes.Within our Cigna Medical platform, in U.S. commercial, we are working closely with our employer clients to provide our integrated suite of solutions designed to make their workforce healthier and more productive. We know that employees receiving health and well-being benefits to their employers are less likely to miss work because of health. A recent study shows a significant impact up to 70-fewer percent, they've missed over a year.With our integrated approach, we strive to bring the right mix of solutions that reduce the workforce challenges many of our clients are facing and helping to support them to engage and retain their employees. And affordability is and remains a primary focus across our entire portfolio as it is in Cigna Medical.Our clients continue to manage through an incredibly dynamic environment for the business and is becoming even more important that they can count on us with greater affordability for the healthcare programs.New and expensive pharmacological advancements are a predominant contributor to this challenge. And we have been a leader here putting these treatments in the hands of those who need them at a more affordable price. For example, Remicade treatment for chronic conditions such as Crohn's disease and rheumatoid arthritis, while life changing, can also impose significant financial burdens. One year of Remicade infusion costs about $30,000 on average and as much as $70,000 depending on setting of care.We recently launched a Cigna pharmacy program that shares prescription drug savings directly with patients who switch from Remicade to one of the approved biosimilars. More than 20% of eligible patients in consultation with their provider have already switched to lower-cost preferred alternative medications. This program has an immediate benefit to clients who save at least 10% on the cost of the drug and we've taken a leadership position here by supporting our patients with a $500 incentive. This is a great example of aligning interest.Over the longer term, we can drive even greater impact as biosimilars become a more prevalent part in the United States as helping us further improve affordability. And in Cigna Medical, we're actively working toward improving affordability by ensuring that our customers continue to have access to the care they need and optimize their long-term health. For example, in Arizona, we conducted a highly targeted outreach program to our customers who are at high risk due to chronic condition, yet who have not been vaccinated. The initial results are encouraging, and we're seeing positive increase in vaccination rates among these targeted individuals. We are now taking the learnings from that pilot into other locations across the United States with a particular focus on increasing vaccination rates among those in most need.This broad range of examples illustrates how our comprehensive and strategic approach to helping our clients and customers address their most pressing health needs help us going forward. And in this dynamic environment, we will continue to expand the services we offer our clients and customers. And therefore, we see many more opportunities to create value for both our clients and customers and as a result, for you, our shareholders.It is clear that the strength of our medical and pharmacy offerings, combined with our strategic agility has enabled us to continue to capture growth even in the most dynamic environment by delivering differentiated value, by partnering and relentlessly innovating and by expanding our addressable markets as we broaden our reach to new geographies and through the introduction of a broader suite of solutions.When you combine this compelling growth potential, along with our significant operating cash flow generated by our service-based capital-light model, we have confidence in our ability to meet our long-term targets by achieving differentiated results, which include: average annual revenue growth of 6% to 8%, average annual EPS growth of 10% to 13%, and continuing to pay an attractive dividend, all while producing cumulative operating cash flow of approximately $50 billion through 2025. Relative to 2021, we remain committed to delivering full year EPS of at least $20.20.Now to briefly summarize. First, we recognized in an environment like this that's so challenging, we know the growth doesn't come easily. It has to be earned each and every day. Second, we have a proven track record of delivering differentiated value, innovating and partnering and smartly expanding our addressable market to fuel sustained long-term growth, even in a disruptive environment. And our company has attractive sustainable growth opportunities across our three well-positioned growth platforms, and importantly, the strategic and capital flexibility to take advantage of opportunities.With that, I'll turn the call over to Brian.Brian Evanko -- Chief Financial OfficerThanks, David. Good morning, everyone. Today, I'll review key aspects of Cigna's second quarter results, including the ongoing impact of COVID-19 on our business, and I'll discuss our updated outlook for the full year.Key consolidated financial highlights for second quarter 2021 include adjusted revenue growth of 10% to $43.1 billion, adjusted earnings of $1.8 billion after tax, and adjusted earnings per share of $5.24.Results in the second quarter reflect strong top line growth with solid contributions across our businesses. Before I go into segment-specific results, I'd like to spend a couple of minutes addressing the medical cost environment we are experiencing.Let me be clear, our second quarter results and our full year outlook have been adversely impacted by elevated claim costs compared to our prior expectations. Despite this pressure, our diversified portfolio of businesses and multiple earnings levers drove second quarter adjusted earnings that exceeded our expectations at the enterprise level. Specifically, within the second quarter, ongoing direct COVID-19 costs were above our expectations, and non-COVID utilization returned more rapidly than we anticipated.During my comments today and in our Q&A, David and I will use the term baseline to refer to 2019 for pre-pandemic claim costs that will be trended forward for two years to 2021 to provide you with an estimate for what 2021 claim cost would have been in the absence of COVID-19. The return of non-COVID utilization has varied by both geography and customer group.For example, we saw the following within the second quarter: in U.S. Commercial, non-COVID costs were back to baseline levels. While in Medicare Advantage, non-COVID costs accelerated from first quarter levels but remained slightly below baseline for the second quarter.We expect to continue seeing elevated claim costs compared to our original expectations for the balance of 2021 within U.S. Medical. However, the strength of our diversified portfolio of businesses and our multiple earnings levers give us the confidence to reaffirm our full year EPS outlook of at least $20.20.Additionally, as we look forward to 2022, while we recognize the dynamic environment in which we operate, we expect another year of attractive growth, driven by all three of our growth platforms.Now I'd like to turn to our segment-level results and then provide an update on the details of our outlook as well as our capital positioning.Regarding our segments, I'll first comment on Evernorth. Second quarter 2021 adjusted revenues grew 14% to $32.6 billion and adjusted pre-tax earnings grew 13% to $1.4 billion compared to the second quarter of 2020. Evernorth's strong results in the quarter were driven by ongoing organic growth, driving both top and bottom line contributions, and continued progress on a range of affordability initiatives for the benefit of our customers and clients.In the quarter, we also continued to make significant investments to support our ongoing growth, including our virtual care platform and technology capabilities. Our adjusted pharmacy script volume was $410 million during the quarter, a 13% increase over second quarter 2020, driven by strong organic growth as well as the impact of vaccine volumes in the quarter.Overall, Evernorth delivered another strong quarter, continuing to create differentiated value for clients and customers while driving better-than-expected top and bottom line contributions to the enterprise.Turning to U.S. Medical. Second quarter adjusted revenues were $10.5 billion, and adjusted pre-tax earnings were $1 billion. Overall, our second quarter U.S. medical earnings reflected the impact of elevated claim costs, offset by favorability from operating expenses, nonrecurring items and net investment income.Regarding our medical costs. We entered the second quarter expecting a continued decline in COVID-related claim costs and a gradual return in broader care consumption patterns toward more normalized levels. While these directional patterns did transpire, as I noted earlier, both direct COVID-19 costs and broader utilization levels were above our expectations for the second quarter. Direct COVID-19 costs were highest in April, decreasing throughout the second quarter, while non-COVID costs approximated baseline levels for the quarter.Both U.S. Commercial and U.S. Government total medical costs, reflecting the combined impact of direct COVID-19 and non-COVID costs, were above baseline for the quarter, with U.S. Commercial further above baseline as those customers returned to utilize the healthcare systems at a slightly higher level.Given these developments, the second quarter medical care ratio was above our expectations. We now expect that the level of non-COVID costs we incurred toward the end of the second quarter will persist for the balance of the year. This, coupled with the ongoing direct COVID-19-related costs we expect to incur, has led us to raise our guidance for the full year 2021 medical care ratio.Turning to membership. We ended the quarter with 17 million total medical customers, an increase of 249,000 customers sequentially. The customer growth in the quarter was largely driven by new wins in middle market and growth in the individual business through the extended special enrollment period, supported by continued strong retention across our portfolio. All in, for U.S. Medical, we continue driving customer growth and expanding services while remaining focused on delivering value and supporting our customers and clients in a dynamic environment.In our International Markets business, second quarter adjusted revenues were $1.6 billion and adjusted pre-tax earnings were $234 million. These results were approximately in line with our expectations. Corporate and other operations delivered a second quarter adjusted loss of $331 million.Overall, we continue to deliver value for all of our stakeholders with strong growth, reflecting contributions across our businesses, led by outperformance in Evernorth. The diversified portfolio of Cigna businesses and the multiple avenues to create and ultimately capture value have allowed us to continue meeting our enterprise commitments despite ongoing uncertainties in the marketplace.Now turning to our updated outlook for full year 2021. We are reaffirming our adjusted earnings per share guidance for full year 2021 of at least $20.20. Before I walk through the outlook by segment, I'd like to frame the key drivers underlying this outlook.The updated components include an increase in expected earnings from Evernorth, a decrease in expected earnings from U.S. Medical, driven by a higher medical care ratio, a more favorable outlook for operating expenses and other contributions that are net favorable for the year. Additionally, we now expect full year 2021 consolidated adjusted revenues of at least $170 billion, representing growth of at least 9% from 2020 when excluding the divestiture of our Group Disability and Life business.Within our outlook, we now expect a full year COVID-19-related headwind of approximately $2.50 per share, primarily impacting our U.S. Medical business. This includes approximately 80% related to impacts on the medical care ratio and approximately 20% related to lower customer volumes due to economy-driven enrollment dynamics.Finally, we now expect an adjusted SG&A ratio of approximately 7.5%, an improvement relative to our prior outlook. I'll now discuss our 2021 outlook for our segments. For Evernorth, we now expect full year 2021 adjusted earnings of at least $5.8 billion, representing growth of at least 8% over 2020, reflecting the significant value we create for our customers and clients.For U.S. Medical, we now expect full year 2021 adjusted earnings of at least $3.5 billion. Underlying this updated outlook, we now expect the 2021 medical care ratio to be in the range of 83% to 84%, driven by our updated medical cost expectations for the second half of 2021, as I previously discussed. Regarding total medical customers, we continue to expect 2021 growth of at least 350,000 customers.All in, for full year 2021, we continue to expect adjusted earnings per share of at least $20.20 with the underlying drivers being an increase in expected earnings from Evernorth, a decrease in expected earnings from U.S. Medical driven by a higher medical care ratio, a more favorable outlook for operating expenses and other contributions that are net favorable for the year.Now moving to our 2021 capital management position and outlook. We expect our businesses to continue to drive strong cash flows and returns on capital even as we continue reinvesting to support long-term growth and innovation. I would highlight that we had some timing-related items, which impacted cash flow from operations during the second quarter.For full year 2021, we continue to expect at least $7.5 billion of cash flow from operations, reflecting the strong capital efficiency of our well-performing businesses. Year-to-date, as of August 4, 2021, we have repurchased about 18 million shares for about $4.1 billion, and we now expect full year 2021 weighted average shares of 344 million to 345 million shares.On July 28, we declared a $1 per share dividend, payable on September 23 to shareholders of record as of September 8. Our balance sheet and cash flow outlook remains strong, benefiting from our highly efficient service-based orientation that drives strategic flexibility, strong margins and attractive returns on capital.So now to recap. Results in the second quarter reflect strong top line growth with contributions across our businesses. Additionally, we acknowledge that the environment remains fluid as evidenced by the impact of elevated medical costs in the second quarter and on our outlook for the remainder of the year. Even with this additional pressure, our diversified portfolio and multiple earnings levers have positioned us to achieve our outlook for full year 2021, all while continuing to support our customers, clients and coworkers.We continue to expect 2021 full year adjusted earnings of at least $20.20 per share and have continued confidence in delivering our long-term EPS growth rate that will average 10% to 13% per year.With that, we'll turn it over to the operator for the Q&A portion of the call.