
OperatorGood morning, and welcome to the Bio-Techne Earnings Conference Call for the First Quarter of Fiscal Year 2022. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to turn the call over to David Clair, Bio-Techne's Senior Director, Investor Relations and Corporate Development.David Clair -- Investor RelationsGood morning, and thank you for joining us. On the call with me this morning are Chuck Kummeth, Chief Executive Officer; and Jim Hippel, Chief Financial Officer of Bio-Techne. Before we begin, let me briefly cover our safe harbor statement. Some of the comments made during this conference call may be considered forward-looking statements, including beliefs and expectations about the company's future results as well as the potential impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our operations and financial results. The company's 10-K for fiscal year 2021 identifies certain factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements made during this call.The company does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements because of any new information or future events or developments. The 10-K as well as the company's other SEC filings are available on the company's website within its Investor Relations section. During the call, non-GAAP financial measures may be used to provide information pertinent to ongoing business performance. Tables reconciling these measures to most comparable GAAP measures are available in the company's press release issued earlier this morning on the Bio-Techne Corporation website at www.bio-techne.com.I will now turn the call over to Chuck.Charles (Chuck) Kummeth -- President And Chief Executive OfficerThanks, David, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us for our first quarter conference call. The Bio-Techne team kicked off our fiscal 2022 on a very strong note, as we continue the momentum we experienced during our last fiscal year. Our first quarter 21% organic growth rate reflects broad strength across geographies and ongoing penetration and demand for our proteomic research reagents, diagnostic reagents, analytical tools, and services, especially within our biopharma end market. The standouts in the quarter included our instrument portfolio, namely our Biologics, Simple Western and Simple Plex offerings, broad strength across our research agents and triple-digit growth for our burgeoning GMP protein business. Not only were these significant growth drivers for the quarter, but these platforms as well as our spatial biology and molecular diagnostics portfolio remains at the forefront of underpenetrated high-growth markets that position the company for future growth. I'm very proud of the global team's execution and the company is off to a great start as we march forward to the longer-term targets we provided during our recent Investor Day event.We delivered this strong Q1 revenue performance with a continued focus on profitability with an adjusted operating margin of 37.8%. During the quarter, we made progress hiring to our growth plan, although the tight labor market remained a constraint to us building the team at our desired pace. We anticipate making continued progress with our hiring plans as fiscal 2022 unfolds, supplementing the commercial and technical teams that will enable execution of our long-term growth plan. From a geographic perspective, we experienced robust growth across all geographies, China especially was a standout where the team delivered record organic growth of over 50% in the quarter. The government authorities there are strongly encouraging the development of therapies in the areas of stem cells, organoids, regenerative medicine, and immunology. All areas that have a strong need for our reagents and analytical solutions. For the first time this quarter, our business in China annualized at over $100 million in revenue. While this is an important milestone, we believe we remain in the early innings of realizing our potential in this important geography.Turning to our end markets. Demand for our unique high-quality products and solutions continues to be very strong for our biopharma end users with revenue growth increasing approximately 25%. Performance within our academic end markets also remain solid overall, delivering organic growth in the mid-single digits. Now let's discuss the performance of our growth platform, starting with the Protein Sciences segment, where we delivered organic growth of 26% in the quarter. We made significant progress with our cell and gene therapy initiatives as growing awareness and demand for our portfolio of workflow solutions led to over 60% organic growth in the quarter. We are nearing completion of the qualification process for initial lots of GMP-grade proteins out of our state-of-the-art GMP protein manufacturing facility in St. Paul, Minnesota, and anticipate commercial orders to be shipped from the facility in the coming weeks. As a reminder, GMP proteins are critical ingredients for growing both autologous and allogeneic cell therapies, and we anticipate increasing demand going forward as the rich pipeline of therapies to make their way through the regulatory approval process.Our GMP protein business increased over 160% in the quarter. And with our new GMP manufacturing facility open for business, we are well positioned to meet the anticipated growing demand for these critical reagents. Continuing in cell and gene therapy, we added to our portfolio of specialty cell culture products with the launch of Accelerate iPSC expansion medium, a new medium for the expansion and maintenance of induced pluripotent stem cells, or iPSCs, for use in both research and translational workflows. The Accelerate iPSC expansion medium builds on Bio-Techne's portfolio of products and services and regenerative medicine and fit seamlessly into our offerings for stem cell workflows, including cell isolation, reprogramming, genome engineering, cell expansion, differentiation, and characterization. Importantly, Accelerate iPSC expansion medium is manufactured without using components derived from animals or humans, making it ideally suited for use in translational research to produce iPSC-based cell and gene therapies.This latest offering builds on our growing portfolio of specialty cell culture products addressing customer needs across natural killer or NK T cell and B cell media. The momentum in our core research use only protein and antibody businesses also continues to be very strong with growth in the low 20s in the quarter. We believe the continued success in our core is a reflection of our best-in-class development of a new high-quality relevant reagents that address our customers' current research needs while making them increasingly aware of our capabilities through our strategic digital marketing efforts. Moving on now to our proteomic analytical tools, where we continue to see strong demand across our portfolio of cost-effective productivity solutions. In Q1, our instruments and related consumable hold-through grew over 30%, reflective of a very strong biopharma environment, our biologics instruments led the way growing nearly 50%.These analytical tools, namely our Maurice instrument enabled a reproducible and quantitative analysis of therapeutic protein identity, purity, homogeneity with ease of use, fast results and reproducibility, all qualities that continue to represent a compelling proposition for new and existing CROs, CDMOs, large pharma accounts. And we are now also seeing adoption in cell and gene therapy quality control applications. Demand for our Simple Western instruments also continues to be strong with over 20% growth compared to the prior year. Encouragingly, we are seeing significant lead generation for Abby and sold several of these systems during its first full quarter in the market. As a reminder, Abby is the lower cost fully automated chemiluminescence Western platform that we introduced in April to further penetrate Simple Western technology into our academic customer base. Separately, we saw robust adoption, a simple Western within cell and gene therapy market and view this as a significant and largely untapped opportunity for this technology going forward. Our Simple Plex multiplexing immunoassay system, Ella, also had a strong quarter, growing over 20%.This result is especially impressive given the challenging year-over-year comparison where Simple Plex increased more than 75% in the prior year period. We are experiencing a significant uptick in Ella accounts using or evaluating the platform for neurodegenerative applications, specifically for neurofilament light chain or near NFL and neurofilament heavy chain or NFL detection in serum plasma. Ella continues to be the platform of choice for customers requiring excellent sensitivity and assay speed. Now let's discuss our Diagnostics and Genomics segment, where organic revenue increased 6% in the quarter. Our spatial biology business, branded ACD, increased mid-single digits in the quarter as continued demand from our biopharma customers, especially CROs was partially offset by lower reorder rates from our academic customers. I would note our ACD business, and especially in the academic market, faced a challenging comp in the prior year when the business increased over 30%. Within biopharma, the emergence of gene therapy and RNA interface or RNAi therapeutics was created -- has created a shift toward animal model-based projects, driving larger order sizes and increasing custom probe design projects, making for a little more lumpiness in our spatial biology business.Our menu of pros is now approaching 50,000 targets over many species and publications across over 4,500 demonstrating the continued academic interest in the platform. Next, our Diagnostics Reagents business delivered its ninth consecutive quarter of growth, with organic revenue increasing in the upper single digits. Encouragingly, the pandemic-related headwinds that impacted this business in recent quarters are starting to diminish, and we are experiencing a reacceleration in the chemistry, glucose, and hematology controlled product lines. The diminishing headwinds combined with new product launches and additional penetration within existing OEM customers, we believe are just at the beginning of accelerated growth in this business. During our Investor Day, we highlighted some organizational changes within our Diagnostics and Genomics segment designed to fully realize across developmental opportunities and synergies within our liquid biopsy and molecular products businesses. The new Molecular Diagnostics division is a combination of our Exosome Diagnostics business and the recent Asuragen acquisition and is being led by Matt McManus, the former CEO of the legacy Asuragen business.This new division structure includes an Exosome Center of Excellence as the Exosome-based liquid biopsy innovation engine developing lab-developed tests, companion diagnostics as well as kitted Exosome-based diagnostic products. We will leverage the established research channel as well as our two CLIA labs to commercialize these products. Our ExoDx prostate cancer test continues to make progress despite ongoing challenges with the urology market. During COVID, patients were not leaving their homes to do annual checkups with senior urologists. This dramatically reduced the volume of PSA test, the primary tool used by urologists to identify the appropriate patients for our ExoDx test for prostate cancer risk analysis and potential biopsy. With patients beginning to return to their doctors for routine checkups or follow-ups, the diagnostic market is continuing to recover and encouragingly, our Q1 ExoDx volume was the highest since the onset of the pandemic and continues to show improvement early in Q2. I would also note that our sales reps are increasingly getting in-person meetings and hosting educational and awareness events with the physician community, which we expect to be a strong impetus to test volume going forward. We also made progress on the ExoDx reimbursement front during the quarter.We had accounts -- we added contracts with multiple regional payers, expanding both the network of private payers reimbursing for ExoDx and men with covered access to test. We are very excited about the opportunity to present at an overview of the science and publications supporting ExoDx to 600 medical directors and policy decision-makers this week during NAMCP's 2021 Live Fall Managed Care Forum. The confirmed audience includes representatives from the largest national and regional payers. Events like this are an excellent opportunity to drive awareness and acceptance and eventually reimbursement of this important test among the private payer community. Our recent publication of a pooled analysis of over 1,200 patients in the journal of prostate cancer in prostatic diseases demonstrated ExoDx's ability to discriminate between high-grade, low-grade and benign prostate cancer. Using ExoDx's validated 15.6 cutoff score would have avoided 23% of all prostate biopsies and 30% of unnecessary biopsies with a negative predictive value of 90%. We have a pipeline of additional studies and anticipate a steady cadence of publications to drive reimbursement and adoption going forward. In addition to the ExoDx prostate test, we continue to advance our pipeline of innovative Exosome-based diagnostic tests, including our noninvasive kidney transplant rejection assay, ExoTRU kidney.As a reminder, initial ExoTRU Kidney data was published earlier this year in the Journal of the American Society of Nephrology, showing a negative predictive value of 93.3% and a positive predictive value of 86.2%, which we view as best-in-class performance versus the competition. We are preparing additional studies for publication on ExoTRU assay performance and remain on track to launch its noninvasive urine-based assay later in our fiscal year. With regards to the products from the legacy surgeon business, we continue to gain market traction with our leading portfolio of genetic and oncology molecular diagnostic products, including our kits for FMR1 and BCR-ABL. This business is largely U.S.-centric today, and we see significant potential for these products outside the U.S. and have taken initial steps to position the business to penetrate the European markets. In addition to the geographic expansion this business has a fully -- a very full pipeline, including the expected launches of a cystic fibrosis or CFTR kit as well as a hard-to-do panel, which combines carrier screening assays for FMR1 and SMA 102 and CFTR in one user-friendly kit.To conclude my opening comments, our fiscal '22 is off to a great start. Our end markets remain strong and our portfolio of differentiated proteomic tool of reagents, molecular diagnostic products are meeting the needs of our customers and growing in underpenetrated markets. Our cell and gene therapy initiatives continue to gain acceptance from biopharma customers and the deepening relationships with these end users are driving adoption of our proteins, media, assays, instrumentation, antibodies and other offerings in our portfolio. During our recent Investor Day in New York City, my leadership team and I laid out the vision and the strategy to bring Bio-Techne from $1 billion revenue company it is today to a target of $2 billion over the next five years. Our first quarter in, we are off to a great start in this journey, and I'm excited to share our progress as we realize this vision over the many quarters to come.With that, I'll hand the call over to Jim.Jim Hippel -- Executive Vice President-Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Chuck. I'll provide an overview of our Q1 fiscal 2022 financial performance for the total company, provide some additional details on the performance of each of our segments and give some thoughts on the remainder of the fiscal year. Starting with the overall first quarter financial performance. Adjusted EPS was $1.83 versus $1.43 one year ago, an increase of 28% over last year. Foreign exchange positively impacted EPS by $0.07. GAAP EPS for the quarter was $1.69 compared to $0.83 in the prior year. The biggest driver for the increase in GAAP EPS other than from business operations, was unrealized gains on our investment in ChemoCentryx this year compared to an unrealized ChemoCentryx loss in the prior year period. Q1 revenue was $257.7 million, an increase of 26% year-over-year on a reported basis and 21% on an organic basis. Foreign exchange translation had a favorable 1% year-over-year impact and acquisitions had a favorable 4% impact to revenue growth. All geographies had strong growth in Q1 led by China growing over 50% filed by the U.S. and EMEA, both growing over 20% for the quarter. The rest of the world grew in the upper teens. By end market, biopharma remained very strong, growing mid-20%, while academia increased mid-single digits year-over-year. Moving on to the details of the P&L.Total company adjusted gross margin was 71.2% in the quarter, compared to 71.9% in the prior year. The decrease was primarily driven by unfavorable product mix within the Protein Sciences segment, partially offset by favorable volume leverage. Adjusted SG&A in Q1 was 25.1% of revenue, a 70 basis point decrease compared to the prior year. While R&D expense in Q4 was 8.3% of revenue, 40 basis points higher than the prior year. While our adjusted SG&A and R&D spend both increased sequentially and compared to the prior year, a tight life sciences labor market do not allow us to fill all planned headcount additions to the team at the pace we originally anticipated, especially in the more technical, scientific, and engineering fields. However, our pace of hiring continues to increase, and we plan to make additional progress in our fiscal second quarter. This investment in critical human capital will position the company for growth going forward. The resulting adjusted operating margin for Q1 was 37.8%, a decrease of 40 basis points from the prior year period. However, excluding the impact of the Asuragen acquisition made last April, adjusted operating margin increased 40 basis points over the prior year.Looking at our numbers below operating income. Net interest expense in Q1 was $3.1 million, decreasing $1.1 million compared to the prior year period. Decrease was due to a continued reduction of our bank debt as well as a lower blended interest rate. Our bank debt on the balance sheet as of the end of Q1 stood at $300.2 million. Other adjusted nonoperating income was $1.2 million for the quarter compared to $1.1 million in expense in the prior year, primarily reflecting the foreign exchange impact related to our cash pooling arrangements. For GAAP reporting, other nonoperating income includes unrealized gains from our investment in ChemoCentryx. Moving further down the P&L. Our adjusted effective tax rate in Q1 was 21%. As a reminder, during the second quarter of fiscal 2021, we made a strategic equity investment in China-based Eminence, a company focused on providing media as well as custom cell line development and media formulation services to the Chinese bio-pharmaceutical market. The $634,000 noncontrolling interest line item reflects the loss from the portion of Eminence we do not own. The impact to other lines of the P&L as a result of consulting image was immaterial in Q1.Turning to cash flow and return of capital, $48.4 million of cash was generated from operations in the quarter compared to $66 million in the prior year period. The decrease was primarily driven by the timing of cash payments for payroll, income taxes and other accounts payable. In Q1, our net investment in capital expenditures was $6.1 million, and during Q1, we returned capital to shareholders by way of $12.5 million in dividends. We finished Q1 with 41.2 million average diluted shares outstanding. Our balance sheet finished Q1 in a very strong position with $235.1 million in cash and short-term available for sale investments and a total leverage ratio of well under 1 times EBITDA. Next, I'll discuss the performance of our reporting segments, starting with the Protein Sciences segment. Q1 reported sales were $197.2 million, with reported revenue increasing 28% compared to the prior year. Organic growth increased 26% with foreign exchange having a favorable impact of 2% on revenue growth. Within this segment, the strong growth was very broad-based in nearly all reagent assay and instrument platforms. As Chuck mentioned, cell and gene therapy increased over 60%, including growth over 160% in our GMP protein products. While Biologics grew almost 50% in our Simple Western, Simple Plex, proteins and antibodies all grew at least 20%.Operating margin for the Protein Sciences segment was 45.7%, an increase of 10 basis points year-over-year due primarily to favorable volume leverage largely offset by strategic investments to support future growth. Turning to the Diagnostics and Genomics segment. Q1 reported sales were $61 million with reported revenue increasing 22%. Organic growth for the segment was 6%, with acquisitions contributing 15% and foreign exchange translation having a favorable 1% impact on revenue. The diagnostics reagents business increased upper single digits and ACD-branded spatial biology portfolio increased mid-single digits. Although spatial biology had a challenging year-over-year comparable this quarter, we review this business unit as being in a high-growth area within life science tools and are extremely well positioned to capitalize on this growth with our multi-omic product portfolio. For Exosome Diagnostics, revenue was lower year-over-year, but this was mostly due to cash to accrual revenue recognition accounting change in the prior year for Medicare patients. Timing of companion diagnostics projects with biopharma customers also negatively impacted growth for the quarter. Exosome Diagnostic prostate cancer test volume continues to improve with more patients now going back to see their physicians. Test counts increased 20% year-over-year in Q1 and are continuing to ramp as we enter Q2.Moving on to Diagnostics and Genomics segment operating margin at 12.2%, the segment's operating margin decreased 510 basis points compared to the prior year. The decrease reflects the impact of strategic investments to support future growth as well as the Asuragen acquisition. In summary, our research-oriented end markets remain strong. And as our Q1 performance indicated, we are executing extremely well in serving these markets. The diagnostics end market is also improving, and we believe will continue to be a tailwind going forward. Our end markets have been on a upward march since the depth of the COVID crisis in the fourth quarter of our fiscal 2020. This means our comps become increasingly more challenging and our growth rates will likely be tempered proportionately in the near term. However, given our strong performance out of the gate in Q1, we have increasing confidence that we can achieve a growth rate in fiscal year 2022 that is greater than our 2-year CAGR at the end of fiscal year 2021. As Chuck and I mentioned in our prior commentary, despite progress executing to our hiring plan, there is more to do in order to support our long-term growth plans. We anticipate continued progress in our hiring objectives to put downward pressure on our adjusted operating margin sequentially in the near term before returning to prior year levels by the end of our fiscal Q4. That concludes my prepared comments.And with that, I'll turn the call back to the operator to open the line for questions.