  OperatorHello, and thank you for standing by for Baidu's fourth quarter and 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time. I'd now like to turn the meeting over to your host for today's conference, Juan Lin, Baidu's director of investors relations.Juan Lin -- Director of Investor Relations Hello, everyone, and welcome to Baidu's fourth quarter and fiscal year 2021 earnings conference call. Baidu's earnings release was distributed earlier today, and you can find a copy on our website as well as on newswire services. On the call today, we have Robin Li, our co-founder and CEO; Rong Luo, our CFO; Dou Shen, our EVP in charge of Baidu mobile ecosystem; and Jen Li, our SVP in charge of Baidu intelligent driving. After our prepared remarks, we will hold a Q&A session.

 



 Please note that the discussion today will contain forward-looking statements made under the safe harbor provisions of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations. For detailed discussions of these risks and uncertainties, please refer to our latest annual report and other documents filed with the SEC and Hong Kong Exchange.Baidu does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, expect -- except as required under applicable law. Our earnings press release and this call include discussions of certain unaudited non-GAAP financial measures. Our press release contains a reconciliation of the unaudited non-GAAP measures to the unaudited most directly comparable GAAP measures and is available on our IR website at ir.baidu.com. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. In addition, a webcast of this conference call will be available on Baidu's IR website. I will now turn the call over to our CEO, Robin. Robin Li -- Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Hello, everyone. We delivered solid results in 2021. Revenues from Baidu Core were up 21% year over year in 2021, driven by a 71% increase in non-ad revenue, which accounted for 22% of Baidu Core revenue, up from 16% in 2020. Within the non-ad business, our cloud revenues consistently showed outstanding growth throughout the year and, in our estimates, outgrow the cloud market in China. Furthermore, Apollo Go scaled up its operation and delivered key milestones to drive the long-term commercialization of our autonomous ride-hailing services. Today, I will review our operations by walking through our AI cloud, intelligent driving, DuerOS, and mobile ecosystem business in 2021. And after that, I will discuss our priorities in 2022. Starting with AI Cloud. We achieved strong revenue growth in 2021. The growth rate of Baidu AI Cloud has accelerated from 2020 on, and we believe it has been meaningfully higher than its peers. We made great strides in several industries, not only transportation, manufacturing, public service sector and energy and utilities. Total revenues from these industries more than doubled in the year, driving our cloud business growth. I'll share with you on some of our latest developments in the above verticals. In the energy and utility sector, State Grid has been utilizing our AI Cloud since 2020 to perform early detection of malfunctioning equipment and estimate utility demand to ensure a consistent electricity supply. By now, we have covered almost 90% of its branches nationwide. In the manufacturing industry, Baidu AI Cloud has expanded into Chongqing, a major manufacturing hub in China, enabling automated workflow processes and helping to improve operational efficiency.

 



 In Chongqing, we serve the Yangquan new area, which hosts thousands of enterprises, including some top automakers and electronic companies. More broadly, we observed an increasing adoption of AI in China. According to IDC, PaddlePaddle, Baidu's open-source deep learning platform, continues to gain market share. Our internal data shows that by the end of last year, PaddlePaddle developer community has grown to 4.1 million and served 157,000 businesses. And in the same time frame, developers have created 476,000 models based on the platform. Meanwhile, in ACE smart transportation, we continue to expand our footprint geographically. By year end last year, Baidu ACE has been adopted by 35 cities, up from 14 a year ago. Based on contract amounts over RMB 10 million, 94% of cities that had purchased our solutions in 2020 expanded their collaboration with us in 2021. Revenues from smart transportation have been growing rapidly and more than doubled in 2021 versus the prior year. Next, in intelligent driving. Apollo Go continued to take big steps toward scalable operation of its autonomous ride-hailing services. We believe that large-scale operation allows us to identify the problems that are not visible during testing stage and also push the level four autonomous driving technology advancement. In the fourth quarter last year, Apollo Go advanced -- Apollo Go provided 213,000 rides and, once again, almost doubled its rides quarter over quarter, reaffirming our leadership position in the global autonomous ride-hailing market. Apollo Go is now available in eight cities: Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Shenzhen, Chongqing, Changsha, Cangzhou, and Yangquan. Meanwhile, we have begun to charge fees for the autonomous ride-hailing service on open roads since November 25, 2021, in Beijing and February 18, 2022, in Chongqing, and February 27, 2022, in Yangquan. Baidu has been working hard to improve the safety performance and maximize the efficiency of autonomous driving by synergizing our ACE smart transportation solution, autonomous vehicles, maps, and cloud services. Our Beijing project is the case in point. About one year ago, we built ACE smart transportation and introduced Apollo Go in Yizhuang region of Beijing. Currently, almost 100 vehicles are providing autonomous ride-hailing services in Yizhuang on a daily basis, and we have started charging passengers. At the same time, our ACE smart transportation solution has expanded its coverage almost to tenfold in terms of intersections in Yizhuang area over the past year, providing extra support for Apollo Go. We believe that the Beijing project serves as a showcase for other cities to follow and replicate. As intelligent and connected vehicles are taking the center stage of auto sales, Baidu's autonomous driving solutions have won increasing acceptance among automakers. We believe that we will gain further traction as more automakers recognize that partnering Baidu is better than investing extensively in developing their in-house solution. Recently, we received a nomination letter from BYD, one of China's largest automotive and technology companies, intending to adopt ASD, in particular, ANP and AVP for multiple popular models. In DuerOS, Xiaodu again was ranked No. 1 in smart display globally and No. 1 in smart speaker in China, based on the first nine-month shipment data last year, according to Strategy Analytics, Canalys, and IDC. Xiaodu revenues continue to grow rapidly. At the same time, we are pleased to note that our services revenue already surpassed 10% of Xiaodu revenue last year. Finally, in mobile ecosystem. Solid user growth demonstrated continuous expansion of our mobile ecosystem. In December, Baidu App's MAU accelerated year-over-year growth rate to 14%, reaching 622 million. Daily logged-in users on Baidu App already surpassed 80%. Users are not only coming to Baidu to search information but increasingly to enjoy diversified formats of content and closed-loop services accessible using Baidu App. Through a search on our building blocks, users now can enjoy a full-service cycle from information search to fact checking to interaction with industry participants and to purchasing products and services without leaving Baidu App. In services, our instant replies to search queries cover over 40,000 industry participants from 19 verticals in the fourth quarter. Total daily instant replies increased about 60% from December to -- from September to December. In particular, daily telehealth consultations on Baidu Health grew to 2.4 million in the fourth quarter 2021. That's up 60% -- or 62% from last year. Monthly orders for local services, such as moving services and home repair services, within Baidu App multiplied fivefold year over year in December. E-commerce GMV facilitated by Baidu, though still small, grew about fivefold in the fourth quarter compared to the first quarter of last year. Furthermore, in 2021, we further diversified the format of video content offerings within Baidu App. In 2021, we introduced a fully immersive video experience that combines horizontal and vertical short videos in an endless flow. This and other enhancements have significantly improved short video viewership and driven up app conversion within Baidu App. In monetization, Managed Page continued to make progress. Revenue from Managed Page grew by 52% in 2021 and reached 40% of Baidu Core advertising. While Baidu Core ad revenues increased by 12% in 2021, macro witness and COVID-19 resurgence have impacted the ad industry in late 2021. In the fourth quarter, our ad revenue declined by 2% quarter on quarter, with year-over-year growth slowing down to 1%. Going to 2022. China is determined to promote technological innovation and upgrade the traditional industries. Such strategic goals were promoted during China's 14th five-year plan and reemphasized by the General Office of State Council in early January of this year. In addition, the Beijing municipal government recently released its 2021 work report, emphasizing the target to accelerate the construction of a holistic transportation system containing intelligent vehicles, smart transportation, cloud, and map as well as leading the development of high-level autonomous driving nationally in 2022. Navigating in this favorable operating environment, Baidu will continue to leverage our world-class AI capabilities to grow our non-ad, which is a clear growth engine for our overall revenue. For the coming year, we have set the four -- the following operational priorities. For AI Cloud, we aim to sustain above-industry level revenue growth. We will continue to bring our innovation in AI to various traditional industries and the public service sector, enabling our customers to improve efficiency and boost productivity. We believe we will be able to make further breakthroughs in more verticals. For intelligent driving, we will further scale up the Apollo Go operations to provide ride to more passengers. We will steadily work toward the goals of removing the safety drivers and providing fully autonomous ride-hailing services in China. We will continue to expand our partnership with more automakers in ASD, in particular, ANP and AVP to enable them to be better positioned in the evolving auto industry. As a result, we expect to further drive up our pipeline. Jidu plans to take orders in the second half of 2022 after launching its first concept production car in Beijing auto show April of this year and aim to deliver mass production in 2023. For Xiaodu, we will seek quality revenue growth and margin improvement. Xiaodu has already completed two roundup financing. And for mobile ecosystem, we will continue to leverage AI to improve the user experience in search and feed and further build closed-loop services within Baidu App to fulfill user need. In addition, we focused on a healthy and sustainable business model in order to consistently generate strong cash flow to power our investment in new AI businesses. With that, let me turn the call over to Rong to go through our financial highlights.Rong Luo -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Robin. Now let me walk you through the details of our fourth quarter and the full year 2021 financial results. We closed 2021 with solid financial results. Baidu Core's Q4 revenue was RMB 26 billion, increasing 12% year over year. In 2021, Baidu Core generated RMB 95 billion or USD 15 billion in revenue, up 21% year over year. Non-ad business grows very fast and reached 26% of Baidu Core revenues in the fourth quarter, up from 18% a year ago, demonstrating how our previous investments in AI have built a new growth engine for Baidu now as well as for the mid and long term. For the full year 2021, non-ad business, accounting for 22% of Baidu Core revenues, up from 16% in 2020. Within the non-ad business, Baidu AI Cloud is a clear revenue growth driver. Revenues from Baidu AI Cloud increased by 60% year over year to RMB 5.2 billion in Q4 and was up by 64% year over year to RMB 15.1 billion in 2021, non-ads accounting for more than half of the Baidu AI Cloud revenues. Our ads business is benefiting from multi-cloud strategies adopted by many of our customers. Our non-ads business profited from Baidu's strong AI capability and upgrade of China's traditional industries. As Robin mentioned earlier, Baidu AI Cloud made great strides in several industries. Total revenues from transportation, manufacturing, the public service sectors and energy and utilities industries more than doubled in the year. Looking ahead, we aim to sustain above-industry revenue growth for Baidu AI Cloud. Excluding Baidu AI Cloud, Baidu Core non-ad business includes intelligent driving as well as other growth initiatives, intelligent driving mainly composed of revenue from ACE, including HD Maps, automated valet parking, AVP, and autonomous navigation pilot, ANP, and our autonomous ride-hailing fleets. Xiaodu is an important component in other growth initiatives. Xiaodu continued to achieve solid revenue growth. Ad revenue grew by 12% year over year in 2021. In Q4, ad's revenue was up 1% year over year yet decreased by 2% quarter-over-quarter due to softness in the macro environment and the COVID-19 resurgence. Our ad business was impacted by significant headwinds in sectors, such as education, real estate, franchising, healthcare and travel, and may remain challenged in the near term. We say our advertising business should remain relatively resilient and should recover once the macro environment starts to improve. In addition, we expect revenue diversification to continue with non-ad business exhibiting strong growth. iQIYI revenue was RMB 7.4 billion in Q4, decreasing 1% year over year. iQIYI revenue was RMB 30.6 billion in 2021, increasing 3% year over year. Cost of revenue, RMB 17.3 billion in Q4, up 19% year over year, primarily due to an increase in traffic acquisition costs, bandwidth costs, cost of goods sold and other costs related to the new AI businesses. Cost of revenue was RMB 64.3 billion in 2021, increasing 17% year over year, primarily due to an increase in content costs, traffic acquisition costs, bandwidth costs, cost of goods sold, and other costs related to the new AI business. Operating expenses was RMB 13.8 billion in Q4, up 29% year over year, which was primarily due to an increase in channel spending, promotional marketing, and personnel-related expenses. Operating expenses were RMB 49.7 billion in 2021, up 32% year over year, which was primarily due to an increase in channel spending, promotion, and marketing and personnel-related expenses. Non-GAAP operating income was RMB 4.3 billion in Q4, and non-GAAP operating margin was 13%. Non-GAAP Baidu Core operating income was RMB 4.8 billion, and operating margin was 19%. Non-GAAP operating income was RMB 19 billion in 2021. Non-GAAP Baidu Core operating income was RMB 22.2 billion. And non-GAAP Baidu Core operating margin was 23% in 2021. Adjusted EBITDA was RMB 5.8 billion, and adjusted EBITDA margin was 17% in Q4. Adjusted EBITDA for Baidu Core was RMB 6.2 billion or USD 974 million, and adjusted EBITDA margin for Baidu Core is 24%. Adjusted EBITDA was RMB 24.9 billion or USD 3.91 billion, and adjusted EBITDA margin was 20% in 2021. Adjusted EBITDA for Baidu Core was RMB 27.7 billion or USD 4.34 billion, and adjusted EBITDA margin for Baidu Core was 29%. In 2021, we continue to invest in new AI businesses, including AI Cloud, intelligent driving, and smart assistants. While the non-GAAP operating margin for Baidu Core decreased from 2020, our investment result in the rapid growth of non-ad revenue. Overall, we expect our ad business to continue generating cash flow to support the rapid growth of our non-advertising AI business. For Baidu AI Cloud, we are trying to retain rapid revenue growth for 2020 -- for 2022 and beyond. Cash and short-term investments for Baidu Core as of December 31, 2021, were RMB 186.5 billion or USD 29.27 billion. Free cash flow for Baidu, excluding iQIYI, was RMB 15.4 billion or USD 2.4 billion in 2021. Baidu Core had approximately 39,600 employees as of December 31, 2021. A few words on unlocking value of other new businesses. A number of our younger businesses are seeing exciting development. In 2021, we completed fundraising for Xiaodu and Baidu Kunlun. In late January 2022, Jidu closed its Series A financing and raised nearly USD 400 million. An update on our share repurchase program. We returned USD 615 million to shareholders in Q4, bringing the cumulative repurchase of approximately USD 1.2 billion in 2021. As of year-end 2021, we have returned approximately USD 2.9 billion to shareholders under the 2020 share repurchase program, which authorized a total of USD 4.5 billion. Taking into account the practice of other U.S.-listed companies that are listed on Hong Kong Exchange, the company has decided not to provide a guidance on the company's revenues going forward. Operator, with that, let's now open the call for questions. 