
Jay Spitzer -- Vice President of Investor RelationsHello, everyone, and welcome to our Virtual Investor Conference. I'm Jay Spitzer, Vice President of Investor Relations at Walgreens Boots Alliance.Before we start, I would like to quickly run through the customary regulatory and Safe Harbor statements before I hand it over to Roz. Certain statements and projections of future results made in this presentation constitute as forward-looking statements that are based on our current market, competitive, and regulatory expectations and are subject to the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to vary materially. We undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statement after this presentation, whether a result of new information, future events, changes in assumptions or otherwise. Please see our latest Forms 10-K and 10-Q for a discussion of risk factors as it relate to forward-looking statements.During the course of today's events, in our remarks and in the related presentation, we will use certain non-GAAP financial measures. We refer you to the appendices in the presentation materials available on our Investor Relations website for reconciliations, where applicable, to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and related information. You will find the link to the webcast on our Investor Relations website at investor.walgreensbootsalliance.com. After the events, the presentation webcast will be archived on the website for 12 months.

 



In addition to our earnings announcement this morning, we will be issuing a Form 8-K that contains forward-looking guidance and other relevant information provided during today's event. Please be aware that we may, during this presentation and answers to questions, make references to the information contained in the Form 8-K. The Form 8-K, along with the earnings announcement and the presentation materials from this event, are available on our website.With that, I'll now hand it over to Roz. Roz?Rosalind Brewer -- Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Jay. Hello, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. It's really great to be with you. I have to say, I'm definitely looking forward to sharing what we have in store for you in the next two and a half hours.

 



As you know, I recently passed my first six months at WBA and I'm even more excited about this company's potential than when I first joined. I took this job based on some deeply personal reasons. At the time, I was really enjoying selling coffee out in Seattle. So it was a big decision to leave that gig. But honestly, like many of us during the pandemic, I was thinking a lot about how I could contribute even more to the world. So when I was approached about the CEO role at WBA, I thought here's a chance to join a company right in the center of fighting COVID-19 and bringing hope and a helping hand to do so in many different communities.I also saw how we can make meaningful progress on addressing some of the social determinants that lead to disparities in health among different racial and socioeconomic groups resulting in food deserts and care gaps and frankly, now that I'm at WBA, there is so much more promise ahead than I could have ever anticipated.The pandemic definitely gave WBA a chance to step up like never before and we've delivered in so many ways but we're absolutely just getting started in terms of how we can mobilize to solve big complex problems. And we definitely believe that this momentum will accelerate our path to sustainable profitable growth moving forward. So during my entire life, I've been an avid learner. Some of you may remember that my undergraduate degree is in chemistry, and have applied what I've studied then throughout my entire career. That discipline is about hands-on investigation and rigorous research.So it'll come as no surprise that since I've been at WBA, I've been taking a deep dive to really understand the business and speaking with our leaders and team members and all corners of the company as well as many outside experts. I conducted listening sessions and spent time in our stores, vaccine clinics, and back office operations. I've identified many gifts that we're waiting for me when I arrived based on some strong work that had already been done. And I've pinpointed where we've taken some wrong turns and haven't executed as well as we could have. I've also been very glad to see the many new ways we can capitalize on our core strengths. I believe we have some tremendous underlying momentum within this business and the pandemic has further proven the importance of pharmacies in local communities around the world.

 



I promise to you that after an extensive study, I wouldn't waste any time getting back to you about my assessment and where we're heading next. During this time, we'll clearly articulate the direction of our company and we'll provide what we hope leaves you feeling a greater sense of understanding in terms of our strategic direction. We'll share our learnings, present our opportunities and lay out our path forward.So let me start by saying that we just announced positive fourth quarter results this morning. We exceeded expectations across all of our business segments, reflecting strong operational performance and surpassing our vaccination goals. James will be going into much greater detail with you on that soon, including our guidance for this year. So hopefully you see these earnings as an indication, among many others today, of a renewed, revitalized and reenergized company. Also, I'm very excited to share some important strategic investments later in today's session. We'll tell you more throughout the course of our time together this morning.Today, I'm going to make good on my commitment to you and we're going to take you on a journey that includes three things: transparency, accountability and an extremely well-thought-out strategy. So let me be clear. This isn't our every day Walgreens strategy. Instead, it's about acceleration, execution, accountability and long-term growth. Strategy is also about mobilizing across the organization, uniting behind values-based culture, enabling strong alignment, leveraging momentum and having clarity on the end game. And it's also not just what you plan to do, but it's also what you plan not to do. We will make trade-offs and eliminate some work to focus on what matters most and we're going to hit on these same points again and again and again to hammer home just how much we've internalized this into our mindset.So on that note, here's our agenda for today. First, I'll go into detail on our strategic priorities with a particular emphasis on the role we believe we are rightfully positioned to play within the healthcare ecosystem. Our CFO, James Kehoe and President of Walgreens, John Standley will join me during these portions of the meeting. James will discuss the financials, both the numbers reported today, and also our immediate and long-term growth model and fiscal year '22 guidance. Finally, we will end with a Q&A session, where we will look forward to engaging directly with you on our strategy and performance. And again, we hope this will signal the change to come, more of an ongoing dialog with our investor community and more visibility into what we're doing and how we're performing against our most important KPIs.So to lead us more into that discussion, I thought I'd share a brief video highlighting who we are.[Video Presentation]That, of course, was just a brief snapshot of WBA and the vital work we do. With that in mind, I want to tell you a little bit about what we've been working on and why I am so optimistic about the opportunities ahead. These opportunities have everything to do with what you see on the screen right now. As we move forward, we plan to be: customer-centric with a relentless focus on what they need and what they want; hyper-localized, knowing that the best healthcare is deeply rooted in local communities; improving outcomes, since we're absolutely convinced we can further improve the health of our patients; scale and momentum, which we've seen most prominently during our response to the pandemic; lowering the cost of healthcare, since there are enormous inefficiencies in the healthcare system today; delightful customer experiences, so that our brands exceed expectations and leave lasting positive impressions; transformational partnerships, which will allow us to achieve the quality and speed we want; and pharmacy, pharmacy at the center since this has always been and will continue to be our foundation and our key differentiator.These themes will appear throughout the presentation today, and we hope that you will see how these strategies interconnect and how we intend to leverage our strengths to build our future. As I mentioned, I came to this role with a very open mind about what the company needed and what it needed from me. Of course, based on my direct experience as a customer, a patient, a parent, and a caregiver, I already had a view and the reactions of others when they heard I was joining the company gave me an additional insight into the deep emotional connections our brands have.What has impressed me most are the genuine areas of strengths we have. Anyone who has had recent experience with our services will understand; they will understand it when I say that our greatest strengths are our people and our presence in local communities across the world. We have deep relationships with our customers and patients, including chronic patients who are most in need and struggle managing the complexity of their conditions. And we are often the first place people turn for their well-being. So the scale, the reach, the ambition of this company is extraordinary. And the skills, the experience and the commitment of our people is even more extraordinary. I think it's fair to say I have never seen anything like it.These are truly powerful brands that resonate around the world. But to survive and thrive, we need to be able to show we are more and more relevant. And we must be able to deliver what our customers and our patients need; how and when they need it. The company is making significant progress in this respect. We have already achieved a lot recently, which is both driving change internally and being recognized externally but we have a lot more work to do.We also, of course, have a phenomenal history and legacy that gives us a strong foundation on which to build and rebuild. And our expertise sits squarely in one of the most important and expanding industries out there right now. But I also can't deny that we face stiff challenges. We operate in a highly competitive arena and the scale of our markets and nature of our business means it's very cost-sensitive and we continue to need to manage margin pressure in our core pharmacy business. In many areas, we have little room for error as we're dealing with people's health and, in many cases, their very lives.We are operating in markets that can and do change rapidly through regulation, innovation or just simply necessity. And we need to be on top of our game to meet those challenges and deliver on the opportunities they bring. On balance, however, I see more opportunity for us than headwinds and we have tremendous momentum and future potential. I hope that by the end of our event today, you will understand why and see how we're pursuing a strategy to deliver our very best.So as I mentioned before, nothing demonstrates us at our peak performance more than our response to the pandemic. As you know, we've played a key role in testing and vaccine administration, both across the U.S. and around the world. We acted swiftly to ensure those programs reached every part of our communities. We reached out into the most remote, underserved and reluctant communities to administer vaccinations, to educate and to support. We changed our pharmacy and retail model to offer new services, new ways to access advice, medicines, and provisions, safely and conveniently. We worked tirelessly as not just a service provider or a retailer, but as an advocate, a comforter, an advisor, a friend to those who needed us. We rerouted our resources, financial, technological and people to the things that mattered most. And we did this, all the way from the White House and Capitol Hill right to long-term care homes, schools and community centers.As you can see here, the statistics of what we've delivered are truly impressive. They show how quickly and effectively we can act when we need to and they demonstrate how we deliver expanded healthcare services into the very heart of the community. This was a great lesson for us. Historically, we would have had the tendency to move a little slowly. We've proven that our pace can change and can be rapid and much of this infrastructure, momentum and mindset will be preserved in our new operating model.We should not forget that it's the size and underlying strength of our business that allowed us, at very short notice, to deploy the training, supplies and some $500 million in funding to support our people in the field in fulfilling their mission. I could spend hours with stories of great work of our team. But let me just give you a quick window on to that work.[Video Presentation]A key element of our response to the pandemic was to respond rapidly to changing customer behavior, driven by the restrictions that COVID protections placed on people. One key enabler here was the deployment of a personalization engine at the heart of an entire ecosystem. It was designed to deliver an elevated customer experience; revolutionize our customer interactions; drive improved pharmacy outcomes; deploy our vast resources more effectively; and integrate our omnichannel retail experience. At the same time, this ecosystem rapidly builds on our existing data resources and customer understanding to help drive further growth across the business.We've made tremendous progress scaling our technological and customer assets and we've announced previously, we have partnered with the absolute best technology innovators across the industry to accelerate our ambitions. The early impact of this work has been seen throughout the year. But in recent quarters, we really began to see the flywheel effect kick in as the number of people using our customer engagement platform became significant. This cycle of delivering growth from insight-driven personalization in turn provides even more insight, forming a core element of our customer-focused future strategy.In the U.S. alone, we have one of the largest and farthest-reaching physical networks in the country with a huge body of highly trained and capable staff. Our team includes over 26,000 licensed pharmacists with regular and frequent interactions with some of the highest cost and highest dependency patients in the country. We have relationships with all the main payers across all the areas of pharmacy and we operate on most of the best corners of America. We also have over a century of experience as a credible independent expert when it comes to health and well-being products, services and advice. Our neutrality in the broader healthcare ecosystem is a tremendous asset and it's one we intend to deploy going forward.In the past few years, we've invested to develop our capabilities and healthcare services, both within the company and through strategic investments. This allows us to offer a range of services in a variety of ways that simply could not be provided through the pharmacy alone. Now, of course, it's important to ensure that our offering and strategy are relevant and move with the needs of the market. So the skills and experience we need to drive the company must also change over time. We're working hard to complement the huge range of experience and expertise we have on our management and our executive team by infusing new talent, new skills and fresh ideas. And I guess I'm a prime example of that. And this combination of existing and new will form a key part of the real magic that will deliver the transformation of our business and our business model.Additionally, we have a strong understanding of our customers, the challenges they face, and the hopes, the fears, the passions and the problems, and those problems that influence their healthcare and lifestyle decisions. In fact, I'm confident that this is the secret sauce which will allow us to elevate all of our other strengths and assets to the next level of delivery and operational excellence.It's the deep relationships that we have with our patients, whether they're looking for help in managing complex and awful debilitating health conditions or seeking advice and resources to help them effectively manage their well-being or trying to balance their own health with those they love and care for. These people turn to us week after week, year after year and we know that we can profoundly change their lives for the better by integrating their care; improving health outcomes; providing lower cost than the existing health system. We're uniquely positioned to play a larger role in the healthcare ecosystem; something I will talk to you about a little bit later this morning.So to summarize what we've covered so far, as we head into our new fiscal year, we're going to focus on: cultivating our strengths; sharpening our execution; and investing in our future. And, of course today, our aim is to give you a view of how we see our business developing and growing this year. But we'll also go well beyond that with our long-term growth algorithm which James will cover more with you later. And how we're going to get there has everything to do with the purpose and vision that unite us, which we're going to speak a little bit more about now and then go into our strategic ambitions, fiscal year '21 earnings, fiscal year '22 guidance and future growth.I believe this will be the first time we've given this level of insight into our longer-term thinking. But I believe it reflects the extraordinary level of detail we've gone into with our review, with our planning and our analysis and the confidence we have in the strategy we're pursuing. It also shows our ability to transform this business and deliver sustainable growth.We have an overall plan that will deliver sustained growth and profit based on robust, prudent and perhaps, most importantly, integrated healthcare, pharmacy and retail strategies. We've been actively working on our new healthcare initiative and we are well on our way to delivering on our ambitions for this new business area. We are actively putting in place the capabilities we need to deliver on our new operating model and to drive growth in our business. We are committed to enhancing communication and transparency to all our stakeholders, including you, our investors and the financial community overall and all of this will be delivered through a revitalized strategy, underpinned by an intensified focus on outstanding execution to drive strong growth and economic returns.So let's turn now to talk briefly about the work we've done on the culture at our company. And what do I mean by that? Basically, I mean how does it feel to work here? How do we interact with each other and with our stakeholders? And what are the principles that unite us and inform our actions? I am a firm believer that every truly great company understands that culture needs to be at the center of their success. The legendary management consultant, Peter Drucker, once famously said, "culture eats strategy for breakfast." And what he means by this is you can have the best laid plans in the world but if you can't retain and recruit high-caliber talent and if they're not motivated to work hard and together as a team toward shared goals, you'll never accomplish much.Years ago, company culture was one sometimes viewed as a light and fluffy stuff. But when done right, we know now that it can drive so much more than that. Strong cultures drive performance; performance since companies that are united by purpose have been proven to outperform the general market 15 to 1; and with recruitment, with 52% of job candidates saying that they will only accept a job offer if they know and agree with the company's purpose, vision and values; employee satisfaction, because nine out of 10 people are willing to trade a percentage of their lifetime earnings for greater meaning at work; customer retention, which is proven by the fact that 87% of consumers would purchase a product based on values and because the company advocated for an issue they cared about.With this in mind, one of my first goals when I joined WBA was ensuring that we are known among the world's best companies for our culture. So in the last six months, we brought in some leading experts in this field to assess where we are today and where we need to be. We implemented initiatives where we listen closely to team members at all levels and in all corners of the company all around the world. As a result, we evolved and updated our company's purpose, vision and values to be our guiding light as we move forward and to influence our decisions, both big and small.As you see here, our new purpose statement, more joyful lives through better health. We're referring here to physical, mental and emotional health and that can come in the form of a life-saving vaccination or can just be as simple as providing a great shade of lipstick that lifts someone's spirits. Our purpose is the 'why?' [Technical Issues], our enduring reason for being and the difference we want to make in the world.Next, our vision, and that is to be the leading part and well-being for all. This is the 'what?' A companywide aspiration over the long term that is measurable, unifying and delivers on our purpose. Our vision is designed to be built on our core strengths as a company and expand on what we can offer our patients and customers in the future. And when we say, all here, that means across every neighborhood, among every community. As you can see we looked at this statement word by word to make sure this is something simple, tangible and, most importantly, relevant; relevant for our colleagues every day. It allows them to measure their work against an overarching company target. And, of course, our purpose and vision are also the foundation that we've built our core strategy on.We distilled our strategy into four priorities, all of which work together toward one central aim to deliver advantage growth and community healthcare, while transforming our core business. We have defined the four strategic priorities as you can see here. First, we will transform and align the core businesses. John Standley is going to take you through this in detail. And while our international leaders, Seb James and Annie Murphy will be joining us remotely for the Q&A, in the interest of time, I've asked John to talk you through the transformation work in the international businesses as well as his own business areas. James will then give an update on the Transformational Cost Management Program as part of this element of the strategy. We've seen tremendous success and momentum within that program and it will be critical as we continue to fund our journey.The second strategic pillar is our ambition to build a range of consumer-centric healthcare solutions, which will form the engine for our next phase of growth. I'm excited to take you through our plans, including some of the latest news on investments, partnerships and the work we've done internally to build out our healthcare strategy. We'll also cover the evolution of the business model of these services and how we will see them developing in the coming months and years. We have a strong view on how our assets can help connect this ecosystem together, creating a unique position for Walgreens and helping to demystify healthcare for consumers.Next, given the amount we have to do and the need to focus our resources, our third strategic priority is to refocus our portfolio of business interests. This will help us optimize the use of our resources, most notably, our management and executive time and our financial assets. It's absolutely critical that our portfolio of assets strongly connect back to our overall strategy. I spoke with you earlier about focus. Focusing how and where we spend our time and resources is a critical enabler of our strategy. James is going to take us through the work already underway on this. We've made some tremendous progress already, but more work remains.I've already touched on our final core strategic priority; to build a high performance culture and a winning diverse team within the company. I'm very excited to share with you several key hires that I believe will help us build upon our momentum and accelerate our growth ambitions.So let's ask John now to take us through the first strategic priority to transform and align the core businesses. John?John Standley -- Executive Vice President and President-WalgreensThank you, Roz. I'm really excited about the new direction of the company and the strong pivot into healthcare. The strategic investments we are making will enable Walgreens retail pharmacy business to create coordinated care models that will help our customers and patients successfully manage their chronic disease and realize better health outcomes and ultimately make Walgreens a more valued member of the healthcare ecosystem.The strong pivot into healthcare, combined with the investments and improvements that we are making in the core business will not only allow Walgreens to capture more share of the close to $1 trillion in the integrated pharmacy-led health and well-being market, but also grow our presence in the $1 trillion healthcare services market. And Walgreens is well-positioned to do this with our national network of approximately 9,000 convenient locations, our 26,000 pharmacists and our 54,000 pharmacy technicians, combined with the transformation of our core business to better help chronic patients successfully manage their conditions.Chronic patients make up 60% of the adult U.S. population but incur 90% of U.S. healthcare costs. And we have more access to those patients than any other provider in the care continuum. When we attract new chronic patients, they become our best patients. Today, we care for 35 million chronic patients, contributing 84% of our revenues and there is much more we can do to help these patients have better outcomes.To complete our transformation, we're focusing in four key areas: building the pharmacy of the future to support and enable our health strategy; reimagining retail through expanded health and wellness offerings and mass personalization; accelerating our brands and digital offerings; and expanding our Transformational Cost Management Program.As we think about how we will build the pharmacy of the future to enable our healthcare strategy, our pharmacists and technicians are foundational to everything we do. They've always played an important role in the communities we serve. But the trust and relationships our pharmacists and technicians have with their patients have deepened over the last 18 months as they have delivered critical medications and vital vaccines and testing during the pandemic. And looking forward, the investments we are making in central fill, digital capabilities and new roles will allow our pharmacy teams to have an even bigger impact on the communities we serve.To deliver the pharmacy of the future, we're working in four key areas: reducing the time required and cost to fill prescriptions; reinventing the omnichannel experience; accelerating growth; and expanding our care model to provide additional clinical services. To free up capacity, reduce both our cost to fill existing prescriptions and our incremental cost to fill new prescriptions and also reduce inventory, we are building a nationwide network of micro fulfillment sites using cutting edge automation technology from iA; a company we recently made a majority investment in, that will leverage our existing AmerisourceBergen distribution network to efficiently fill prescriptions and quickly get them to our pharmacies. Today, we have two micro fulfillment centers that are operational, serving over 1,000 pharmacies in the Phoenix and Dallas areas. We'll have an additional nine centers to go live by the end of fiscal year '22, bringing the number of pharmacies served to around 3,900, and by 2024, we will have 22 facilities serving over 8,500 pharmacies and we expect to achieve a $1.1 billion working capital reduction by 2025.In addition to our investment in the micro fulfillment sites, we are also expanding our centralized services capabilities to free up even more time for our pharmacy teams. Further, we are building a new pharmacy dispensing platform that will make it easier for our pharmacists to fill prescriptions, manage inventory and provide additional clinical interactions. Components of the new dispensing platform have already begun rolling out to stores with additional components being released in phases through fiscal '24. These investments are critical because they provide us the capacity and clinical tools we need to grow our prescription business, as well as provide additional healthcare services.I have a short video that shows how the impressive new micro fulfillment sites operate and we'll let you hear from the team bringing this to life.[Video Presentation]Other key components of the pharmacy of the future are our health system collaborations and specialty pharmacy. Specialty pharmacy is the fastest growing segment of pharmacy from a cost perspective and now makes up more than 50% of the total U.S. pharmacy spend. 75% of all specialty pharmacy prescriptions originate in health systems which is why our majority investments in Shields makes so much sense. Shields extends Walgreens leadership position as a specialty pharmacy integrator to complement our existing onsite community and central fill assets and will create ongoing synergies. We have a long history of working with health systems with 175 Walgreens pharmacies onsite at health systems and 211 health system clinics onsite at Walgreens.In addition, as value-based care plays a bigger role in health system economics, we have the opportunity to help them reduce costs and drive better outcomes through collaborative care models. As we think about the renewed role and relevance of community pharmacy, we see great opportunity to expand the scope of practice of our pharmacists to deliver additional services and grow revenues.COVID-19 sparked care site migration from primary care physicians, hospitals and even workplaces to pharmacies. We've administered more than 40 million COVID vaccines to date and have achieved 21% share of all COVID vaccinations administered in the fourth quarter. And we believe the transition of services from traditional healthcare settings will continue beyond the pandemic. 61% of healthcare leaders expects care delivery in non-clinical settings to accelerate post-COVID and 60% of patients receiving care in hospitals would be willing to receive care in a lower acuity setting. While virtual care is expected to play a continued role, in particular, to review test results and for follow-ups, there's still a preference for first interactions and initial diagnosis to be in person.For Walgreens, in the short term, we're focused on maximizing the administration of COVID-19 vaccinations and testing, while retaining new patients and longer term we'll leverage their preference for in-person interactions with our deepened relationships and national footprint to accelerate our transition to becoming a broader care provider. And although we are in early days, we continue to gain traction, expanding the role of pharmacists to deliver pharmacy and healthcare services.For example, we are serving as a trusted provider of COVID-19 rapid testing, administering over 60 million tests to date. And we will leverage testing technology innovations to introduce new points-of-care diagnostics including RSV, pneumonia, strep and STIs. Additionally, we know that closing care gaps for chronic conditions will drive better outcomes and we're already piloting this in several markets. In Idaho, we're partnering with Cambia to identify high cholesterol patients with care gaps, providing them with liver function test kits and our pharmacists can prescribe statins based on the lab results. We have A1C pilots in four states where we're partnering with three payers to provide HbA1C care gap closures for high-risk diabetic patients. We've launched pilots in two states to reach HIV PrEP patients as only 18% of the 1 million patients who are eligible are on therapy. And 13% of the 1 million people living with HIV are unaware. So we have HIV testing pilots in two states and we estimate this could grow to $26 million in revenue by fiscal year '24. And we're also conducting hep C testing in some states.Although many of the healthcare services we provide today are reimbursed based on fee for service, we believe the growing outcomes-based healthcare models will allow us to participate more broadly in the value-based care marketplace. A Lancet study from October of 2020 estimated that approximately $730 billion of healthcare spend is attributed to modifiable risk factors such as BMI, blood pressure, A1C, diet and smoking and is concentrated in several key conditions, led by diabetes and cardiovascular disease. Further, medication non-adherence is estimated to cost the healthcare system between $100 billion and $290 billion per year according to NACDS.We know collaboration is key to addressing adherence and improving outcomes. So we're executing at scale programs in P4P contracts with payers and increasing performance year-over-year. And we've developed a collaborative care practice agreement with VillageMD that allows our pharmacists to complete bridge refills, formulary interchange and prior authorizations. And we're providing clinical consultations to VillageMD patients. You'll hear more about our VillageMD partnership from Roz shortly.Shifting to our second priority, to support transforming the core, I'd like to talk about how we're reimagining retail through our health and wellness leadership and mass personalization. Key to enabling this reimagination is the recent launch of the MyWalgreens program, which established a powerful customer engagement platform to provide better insights to meet the needs of our customers. Given the opportunity to expand our relationships with our existing and chronic patients and attract new ones, there is meaningful headroom to grow our business. We're well-positioned to capture this opportunity and we know what we need to do to win, including better understanding our customers to provide personalized health and wellness recommendations, ensuring our pharmacists and technicians are available to provide expert health advice, both online and in store, and gearing our loyalty program rewards toward better health among top chronic customers.We launched our MyWalgreens program in the midst of the pandemic. Since then, we have enrolled more than 85 million members, increased the program NPS by 20 points, delivered more than a $1 billion in attributable revenue and increased our marketing effectiveness. More importantly, we can now connect directly with customers, including nearly 53 million emails, nearly double from a year ago. We believe the key to growth is personalized offers and advice. And when we say personalized, we mean not only to what you buy, but to who you are and your specific needs, providing reliable, clinically appropriate information. That's why we're modernizing the retail health experience and developing an industry-leading omnichannel personalization engine, built on cloud technology with world-class partners.Let me show you a short video that illustrates how our mass personalization approach is driving engagement.[Video Presentation]Our success with mass personalization has created an opportunity to expand alternative profit businesses, including media advertising and financial services. Last December, we introduced Walgreens advertising group to capitalize on the retail media category, which is projected to grow to a $100 billion industry. Not surprisingly, digital is driving the growth and 70% of all U.S. media is expected to be digital by 2023. With the capabilities we are building, we believe this will be a significant opportunity for us. We launched Walgreens advertising group in December 2020 and to date have executed more than 900 campaigns and activated with over 200 brands. More recently, in August, we launched the industry's first credit card that rewards customers for healthy choices. We're targeting to reach well over 1 million active credit cards.The third theme I want to discuss related to transforming the core is accelerating our product brands and digital offerings. The key initiatives driving this area of our transformation are: building on our leading owned brands innovation through stronger brand development; expanding our omnichannel offering to meet the needs of our customers where, when and how they want to shop; and dramatically expanding the best health and wellness assortment and offering easy better-for-you product options; and making health and well-being products more affordable through both pricing and value.Walgreens owned brand ambition is to reach $4.7 billion in revenue and 18% penetration by the end of fiscal 2022. We have plans for rapid innovation and continued growth to reach our longer term goal of 22% penetration by 2024. We will also reimagine our retail offer with better-for-you products, including in underserved areas and we're already seeing a strong customer response in our pilots. And we'll complement these offerings with our differentiated expertise, personalized support and integrated experience.Our digital transformation was accelerated by COVID-19 as we continue to invest in omnichannel capabilities that delivered what customers needed. Last November, we launched curbside pickup in as little as 30 minutes nationwide and have completed more than 10 million same-day pickups. In spring, we expanded to nationwide same-day home delivery across multiple marketplace platforms, bringing our total same-day home delivery and pickup transactions to more than 23 million. The combination of these expanded digital offerings combined with our e-commerce shift-to-home offering grew our e-commerce revenue by over 100% in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021.So how do we fund all of this transformation, while investing in growth? It will require comprehensive retail management. So we'll do that by optimizing existing investments to improve value perception among our best customers. We are shifting investments from mass promotions to mass personalization. In the midst of the pandemic, we transitioned away from 18 million weekly print circulars to a digital circular that this month will be fully personalized to each individual customer. In addition, as I mentioned earlier, the new MyWalgreens credit card provides the opportunity for customers to earn even more value and we are looking at further evolving our loyalty program to reach our best customers. We'll also review product assortment, owned brand positioning and customer preference to both better meet customer needs and improve cost of goods efficiency. We'll also continue to leverage purchasing groups to create additional customer value.At the same time we're transforming our digital platforms and product offerings, we are modernizing our store experience through our format strategy, store technology and strategic partnerships. Walgreens historically operated mostly cookie cutter stores with similar offerings across the country. We are reinventing our customer offer and developing a portfolio and multi-format approach to our assets. We are going to expand our store program this year and transform our prototypical store of 12,000 square feet to 14,000 square feet with multiple customer propositions, including the introduction and development of a new core health and well-being retail products offering featuring better-for-you products, extending our retail health presence with over 160 VillageMD locations by the end of 2022, providing patients and integrated primary care and pharmacy experience and continued addition of lab core locations for a total of 375.In addition, we will have opened nearly 100 small-format stores by the end of 2022. We will wrap our physical store reinventions with digital capabilities and modern technologies to reimagine the customer experience. This will include the previously discussed digital innovation to help customers live healthier lives with personalized recommendations and advice and omnichannel fulfillment options.In summary, we have a great opportunity to grow our business by transforming the core to enable our healthcare strategy. We are building the pharmacy of the future, reimagining retail through expanded health and wellness offerings and mass personalization, and accelerating our brands and digital offerings. We are committed to being transparent regarding our progress toward this future and James will cover the financial goals later today.In addition, we've established key KPIs to measure progress against important areas of our strategy, including our TCM cost savings, owned brands penetration and alternative profit income. Our goals are to achieve the following for these KPIs by 2024: an additional $1 billion in cost savings through our TCM program; 22% owned brand penetration; and $300 million of alternative profit income.Now, let me take a couple of minutes to give you an update on Boots UK.[Video Presentation]Boots continues to accelerate its omnichannel transformation to grow its portfolio. They have the Number 1 health and beauty website in the UK and have seen 3 times growth. Online sales is approximately 20% of Boots total retail sales and AOI has grown 2 times over fiscal year '20. Boots is also transforming healthcare through testing, vaccinations and digital services. To date, Boots has delivered more than 3.7 million COVID-19 tests and more than 800,000 first and second COVID-19 vaccinations since January 2021. Now, Boots will support the NHS to deliver COVID-19 booster vaccinations in 55 of its stores in England.During their COVID-19 booster vaccination appointments at Boots, patients will also be offered a free NHS flu jab, wherever possible, if they are eligible and subject to supply in store. And Boots continues to grow its telehealth offerings, now with more than 100 healthcare and pharmacy services available to patients, including online doctor services for 45 healthcare conditions, from skin conditions to sexual health and family planning, alongside weight loss support, diabetes testing and menopause treatments.The Boots Online Doctor services can provide quick access to advice and prescription-only medicine without having to see a GP through online consultations that can take as little as 5 minutes to complete. Boots is also investing on the retail side of the business by strengthening its beauty offering. More than 40% of beauty products in the UK are purchased at Boots, making it the Number 1 beauty destination in the UK. And to continue that momentum, Boots has introduced more than 60 new beauty brands in the last 18 months, including Anastasia Beauty Beverly Hills, Uoma Beauty and Bic Beauty.Boots is also investing to enhance the in-store experience with more than 100 stores completed as part of a multi-format store strategy that aims to provide customers with greater access to the world's leading beauty brands. Additionally, over 100 new beauty specialist roles will be added as part of this next phase in the beauty reinvention project. There are now over 700 Boots beauty specialists across the UK and their role is to provide personalized, brand-neutral beauty and skincare advice to customers for free in stores. They are fully trained by Boots, including an empathy training, a unique program based on brain science and human emotions, which allows them to further understand customers' needs. An additional 830 Boots Macmillan Beauty Advisors can provide support to customers going through cancer treatment with free face-to-face beauty advice.Boots is one of several proof points of WBAs leadership in the beauty space and we are continuing to grow our beauty brands portfolio in the U.S., the UK and internationally. In the U.S., No7 beauty company currently deliver sales of around $235 million, with the U.S. being one of the largest growth markets, expected to grow more than $200 million over the next three years. In the UK, our beauty brand sales are $450 million today and we recently launched a direct-to-consumer offering to reach even more customers. In China, we're in the market with Soap and Glory and we'll launch No7 there in 2023.Now, let me bring up James Kehoe, our Chief Financial Officer to talk about our Transformational Cost Management Program. James?James Kehoe -- Executive Vice President and Global Chief Financial OfficerThank you, John. I'm delighted to report that our Transformational Cost Management Program has delivered very strong results. We have already achieved cumulative cost savings of over $2 billion, and this is one year ahead of our original goal. As a result, we are expanding the TCM program and raising the savings goal to $3.3 billion by 2024.Let me give you a little bit of history. We originally announced the program in December 2018 with a savings goal of $1 billion and the savings were intended to offset inflation, and volume impacts and to fuel long-term growth investments. We have consistently delivered strong results, raising the goal for targeted savings a number of times with the most recent target being in excess of $2 billion of cost savings by fiscal '22. As you can see, we have already delivered savings of $2.1 billion with around $800 million of savings in the most recent fiscal year. Over the period, SG&A efficiency has improved by approximately 190 basis points to 17.7% of sales.We are now expanding the program and targeting cumulative savings of over $3.3 billion by fiscal year '24. We have a number of in-flight initiatives that are showing strong momentum and we have built out a comprehensive funnel of new and innovative initiatives. We have also updated our projected implementation costs to a range of $3.6 billion to $3.9 billion.Here you can see the broad scope of initiatives that we're driving across the business. I won't tread [Phonetic] this slide, but I will highlight one example just to give you a sense for the evolution. We have made good progress in establishing global business services in more traditional areas such as IT, finance and HR. And in all cases, we are delivering both cost savings and capability advancements. We are now expanding the business services concepts across a wider scope of our business. We are reinventing how we operate and this will make us more effective and efficient as we build out more advanced capabilities and technology.In summary, we are raising our cost savings goal to $3.3 billion by 2024 and we have identified a comprehensive set of initiatives to deliver or exceed this goal.And with that, let me pass you back to Roz.Rosalind Brewer -- Chief Executive OfficerThank you, James. And congratulations to you and your team on delivering such strong results on the Transformational Cost Management Program.Now, as I promised earlier, I'm going to cover in more depth our next growth engine and our future as a healthcare company. But before I go into all those details, I want to share a personal story with you about the last months of my mom's life to provide just a little bit of context. So this was 10 years ago. She had been diagnosed with several serious health issues, including diabetes, cardiovascular disease, high blood pressure and, as a result, kidney failure. While it was awful seeing her suffer from all those ailments, she was relieved to have good health insurance after 30 years of working in the auto industry. And we were fortunate to have a large family around her with the resources and the expertise to provide a high level of care. In fact, I'm very proud to say that my sister is a pharmacist and she's married to a doctor of Internal Medicine.But even in our situation, we found the experience of caring for my mom to be incredibly confusing and unwieldy and burdensome. We had to navigate across several health systems and different doctor's offices, including a nephrologist, endocrinologist and a cardiologist. And my brother had to take time off work every other day for several hours to take her to her dialysis. Even worse, the bills from all these visits kept coming in, sometimes several months after the original appointment and it was very hard to keep track of what checks needed to be signed and when. This was a time when our family should have been able to focus mainly on just enjoying our remaining moments. But instead we were distracted with many unnecessary tasks and details.And I know this story is one that several of you can relate to as well. And many families and patients find themselves in far worse situations than this. But I just wanted to mention this experience because what I am about to discuss with you is deeply personal to me. And I want to help our patients avoid similar scenarios in the future. So the question is, how does our company plan to do that? As I mentioned earlier, we have momentum in our [Technical Issues] proof that we can execute at pace and we have demonstrated that we can provide impactful results at scale. The pandemic further affirmed that the timing is right for this new phase of our company that consumers are embracing retail pharmacy to manage their healthcare more than ever and that we're building on this renewed focus on health and well-being, as we expand Walgreens presence in healthcare.We have also decided the time is right to accelerate our ambitions through some strategic investments. And I will share more with you on that in a few minutes. Living through this pandemic has taught us many lessons and has shown us, more than ever, that healthcare is inherently local. The needs of communities are diverse and Walgreens has a deep understanding of the neighborhoods and communities we're in, each and every one of those corners and intersections on streets across America. Consumers are searching for ways to fit managing their health into their lives and are thinking about their health and well-being holistically.Walgreens is well-positioned to meet them where they are, be it through our stores or digital channels. As healthcare is local, our scale and reach are critical to engage consumers. And with our diverse assets, we can provide services tailored to the community. We have 9,000 of the best locations in the U.S., which gives us the big strategic advantage as we accelerate our journey.So with that said, I'm incredibly excited to announce today the launch of Walgreens Health. This is a new segment within our business that will focus on bringing together our healthcare ambitions and powering up our new and existing assets to support the journey. Walgreens Health allows our patients to view us as a friend in healthcare. And we want to demystify healthcare for them. Like I talked about with my mom, it doesn't matter where you come from or what resources you have at your disposal, healthcare is complex.So we plan to bring equitable, personalized, whole person healthcare to local communities across America. We will relentlessly deliver healthier outcomes, focusing on people's holistic well-being by integrating world-class technology and an unbeatable national footprint across a connected community of payers and providers. We are creating a unified, open and connected health experience that gives people anytime, anywhere control over the personalized care they need, wherever and however it's best for them; in store, at home, online and via mobile app. Creating better outcomes for consumers and partners is critical for us. And we can do that through our ability to maximize Walgreens' diverse assets. This is where we get our leg up. This is where we accelerate. This is how we differentiate.As we apply our lessons learned in core principles, we realize that our healthcare strategy must be both consumer and partner-centric and payers, providers and patients are all part of this equation. It will be important to create value for both our consumers as well as our partners. We will engage consumers in their healthcare and leverage people and technology to address complex and chronic conditions like the ones I've described earlier that my mother suffered from. And we can offer aligned payment models, which you'll remember was also an issue in my mother's case and that can lead to better health outcomes and lower costs.First and foremost, we will focus on the consumer or patient by creating delightful and personalized experiences. Walgreens has trusted consumer relationships and a unique ability to engage them in meaningful and personal ways. Payers and providers seek a strategic partner; a partner that can engage consumers and help them improve health outcomes and lower total cost of care with the variety of services we can offer physically, digitally and in the home.Walgreens Health is a nationally scaled locally delivered business with a diversified multi-asset strategy. We will maximize all the strengths and assets that Walgreens has from our trusted consumer relationships, our community presence, our care teams, our deep partnerships, with payers and providers across the country.Today many patients and their caregivers are overwhelmed as they try to manage across different health conditions, providers, appointments, bills and medications. Our new Walgreens Health greatly simplifies and improves that experience. We have established a tech-enabled care model, powered by a healthcare platform that is omnichannel and personalized for the consumers we serve. This platform will create a pragmatic and innovative experience for consumers across their journey and then knit together the products and services from Walgreens Health and our partners.For example, imagine a day when we can offer services across the care continuum, including finding the right doctor, scheduling appointments, managing chronic conditions, obtaining insurance records, viewing health records, accessing wellness services, setting up health devices, providing nutritional and preventative information, and much more. Ultimately, our goal is to move toward value-based care and directly impacting costs and outcomes. To achieve our ambitious goal of redefining the healthcare experience across this country, we will strive to manage the total health of populations through value-based arrangements.Our go-to-market strategy starts with leveraging our strengths and delivering at the local level and address any gaps in care through our core assets. This is a means to both directly engage consumers as well as create immediate value for our payer partners. Over time, we will then look to bring the tools and services to enable our provider partners to more effectively manage populations longitudinally and engage their patients outside the doctor's office. And as we enter into value-based and risk arrangements, we will look to bring owned and partner care delivery assets so that we can manage the clinical outcomes and take delegated risk on populations.As I mentioned earlier, I spent a great deal of time working with our team to identify our best opportunities for the future. And as a result, today, I'm extremely excited to share a couple of strategic investments with you. To show our commitment and our conviction to accelerating our strategy, we are pleased to announce that we have made strategic investments in VillageMD and CareCentrix, taking a majority ownership position with them. These assets accelerate our capabilities in the market, our impact on the care journey and our ability to manage rising costs in high-risk patients who drive an outsized proportion of the spend. These are the same patients who frequently visit our stores and meet with our pharmacists, and we are uniquely positioned to engage and impact their care across the continuum.For us to better care for them beyond the pharmacy, our ability to deliver care through owned and partner assets is critical. We know, we need to bring forward capabilities in the primary care and post-acute care spaces of their care journey. Not only does VillageMD and CareCentrix complement our expertise in retail and specialty pharmacy, but they build upon our portfolio of assets across our newly launched Walgreens Health corners.Now, I want to share a few more details about the exciting work of both of these companies. I spoke with you a moment ago about the consumer journey through healthcare. CareCentrix is focused on the final stage in the journey; post-acute, basically, when the patient goes home. This is the point in the journey where many folks feel abandoned or lost. I certainly know we did when I was taking care of my mother. CareCentrix makes it easier for both caregivers and patients to understand their options and connect with the expertise they need, which lowers readmissions significantly, resulting in lower total cost of care. Our stake in CareCentrix really helps us as we strive to play a role across the care continuum.While we already have a fantastic partnership with VillageMD, our ownership stake gives us a greater opportunity to expand and accelerate, while further coordinating our assets to drive better outcomes. We already know how to work with VillageMD. We know how to scale their model. We've built co-located clinics at many Walgreens locations and have continued to learn while we did. And there are great opportunities to bring the physician and pharmacist together to improve overall care.One thing that is very important about VillageMD and a primary reason we started this partnership to begin with is that they are focused on all patient populations; Medicare, Medicare Advantage, Medicaid, commercial and the uninsured. This was a really important aspect for us since it allows us to serve patients across their life journeys. For most people, your primary care doctor stays with you throughout your life and we think VillageMDs model really supports this vision. I'm also very excited to share that this expanded partnership will increase the number of co-located clinics that we had originally planned going from 600 to over 1,000. And lastly, this model is focused on value-based care which completely aligns with the strategy for Walgreens Health that I shared with you a couple of slides ago.I'd like to take a moment to share a video of how Walgreens and VillageMD partnership is working today. This is just the beginning but I hope you'll share my excitement about our potential here.[Video Presentation]Now I'd like to share more about the organic work we've been doing beyond CareCentrix and VillageMD. Over the past year, we have developed and are bringing to market a new offering, the Walgreens Health Corner, which includes both digital and physical channels. The digital channel of the Walgreens Health Corner will empower our customers to feel more in control of their health by connecting their daily health to the accessible and high quality services they need whenever and wherever. The physical channel of the Walgreens Health Corner takes the digital experience to the next level by bringing to consumers in-person expertise and care from someone they trust in their community.We have started our development in the digital channel of the Walgreens Health Corner in two key areas. The first area is the consumer and caregiver app, which, one, allows consumers to access the programs and services that they need digitally. Secondly, it drives engagement through simple nudges and friendly reminders to help them take the right actions to better manage their health and follow what their doctors are recommending. Thirdly, it makes caregiving less hard and emotionally taxing by enabling caregivers to manage the task, medications and appointments of their loved ones. It also will provide caregivers with access to support resources for themselves to help them better manage their own needs.The second area is the health marketplace which will curate personalized programs and services that are most relevant to a consumer and covered by their insurance. Also it integrates back to the provider to help them select the right programs at the point of care and to connect back to the physical channel of the Walgreens Health Corner by bringing forth guidance, coaching and chronic condition support.Leveraging the community presence of Walgreens stores, we have already delivered into market and operationalized Walgreens Health Corners. They're in 40 locations, open today, they are working and our health plan partners love them. They provide a differentiated experience to deliver individual clinical and non-clinical services.The physical channel of the Walgreens Health Corners are comprised of a welcoming physical space in our stores with a private health room, a technology bar that provides access to devices and technologies such as lifestyle products and remote patient monitoring devices that help consumers manage their health and chronic conditions. And the health advisors who are licensed clinicians, pharmacists and nurses who are available to deliver healthcare services, provide advice and guidance and build a local trusted relationship. So just to clarify, the difference between what we've discussed earlier, the Walgreens Health Corners are staffed by clinicians such as pharmacists and nurses, while VillageMD clinics are even broader services and are physician-led.Next I want to talk a bit about the strategic contracts we have in place with innovative payers across the industry, which provide Walgreens Health with access to over 2 million lives. We started with Clover Health earlier this year as our first partner in these services and are actively serving their members. In fact, as part of this program, we already have Health Corners in place today, serving their patient populations. And we recently announced a strategic partnership with Blue Shield of California with a plan to launch new products and services to their members in the coming months. The potential of partnerships like these are vast and we continue to talk with many other plans across the country that are interested in a relationship with Walgreens Health. So this is just the beginning.To bring to life the Walgreens Health Corners, I'd like to share with you a short video featuring Clover members using our services, our health advisor team and our Clover and Blue Shield of California partners.[Video Presentation]We already have 2 million lives in our ecosystem today through our existing partnerships. We expect that [Technical Issues] with over 10 million by fiscal year '25. 1 million of those will be in risk and that number doesn't include the VillageMD ambitions. And to expand our access to lives, it will be important to continue building a strong ecosystem of partners. Clover and Blue Shield are just the beginning. We are already engaged with other interested partners and expect to be well over 10 million by 2025. As we scale our access to lives and partnerships, we will continue to build out our very successful Health Corners. We will have over 100 by the end of this fiscal year and expect to reach 3,000-plus at scale.Lastly, and as I mentioned earlier, our expanded partnership with VillageMD will allow us to scale the number of co-located clinics to over 1,000 units by 2027. This will give us unprecedented reach and scale. We know that this is just the beginning and we'll continue to share even more key metrics with you as this business gets closer to reaching scale. You have our commitment to an open dialog as we continue to build this new healthcare segment.So to sum this all up, the launch of Walgreens Health is a big bold move for WBA. It represents our commitment to care for communities across the country and builds off our core assets and long-established consumer relationships. We have already made major strides by making two new majority investments in care delivery with VillageMD and CareCentrix, launching and operationalizing Walgreens Health corners, both physically and digitally, signing strategic contracts with two partners providing access to over 1.8 million lives and putting in place an aggressive growth plan that will be executed through a balance of organic and inorganic activities. We look forward to taking you along on this journey as we continue to rapidly grow this business.And with that, I'm now going to turn it over to James, who is going to cover a key part, I know you've all been waiting for. He's going to speak about how we're going to focus our portfolio and connect our investments and capital to our strategy. James?James Kehoe -- Executive Vice President and Global Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Roz. Our third strategic priority is to refocus the portfolio and our optimized capital allocation. Ultimately, we aim to maximize long-term shareholder returns. We have refined our capital allocation principles and approach with a much sharper focus on both the U.S. and healthcare markets. Our portfolio transformation started earlier this year with the successful divestiture of our Alliance Healthcare business for $6.5 billion, achieving an attractive 12 times EBITDA multiple.Our focus has now shifted to two key areas. Firstly, we are optimizing our portfolio of equity investments. One recent example was the decision to increase our stake in Shields Health to 71%. Secondly, acquisitions must be aligned with strategy and prioritize our healthcare ambitions. You heard earlier from Roz that we are announcing two investments today. We have acquired an initial 55% stake in CareCentrix and we have taken a majority stake in VillageMD. Both of these investments are targeting sweet spots in care delivery and value-based care and are fully aligned with strategy.As we look at our capital allocation priorities, we expect to see a healthy balance of organic investments and strategic M&A. We remain committed to a growing dividend and returning excess cash to shareholders. And finally, we are very focused on optimizing our attractive portfolio of equity investments. We will assess M&A with an operational and financial lens. While we continue to seek attractive returns, ultimately, we will prioritize quality healthcare assets that accelerate growth and enhance capabilities or talent.Nothing new on our leverage goals. We will continue to target solid investment grade. However, we may temporarily flex upwards for the right strategic acquisition.Looking forward, there is a clear opportunity to optimize our equity investments. We have already assessed each investment in terms of strategic fit, synergy with WBA and potential for future financial returns. Obviously, we cannot share our conclusions. But our first actions do show a tenancy to take majority positions when we are convinced that the investments are aligned with strategy and offer attractive long-term financial returns. In the case of Shields, we took an initial 25% stake in July 2019 for an investment of $165 million. We have now invested a further $970 million to increase our stake to 71% with a future path to full ownership via [Indecipherable] structure. The acquisition of an initial 55% stake in CareCentrix and the $5.2 billion investment in VillageMD are key steps in bringing to life our healthcare ambitions. Looking forward, we do expect to make further changes to the equity investment portfolio, and we will communicate each strategic move as we get closer.Let me now provide a little more information on the VillageMD and CareCentrix transactions. As Roz highlighted earlier, VillageMD is an incredible opportunity. It is a leading value-based primary care provider with 230 clinics in 15 markets. It operates in a vast market with a unique operating model and it is poised for explosive growth as it builds out 1,000 VillageMD at Walgreens clinics over the next six years. WBA is investing $5.2 billion to raise its stake in VillageMD to 63%. Fiscal year '22 revenue is estimated to be around $1.3 billion to $1.5 billion depending upon the transaction closing date. We expect the transaction to be dilutive with an impact of $0.08 to $0.15 depending upon closing date and the pace of their investments. Finally, we expect that VillageMD will proceed with their IPO later in calendar '22 with WBA remaining the majority shareholder.CareCentrix is an industry leader in the post-acute and homecare sector, providing care coordination and outsourced benefit management services. The U.S. post-acute care market represents approximately $75 billion in healthcare spend annually and it's considered one of the fastest growing segments in healthcare. The $330 million investments is for an initial 55% stake with an option to acquire the remaining equity interest in the future. Fiscal year '22 revenue is estimated to be around $1.2 billion to $1.4 billion and we expect the transaction to be slightly EPS dilutive in fiscal '22 and accretive thereafter.My final slide brings it all home. This lays out the tremendous value of our equity investments. We estimate a valuation range of around $21 billion, the majority of which are healthcare investments. The investments range from majority stakes in VillageMD, Shields, CareCentrix and iA, to minority positions such as our 28.5% shareholding in AmerisourceBergen and our 21% shareholding in Option Care. In total, this attractive healthcare portfolio is valued at around $20 billion. Given the large value of our equity investments and the launch of a new fast growing Walgreens Health segment, moving forward, it will be increasingly important for the market to value WBA as the sum of the parts. Given the upfront healthcare investments, it may also be more appropriate to use revenue multiples to value the Walgreens Health segment.And on that very positive note, let me hand it over to Roz for our fourth and final priority.Rosalind Brewer -- Chief Executive OfficerThank you, James. And now, I'm going to add a little bit more detail on our final core strategic priority; to build a high-performance culture and a winning diverse team within the company. You'll recall that earlier I discussed how our purpose and our vision are going to unite and propel us forward and underpinning our purpose and vision our also our four core values, which we finally refer to as the four Cs. They are courageous, connected, committed and curious.Courageous is about challenging the status quo, addressing confidently conflict directly and driving informed risk taking. Connected is about reflecting the communities that we serve, understanding the needs of others and innovating together. Committed is leading with integrity, building on our legacy and striving boldly toward the future. Lastly, curious. Curious is continuously learning and adapting, following the science and the data, and creating paths where none existed. You'll be hearing a lot more about how we're carrying out our purpose, our vision and our values to deliver even better and more meaningful results in the future. But of course, one key way we're going to supercharge our culture is with strong leadership, which is why I'm thrilled to share more about some of our most recent hires who reflect our future growth. We've added new talent and expertise across retail, healthcare, customer experience and HR in addition to our core business of pharmacy and healthcare. These new leaders bring a collective set of experiences across the healthcare and retail industries from organizations with strong customer-centric mindsets. This will be instrumental as we further innovate across every consumer touch point and work to define the future of health and well-being in the communities we serve.I'm very happy to welcome to the Company Holly May, Global Chief Human Resources Officer for WBA; Anita Allemand, Chief Transformation and Integration Officer for WBA; Danielle Gray, our Global Chief Legal Officer for WBA; and Tracey Brown, President of Retail Products, Chief Customer Officer for Walgreens; and Jeff Gruener, Chief Financial Officer for Walgreens. So welcome to all of our new hires.At this point. I'd like to turn it back over to James and he will take us through our fourth quarter earnings and fiscal year '21 financial highlights.James Kehoe -- Executive Vice President and Global Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Roz. Before getting into our long-term growth model and guidance, let me first give you some color on the fourth quarter and full-year results. In summary, we had an excellent quarter. Adjusted EPS was $1.17, well ahead of expectations, and up 28.1% versus prior year on a constant-currency basis. Full-year adjusted EPS was $4.91, an increase of 13.7% in constant currency.Overall, this result exceeded the guidance we provided at our third quarter earnings call, driven by higher COVID-19 vaccinations, strong U.S. retail performance and good execution across most markets. We administered 34.6 million COVID-19 vaccinations in fiscal year '21, 6.6 million doses higher than the guidance we provided at our third quarter conference call. Demand for vaccinations accelerated as the Delta variant cases spiked and we executed strongly, achieving the fourth quarter market share of around 21%.Free cash flow increased to $4.2 billion and following the completion of the Alliance Healthcare divestiture, we delevered the balance sheet by $6.5 billion compared to last year. Strong execution was fundamental to the quarter. In the U.S., comp scripts grew 8.8%, including a 485 basis points uplift from COVID-19 vaccines. Underlying scripts grew 4%, driven by seasonal script. U.S. retail comps grew 6.2% with broad-based growth across most categories, fueled by our omnichannel and mass personalization initiatives. The U.K. recovery is very much on track. COVID-19 restrictions were lifted in the middle of July and we drove strong market share gains, especially in beauty, which grew sales by 24.8%.Now let's look at the fourth quarter and full-year financial metrics. Fourth quarter sales advanced 11.8% on a constant currency basis, reflecting strong growth from both the International and U.S. segments. Adjusted operating income increased 22.1% on a constant currency basis driven by strong gross profit growth and this led to adjusted EPS growth of 28.1% in the quarter. In summary, EPS growth was of high quality.Full year sales increased 7.5% on a constant currency basis. Adjusted operating income increased 7.7% on a constant currency basis, again, reflecting strong adjusted gross profit growth across both segments and savings from our Transformational Cost Management Program. Fiscal year total EPS was $5.31, a constant currency increase of 11% over prior year despite the divestment of our Alliance Healthcare business on June 1 and the loss of three months of profit contribution. On a continuing basis, adjusted EPS was $4.91, a constant currency increase of 13.7%. As a reminder, our EPS guidance at the start of the year was low single-digit. Lastly, on a continuing basis, GAAP EPS increased by $2.10 to $2.30 and this also reflects a prior year impairment charge of $2 billion and investment gains this year related to our holding in Option Care Health.Now, let's briefly look at segment financial performance in the fourth quarter. U.S. sales advanced 6.6% in the quarter, with comp sales increasing 8.1%, driven by 8.8% growth in comp scripts and 6.2% in comparable retail sales. U.S. adjusted gross profit increased 13.7% due to strong sales growth, improved pharmacy margins due to favorable mix, and retail volume and margin growth. Adjusted operating income increased 16.4% as the strong gross profit more than compensated for costs related to the COVID-19 vaccination program and higher growth investments.Turning to the International segment, and as always, I'll talk to constant currency numbers. Sales increased 52.6% in the quarter, including higher sales from the formation of our wholesale joint venture in Germany. Excluding this tailwind, sales were up 9.3%, reflecting ongoing recovery and strong execution in the UK market. Comparable retail sales increased 15% in the UK, driven by a recovery of footfall, strong commercial execution, and a successful marketing campaign. Adjusted operating income was $140 million in the quarter, up $129 million versus prior year, reflecting 32.7% growth in adjusted gross profit.Let me now turn to our long-term growth algorithm. Before starting, please note that all references to EPS refer to adjusted EPS and all growth rates are on a constant currency basis. Our long-term growth will be highly influenced by the pace of healthcare investments and over the long-term horizon, we see a clear path to a growth model that aims for EPS growth of 11% to 13%. Starting in fiscal '22, we will ramp up healthcare investments to build out our long-term growth engine. And over the next three years, we expect EPS growth of around 4% with growth accelerating each year as the healthcare investments generate increasing returns. EPS will be flat in '22, rising to mid-single-digit in '23 and accelerating further to mid-to-high single-digit in '24. Beyond '24, the long-term growth algorithm calls for EPS growth in the low-teens as the faster growing and higher margin healthcare business hits scale.Let me first bring you through some of the key assumptions. We do expect a gradual increase in our tax rate and this is largely due to adverse mix due to a growing proportion of higher tax rate U.S. income. Please note that we have not considered any impacts from the current legislative proposals. While share repurchases are not a priority in the initial years, our long-term growth algorithm does assume sizable capacity for repurchase activity. As you have heard earlier, we have very good visibility into cost savings over the coming years.Turning now to the International segment. We expect international AOI growth of more than 50% in fiscal '22 with a three-year compound annual growth rate of 25% to 30%. This will be driven by mid-single-digit sales growth with fiscal '22 especially strong at 8% to 10% sales growth. Longer term, the growth algorithm assumes sales growth of 3% to 4% and mid-single-digit AOI growth.In the U.S., the long-term growth model is based on sales growth of 3.5% to 4% with pharmacy growth of around 4.5% and front-of-store growth around 2%. Gross margins will trend slightly lower with continued pressure from pharmacy reimbursement only partly offset by continued gross margin gains from U.S. retail and the gross margin accretion coming from new businesses. SG&A growth will trend below inflation and well below sales growth as we continue to prioritize cost optimization and reinvention. Overall, this growth model leads to AOI growth of around 3%.Fiscal '22 will be an outlier as the U.S. business will face some unique headwinds in the short term, including lower vaccinations, minimum wage, and the loss of contracts in our Alliance Rx Specialty business. Fiscal '22 sales will decline by around 8% with 7 percentage points due to Alliance Rx and 60 basis points due to lower vaccinations and testing. This leads to an AOI outlook of flat to slightly down for 2022. However, we do anticipate a return to revenue and AOI growth in the following fiscal year.Let me now turn to Walgreens Health. We see considerable sales potential and we expect the segment to post strong sales growth over the short, medium and long-term. In 2022, we expect sales of around $3 billion, mostly from our recent M&A activity and we expect the acquisitions to grow very quickly and achieve sales of around $10 billion by fiscal '25.Roz has already provided insights to our healthcare goals and objectives. And our organic developments are moving ahead at pace. We expect the organic revenue opportunity to build over time to at least $3.5 billion, although, it will take time to achieve scale as we build out our offering and partner with more and more payers and providers. Beyond '24, the long-term growth model assume sales growth in the high-teens. The margin structure will be attractive and higher than our current business, but it will take time to achieve optimal scale. Most of you will have a good understanding of the potential long-term margin levels for businesses such as VillageMD, Shields and CareCentrix. Over time, our Walgreens Health organic developments will trend to margins of over 25%. The next three years will be an investment mode and this will drive significant revenue growth as the segment grows quickly.We are providing specific AOI investment projections for the Walgreens Health organic development. In fiscal '22, we anticipate an AOI loss of over $200 million, rising to around $300 million in '23 before falling back to around $170 million in 2024 as investments subside and sales expand. In terms of EPS accretion, Shields is immediately accretive to the tune of around $0.03 in fiscal year '22. CareCentrix is neutral to slightly negative in fiscal '22 and EPS-accretive from '23 onwards. VillageMD will continue to be in investment mode for the foreseeable future with more than 800 clinics targeted by 2025. We anticipate fiscal '22 dilution of $0.08 to $0.15 depending upon the closing timeline and the pace of investments. Beyond '24, the new healthcare segment should generate material sales and AOI and contribute around 7 percentage points of EPS growth. These assumptions underpin our long-term growth algorithm.So let me now summarize. Post 2024, the EPS growth potential is solidly in a range of 11% to 13%. The base business will contribute around 3%; the healthcare segment contribute 7 percentage points of growth; and share repurchases contribute around 3%. In the near term, we anticipate EPS growth of around 4%, principally coming from the base business with the healthcare segment contributing 0.5%.Turning now to our specific guidance for fiscal year 2022. As I laid out earlier, we expect flat EPS with the base business growth of 4%, offsetting a 4 percentage point headwind from the newly established healthcare segment. The base business growth of 4% includes headwinds of 8 percentage points, mainly from lower COVID-19 vaccinations and higher core investments. These are offset by strong growth from international, higher ABC earnings and moderate growth in the U.S.The AOI impact of our organic healthcare business is projected to be a loss of $200 million in fiscal '22, reducing EPS growth by 3 percentage points. And our healthcare M&A will lead to EPS dilution of $0.05 to $0.10 entirely due to VillageMD. Revenue is projected at $3 billion to $3.2 billion, but this does depend upon closing timing for the three transactions.Turning now to phasing. We are projecting a strong start to the year due to higher vaccinations in the first half of the year and a weak prior year flu season. Overall, we expect first half EPS growth of 15% to 18%. In the second half of the year, we will be facing tough prior year comps due to COVID-19 vaccinations and higher healthcare investments. This leads to a second half EPS decline of 14% to 17%. Beyond fiscal '22, we project accelerating growth. EPS will grow mid-single-digit in 2023 and mid-to-high-single-digit in 2024. Beyond 2024, EPS growth will accelerate again to 11% to 13% growth, largely driven by our new Walgreens Health segment.With that, let me now pass it back to Roz for closing comments.Rosalind Brewer -- Chief Executive OfficerThank you, James. So in conclusion of our prepared comments and presentations, you've heard a lot today and about how we're leading off of our momentum with a thoughtful long-term strategic plan that pivots our business deeper into healthcare. And James has outlined for us how that strategy impacts our expectations for earnings. Even factoring in the investments we are making in the coming months to develop our new business area, we believe we will see reasonable growth in earnings in the short term. But it will be mitigated to some degree in the immediate term, given the extraordinary comparable performance from such a strong year in 2021 and the need to make some strategic investments to accelerate our strategy for the longer term.Looking forward, however, as the cost of investments give way to the returns we will get in the years to come, and as our healthcare businesses grow to a degree of scale, we believe this will lead to a healthy and sustainable double-digit EPS growth. But I want to make it clear, again, that we are not asking you to just take our word for what we are doing. You can see that the work that is already underway with our partnerships with companies like Blue Shield of California and Clover and, of course, through our investments in VillageMD and CareCentrix and Shields to help us accelerate our plans. This work we are doing to create a differentiated consumer-centric healthcare business is basically the key to unlock material enhanced long-term growth for the business, while securing the future of the core business.In my opening comments today, I told you what we aim for you to take away from our event. And so I want to go back to that. We've outlined today a plan to drive sustainable growth in our business, pivoting our focus much more toward healthcare and delivering a strategy that brings together a truly integrated new and revitalized initiative in healthcare and pharmacy and retail. Our plans in healthcare will be symbiotic with our pharmacy and retail businesses, building on their strengths and giving us new and a differentiated engine for growth. We're moving at pace, building out what we need to, internally and complementing it with investments to bring the initiatives, additional skills and resources and to accelerate our development of this new segment to our business. We are acting quickly to build out the assets and capabilities we need to ensure success in this area and to form a platform for the new operating model.We've also developed a financial algorithm, which reflects this change in focus and business mix. We're committed to offer enhanced communication and transparency as a management team and as a business to all of our stakeholders. And we want to bring everyone along with us for this exciting journey.Finally, but perhaps most importantly, I want to mention, once again, our revitalized strategy with its increased emphasis on healthcare. This strategy will go hand in hand with an intensified focus on execution, operational excellence and customer experience. And it will deliver growth, it will drive operational financial performance, and it will result in strong returns going forward in the short, medium and long-term.So in closing, I'm going to end in a rather unique way. Instead of saying we're wrapping up, I'm going to say we're just starting and we're bringing you along with this to a new beginning. Welcome to a new era for WBA, a new day, a new path forward. And now we'll take a quick break. Thank you.