  OperatorWelcome to Signature Bank's 2021 fourth quarter and year-end results conference call. Hosting the call today from Signature Bank are Joseph J. DePaolo, president and chief executive officer; and Eric R. Howell, senior executive vice president and chief operating officer. [Operator instructions] It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to Joseph J. DePaolo, president and chief executive officer. You may begin.Joseph J. DePaolo -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Britney. Good morning, and thank you for joining us today for the Signature Bank 2021 fourth quarter and year-end results conference call. Before I begin my formal remarks, Susan Lewis will read the forward-looking disclaimer. Please go ahead, Susan.Susan Lewis Thank you, Joe. This conference call and all statements made from time to time by our representatives contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should not place undue reliance on those statements because they are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties relating to our operations and business environment, all of which are difficult to predict and may be beyond our control. Forward-looking statements include information concerning our expectations regarding future results, interest rates and the interest rate environment, loan and deposit growth, loan performance, operations, new private client team hires, new office openings, business strategy, and the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on each of the foregoing and on our business overall. Forward-looking statements often include words such as may, believe, expect, anticipate, intend, potential, opportunity, could, project, seek, target, goals, should, will, would, plan, estimate, or other similar expressions. As you consider forward-looking statements, you should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. They involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements and can change as many as a result of many possible events or factors, not all of which are known to us or in our control. These factors include those described in our quarterly and annual reports filed with the FDIC, which you should review carefully for further information. You should keep in mind that any forward-looking statements made by Signature Bank speak only as of the date on which they were made. Now, I'd like to turn the call back to Joe.Joseph J. DePaolo -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Susan. I will provide some overview into the quarterly results. And then my colleague, Eric Howell, our chief operating officer, will review the bank's financial performance in greater detail. Eric and I will address your questions at the end of our remarks. 2021, which marks Signature Bank's 20th anniversary, was a sensational year of growth and achievements. All our businesses contributed to the bank's stellar performance, whether it be from our established New York banking franchise and emerging West Coast presence to our newer nationwide businesses. The performance includes a multitude of accomplishments, such as record growth in deposits of 43 billion, which comes on the heels of our 2020 record deposit growth of 23 billion. Additionally, growth in non interest bearing deposits, loans, and investment securities all reached record levels. It is our founding client-centric model that drives this robust organic growth and, when combined with the inherent best-in-class operating efficiencies of Signature Bank, results in record revenue growth and record net income. Throughout the 20 years that we have been in business, we seldom take time to acknowledge our achievements, such as our recent inclusion in the S&P 500 Index, for which we are very honored. Instead, we remain focused on our bright future and commitment to staying at the forefront of innovation as the financial services industry continues to undergo digital transformation. Now, let's take a look at our earnings. Pre-tax pre-provision earnings for the 2021 fourth quarter were a record 385 million, an increase of 124 million, or 47%, compared with 262 million for the 2020 fourth quarter. Net income for the 2021 fourth quarter increased 99 million, or 57%, to a record 272 million or $4.34 diluted earnings per share compared with 173 million or $3.26 diluted earnings per share for last year. The increase in income was predominantly driven by substantial asset growth of 45 billion over the last 12 months, as well as the decrease in the provision for credit losses, which was substantially impacted by COVID-19 in the fourth quarter of 2020. Looking at deposits, deposits increased 10.6 billion or 11% to 106 billion this quarter, while average deposits also grew 10 billion. This quarter's growth was driven by the digital asset banking team, which grew deposits by 5.7 billion, including 2.4 billion of growth on the Signet payments platform. Additionally, our New York banking teams grew by 6.9 million. For the year, deposits increased a remarkable 43 billion or 68%, and average deposits increased 35 billion. Our growth for 2021 can be broken down as follows. Our digital team grew 21.4 billion. Our specialized mortgage banking solutions team grew 3.9 billion. Our venture banking group grew nearly 900 million. Fund Banking grew 700 million. The West Coast grew nearly 400 million. And our New York banking teams grew 15.4 billion, which includes 18 teams and with over 100 million in growth each. This growth led to a further reduction in our loan-to-deposit ratio, which now stands at 61%. Lowering our loan-to-deposit ratio was a primary initiative, and we have certainly achieved that -- our goal. During the quarter, non interest bearing deposits increased 10 billion to 44.4 billion, which represents a high 42% of total deposits. This tremendous growth in DDA can largely be attributable to the attraction of our Signet payments platform, which grew by 2.4 billion to 7.7 billion this quarter. In fact, we just surpassed 10 billion several times in the Signet platform in the first weeks of January. Our substantial organic deposit growth led to an increase of 44.6 billion or 60% in total assets since the fourth quarter of last year. The bank has increased in deposits by nearly 66 billion over the last two years, which is the equivalent of acquiring top 50 U.S. bank in each of the last two years. We did it completely organically. No goodwill, you would believe this is by far the most efficient use of capital. Not bad for a 20-year old bank. Now, let's take a look at our lending businesses. Loans during the 2021 fourth quarter increased a record 6.3 billion or 11%. Every year, loans increased 16 billion or 33%. The record growth in loans this quarter was again driven primarily by the fund banking call -- capital call facilities, which rose 5.4 billion. This includes a 1.3 billion purchase of a high quality loan portfolio from a money standard bank that is comprised of loans to well-known borrowers, most of whom are already clients of the bank. Moreover, our commercial real estate team grew loans by 707 million. And we expect them to begin growing again. This marks the end of a multi-year plan slowdown for that business, where we substantially reduced our CRE concentration from peak of 593% to 312%. This was another major initiative successfully accomplished. We also saw growth from our West Coast banking teams, Signature Financial, and our newer corporate mortgage finance and SBA originations businesses. Turning to credit quality, our portfolio continues to perform well. First, let me point out. We essentially have put full nonpayment COVID modifications behind us. I'll say it again. We have essentially put full nonpayment COVID modifications behind us, as we now have only 8 million in remaining. That is down from 1.3 billion at the end of 2020. Nonaccrual loans were 218 million or 34 basis points of total loans compared with 165 million or 28 basis points for 2021 third quarter. Our past due loans remained in their normal range with 30-89 day past due loans at 97 million and 90 day plus past due loans at 17 million. Net charge-offs for the 2021 fourth quarter were 33.7 million or 22 basis points of average loans compared with 17.3 million for the 2021 third quarter. The provision for credit losses for the 2021 fourth quarter increased slightly to 6.9 million compared with 4 million for the 2021 third quarter. We support the bank's allowance for credit losses to 73 basis points. The overall coverage ratio continues to stand at a healthy 217%. I would like to point out that excluding very well secured fund banking capital call facilities and government guaranteed PPP loans, the allowance for credit losses ratio would be much higher at 124 basis points. Now, onto the expanding team front where we continue to realize success. During 2021, the bank onboarded eight private client banking teams in total: two in New York, four on the West Coast, as well as the corporate mortgage finance team and the SBA origination team. Additionally, the bank added numerous group directors to existing teams. And Signature Financial added several executive sales officers across their national footprint. Geographic diversification was another initiative that we successfully executed on. At this point, I'll turn the call over to my colleague, Eric, and he will review the quarter's financial results in greater detail.Eric Howell Thank you, Joe, and good morning, everyone. I'll start by reviewing net interest income and margin. With our emphasis on growing net interest income, the fourth quarter -- for the fourth quarter reached 536 million, an increase of 55 million or 11% from the 2021 third quarter, and an increase of 141 million or 36% from the 2020 fourth quarter. Our robust growth in net interest income during 2021 can be attributed to our record deployment of cash, which led to an increase of 27.5 billion across our securities and loan portfolios. Net interest margin on tax equivalent basis increased 3 basis points to 1.91% compared with 1.88% for the 2021 third quarter. The increase was primarily driven by the continued decrease in deposit costs, as well as the decrease in pressure on overall asset yields as rates throughout the quarter were favorable. Our massive excess cash balances from significant deposit flows continue to impact margin by 53 basis points. And again, our focus is on net interest income growth. Let's look at asset yields and funding costs for a moment. Interest earning asset yields for the 2021 fourth quarter decreased 2 basis points from the linked quarter to 2.16%. The rate of decline in asset yields has significantly slowed. And it appears that we are at or near the bottom. However, asset yields continue to be affected by the excess average cash balances which grew 1.3 billion to 30.5 billion during the quarter. This is despite asset growth of 10.6 billion. Yields on the securities portfolio increased 3 basis points in linked quarter to 1.52% due to higher reinvestment rates, as well as the slowdown in CPR speeds on our mortgage-backed securities portfolio. Additionally, our portfolio duration increased to 3.6 years due to the higher interest rate environment. Turning to our loan portfolio, yields on average commercial loans and commercial mortgages decreased 5 basis points to 3.4% compared with the 2021 third quarter. Excluding prepayment penalties from both quarters, yields decreased by 7 basis points. And now looking at liabilities, our overall deposit cost this quarter decreased 3 basis points to 19 basis points due to both the low interest rate environment as we gradually lower our relationship based deposit rates and our very robust DDA growth. At this point, we think we're near the bottom on deposit costs. And it will be difficult to lower further, but, obviously, we will try. During quarter, average borrowing balances decreased by 14 million to a low 3.4 billion. And the cost of borrowings remained stable at 2.8%. The overall cost of funds for the quarter decreased 5 basis points to 27 basis points, driven by the reduction in deposit costs. As we have pointed out, the bank is significantly asset sensitive, which is another of our initiatives that we executed on. The banks focus on growing floating rate loans, which now comprise 49%, up from 10% of our loan portfolio coupled with our core deposit funding, make us extremely well-positioned to take advantage of a rising rate environment. And on to non interest income and expense. With our plan to grow non interest income, we achieved growth of 9.3 million or 38.3% to 33.5 million when compared with the 2020 fourth quarter. The increase was generally across the board as many of our fee income initiatives are taking hold. Non interest expense for the 2021 fourth quarter was 183.9 million versus 157.7 million for the same period a year ago. The 26.3 million or 16.7% increase was principally due to the addition of new private client banking teams and operational support to meet the bank's growing needs. And despite our significant team hiring and margin compression from substantial cash balances, the bank continues to gain operating leverage. And as a result, our efficiency ratio improved to 32.3% for the 2021 fourth quarter versus 37.6% for the comparable period last year. And turning to capital, our capital ratios remained well in excess of regulatory requirements and augment the relatively low risk profile of the balance sheet as evidenced by common equity Tier 1 risk-based ratio of 9.58% and total risk-based ratio of 11.73% as of the 2021 fourth quarter. And now I'll turn the call back to Joe. Thank you.Joseph J. DePaolo -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Eric. I'd like to thank my colleagues who have demonstrated their dedication to our clients and their needs during this pandemic. Times like these, our clients truly by the level of care and advice that my colleagues provide. And our performance for the year reflects their extraordinary efforts and the strength our franchise as we continue to execute on many fronts. 2021 was truly an astonishing year of growth and achievement for Signature Bank. We delivered staggering record deposit growth of 43 billion or 68% on top of record deposit growth in 2020 of 23 billion. Demand deposits increased a record 25.6 billion for the year and remained at a high 42% of total deposits, which is in large part due to the adoption of our Signet platform. And most importantly, our deposit growth was across the board, from our existing teams to all of our newer national businesses. We had record loan growth of nearly 16 billion. Furthermore, we have returned to growing our commercial real estate portfolio. And during the fourth quarter, CRE loans increased by 707 million. We grew our securities portfolio by a record 11 billion. To sum up, our balance sheet grew by 44.6 billion or 60%. Truly astonishing. Our growth propelled the bank's pre-tax pre-provision earnings by 318 million or 32% for the year. Net income substantially increased by 390 million or 74% to a record 918 million for the year. And we had a strong return on average common equity of 13.8% despite margin compression due to excess balances. I'm going to say that's extraordinary to have that return while the bank was growing by leaps and bounds. Fee income or non interest income grew by 61% or 45.6 million for the year. We improved our already best-in-class efficiency ratio during the year to 35%. And we set the stage, continued growth with the hiring of eight private client banking teams, consisting of two in New York, four on the West Coast, in addition to onboarding the SBA lending team and the corporate mortgage finance team. There has been a number of transformative goals and initiatives that we have looked to achieve over the last several years. We lowered our loan-to-deposit ratio from a high of 104 to 61. We significantly increased floating rate loans as a percentage of assets, and we are now firmly asset-sensitive and well-positioned for a rising rate environment. We lowered our CRE concentration levels from a high 593% to 312%. We've geographically diversified our expansion into the West Coast, as well as our onboarding of several national businesses. And we've increased our fee income substantially. And lastly, we have become the recognized leader in the digital banking arena. Signature Bank enters 2022 as a strong financial institution. We very much look forward to the years to come. Now, we are happy to answer any questions you might have. Britney, I'll turn it back to you. 