
OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Third Quarter 2021 Huntington Ingalls Industries Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to hand the call over to Dwayne Blake, Vice President of Investor Relations. Mr. Blake, you may begin.Dwayne B. Blake -- Corporate Vice President of Investor RelationsThanks. Good morning, and welcome to the Huntington Ingalls Industries Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. With us today are Mike Petters, President and Chief Executive Officer; Chris Kastner, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; and Tom Stiehle, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.As a reminder, statements made in today's call that are not historical fact are considered forward-looking statements and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of federal securities law. Actual results may differ. Please refer to our SEC filings for a description of some of the factors that may cause actual results to vary materially from anticipated results.Also, in the remarks today, Mike, Chris and Tom will refer to certain non-GAAP measures. Reconciliations of these metrics to the comparable GAAP measures are included in the appendix of our earnings presentation that is posted on our website. We plan to address the posted presentation slides during the call to supplement our comments. Please access our website at huntingtoningalls.com and click on the Investor Relations link to view the presentation as well as our earnings release.With that, I'll turn the call over to our President and CEO, Mike Petters. Mike?Mike Petters -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Dwayne. Good morning, everyone, and thanks for joining us on today's call. This morning, we released third quarter 2021 financial results that included another quarter of consistent shipbuilding program execution. Let me share some highlights from the quarter starting on slide three of the presentation. Sales of $2.3 billion were up 1% from the third quarter of 2020 and diluted EPS was $3.65, down from $5.45 in the third quarter of 2020. New contract awards during the quarter were approximately $600 million, resulting in backlog of approximately $50 billion at the end of the quarter, of which approximately $24 billion is funded.Shifting to activities in Washington. The federal government began the new fiscal year under a continuing resolution, which funds government operations through December 3. Now we continue to urge Congress to proceed expeditiously and remain optimistic that the defense appropriations and authorization processes will be completed in the months ahead. As bills progressed through both chambers of Congress, we continue to see bipartisan support for our programs reflected in the defense appropriations and authorization bills in the House and the Senate. We are pleased that the four defense oversight committees have shown strong support for shipbuilding to include adding a second Arleigh Burke-class destroyer, which is a Navy -- a top Navy priority for fiscal year 2022.The appropriations bills also include language in support of a DDG 51 follow-on multiyear procurement contract in FY '23. So as I prepare to close, let me give a quick update on COVID-19. We continue to work with our customers to satisfy the requirement for federal contractors to have their workforce vaccinated against COVID-19 by December 8, 2021. At HII, we remain committed to promoting and protecting the health and safety of our employees, their families and their communities and continuing to serve our customers and the vital national security interests of our country without disruption as an essential contributor to the nation's critical infrastructure.We view our workforce of approximately 44,000 employees as critical partners in this effort and continue to help our unvaccinated employees meet this requirement as safely and efficiently as possible. We will continue to evaluate how the vaccine mandate and delta variant impact our workforce as well as material availability from our supply chain and we expect to have more to share during the fourth quarter earnings call in February. And finally, let me recap what HII has done from a portfolio shaping perspective over the past 20 months. In short, we have done exactly what we said we would do during our February 2020 Investor Day.First, we have positioned the Technical Solutions business in growth markets that support the constantly evolving requirements of our customers. And second, we have demonstrated the financial flexibility to pursue these critical growth opportunities while maintaining our investment-grade credit ratings and continuing to return capital to shareholders. Following the closing of the Alion transaction during the quarter, our team is laser focused on a successful integration in order to produce the financial returns we expect. We are also ensuring that our core shipbuilding programs are achieving key production milestones in order to generate strong free cash flow, which will enable deleveraging of the balance sheet while continuing to return capital to shareholders via dividends and share repurchases. We firmly believe that these are the appropriate steps to generate significant long-term sustainable value for our shareholders, our customers and our employees.And now I will turn the call over to Chris for some remarks on the operations. Chris?Christopher D. Kastner -- Executive Vice President and Chief Operating OfficerThanks, Mike, and good morning, everyone. I'm very pleased to report another solid operational quarter. With that, let me share a few highlights. At Ingalls, let me first provide a brief update on the pending contracts awards of LHA 9, LPD 32 and 33. We still believe that a bundled acquisition of these critically important ships is the most cost-effective method of procurement and are pleased that the Navy and Congress have protected the ship schedules with a contract for long-lead material on LHA nine coupled with continued support for LPD 32 and 33. Shifting to program status. LHA eight Bougainville continues to achieve cost and schedule performance in line with our expectations while making steady progress through the structural erection and initial outfitting phases of construction.On the DDG program, the team successfully completed acceptance trials for guided missile destroyer DDG 121 Frank E. Petersen Jr. and expects to deliver the ship to the Navy by the end of this year. In addition, DDG's 123 and 125 remain on track to complete sea trials next year as planned. On the LPD program, LPD 28 Fort Lauderdale was christened in August. This ship remains on track to complete sea trials during the fourth quarter with delivery to the Navy planned in the first quarter of next year. At Newport News, CVN 79 Kennedy is approximately 84% complete and the focus remains on compartment completion and key initial propulsion plant milestones.Regarding definitization of the single-phase delivery contract modification, we have reached agreement on the cost and schedule impacts with the Navy and expect to execute the contract modification late this year or early next year. On the RCOH program, CVN 73 USS George Washington continues to achieve key propulsion plant milestones and is approximately 92% complete. In CVN 78 USS Gerald R. Ford returned to Newport News in August to begin a planned incremental availability following successful completion of full-ship shock trials. On the VCS program, SSN 794 Montana remains on track for delivery to the Navy later this year.And the SSN 796 New Jersey float-off milestone has moved to early next year to ensure that we achieve the optimum build sequence from float-off to delivery, planned in 2022. And finally, on the submarine fleet support program, SSN 725 Helena, remains on track for redelivery to the Navy later this year. At Technical Solutions, the Alion transaction closed in mid-August, and the team announced new business groups and executive appointments that directly align with the strategic focus that we have previously articulated. We expect this very talented team to execute a successful integration of Alion and deliver unparalleled national security solutions to our customers while growing the business and producing returns in line with our expectations. Delays in contract awards in our unmanned business for critical new programs remains a watch item. We're expecting this to be resolved by the end of the year, but it appears that these awards are not likely until early to mid-2022.Now I'll turn the call over to Tom for some remarks on the financials. Tom?Thomas E. Stiehle -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Chris, and good morning. Today, I will briefly review our third quarter results and provide an update on our outlook for 2021. For more detail on the segment results, please refer to the earnings release issued this morning and posted to our website. Beginning with our consolidated results on slide four of the presentation, our third quarter revenues of $2.3 billion increased approximately 1% compared to the same period last year. This is due to growth at Technical Solutions driven by the Alion acquisition which was largely offset by a decline in revenue at Ingalls, primarily due to lower volumes on the NSC, DDG and LHA programs.Segment operating income for the quarter of $163 million increased $1 million compared to the third quarter of 2020. And segment operating margin of 7% was in line with the results from the prior year period. Operating income for the quarter of $118 million decreased by $104 million from the third quarter of 2020, and operating margin of 5% decreased 455 basis points. These decreases were almost entirely due to a less favorable operating FAS/CAS adjustment compared to the prior year period. The tax rate in the quarter was a negative 4.3% compared to 1.8% in the third quarter of 2020. The decrease in the tax rate was primarily due to additional research and development tax credits for tax years 2016 through 2020 recorded in the third quarter of 2021.Net earnings in the quarter were $147 million compared to $222 million in the third quarter of 2020. Diluted earnings per share in the quarter were $3.65 compared to $5.45 in the prior year period. Third quarter 2021 results include approximately $15 million of nonrecurring pre-tax transaction expenses related to the acquisition of Alion. Excluding the impacts of pension, diluted earnings per share in the quarter were $3.58 compared to $3.73 per share in the third quarter of 2020. Turning to slide five. Cash from operations was $350 million in the quarter and net capital expenditures were $73 million or 3.1% of revenues, resulting in free cash flow of $277 million.This compares to cash from operations of $222 million and $62 million of net capital expenditures or free cash flow of $160 million in the prior year period. Cash contributions to our pension and other postretirement benefit plans were $10 million in the quarter, principally related to postretirement benefits. During the third quarter, we paid dividends of $1.14 per share or $46 million. Our Board of Directors recently approved a 3.5% increase in our quarterly dividend to $1.18 per share, and this will take effect in the fourth quarter of this year. We also repurchased approximately 83,000 shares during the quarter at an aggregate cost of approximately $17 million.Moving on to slide six. Ingalls revenues in the quarter of $628 million decreased $47 million or 7% from the same period last year, driven primarily by lower revenues on the NSE, DDG and LHA programs. Ingalls operating income of $62 million and margin of 9.9% in the quarter compared to operating income of $62 million and margin of 9.2% in the third quarter of 2020. The operating margin improvement was driven by an incentive on the DDG program and higher risk retirement for the LPD program, partially offset by lower risk retirement on the NSC program. Turning to slide seven. Newport News revenues of approximately $1.4 billion in the quarter decreased $4 million or less than 1% from the same period last year, driven by lower revenues in naval nuclear support services partially offset by higher revenues in submarines and aircraft carriers.Naval nuclear support services revenues decreased primarily as a result of lower volumes in submarine fleet support services and facility maintenance services partially offset by higher volumes in carrier fleet support services. Submarine revenues increased due to higher volumes in Block V boats of the Virginia-class submarine program, and submarine support services and Columbia-class submarine program, partially offset by lower volumes on Block IV boats of the Virginia-class submarine program. Aircraft carrier revenues increased primarily as a result of higher volumes on the RCOH of USS John C. Stennis CVN 74 and the construction of Doris Miller CVN 81 and enterprise CVN 80, partially offset by lower volumes on the RCOH of USS George Washington CVN 73 and the construction of John F. Kennedy CVN 79.Newport News operating income of $88 million and margin of 6.5% in the quarter compares to operating income of $79 million and margin of 5.8% in the third quarter of 2020. The improvement was primarily due to higher risk retirement on the RCOH of the USS George Washington CVN 73 and Block IV boats of the VCS program, partially offset by lower risk retirement on the naval nuclear support services. Now to Technical Solutions on slide eight of the presentation. Technical Solutions revenues of $394 million in the quarter increased 23% from the same period last year, mainly due to revenue attributable to the acquisition of Alion in mid-August, partially offset by the divestiture of our oil and gas business and contribution of the San Diego shipyard to a joint venture in the first quarter of this year.The acquisition of Alion closed on August 19, and third quarter results included approximately $163 million of revenue attributable to Alion. Technical Solutions operating income of $13 million and operating margin of 3.3% in the quarter compares to an operating income of $21 million and operating margin of 6.6% in the third quarter of 2020. These decreases were primarily driven by the inclusion of approximately $8 million of Alion related purchase intangible amortization as well as lower performance in Defense and Federal Solutions, the divestiture of our oil and gas business and the contribution of the San Diego shipyard to a joint venture I previously mentioned.Third quarter 2021 results include approximately $4 million of operating income attributable to Alion. Third quarter Technical Solutions EBITDA was approximately $30.3 million or an EBITDA margin of 7.7%. Moving on to slide nine of the presentation. We've updated our outlook for 2021 and 2022 pension and postretirement benefits. For 2022, FAS is now projected to be a benefit rather than an expense, primarily due to higher asset returns. Consequently, the FAS/CAS adjustment has increased from the prior outlook and is now projected to total $52 million in 2022. Please remember that pension-related numbers are subject to year-end performance and measurement criteria.We will provide a multiyear update of pension estimates on our fourth quarter earnings call in February. Finally, on slide 10, a perspective on the outlook for the remainder of the year for both shipbuilding and Technical Solutions inclusive of Alion. Regarding shipbuilding, we now expect 2021 revenue to be approximately $8.2 billion at the low end, but within our initial guidance range. Third quarter shipbuilding revenue was modestly impacted by material timing, which may persist in the near term. Additionally, we continue to navigate through a challenging labor market as well as the potential impact of COVID-19 vaccine mandate. Given all of that, we think it's best to be prudent and temper near-term expectations.We continue to expect that shipbuilding operating margin will finish the year in the 7.5% to 8% range. We expect that the fourth quarter shipbuilding operating margin will be roughly consistent with the third quarter results as we were able to recognize some key retirement events in the third quarter, including the completion of sea trials for DDG 121. Regarding Technical Solutions, I've noted that Alion acquisition closed in mid-August and our updated expectations for 2021 now include Alion from the date of acquisition, inclusive of incremental purchase intangible amortization that impacts our segment operating margin expectation.Turning to free cash flow. We now expect 2021 free cash flow to be between $300 million and $350 million as the repayment of the accelerated progress payments which was initially expected in 2021 has now moved out to 2022. Additionally, on slide 10, we have provided an updated outlook for a number of other discrete items to assist with your modeling. Regarding our longer-term targets, we continue to believe that the 3% CAGR for shipbuilding revenue is appropriate. Additionally, we remain comfortable with our free cash flow target of $3.2 billion from 2020 through 2024. We plan to provide a more detailed view of 2022 on our fourth quarter call in February.Now I'll turn the call back over to Dwayne for Q&A.Dwayne B. Blake -- Corporate Vice President of Investor RelationsThanks, Tom. [Operator Instructions]Operator, I'll turn it over to you to manage the Q&A.