  OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the American Express Q2 2021 earnings call. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, today's call is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to our host, head of investor relations, Ms. Vivian Zhou. Please go ahead.Vivian Zhou -- Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Kevin, and thank you all for joining today's call. As a reminder before we begin, today's discussion contains forward-looking statements about the company's future business and financial performance. These are based on management's current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these statements are included in today's presentation slides and in our reports on file with the SEC. The discussion today also contains non-GAAP financial measures. The comparable GAAP financial measures are included in this quarter's earnings materials as well as the earnings materials for the prior periods we discussed. All of these are posted on our website at ir.americanexpress.com. We will begin today with Steve Squeri, chairman and CEO, who will start with some remarks about the company's progress and results.And then, Jeff Campbell, chief financial officer, will provide a more detailed review of our financial performance. After that, we will move to a Q&A session on the results with both Steve and Jeff. With that, let me turn it over to Steve. Steve Squeri -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thanks, Vivian, and hello, everyone. Welcome to our second-quarter earnings call. Earlier today, we reported second-quarter revenues of $10.2 billion and earnings per share of $2.80. These results reflect an acceleration of the momentum we've seen in our core business and a strengthening macro environment. Our improving performance is a clear indication that the steps we've taken to manage the company through the pandemic and our investments to rebuild growth momentum are paying off. We're particularly pleased with the progress we're seeing in several key areas, including engaging and retaining our existing customers, acquiring new customers, continued excellent credit performance; and acceleration in spending. Since the onset of the pandemic, we've been investing in short-term value enhancements to several of our premium products, which has helped drive card member engagement and contributed to retention levels that remain higher than the last few years. We've also ramped up our acquisition engine over the past several quarters. And we're really pleased to see that overall acquisitions of proprietary cards, which include our co-brands, have continued to increase with 2.4 million new cards acquired in the quarter. In fact, demand for our premium fee-based products accelerated this quarter with acquisitions of U.S. consumer and small business platinum and gold cards well above 2019 levels and exceeding prior quarters, contributing to the continued double-digit growth in net card fees. Early spending on these new accounts is strong. We're also pleased to see that acquisitions are increasing in many of our co-brand portfolios. For example, as Ed Bastian mentioned on Delta's earnings call last week, Delta co-brand acquisitions reached 90% of 2019 levels in Q2. Turning to credit, we continue to see excellent credit performance with both delinquency and write-off rates improving further and reaching near historic lows in the quarter. We're also seeing continued improvements in card member spending.

 



 Spending recovery accelerated in Q2 with overall billed business volumes growing 51% in the quarter on an FX-adjusted basis versus last year and exceeding pre-pandemic levels in June. Goods and services volumes continued to strengthen, increasing 16% globally on an FX-adjusted basis versus Q2 2019. Travel and entertainment spending also accelerated in the quarter, particularly in the U.S., where a growing percentage of the population is now fully vaccinated. In fact, we saw a surge in spending by U.S. consumer card members across all T&E categories with overall U.S. Consumer T&E spending reaching 98% of pre-pandemic levels in June and continuing to grow into July. T&E spending outside the U.S. continues to recover more slowly due to overall -- due to lower overall vaccination rates and government-imposed restrictions in some geographies. In our consumer business, the largest contributor to spending growth in goods and services came from millennial and Gen Z customers, and they are also leading the recovery in T&E spending with total spending up over 30% on an FX adjusted basis versus 2019 levels in Q2 for this age cohort. In our commercial business, overall small and midsized enterprise volumes exceeded pre-pandemic levels in Q2 driven by continued strong growth globally in B2B spending on goods and services, which was up 18% on an FX-adjusted basis versus 2019 while the T&E recovery also accelerated with the fastest total growth coming from smaller sized businesses in the U.S. We're also seeing solid spending growth in key travel-related co-brand portfolios. Volumes on both Delta and Hilton co-brand cards increased by double digits versus pre-pandemic levels in the quarter, driven by the same trends of continued strong growth in goods and services spending and the acceleration in the recovery of T&E spend. In addition to investing in retention and acquisition activities as a customer-focused company led by innovation, a key part of our investment strategy is geared toward delivering a continuous stream of differentiated products, services, and capabilities that provide additional value to our current customers and attract new ones to the franchise. We invest in innovation in a number of ways through internal development, acquisitions, co-brand relationships, and partnerships with both digital start-ups and large well-known brands across a range of industries. A great example of our approach to innovation is our strategy for regularly refreshing our unique value propositions by leveraging our digital ecosystem and our diverse network of partners. On July 1st, we marked the restart of this strategy with the launch of our new enhanced platinum card for consumers in the U.S. The American Express Platinum Card created the premium card category nearly 40 years ago and has continued to define the category ever since. We intend to make sure it remains a competitive standard for many years to come. The reason for Platinum's success over the years, I believe, is twofold: first is our continual focus on knowing our customers and delivering value that meets their evolving needs and preferences; and second is our willingness to change our value propositions even as our products are at the peak of their performance, and that's the case with our most recent refresh. Despite just coming off our best quarter ever for U.S. platinum account acquisitions, we introduced our new U.S. Consumer platinum card, featuring a broader set of lifestyle benefits while doubling down on travel-related benefits. The new benefits are enabled by working with an expanded range of partners as well as the continued integration of our growing portfolio of digital assets such as Resy and LoungeBuddy. I would note that the last time we refreshed our U.S. platinum card, we doubled the customer base, bringing in a larger number of younger card members, and our intent with our current refresh is to attract an even broader pool of customers to the franchise. In developing the new platinum card, we listened to our card members and gleaned insights from their spending behavior to determine what features and benefits would be most relevant for the way they live now. For example, some of the spending patterns on certain everyday goods and services categories that emerged during the pandemic, such as streaming services and personal fitness, have continued into the recovery. This led us to add a series of annual credits for digital entertainment services and Equinox club memberships or digital subscriptions to their on-demand app. Our platinum card members have always cared a lot about travel and entertainment. And as our recent quarterly results demonstrate, our U.S.-based customers are eagerly returning to travel and in-person dining. So we added a series of new travel-related benefits to the refresh product on top of those platinum card already offers, including a significant expansion of our proprietary Centurion Lounge network and a new global dining access program powered by Resy, our online reservation platform that provides exclusive access to some of the world's best restaurants and premium dining experiences. The enhancements we've made to the U.S. platinum card represent a significant increase in value, which we believe will be very attractive to both current and new customers even with an increase in its annual fee. As we have seen from previous refreshes, customers are willing to pay more for what they see as platinum's unique value, and we believe it will be no different in this case. In fact, the very early indications are encouraging. Applications and acquisitions have outpaced our expectations in the first two weeks since the new platinum card became available. The U.S. Platinum Refresh is just one example of how we're leveraging partnerships in our digital ecosystem to innovate and add differentiated value to our products and services. We'll be refreshing other products and rolling out new digital capabilities for both consumer and commercial customers throughout the remainder of the year and beyond. We're really excited about the new U.S. platinum card and the potential that it and other innovations we have in the pipeline represent. And there are many other reasons why we feel very good about where we are at the halfway point in the year, including the progress we're making to rebuild momentum in our core business is accelerating and better than we expected at the beginning of the year, the improvements we're seeing across many of our key metrics are a sign that our strategy for managing through the pandemic and investing in activities to rebuild our growth momentum is working. We're particularly pleased with the strength we're seeing in customer retention, new account acquisitions, credit performance, and overall spending volumes with goods and services volumes now well above pre-pandemic levels globally, and travel and entertainment spending recovering faster than we expected driven by significant improvement in the United States. Taking all of these factors together, we are increasingly optimistic that the strength we've seen in our core business through the first half will continue, particularly in the U.S. even as the pace of recovery remains uneven in different regions around the world. With this in mind, we remain committed to executing our investment strategy for growing our business over the long term. And based on current trends, we are confident in our ability to be within the high end of the range of EPS expectations we had for 2020 in 2022 and to resume our financial growth algorithm beyond 2022. Now, I'll turn it over to Jeff, who will discuss our second-quarter results in detail, and then we'll take your questions. Thank you.Jeff Campbell -- Chief Financial Officer Well, thank you, Steve, and good morning, everyone. It's good to be here today to talk about our second-quarter results, which reflect strong momentum in the recovery of our core business and great progress toward our 2022 financial objectives. Starting with our summary financials on Slide 2, second-quarter revenues of $10.2 billion were up 31% year over year on an FX adjusted basis, as we lapped the trough of the billings and revenue declines that occurred during the most significant pandemic lockdowns in Q2 of last year. Our second-quarter net income was $2.3 billion and earnings per share was $2.80. These strong results were, of course, in part driven by an $866 million credit reserve release as we saw continued strong credit performance and some improvements in the macroeconomic outlook. Now, as I turn to a more detailed look at our results, I'll again focus on what we see as the key drivers of our great progress toward our 2022 financial objectives: volumes, credit trends, and the marketing investments we are making to build growth momentum. As we've set all year, 2021 itself is a transition year, positioning us for 2022 and beyond. So let's now get into the first key driver to watch as we measure our progress this year, volumes, which you will see several views of on Slides 3 through 9. You will note that we have shown second-quarter volume trends on both a year-over-year basis and relative to 2019 as we find this provides a clearer picture of how spending is recovering on the way to our 2022 financial objectives. And that clear picture on Slide 3 shows an acceleration in the pace of recovery across all of our volumes in the second quarter with total network volumes and billed business volumes up around 50% year over year as we lapped the trough of the billings declines in Q2 2020. Importantly, relative to 2019, total network volumes, billed business, and processed volumes were all down just 2% on an FX-adjusted basis and surpassed pre-COVID levels for the month of June. The acceleration in billed business is being driven by both spending on goods and services, which was up 16% versus 2019, as you can see on Slide 4, and by a notable improvement in spending on travel and entertainment in the second quarter. Overall T&E spending reached nearly 70% of 2019 levels as we exited Q2. This is a level we originally expected we would not reach until the fourth quarter this year. So to see it recovering more quickly than we had expected and without it coming at the cost of any slowing in the growth in goods and services spending is a positive indicator for us. Turning to Slide 5, you do see that the billed business volume recovery is being led by the U.S., which surpassed 2019 levels and was up 3% in the quarter. The recovery in total billed business volumes outside of the U.S. is weaker. Interestingly, though, you see on the top right of Slide 5 that the growth in goods and services spending has been strong in both the U.S. and outside of the U.S. Overall spend is weaker outside the U.S. because historically, we have more travel-related spending in our international regions, and international T&E is recovering more slowly due to lower vaccination rates and continued government restrictions in certain geographies. Focusing in then on just our consumer business on Slide 6, you see that overall spending was 4% above 2019 levels in the quarter as growth in goods and services volumes accelerated to 18% versus 2019. And we continue to see strong online and card-not-present spend growth, demonstrating the lasting effect of the behavioral changes we've seen during the pandemic even as offline spending recovered to pre-pandemic levels. In our commercial business, as you can see on Slide 7, global SME spending, which represents the bulk of our commercial billed business, remains the most resilient across all of our customer types with spend up 6% versus 2019 for the quarter. This performance was supported by continued growth in B2B spending on goods and services, which was up 18% versus 2019. In contrast, on Slide 8, large and global corporate card spending, which historically has been primarily for travel and entertainment, continued to show fewer signs of recovery. We have said all along that we expect this will be the last customer type to see travel recover. Finally, putting all customer types T&E spending together on Slide 9, you do see improvement across the board in the second quarter with total T&E spending reaching nearly 70% of 2019 levels in the month of June. As I said earlier, this recovery has been faster than we expected, led by a sharp recovery in U.S. consumer T&E spending, which reached 98% of pre-pandemic levels in June and has continued to grow in July. Looking ahead, we now assume that overall T&E spending globally will have recovered to around 80% of 2019 levels by the fourth quarter of 2021. We also expect continued steady growth in goods and services spending for the remaining 2021. So all in all, a really good story on spending volumes. Moving to our other volume metric, receivable and loan balances on Slide 10, you'll see a slightly different set of charts here and in a few other places throughout this presentation, where we thought it would be helpful to show comparisons for the first and second quarter relative to both 2020 and 2019 to help with better rate of recovery. Loan balances began to slowly recover in the second quarter and were up 7% sequentially and 4% year over year. Relative to 2019 though, loan balances remained down 11%, 11% more than spending volumes. We continue to see the liquidity and strength among our customer base leading to higher paydown rates, which is also driving the very strong credit performance I'll talk about in a moment. Looking forward, I would expect the recovery in loan balances to continue to lag the recovery in spending volumes. This leads then to the second key driver to watch this year, credit and provision, on Slides 11 through 14. As you flip through these slides, there are a few key points I'd like you to take away. Most importantly, we continue to see extremely strong credit performance with card member loans and receivables write-off and delinquency rates remaining around historical lows. Although we would expect loss rates to slowly return to more normal levels eventually, given how low delinquency rates are today, we don't expect to see a material increase in write-off rates anytime this year. The strong credit performance, combined with some improvement in our macroeconomic outlook, drove a $606 million provision expense benefit in the second quarter as the low write-offs were fully offset by the reserve release, as shown on Slide 12. That said, the balances enrolled in our financial relief programs are still $1.1 billion higher than they were pre-pandemic, as you can see on Slide 13. We are closely monitoring how the card members exiting our financial relief programs are performing, and early performance of recent exits has looked quite strong. But we are mindful that the last of the government stimulus and industry forbearance programs have yet to roll off, and there are remaining uncertainties in the medical and macroeconomic environment around the world, including in the U.S. So we continue to hold a significant amount of reserves. As you see on Slide 14, we ended the second quarter with $4 billion of reserves, representing 5% loan balances and 0.2% of our card member receivable balances, respectively. Moving on to our third key driver, marketing investments to build long-term growth momentum, on Slide 15. We invested $1.3 billion in marketing in the second quarter as we continue to ramp up new card acquisitions while maintaining some of our value-injection efforts. We acquired 2.4 million new cards, up around 20% sequentially. More importantly than just the total number of cards, we've seen great demand for our premium fee-based products with new accounts acquired on these products up 30% versus the prior quarter and up almost four times year over year. As Steve mentioned, as some great examples, acquisitions of new U.S. consumer and small business platinum and gold cards all reached well above 2019 levels this quarter. Based on the momentum we've seen in the first half of this year, we would now expect to see around $5 billion in marketing spend this year. Ultimately though, our marketing levels will be governed by the universe of attractive investment opportunities we see and the pace at which we finish winding down our value-injection efforts in the remainder of the year. So what does all this mean for revenues on Slide 16? Total revenues were up 33% year over year in the second quarter, and we had double-digit growth in almost every one of our revenue lines, except for net interest income, which only accounts for 18% of our revenues. Before I get into more details about our largest revenue drivers in the next few slides, I would note that other fees and commissions and other revenue were both up sharply year over year in the second quarter, primarily driven by the uptick in travel-related revenues. Our largest revenue line, discount revenue, led the recovery though, as it was up 56% on an FX-adjusted basis year over year, as shown on Slide 17. This recovery is primarily driven by the strong growth in goods and services spending that we've seen over the past few quarters. Net card fee revenues grew 10% year over year in the quarter. Importantly, these revenues have been our most resilient revenue line throughout the pandemic, as you can see on Slide 18. They are now $300 million or 30% higher than they were back in the second quarter of 2019, demonstrating the impact of the continued attractiveness of our premium value propositions to both prospects and existing customers. The one revenue line showing a slower recovery is net interest income on Slide 19, which as I mentioned, accounts for only 18% of our revenues. For us though, the driver here is the strong liquidity demonstrated by our customers, which is leading to both our historically low credit costs and to higher paydown rates that are driving lower net interest yields and a slower recovery in revolving loan balances. Looking ahead, I continue to expect the recovery in net interest income to lag the recovery in loan volumes. So to sum up on revenues, the momentum of our revenue recovery strengthened in Q2, as you can see on Slide 20. While revenues remain 6% below pre-pandemic levels on an FX adjusted basis, they were up 31% year over year. Looking forward, with the momentum in goods and services spend growth we've seen in the first half of the year and our updated assumption that we now expect overall T&E to recover to 80% of 2019 levels by the fourth quarter of the year, full-year revenue growth could be around 12% to 14%, assuming current trends continue. Moving on to expenses, we're continuing to break out on Slide 21, our variable customer engagement expenses, which move with spend volumes and benefits usage and marketing and opex, which are driven by management decisions. Variable customer engagement expenses in total were up 85% year over year, driven by higher spending and usage of travel-related benefits. Looking forward, a good way to think about these variable customer engagement expenses is that I'd expect them to be about 40% of our total revenues for the remainder of the year. Moving on to operating expenses. You can see that they were down 1% year over year in the second quarter, primarily driven by a few sizable gains in our Amex Ventures equity investment portfolio. In 2021 full year, given the year-to-date gains we've seen in our equity investment portfolio, I'd now expect our full-year opex to be a bit below the $11.5 billion we originally expected as we continue to keep tight control over our operating expenses while also investing to build growth momentum in our business. Turning next to capital on Slide 22. Our capital position remains tremendously strong. Our Q2 CET1 ratio of 14.2% remains far above our target levels, driven by the shrinkage in our balance sheet over the past year and growth in our capital base from earnings that have exceeded distributions. We returned $1.3 billion in total to shareholders this quarter, including common stock repurchases of $908 million and $346 million in common stock dividends. Looking forward, we remain committed to our long-term CET1 target ratio of 10% to 11%. Given the Federal Reserve's latest guidance, we plan to increase the pace of share repurchases to migrate toward our CET1 ratio target over the next few quarters. So let's close by talking about what the signs of momentum we saw in the first half of the year might mean for the future. In January and again in April, I laid out two scenarios of potential outcomes for 2021 that were primarily based on what happens with credit reserves. As a reminder, our scenario one or low scenario assumed a much worse medical and economic environment this year and that we would not release any credit reserves in the subsequent quarters. Now, halfway into the year, the macro outlook has improved somewhat, and our actual credit performance has remained incredibly strong. So we've already released $1.9 billion of reserves. That still leaves us, however, with a reserve ratio that is above pre-pandemic levels due to the remaining uncertainties. So our updated scenario one on Slide 23 assumes that this uncertainty persists that the medical environment and economic outlook worsens and that we therefore don't release any additional credit reserves this year. Such an economic outcome would likely put some pressure on our current assumption of an 80% overall T&E recovery by Q4 and likely drive a somewhat weaker revenue recovery. The combination of these things could lead to an EPS outcome as low as around $7.50 per share. Our updated scenario two in contrast assumes that we continue to see strong credit performance and a steady improvement in the economic outlook, leading to less uncertainty, and in all likelihood, a lower level of credit reserves. This sort of economic outcome would also likely drive a somewhat stronger revenue recovery in line with the 12% to 14% revenue growth assumption I spoke about earlier. In this scenario, our 2021 EPS could be as high as around $8.75. More important though than these 2021 numbers is our focus on managing the company to further build growth momentum. Our progress this quarter around our key drivers, volumes, credit performance, and marketing was very strong, and this gives us confidence that our strategies are working. Based on all these current trends, we are confident in our ability in 2022 to be within the high end of the range of EPS expectations we originally had before the pandemic for 2020 of $8.85 to $9.25, and we are confident in our ability to resume our financial growth algorithm beyond 2022. And with that, I'll turn the call back over to Vivian.Vivian Zhou -- Investor Relations Thank you, Jeff. [Operator instructions] And with that, the operator will now open the line for questions. Kevin? 