
OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the SVB Financial Group Q2 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] After the speakers' presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to hand the conference over to your first speaker today, Meghan O'Leary, Head of Investor Relations. Thank you. Please go ahead.Meghan O'Leary -- Head of Investor Relations

 



Thank you everyone for joining us today. Our President and CEO, Greg Becker; and our CFO, Dan Beck are here to talk about our second quarter 2021 financial results and will be joined by other members of our management team for the Q&A. Our current earnings release, highlight slides and CEO letter have been filed with the SEC and are available on the Investor Relations section of our website.We'll be making forward-looking statements during this call, and actual results may differ materially. We encourage you to review the disclaimer in our earnings release dealing with forward-looking information, which applies equally to statements made in this call. In addition, some of our discussion may include references to non-GAAP financial measures. Information about those measures including reconciliation to GAAP measures may be found in our SEC filings and in our earnings release.And now I will turn the call over to our President and CEO, Greg Becker.Greg Becker -- President and Chief Executive Officer

 



Thanks, Meghan, and thank you all for joining us today. As you can see from our earnings announcement and slides which we filed a few hours ago, we had another quarter of exceptional growth and profitability marked by continuing trends of outstanding balance sheet growth, strong net interest income, robust fee and market related income and solid credit. As a result of our outperformance, we once again increased our 2021 growth outlook. We were also thrilled to close our Boston Private acquisition on July 1st, and I'm sure you have lots of questions about that.In the meantime, we try to make modeling a little easier for all of you, we've included a high level breakout of our expectations for the incremental impact on our 2021 outlook. When we start talking about our 2022 outlook next quarter, we'll wrap those impacts into our overall outlook as we've always done with our private bank. And now as is our practice, we'll go right into Q&A and I'll ask the operator to open up the lines for questions.