  OperatorGood day, everyone, and welcome to Pfizer's fourth quarter 2021 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Chris Stevo, senior vice president and chief investor relations officer. Please go ahead, sir.Chris Stevo -- Senior Vice President and Chief of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Sylvia. Good morning, everyone. Welcome to Pfizer's fourth-quarter earnings call. I'm joined today by Dr. Albert Bourla, our chairman and CEO; Frank D'Amelio, our CFO; Mikael Dolsten, president, worldwide research and development and medical; Angela Hwang, group president, Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group; Aamir Malik, our chief business and innovation officer; and Doug Lankler, our general counsel. We expect this call to last 90 minutes. The materials for this call and other earnings-related materials are on the Investor Relations section of pfizer.com. Please see our forward-looking statements disclaimer on Slide 3.And additional information regarding these statements and our non-GAAP financial measures is available on our earnings release and in our SEC Forms 10-K and 10-Q under Risk Factors. Forward-looking statements on the call are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties, speak only as of the call's original date, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any of these statements. With that, I will turn the call over to Albert. Albert Bourla -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thank you, Chris. Hello, everyone. 2021 was a watershed year for Pfizer, a year in which we set all-time highs in all major areas of focus for Pfizer. We reached an estimated 1.4 billion patients with our medicines and vaccines. That's more than one out of every six people on earth. Never before has Pfizer's patient impact been so wide-reaching. We improved our ranking from fourth to second among large biopharma companies in the PatientView Global Survey. According to Morning Consult, 61% of Americans have a favorable view of Pfizer, which is up 33 points since January of 2020. Just last week, Fortune ranked us fourth on its annual World's Most Admired Companies list, the highest ranking we have ever achieved. Ninety-five percent of our colleagues said in an internal survey that they are proud to work for Pfizer, which ranks among the best in corporate America. We increased our investments in research and development from $8.9 billion in 2020 to $10.5 billion in 2021, and we initiated 13 pivotal clinical studies, the highest number ever for Pfizer. Last but not least, we grew revenues by 92% operationally to $81.3 billion and adjusted diluted EPS by 92% operationally to $4.42. Our success in leading the fight against COVID-19 have not only made a positive difference in the world. I believe they have fundamentally changed our company and our culture forever. Colleagues across Pfizer are inspired by what we have achieved, and most are more determined than ever to be part of the next potentially game-changing breakthrough. To that end, we are applying the Lightspeed principles developed for our COVID-19 work to our other therapeutic areas to make sure we continue to move at the speed of science for the benefits of all patients.

 



 As a result, we believe we can do even better with each of these metrics in 2022, each one of them. Our full year 2022 financial guidance, for example, includes, for the first time ever, a forecasted revenue midpoint, that it is triple-digit, $100 billion, and an adjusted diluted EPS midpoint of $6.45. While Comirnaty is having a significant positive impact on Pfizer's financial performance, it is the tremendous impact that COVID-19 vaccines have had on society that it is most important. In the U.S. alone, the COVID-19 vaccination program is estimated to have saved more than 1 million lives and prevented more than 10 million hospitalizations, according to a December 2021 Commonwealth Fund report. The economic impact is equally astonishing, astounding. According to December 2021 Heartland Forward report, the rapid deployment and wide availability of COVID-19 vaccines in the U.S. created an estimated economic savings of $438 billion in 2021 alone, which amounted to U.S. GDP being 2.3% higher than it otherwise would have been, 2.3 points. I'm proud to say that Pfizer contributed significantly to these benefits, given that approximately six out of 10 doses administered in the U.S. as of February 6, 2022, were Comirnaty. This is the value of our science, what our culture has enabled and what drives our people. Now, I would like to speak to three factors that will help drive our growth going forward. The first is the long-term outlook for COVID-19 and why we believe we are well-positioned to continue to lead the battle against this disease. Second, our thoughtful capital allocation strategy and why we believe it can help drive our growth in the second part of the decade. And third, how our commitment to ESG principles is designed to create sustainable growth for Pfizer to deliver meaningful value to patients and society. Let me start with the COVID-19 pandemic. Our scientists continue to monitor the SARS-CoV-2 virus and believe it is unlikely that it will be fully eradicated in the foreseeable future. They believe this for several reasons. The global distribution of the virus makes it difficult to contain. The virus has shown an ability to mutate often, making it difficult to stay ahead of it. And the data appear to show that natural infections do not lead to the type of durable protection needed to prevent all transmissions and viral mutations. As a result, people can become reinfected by the same or different strains over time. That said, we now have the tools in the form of vaccines and treatments, that we believe will help enable us to not only better manage the pandemic, but also help countries move into an endemic phase. In other words, we believe these tools will help us allow us to go back to normality and spend time with family and friends, travel, attend indoor dining and concerts and enjoy many other activities while lowering the risk of overburdening hospitals and healthcare systems around the world. All of us at Pfizer are extremely proud of the role we have continued to play in bringing these tools to the world. Throughout 2021, we continued our efforts to bring our COVID-19 vaccine to more populations and to further ramp up our manufacturing and distribution capabilities. As a result, the market share of our Comirnaty vaccine has continued to grow, representing 70% of all doses distributed across the U.S. and EU as of February 5. When it comes to Paxlovid, we expect to produce 6 million treatment courses during the first quarter of '22. Overall, we expect to produce 30 million courses in the first half of 2022 and 120 million courses for the full year, of course, depending on the global need. Having recently received a conditional marketing authorization from the European Medicines Agency, Paxlovid has now received emergency or conditional authorization for use with certain populations in approximately 40 countries so far. We are in discussions with governments around the world and expect that as the number of authorizations increase, so will the number of contracts for this treatment, which could truly be a game-changer. At Pfizer, we are keenly aware of our responsibility to continue to invest in R&D to maintain our leadership in providing these tools and other meaningful solutions to the world. That's why we continue to develop and test different versions of our vaccine to potentially address variants of concern as they emerge, and why we are currently working on a new omicron-based vaccine candidate and on a bivalent COVID-19 vaccine candidate. It is also why just two months after receiving Emergency Use Authorization from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for Paxlovid, we are already working on a potential next-generation oral COVID-19 treatment. Going forward, we are confident in our ability to maintain this leadership position because of our significant investments in R&D combined with our ability to move at the speed of science without compromising quality or safety; the strong credibility we have earned with governments, healthcare providers and consumers; combined with our extensive global field presence and our unparalleled capabilities for high-quality manufacturing at scale. Now, the second thing I wanted to touch on is how we think about our capital allocation and to repeat once more our strategy. We feel that the entirety of our business continues to demonstrate a robust top-line growth trajectory through 2025. Consensus estimates are beginning to slowly recognize this momentum. However, consensus estimates currently saw our top line shrinking from 2025 to 2030. I want to repeat that this is inconsistent with our own plans. Our goal is to continue to be a growth company from '25 to 2030, despite the impact of LOEs expected during that period. Our confidence in our ability to achieve that is underpinned by the momentum of our business, the durability of our COVID-19 offerings, which as I just described, the underestimated strength of our internal pipeline; and of course, by our ability to deploy capital into growth-focused business development to access external science. A few words about that. We leverage business development opportunities to advance our business strategies and objectives. The strength of our balance sheet and cash flows allow us to pursue new business development opportunities going forward that could add at least $25 billion of risk-adjusted revenues to our 2030 top-line expectations. We expect to do this while still maintaining our growing dividend, as well as flexibility for other uses of our cash. The focus of our business development efforts will continue to be on compelling external science in the form of both later-stage assets, as well as earlier medical innovations that have the potential to be breakthroughs for patients. Our focus will largely be in the therapeutic areas and platforms where we have the scientific skills and acumen to add substantial value and select the most successful targets. In addition, we feel that we have distinctive attributes, such as world-class excellence in clinical development and unsurpassed manufacturing and commercial capabilities at scale that makes us a very attractive partner across a variety of deal arrangements. We believe the opportunities to deliver on this approach exist, and I will be personally focusing on this execution. I want to emphasize that despite our significant capital flexibility, we will never lower the scientific and financial standards we apply in our business development. As we pursue these opportunities, we will continue to be highly disciplined in our evaluation and prioritization processes. Since 2019, we have already invested almost $25 billion in business development transactions, adding more than $13 billion in consensus, I repeat, in consensus 2030 revenue. I would point out that the $13 billion of consensus currently includes nothing for the Trillium assets, the Biohaven collaboration, or the recently announced mRNA deals, all of which have substantial potential. I see this pace of business development accelerating going forward, and I'm confident it will be an important driver in ensuring Pfizer as a growth company in the back half of this decade. One highly visible example of our approach to business development is the recent investments we are making in mRNA technology and collaborations. mRNA has emerged as a versatile technology with potential application across many infectious diseases, cancer, rare genetic disorders, and even autoimmune diseases. Although mRNA is not the holy grail, we believe the technology has the potential to have a game-changing impact on global health, which is why we have developed a robust mRNA strategy and are aggressively building our platform. While the pandemic has demonstrated that it is not that easy to deliver mRNA vaccines at scale, Pfizer has emerged as a leader in this space. With decades of experience on our side, we have developed what is arguably the most efficient clinical development and vaccine manufacturing capabilities the world has ever seen. We also have rapidly scaled and built out new capabilities in record time by hiring nearly 2,400 new colleagues in these functions in a nine-month time frame. Going forward, we plan to continue to invest to capitalize on the leadership we have built in terms of both mRNA R&D and manufacturing. In addition, of course, to these internal investments and improvements, we are also making external investments to build out our capabilities in this space. For example, Pfizer recently has entered into four important business development deals to help advance our mRNA strategy. We are expanding our collaboration with BioNTech to use the existing platform to co-develop an mRNA vaccine candidate for herpes zoster virus to protect against shingles. Our agreement with Beam Therapeutics expands our mRNA efforts to another core therapeutic area for Pfizer, the rare disease, with a four-year research collaboration for three targets for rare genetic diseases of the liver, muscle, and central nervous system. We believe this will give us the potential to use mRNA to treat diseases, not just prevent them. Our agreement with Acuitas gives us the ability to collaborate with and license their proprietary lipid nanoparticle technology for up to 10 targets for mRNA vaccines and therapy. We believe this will give us greater independence in this space. And we have signed a strategic collaboration and licensing agreement with Codex DNA, a leader in the development of automated solutions for on-demand synthesis of genes and mRNA, potentially allowing enzymatic assembly of DNA at the front end of the mRNA production process. This could possibly reduce the time to produce a new vaccine from three months down to two months. If successful, this would be an important differentiator when developing a vaccine for the flu, for example, as it would allow us to select a strain much closer to the start of any flu season. These deals represent only four pieces of a much bigger strategic puzzle. As we continue executing on our mRNA strategy, you should expect to see more targeted activity in this area. Of course, our business development activity in the last quarter went beyond executing on our mRNA strategy. This is an update of the slide I showed you last quarter, and I would like to highlight a few of the other recent deals. They are marked as new in this slide. The acquisition of Trillium builds on our strong track record of leadership in oncology, enhancing our hematology portfolio as we strive to improve outcomes for people living with blood cancers around the globe. Our strategic collaboration with Biohaven leverages our leading commercial capabilities in pain and in women's health. [Technical difficulty] I apologize. We're back. I apologize for the technical issue. I will repeat my script for this last slide, and then we go forward. So, of course, our business development activity in the last quarter went beyond executing on our mRNA strategy. This is an update of the slide I showed you last quarter, and I would like to highlight a few of the other recent deals. You can see them with the indication of new. The acquisition of Trillium builds on our strong track record of leadership in oncology, enhancing our hematology portfolio as we strive to improve outcomes for people living with blood cancers around the globe. Our strategic collaboration with Biohaven leverages our leading commercial capabilities in pain and women's health, with Biohaven's groundbreaking oral CGRP receptor antagonist, the only one approved in the U.S. for both acute and preventative treatment of migraine, so that we can potentially bring a valuable new treatment option to patients living with this debilitating neurological disease outside the U.S. And through our proposed acquisition of Arena, we plan to leverage Pfizer's leading research and global development capabilities to accelerate the clinical development of etrasimod for patients with immuno-inflammatory diseases. Now, I would like to share some details about Pfizer's enhanced ESG strategy. The strategy is focused on six areas where we see opportunities to create a meaningful and measurable impact over the next decade: product innovation, equitable access and pricing, product quality and safety; diversity, equity and inclusion; climate change and business ethics. Each quarter going forward, I will provide examples of how we are embedding ESG into all core areas of our business. This quarter, I would highlight our efforts to improve clinical trial diversity, to improve diversity within our colleagues base, and help ensure equitable access to our COVID-19 vaccine and treatment. Last year, Pfizer published an industry-first retrospective analysis of demographic data of U.S. participants in 213 of our interventional clinical trials that initiated enrollment from 2011 through 2020. The analysis demonstrated that overall trial participation of Black or African American individuals was at the U.S. census level, 14.3% versus 13.4%; participation of Hispanic or Latino individuals was below U.S. census, 15.9% versus 18.5%; and female participation was at U.S. census, 51.1% versus 50.8%. We published this analysis to be transparent and for it to serve as the baseline as we measure progress in this area. We believe that diversity in trials is a matter of equity and good science and are taking decisive steps designed to improve diversity in our trials. Our goal is to achieve racially and ethnically diverse participation at or above U.S. census or disease prevalence levels, as appropriate, in all our trials. The second item I want to highlight is the significant progress we are making in diversifying our colleague base, particularly at more senior-level positions. In the last three years, for example, we have increased the percentage of women at the vice president level and above globally from 32% to 42%. Over the same time frame, we have increased the percentage of minorities at the vice president level and above in the U.S. from 19% to 25%. The third item I wanted to highlight is the progress we are making to help ensure our COVID-19 vaccine and oral treatment are accessible by everyone everywhere. I am thrilled to say that we remain on track to meet or exceed our global -- our goal of delivering at least 2 billion doses of our vaccine to low and middle-income countries by the end of 2022, having just met our goal of delivering the first 1 billion by the end of 2021. I also want to highlight two data points about our 2 billion dose commitment. One billion of these doses are being provided to the poorest countries completely free of charge. Thanks to our agreement with the U.S. government, Pfizer is providing these doses to the U.S. government at a not-for-profit price, and the government is then providing them to the poorest countries for free. Also, the 1 billion doses we delivered in 2021 represented 37% of all doses we delivered this last year. In terms of our oral COVID-19 treatment, we have signed a voluntary license agreement with the Medicines Patent Pool, which we hope will lead to expanded access, pending country regulatory authorization or approval, in 95 low- and middle-income countries that account for approximately 53% of the world population. Lastly, I'm pleased to announce that the Compensation Committee of our board of directors has been reviewing methods for linking executive compensation with ESG performance, which we expect to begin this year. For details regarding the impact of our ESG strategy had on our business in 2021, please keep an eye out for Pfizer's 2021 ESG report, which will be published online in mid-March. In summary, 2021 was an outstanding year for Pfizer, and we look forward to continuing to apply the lessons learned from COVID-19 to deliver breakthroughs for patients across all our therapeutic areas. We remain focused on being nimble, investing in our R&D organization, and exploring dynamic partnerships that will enable us to fully realize the power of our science. None of this is possible without the contributions of our amazingly purpose-driven colleagues, who continue to rise to the challenge of addressing the world's most devastating diseases. In 2021, our colleagues exceeded expectations. Therefore, we will once again use part of the bonus pool that the board approved for bonus-eligible colleagues and executives to provide a one-time, special COVID-19 Circumstances Bonus to our nonbonus-eligible colleagues across the board to reward them for their hard work and to help them cover personal, family and living expenses incurred because of the COVID-19 pandemic. With that, I will turn it over to Mikael to update you on our R&D efforts. After Mikael, Frank will provide financial details on the fourth quarter and our outlook for 2022. So, Mikael?Mikael Dolsten -- President of Worldwide Research and Development and Medical Thank you, Albert. I'm delighted to share updates from this quarter as we continue to deliver first-in-class science. Today, I will share updates from our COVID-19 programs and select other assets in our pipeline. Let's start with Paxlovid. As the COVID-19 pandemic continues to burden public health, we have advanced the science on our novel oral antiviral therapeutics. Importantly, we see consistent, potent antiviral activity in vitro against all current variants of concern, including both delta and omicron. This would be expected from how the compound was designed. On the left, you can see a crystal structure showing how tightly nirmatrelvir binds to the active site of the omicron variant. History has told us from the HIV protease field that the closer the therapeutic is designed to mimic the substrate, the harder it is for resistance to emerge. That, combined with the essential nature of the protease, the short duration of treatment and the co-dosing with ritonavir to drug exposures that are over five times to six times the amount of compound needed to kill the virus in an in vitro assay, suggest there is reduced risk for resistance. External data support our findings. In this slide, the lower values, the stronger potency, illustrated by nirmatrelvir being on the lower end of the Y axis on the left, having the most potent activity. Nirmatrelvir maintains in vitro potency in the low nanomolar range, as you can see in these graphs that include other authorized or approved therapeutics. On the left is in vitro data from a study done with the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai and Pfizer. Nirmatrelvir demonstrated potent antiviral activity, as measured by IC50, a measure of drug efficacy indicating the concentration needed to inhibit infection by half. This is consistent with findings from the Rega Institute at KU Leuven in Belgium, shown on the right. We anticipate a New Drug Application decision by the FDA in the high-risk population in second half of '22; pivotal readouts of our household contact and standard-risk studies in the second quarter and second half of '22, respectively; and the study start in children six to 18 years old in the first quarter of '22. In the standard-risk study, we're expanding enrollment by 750 nonhospitalized patients with symptomatic COVID-19, and vaccinated standard-risk patients may also be eligible, provided their last SARS-CoV-2 vaccine dose was received at least 12 months prior to screening. This expansion will allow us to further evaluate the secondary end points seen in the interim analysis, which showed a 70% reduction in hospitalization and no death in the treated compared to placebo. We also are advancing work on a potential next-generation SARS-CoV-2 antiviral with the aim of achieving similar high clinical efficacy in pan-coronavirus design properties that maintain activity with a favorable safety profile and counter potential viral resistance, but without the need for ritonavir boosting. A first in human study is expected in the second half of '22. Now, we also continue to advance vaccine development and have achieved Emergency Use Authorization for use in children as young as age five. Effectiveness data for three doses of the vaccine for 12 -- people 12 years and older, and early laboratory data observed with delta and other variants of concern, including omicron, suggest that people vaccinated with three doses of Comirnaty may have a higher degree of protection against both symptomatic and severe outcomes compared to two primary doses. Informed by this data, in addition to the immuno-bridging data, we are evaluating a third three-microgram dose in our study of children six months through four years of age, with the belief that a third dose may be optimal for this age group. However, as pediatric cases and hospitalization are at an all-time high, FDA urged us to start a rolling EUA authorization submission with the two-dose efficacy, immunogenicity, and safety data we have accumulated thus far, while we continue to collect data, including on third-dose administration. We plan to submit third-dose data once they're available. In the meantime, FDA has scheduled an Advisory Committee meeting for February 15 to consider the two-dose pediatric data collected today. If Emergency Use Authorization of two doses is granted and the CDC recommends usage, parents will have the opportunity to begin a COVID-19 vaccination series for their children between six months and four years of age, while awaiting potential authorization of a third dose. Turning to the adult population. In the wake of surging omicron cases, in January, we completed a lab analysis of the effect of a third dose boost of Comirnaty on live virus neutralization. Encouragingly, there was a more than 25-fold increase in omicron live virus neutralization titers observed between day of dose 3 and one month post-dose 3. We observed a moderate four-month post-dose 3 antibody decay for wild type and the omicron variant. Between one month and four months post-dose 3, neutralizing titers were at 1.6 and twofold lower for wild type and the omicron, respectively. We're now starting to see effects of a third dose boost in maintaining a high level of protection against omicron in the real world. These data from Kaiser Permanente Southern California show omicron-related emergency department visits without hospitalization on top and hospitalization on the bottom. Three doses of Comirnaty provided better vaccine effectiveness against omicron than two doses. And there was high vaccine effectiveness of three doses against omicron-related hospitalization, similar to delta-related hospitalization. We did see some waning of effectiveness against emergency department admissions due to omicron three months or more after third dose, which suggest the potential need for another boost of the current vaccine or an omicron-based vaccine. We have started an omicron-based vaccine candidate trial in adults 18 to 55 years of age. This study will evaluate more than 1,400 participants across three cohorts. Those who have already received two doses of the current vaccine 90 to 180 days prior to enrollment will receive one or two doses of the based omicron-based vaccine. Those who have already received three doses of the current vaccine 90 to 180 days prior to enrollment will receive one dose of the current vaccine or the omicron-based vaccine. And those who are vaccine-naive will receive three doses of the omicron-based vaccine. This study is part of our science-based approach to develop a variant-based vaccine that we hope achieves a similar level of protection against omicron as the current vaccine has with both wild type and earlier variant, but with potentially longer duration of protection. Now, let's turn to our next-generation CDK inhibitors for cancer. Most patients with advanced or metastatic breast cancer eventually develop resistance to both endocrine and CDK4/6 inhibitor therapy despite their transformative efficacy. Inhibition of CDK2 delivered with a CDK-selective active drug or a triple-active CDK2/4/6 agent may prevent, delay or reverse resistance and prolong survival. These are data from a subset in the CDK2/4/6 inhibitor phase 1 dose-escalation and antitumor activity study of heavily pretreated patients with hormone receptor-positive metastatic breast cancer. The most improvement in terms of tumor size reduction was seen in patients treated with monotherapy or in combination with fulvestrant. We observed three confirmed partial responses and three patients with stable disease for more than 12 months. One patient has been receiving ongoing treatment for more than 28 months. There's been an acceptable safety profile at the recommended phase 2 dose, which is 25 milligrams twice daily. We plan to conduct a phase 1 dose expansion and expect to complete it in the fourth quarter of this year. Selective CDK2 inhibition with a CDK2-only inhibitor may allow dose titration and has the potential to be used in combination with approved CDK inhibitors, such as palbociclib or other next-generation CDK selective inhibitors. There were two confirmed partial responses in the phase 1 study of our selective CDK2 inhibitor in patients with advanced or metastatic hormone receptor HER2-negative breast cancer, who had received/progressed on prior CDK4/6 inhibition and endocrine therapy. One patient had a maximum tumor shrinkage of 54% following CDK2 inhibitor treatment for approximately eight months, and the second had 100% shrinkage of all target lesions following treatment for approximately nine months. We are showing scans of the first patient at baseline and eight weeks. There was an acceptable safety profile as a monotherapy, and we're currently exploring combinations. We expect the phase 1/2 study to be completed in the second quarter of '23. Now, let's turn to our six-valent Lyme disease vaccine candidate, which we are developing in partnership with Valneva. We have received further positive data from our phase 2 proof-of-concept study and expect to start phase 3 in the third quarter of this year with a dosing regimen of zero, two, and six months to prime, followed by routine boosters before the start of a Lyme season. Our phase 2 studies continue and includes a pediatric population ages five to 17 years. Since Lyme disease is seasonal, our goal is to establish a regimen that results in high antibodies at the beginning of each season. We, therefore, looked at a boost one year after the primary series. We saw a substantial boost antibody response in phase 2 to all six serotypes present in North America and Europe following the three-dose primary series vaccination schedule, with a 14- to 31-fold rise in season 1 and a 51- to 69-fold rise in season 2. The vaccine candidate was generally well tolerated at all dose levels tested, and we are excited about further development and the potential to help prevent this debilitating disease. Last quarter, we told you that we saw robust dystrophin expression out to one year in our Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy gene therapy phase 1b study. I will show you encouraging functional motor data in a moment. We recently shared some very sad news that a DMD patient with advanced disease in the nonambulatory cohort of the phase 1b trial passed away after presenting with hypovolemia and cardiogenic shock. The patient was 16 years old and the first in the nonambulatory cohort treated with Rapamune, along with steroids, as part of the immunosuppressive regimen. Rapamune is not used in the phase 3 ambulatory study. Like most nonambulatory DMD patients, he had more advanced disease with underlying cardiac dysfunction. There is evidence of an active viral infection, and we're investigating how this may have contributed to the outcome. Additional assessment will be required to define next steps to restart the phase 1b study in nonambulatory patients who are more progressed in the disease. I will now share data from this study. The ambulatory cohort -- sorry, I had one more sentence to say here. Nineteen patients were enrolled in this study, 16 of whom received the dose selected for our phase 3 program, and three of whom received a previously studied lower dose. At one year post treatment, there was a 5.6-point improvement in ambulatory function, as measured by North Star Ambulatory Assessment, compared to an external control matched for age and baseline function. This is particularly encouraging given that patients at this age and stage of disease typically experience a considerable decline in ambulatory function, as illustrated by the external control. On the right, we show time in study with six participants nearing or more than three years in treatment. The ambulatory cohort in phase 1b is similar but slightly older on average to the population in the phase 3 CIFFREO trial. Considering the favorable benefit-to-risk profile in this study and observed in the ambulatory patient population and in consultation with the Data Monitoring Committee, we believe the safety profile of our DMD gene therapy is manageable in this patient group. Additional mitigation are being added to our study in consultation with eDMC and other medical experts. Pending regulatory feedback, we anticipate phase 3 study sites to begin reopen in the next few months, with a potential to report top-line results and, subject to clinical trial success, submit a BLA by the end of '23. Turning now to Internal Medicine and ponsegromab, our candidate for cachexia due to cancer. It targets GDF-15. GDF-15 is frequently elevated in cancer patients, drives reduction of appetite and body weight loss, and is associated with poor outcomes. There may also be a potential to treat cachexia associated with other chronic diseases, such as heart failure and COPD. We have encouraging phase 1b data, which I will show next. Ponsegromab was evaluated in 10 cancer patients who are undergoing antitumor treatment and had more than 5% body weight loss in the last six months or more than 2% body weight loss with a body mass index of less than 20 kilogram per meter square or diagnosed sarcopenia. Ponsegromab administration was found to suppress circulating GDF-15 levels in cancer cachexia patients, below the level observed in healthy subjects. Preliminary data from the phase 1b trial show ponsegromab treatment resulted in significant body weight gain compared to historical placebo. You can see the nice trend in body weight increase remained even after the dosing was stopped at week 12. The gray dotted line indicates the historical cut-off associated with improved survival. We are co-developing a companion diagnostic with Roche Diagnostics designed to enable precision medicine. And we expect to start the phase 2 study in cancer cachexia in the fourth quarter of this year. Injectable GLP-1 receptor agonist offer potent lowering of glucose and weight in diabetic and obese patients with proven cardiovascular benefits, but this drug class is underutilized due to its injectable administration route. Our small molecule oral GLP-1 receptor agonist danuglipron could potentially offer a convenient oral alternative to injectables and is being evaluated for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, obesity, and NASH. It has been developed in our Internal Medicine research group with a vision to expand the use of this potent, easily administrated GLP-1 drug class to a primary care setting. Here are data from the phase 2 study in type 2 diabetes. We recorded strong dose-dependent reduction in both HbA1c, a measure of long-term blood sugar levels, and body weight compared to the marginal effect noted with placebo. After 12 weeks of treatment with a 200-milligram twice-daily dose, HbA1c decreased by almost 1.6% and body weight decreased by 5.4 kilograms. The safety and tolerability profile is consistent with the GLP-1 class, and the most frequent adverse events were GI-related. We expect to start a phase 2b titration optimization study mid-'22 with doses up to 200-milligram twice a day and complete the phase 2b study in nondiabetic subjects with obesity in the first quarter of next year. Finally, here are select recent and upcoming milestones from across the pipeline. The solid blue dots represent milestones achieved, and the open blue dots represent anticipated milestones. Programs in bold are major anticipated events. Some of the programs on the right have already been designated as Lightspeed, meaning they have accelerated development timelines or are being considered for Lightspeed designation. Finally, I would like to take a moment to thank Morrie Birnbaum, our outgoing chief scientific officer with the internal medicine research unit, for his immense contribution over the last seven years. And welcome Bill Sessa, who joins us from Yale School of Medicine, following a decade-long career in academia, including service as vice chair of pharmacology, professor of Medicine, and director of the vascular biology and therapeutics program at Yale. Bill is an eminent leader in the field, a groundbreaking scientist, and a celebrated innovator, and I know he will bring his tremendous vision and insights to our investigation of cardiovascular and metabolic diseases. Thank you for your attention. I look forward to your questions. Now, let me turn it over to Frank.Frank D'Amelio -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Mikael. I know you've seen our release, so let me provide a few highlights regarding the financials. The COVID-19 vaccine, once again, had a positive impact on our quarterly results, and Albert and Mikael have already addressed the key points on the COVID-19 landscape. Turning to the income statement. Revenue increased 106% operationally in the fourth quarter of '21, driven by COVID-19 vaccine sales and strong performance from a number of our other key growth drivers. Looking at the revenue, excluding the COVID-19 vaccine direct sales and alliance revenues and Paxlovid contribution, fourth quarter was slower than the first nine months of the year, declining by 2% operationally. As we discussed during our third quarter call, there was a 4% negative impact or approximately $500 million from fewer selling days in the U.S. and international. Excluding that impact, operational growth would have been 2%, which is still lower than the mid- to high single-digit growth we had experienced during the rest of the year. This was factored into our forecast for the year, but let me briefly walk you through this. In our biopharma business, you will remember that the fourth quarter of '21 faced a tough comp from the fourth quarter of 2020 for Prevnar as pneumococcal vaccinations were strong ahead of COVID-19 vaccine availability. Excluding vaccines from the current and comparable period would add 5 percentage points to the growth. Adjusting for the unusual comp period differences related to vaccines and selling days, our revenue growth would have been approximately 7%, which is similar to what we've been delivering lately. For the year, operational revenue growth was 92%. Excluding Comirnaty direct sales and alliance revenues and Paxlovid, 2021 operational revenue growth was 6%. This is consistent with our projected revenue CAGR of at least 6% from 2020 through the end of 2025. Of course, there will be some variability in quarterly and annual growth rates due to a variety of factors, but we continue to expect at least a 6% CAGR through 2025. The adjusted cost of sales increase, shown here, reduced this quarter's gross margin by approximately 16 percentage points compared to the fourth quarter of 2020, which is almost entirely driven by the impact of the COVID-19 vaccine. Adjusted SI&A expenses in the fourth quarter increased primarily due to increased product-level spending, including Comirnaty and higher healthcare reform sales-based fees. The increase in adjusted R&D expense this quarter was primarily driven by increased investments in late-stage pipeline projects, including additional spending related to our oral COVID-19 treatment. [Technical difficulty] Albert Bourla -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Frank, I think you were disconnected.Chris Stevo -- Senior Vice President and Chief of Investor Relations Yes, we can hear you, Frank. Go ahead.Frank D'Amelio -- Chief Financial Officer OK. I'm not sure where I left off, but I think what I'll do is start with the '22 financial guidance. So, we've again provided total company guidance, which includes the business with the COVID-19 vaccine. We will continue to provide insight into our expected revenues for Comirnaty. And now for the first time, we'll also provide some color on our expected revenues for Paxlovid. However, note that we will no longer be providing EPS guidance for the business, excluding Comirnaty. Similarly, we won't provide EPS guidance for Paxlovid. Our revenue guidance represents a record for Pfizer, and we expect total company revenue to be in the range of $98 million to $102 billion, representing an operational growth rate of 24% midpoint. Please consider that this revenue range reflects approximately $1.1 billion of anticipated negative impact from changes in foreign currencies and also the impact of the loss of Meridian sales of approximately $300 million, both of which your models may not take into account. Regarding our COVID-related revenues, we now expect the COVID-19 vaccine revenue for the year to be approximately $32 billion, an increase of approximately $1 billion compared to our prior guidance provided on December 17. For Paxlovid, we expect sales of approximately $22 billion. This means that excluding the COVID-related revenues, we expect sales to be $46 billion at the midpoint, representing operational growth of 5%. While this is slightly below the 6% CAGR that we continue to expect between 2020 and 2025, I would remind you that there will be volatility along the way. Let me give you some detail on our cost and expense guidance. For adjusted cost of sales, we are expecting a range of 32.2% to 34.2%. Given that we are now more than 12 months past the launch of Comirnaty, we expect its negative impact on our cost of sales margins to be less than it was in 2021, assuming a similar level of revenues. Further, Paxlovid is expected to have a very positive impact on cost of sales as a percentage of revenues in 2022. On adjusted SI&A, we expect $12.5 billion to $13.5 billion, an increase of $900 million at the midpoint. We expect our adjusted R&D guidance range to be $10.5 billion to $11.5 billion at the midpoint, that is about $500 million higher than last year. We expect an adjusted effective tax rate for the year somewhat higher than 2021 at approximately 16%. These assumptions yield an adjusted diluted EPS range of $6.35 to $6.55 or 47% operational growth at the midpoint compared to '21, excluding an expected $0.06 negative impact from foreign exchange. I'd like to point out some additional information, which may be helpful for your models. You will note that our guidance assumes a weighted average share count of approximately 5.8 billion, which represents an increase of approximately 100 million shares over 2021. This accounts for the number of shares that we normally issue for employee compensation annually. The increase of 100 million shares over '21 decreases our EPS by about $0.10 at the midpoint. I noticed that most of your models instead assume a flat share count for '22 as compared to '21. From the first quarter of '22 and going forward, we've made a decision to modify our adjusted financials treatment of amortization of intangibles. Previously, we only excluded amortization related to large mergers and acquisitions and exclude all intangible asset amortization expense. This is anticipated to contribute $0.06 to our 2022 adjusted diluted earnings per share, helps improve comparability with our peers. 2022 guidance once again assumes no share repurchases. We will note that Pfizer did not repurchase shares in either 2020 or 2021. And we continue -- and while we continue to have outstanding unused authorization to repurchase another $5.3 billion of stock, can be opportunistic, given the potentially value-enhancing business development opportunities, which are available to us, we do not expect to repurchase shares in 2022. Now, a word on our 32% stake in the consumer joint venture with GSK. As you know, GSK has announced its intention to engage in a demerger transaction for at least 80% of its 68% stake in the JV in the summer of 2022. We talked about our stake as a noncore asset, whose value we will seek to realize over time. While we have determined neither the manner or timing of how we will do so, there are a number of possible alternatives, and we will attempt to monetize this asset in the manner which will create the most value for our shareholders. We receive approximately $600 million in pre-tax income from the JV annually, and this will not change as a result of the demerger transaction, and our guidance assumes that this will continue throughout 2022 with no change to our 32% stake. Let me quickly remind you of some assumptions and context on the projected COVID-19 vaccine contribution and our collaboration agreement. The Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine collaboration construct is a 50-50 gross profit split. Pfizer books the vast majority of the global collaboration revenue, except for Germany and Turkey, where we receive a profit share from BioNTech, and we do not participate in the China region. We continue to expect that we can manufacture 4 billion doses in total by the end of 2022. The $1 billion increase in expected COVID vaccine revenues to approximately $32 billion in 2022 primarily represents the impact of contracts signed since mid-December, which we cut off from our prior guidance. While we cannot predict what may be needed due to omicron or other variants, I would also caution you that there is less potential upside to this guidance through the year compared to the situation we faced in 2021 when the vaccine was newly available, and few people have received any doses of the vaccine. As you will remember, our cost of sales for the COVID-19 vaccine revenue includes manufacturing and distribution costs, applicable royalty expenses, and payments of BioNTech representing 50% gross profit split. We expect that the adjusted income before tax margin for the COVID-19 vaccine contribution to be slightly higher than the high 20s as a percentage of revenue that we had in 2021. Unlike the situation for Comirnaty, demand for Paxlovid should have upside from these levels depending on the outcomes of discussions with certain governments and potential purchases for stockpiling against future coronavirus pandemics. If we remove the projected COVID-19 vaccine and Paxlovid contribution from both periods, you will see that we expect the 2022 revenue range to be $45 billion to $47 billion, representing approximately 5% operational revenue growth at the midpoint. Please remember, our guidance excludes the former revenue contribution of approximately $300 million for Meridian and all '21 quarters have been recast to exclude Meridian's discontinued operations accounting for its divestiture. Going forward, we will not give earnings guidance, excluding the estimated income from our Comirnaty direct sales and alliance revenues and Paxlovid. However, to help you with your forecasting a couple of minutes ago, I gave you my view on 2022 Comirnaty pre-tax margins. For Paxlovid, I would think about its margins as being typical for a small molecule drug and unlike Comirnaty, it is expected not to be dilutive to pre-tax earnings. To help you further, several years ago before COVID-19 existed, I spoke about our business being on a path to a 40%-plus pre-tax margin level in 2022, the business, excluding Comirnaty and Paxlovid. Going forward, we will continue to be prudent in our capital allocation activities with the opportunities for deployment shown here on this slide. In summary, exceptionally strong quarter and year based on continued strong performance for our growth drivers. During the year, we raised guidance and for the year, we met or exceeded our guidance in all key metrics. Our pipeline continues to advance, and we have invested record amounts to support that advance. Last week, Arena shareholders voted to approve Pfizer's acquisition of the company. We look forward to a targeted closing of the Arena acquisition as soon as the first half of 2022, subject to the satisfaction of the closing conditions, including antitrust approvals. We continue to expect to be active in regards to business development throughout 2022 as we continue to get access to the best external science and bring breakthroughs to patients in 2025 and beyond. With that, let me turn it over to Chris to start the Q&A session.Chris Stevo -- Senior Vice President and Chief of Investor Relations Thank you, Frank. Apologies, everyone, for those technical difficulties. Just want to remind you, we do have the prepared remarks posted to the website. So, if there's anything you missed because of difficulties, please refer to the prepared remarks. And given the technical difficulties, we're going to try to let the Q&A session run a little longer to answer people's questions. Sylvia, first question, please. 