  OperatorGreetings, and welcome to the Take-Two Q1 Fiscal-Year 2022 Earnings Call. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Nicole Shevins, senior vice president of investor relations and corporate communications. Please go ahead.Nicole Shevins -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications Good afternoon. Thank you for joining our conference call to discuss our results for the first quarter of fiscal-year 2022 ended June 30, 2021. Today's call will be led by Strauss Zelnick, Take-Two's chairman and chief executive officer; Karl Slatoff, our president; and Lainie Goldstein, our chief financial officer. We will be available to answer your questions during the Q&A session following our prepared remarks. Before we begin, I'd like to remind everyone that statements made during this call that are not historical facts are considered forward-looking statements under federal securities laws. These forward-looking statements are based on the beliefs of our management as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to us. We have no obligation to update these forward-looking statements. Actual operating results may vary significantly from these forward-looking statements based on a variety of factors.These important factors are described in our filings with the SEC, including the company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q, including the risks summarized in the section entitled Risk Factors. I'd also like to note that unless otherwise stated, all numbers we will be discussing today are GAAP and all comparisons for year over year. Additional details regarding our actual results and outlook are contained in our press release, including the items that our management uses internally to adjust our GAAP financial results in order to evaluate our operating performance. Our press release also contains a reconciliation of any non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable GAAP measure. In addition, we to our website a slide deck that digitally presents our results and financial outlook. Our press release and filings with the SEC may be to table our website at take2games.com. And now I'll turn the call over to Strauss. Strauss Zelnick -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Nicole. Good afternoon, and thank you for joining us today. I'm pleased to report that fiscal-year 2022 is off to a great start, highlighted by first-quarter net bookings of $711 million, which exceeded our expectations. As the world has moved toward a safer, new normal, we experienced strong engagement trends across most of our core franchises. During the period, we took multiple steps to enhance our organization over the long term. We invested further in talent and core infrastructure, which are important areas to support our expansive multiyear pipeline. Mobile remains a key growth opportunity, and we believe that our acquisition of Nordeus will enhance meaningfully our talents and expertise in this area. With a larger mobile footprint, we've integrated Social Point, PlayDots and Nordeus since T2 mobile games. This structure will enable us to realize cost synergies, leverage expertise and share best practices across our teams. I'm also proud that we deepened our focus on corporate responsibility, and we've recently made several key hires to lead our efforts regarding diversity, equity and inclusion. Turning to our first-quarter results. Our better-than-expected performance was primarily driven by Grand Theft Online and Grand Theft Auto V, Red Dead Redemption 2 and Red Dead Online, and Borderlands 3. For nearly eight years, Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online have redefined the creative and cultural influence of interactive entertainment, setting new standards for multiple generations of consumers and gaming platforms. Sales of Grand Theft Auto V were significantly above our expectations once again, and the title has now sold in more than 150 million units. Rockstar Games continue to keep its massive player base engaged with new content updates for Grand Theft Online, including eight new stock races, seven new arenas for deadline mode and regular in-game bonuses and incentives. This helped drive the title to its second highest first quarter on record for player audience in its third consecutive quarter of player growth. In comparison to the first quarter of fiscal 2020, Grand Theft Auto Online achieved a 72% increase in its audience size, a 77% increase in new players and significant growth in recurring consumer spending. In addition, Rockstar Games continue to captivate and engage audiences with Red Dead Redemption 2, which exceeded our expectations and has now sold in more than 38 million units. Red Dead Online also enjoyed a strong quarter, thanks to new content offerings, including eight new horse races and a creative array of bonuses and incentives. The game experienced strong performance as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2020, including 18% growth in its audience size, 26% growth in new players and outstanding growth in recurrent consumer spending. This performance was driven by both strong ongoing game sales and the continued influx of new players from the stand-alone version of Red Dead Online. Turning to our sports offerings. NBA 2K21 has sold in over 11 million units and remains the No. 1 sports title in the U.S. NBA 2K's community continues to be highly engaged with more than 2.7 million users playing daily. As compared to last year, the game experienced 13% growth in first-time spenders and nearly 30% growth in returning players. We see a significant opportunity to grow the franchise further over the next few years as we provide unique and innovative experiences throughout the game. PGA Tour 2K21 continues to exceed our expectations and expand its audience. In June, 2K and HB Studios launched a community driven program that allows the top golf course designers from around the world to create and submit ideas for inclusion in the game's online playlist. This program is enhancing the game's vast replayability while also driving player engagement and growing its global community. Borderlands 3 had a strong quarter. During the period, 2K and Gearbox Software released the Director's Cut add-on providing new missions, characters, daily and weekly challenges and unique rewards. The game was also supported with an array of new free content offerings that gave players more ways to perfect and expand their arsenals. 2K interactive games launched Sid Meier's Civilization VI Anthology on Windows PC, providing the ultimate package for players that have yet to experience the award-winning critically acclaimed strategy title. The anthology includes the base game, all previously released DLC, the rise and fall and gathering storm expansions as well as the popular New Frontier Pass. Civilization 6 has sold in more than 11 million units, outperforming its predecessor at the same point in its life cycle. Later this year, 2K and Firaxis Games will celebrate the 30th anniversary of the civilization franchise, and I'd like to congratulate our teams on this incredible milestone. Kerbal Space Program, which has sold in over five million units, celebrated its 10-year anniversary in June. To mark the milestone, Private Division released a short documentary video detailing the achievements of the title as well as its impact on the aerospace industry. One of our key strategic priorities is to provide new and innovative ways for audiences to stay engaged with our titles and the communities built around them after their initial launch. During the first quarter, recurrent consumer spending declined 25%, which was better than our expectations of a 30% decline and accounted for 69% of net bookings. Overall, all evidence suggests that media consumption patterns are beginning to stabilize to a new normal. And while down from the highs of the previous year, recurrent consumer spending in our products has leveled off and remained significantly higher than the first quarter of fiscal 2020. The largest contributors to recurrent consumer spending in the period were NBA 2K and Grand Theft Auto Online. We also experienced strong performance across many of our free-to-play offerings. Monster Legends and Dragon City exceeded our expectations with sequential top line growth compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021. This performance was driven by strong live ops, successful feature releases and significant marketing investments. celebrated its seventh anniversary in June. The title performed well with positive momentum continuing from the second half of fiscal 2021. WWE Supercard has now been downloaded over 24 million times and remains 2K's highest grossing mobile title. The franchise has had strong performance, with the last 12 months marking its sixth consecutive year of growth. Following our acquisition of Nordeus, we're encouraged by the performance of potential for top 11, including its use of seasonal live ops and new features. NBA 2K online in China outperformed our expectations. The title remains the No. 1 online PC sports game in the region, with nearly 54 million of registered users. Turning to our outlook. We're reiterating our prior guidance of $3.2 billion to $3.3 billion in net bookings for fiscal 2022. As we continue to develop our pipeline, there's been movement in some of our planned releases, including two of our more sub-core titles shifting to later in fiscal 2022 than our prior guidance had contemplated. Our approach has always been to allow our labels to determine when projects are ready to bring to market to ensure the best quality and overall experience for players. As Karl will discuss in greater detail, we're excited about our pipeline and the impact of our new releases will have on our business and financial profile in the years to come. We believe that we'll achieve sequential growth in fiscal 2023 and establish new record levels of operating results over the next few years. Looking ahead, we remain highly optimistic about the future of the interactive entertainment sector and our competitive positioning. As we leverage our many advantages, our leading talent, focus on creativity, incredible portfolio of owned IP and strong balance sheet, we believe that Take-Two is well positioned to drive long-term growth and shareholder value. I'll now turn the call over to Karl.Karl Slatoff -- President Thanks, Strauss. I'd like to thank our team for a strong start to the year and their continued dedication to our business. We continue to believe that fiscal-year 2022 will be a year of investments, as marked by our recent acquisitions of Nordeus and Dynamixyz. We are thrilled to have both teams join our family, and we will continue to evaluate organic and inorganic opportunities to enhance our organization. I'll now discuss our recent releases. Rockstar Games continued to provide an array of free content for their vast and growing online communities. In June, Rockstar released seven new arenas for the fan favorite deadline mode to Grand Theft Auto Online. This was followed by the Los Santos Tuners update, the game's major summer launch in July, which delivered an action-packed street racing-themed update into Grand Theft Auto Online. The update introduced elements of the tuner car culture to the game world, including the, a new heavily requested shared social space for players to get together to modify their personal vehicles, watch others modify their 200 vehicles in real time, rates and test various vehicles on an underground test track and much more. In addition, the Los Santos Tuners Update features six epic new robbery contracts, six new race types, 10 new highly customizable vehicles, collectible USB sticks offering a new way to hear music from Moody Men and Seth Troxler and a host of quality of life updates, including a new customizable radio station wheel. The launch of the Los Santos Tuners set new records for Grand Theft Auto Online, including the largest number of players and the highest level of net bookings for both day one and during the opening week for any update in Grand Theft Auto Online's history. Looking ahead, the upcoming launch of the expanded and enhanced versions of Grand Theft Auto Online for PlayStation 5 and X Series X|S systems this November will allow for higher top speeds for select vehicles across these more powerful systems. In July, Rockstar Games released the bloody money update for Red Dead Online. The update introduced a series of criminal-themed opportunities, complex new missions, including the game's first train robbery, and the Quick Draw claw, a series of four distinct, rapid fire passes featuring criminal theme unlockable rewards, bonuses and more. Blood money success, along with the additional influx of new players, thanks to the launch of the stand-alone version of our Red Dead Online, led to the highest number of players on day one for any update in Red Dead Online history. 2022 is an exciting year for Take-Two as we embark on our multiyear strategy to deliver a slate of releases more robust than any other time in our company's history. While there has been some movement in our pipeline, including two of our immersive core titles shifting to later this fiscal year, we remain highly optimistic about our plans, including the introduction of several new franchises. I'll now discuss details on our upcoming announced offerings for this year. On August 13, Private Division will launch Hades on physical disc for Playstation and Xbox consoles. Developed by Super Giant Games, Hades is a road-like dungeon crawler in which players seek freedom by battling their way through the treaters on the world of great myth. The physical retail addition will come with additional items for collectors, including a compendium booklet featuring the art of the game and a code to download a soundtrack. We are excited to launch Hades, which previously won over 50 Game of the Year Awards and earn impressive aggregate scores of 93 and 94 on Metacritic and Open Critic, respectively. In addition, during the second quarter, Private Division will launch Murder on Eridanos, the second add-on content offering for The Outer Worlds for the Nintendo Switch. On September 10, 2K and Visual Concepts will once again set the standard for basketball simulations as they've done for the past 20 years with the launch of NBA 2K22 for Playstation and Xbox consoles, Switch and PC. Featuring best-in-class visual presentation and player AI, historic teams and a wide variety of groups experiences, NBA 2K22 will place the entire basketball universe in the players' hands. Global phenomenon and two-time NBA all-star, Luka Doncic, will grace the cover of the standard addition and Cross-Gen Digital Bundle, while NBA Legends Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, Dirk Nowitzki and Kevin Durant will be featured on the premium NBA 75th anniversary edition. In North America, players can purchase a special version of the standard edition, featuring six-time WNBA Osar and WNBA Champion, Parker on the cover, available exclusively through Gamestop and EB Games. Parker's appearance is a milestone for the NBA 2K series, marking the first female cover athlete in the history of the franchise. In Japan, players can also purchase a special version of the standard edition that will feature Washington Wizards Hachimura, a rising star, who is the first Japanese player to not only be drafted in the first round in 2019, but also to reach the NBA playoffs. The NBA 75th anniversary addition and Cross-Gen Digital Bundle will feature cover artwork painted by renowned Atlanta-based artist, Charlie Palmer; whose civil right series appeared on the cover of time magazine in July 2020. This fall, Private Division will introduce Kerbal Space Program Enhanced Edition for PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X|S. The title will benefit from multiple hardware advancements, which will provide upgraded resolution, increased frame rate, advanced shaders, better textures and additional performance improvements. Players who already own Kerbal Space Program Enhanced Edition for Gen 9 consoles will be eligible for a free upgrade to the new version of the game upon its release. On November 11, Rockstar Games will launch the expanded and enhanced version of Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online stand-alone for Gen 9 consoles. Rockstar Games will have more details to share about these eagerly anticipated launches in the coming months. This winter, Private Division will release World 7 OlliOlli World digitally for PlayStation and Xbox consoles, Nintendo Switch and PC. The title has received outstanding initial feedback from early media impressions, including praise for its bold new direction, unique art style, standout soundtrack and improve game play mechanics. During the fourth quarter, 2K and Gearbox Software will launch an exciting new franchise, Tiny Tina's Wonderlands is an epic adventure full of wise, wonder and high power set in an unpredictable fantasy world for magic, broad sorts and bullets collide. It is an entirely new game and a full stand-alone experience with a rich story driven co-op campaign for up to four players as well as repeatable end-game content. In addition, later this month, 2K will unveil details of another exciting new franchise planned for launch during this fiscal year. Through fiscal '22, WWE 2K22 will mark the rebirth of our popular wrestling series. We are very excited about the team's fresh approach to the franchise, including an array of enhancements and new features. 2K and visual concepts have shared a series of behind the scenes videos of their work on WWE 2K22, including entrance and move animations as well as motion capture and facial scanning with much more to come. Turning to mobile. We are pleased to expand our offerings, especially given the strong momentum in this market segment. Players can look forward to new releases this year, which our teams will have more to share about in the coming months. In addition, our labels continue to invest in technology and new games that they plan to deliver during the next few years. Turning to eSports. The NBA 2K kicked off its fourth season on May 19 that will include on September 4 -- that will conclude on September 4, with the league finals delivered by Door Dash. This season, games have been airing live on the leaks Twitch and YouTube channels and are also available on EGG network in Southeast Asia, ES Revolution, Local in India, Sport 1 in Europe and DASH Radio. The League's continues to grow its audience with more than two million followers on our social media platforms and nearly 470 million video views. We are excited about the League's recent announcement that its 2021 playoffs will mass gaming hub in Dallas, marking the first time that in-person games will be offered since the 2019 NBA 2K League finals in New York City. Looking ahead, we believe that the NBA 2K League has the long-term potential to enhance engagement and to be a driver of profits for our company. In closing, we are optimistic about the multiyear growth trajectory ahead of us. We are positioning our business for growth and enhancing our enterprise by investing in talent and infrastructure. With our robust pipeline of titles and content updates, we are confident that we can establish new record levels of operating performance over the next several years. I'll now turn the call over to Lainie.Lainie Goldstein -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Karl, and good afternoon, everyone. Today, I'll discuss our first-quarter results then review our financial outlook for the second quarter and fiscal-year 2022. Please note that additional details regarding our actual results and outlook are contained in our press release. As Strauss mentioned, fiscal 2022 is off to a strong start, with our first-quarter operating results exceeding our expectations. Net bookings were $711 million, which was above our guidance of $625 million to $675 million and marked our second highest Q1 on record. Our outperformance was primarily driven by Grand Theft Auto Online and Grand Theft Auto V, Red Dead Redemption 2 and Red Dead Online and Borderlands 3. During the period, overall engagement exceeded our expectations. Recurrent consumer spending declined 25% as compared to our outlook of a 30% decline and accounted for 69% of total net bookings. Our outperformance was primarily driven by Grand Theft Online as well as the addition of Nordeus. This delivered net bookings declined 26% as compared to our outlook of a 30% decline and accounted for 96% of the total. This result is better than our outlook, primarily due to the outperformance of recurrent consumer spending. During the quarter, 73% of console game sales were delivered digitally, up from 71% last year. GAAP net revenue declined 2% to $813 million, while cost of goods sold decreased 31% to $330 million. Operating expenses increased by 15% to $313 million, primarily driven by higher personnel and stock compensation expenses as well as the addition of PlayDots and Nordeus. GAAP net income was $152 million or $1.30 per share as compared to $89 million or $0.77 per share in the first quarter last year. We ended the quarter with over $2.5 billion of cash and short-term investments. Turning to our guidance. I'll begin with our full fiscal-year expectation. As Strauss mentioned, we are reiterating our net bookings outlook range of $3.2 billion to $3.3 billion. While our first-quarter results outperformed our expectations and our acquisition of Nordeus will benefit the year, this has been being offset by some changes to our release schedule, including moving two of our immersive core titles to later in fiscal 2022 than our prior guidance has contemplated. We continue to be very excited about our pipeline and the next phase of growth that it presents for our company. The largest contributor to net bookings are expected to be NBA 2K, Grand Theft Auto Online and Grand Theft Auto V, Red Dead Redemption 2 and Red Dead Online as well as some of our new releases that are yet to be announced. We expect the net bookings breakdown from our labels to be roughly 55% 2K, 35% Rockstar Games and 10% Private Division and Q2 mobile games. We forecast a geographic net booking split to be about 60% United States and 40% international. As a result of our outperformance in Q1 as well as the addition of Nordeus, we now expect recurrent consumer spending to decline by 9%, compared to our prior outlook of a 15% decline for this fiscal 2021. As a percentage of net working, recurrent consumer spending is expected to be relatively flat versus last year and represent 65% of total net bookings. We now project digitally delivered net bookings to decrease by approximately 6% as compared to our prior outlook of an 8% decline. As a percentage of our business, digital is projected to represent 90%, slightly above 89% last year. Our forecast assumes that 74% of console game sales will be delivered digitally, up from 64% last year. We expect to generate more than $400 million in non-GAAP adjusted unrestricted operating cash flow, and we plan to deploy approximately $170 million to capital expenditures. The increase over our prior guidance relates to the acquisition of two office buildings in the U.K. to support our business in the region. We continue to expect GAAP net revenue to range from $3.14 billion to $3.24 billion while we now expect cost of goods sold to range from $1.4 billion to $1.44 billion. Total operating expenses are expected to range from $1.48 billion to $1.5 billion, representing at the midpoint, a 23% increase over the prior year. This increase reflects significant investments in marketing, personnel, stock compensation and IT expenses to bring our expansive multiyear pipeline to market as well as incremental expenses due to the addition of Nordeus and a full-year PlayDots. And we expect GAAP net income to range from $229 million to $259 million or $1.95 to $2.20 per share. For management reporting purposes, we expect our tax rate to be 16% throughout fiscal 2022. Now moving to our guidance for the fiscal second quarter. We project net bookings to range from $815 million to $865 million compared to $958 million in the second quarter last year. Our guidance reflects the continued challenging comparisons from last year due to COVID-19. The largest contributors to net openings are expected to be NBA 2K, Grand Theft Auto Online and Grand Theft Auto V, Red Dead Redemption 2 and Red Dead Online, Dragon City, Top 11 and. We project recurrent consumer spending to decline by approximately 11% and digitally delivered net bookings to decline by approximately 5%. Our forecast assumes that 64% of console game sales will be delivered digitally, up from 57% last year. We expect GAAP net revenue to range from $740 million to $790 million and cost of goods sold to range from $323 million to $349 million. Operating expenses are expected to range from $368 million to $378 million. At the midpoint, this represents a 27% increase over last year, driven primarily by higher marketing, personnel, IT and research and development costs as well as the inclusion of PlayDots and Nordeus. And GAAP net income is expected to range from $41 million to $53 million or $0.35 to $0.45 per share. In closing, our first-quarter results demonstrate the health of our business and the incredible execution from our talented colleagues across the world. As we capitalize on our industry's strong talent, combined with our unique business drivers, we believe that our company will deliver significant long-term growth and margin expansion for our shareholders. Thank you. I'll now turn the call back to Strauss.Strauss Zelnick -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Lainie and Karl. On behalf of our entire management team, I'd like to thank our colleagues for delivering a strong start to the year. And to our shareholders, I'd like to express our appreciation for your continued support. We'll now be happy to take your questions. Operator? 