  OperatorGood morning and welcome to The Kroger Company's first-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Rebekah Manis, director of investor relations. Please go ahead.Rebekah Manis -- Director, Investor Relations Thank you, Gary. Good morning and thank you for joining us for Kroger's first-quarter 2021 earnings call. I'm joined today by Kroger's chairman and chief executive officer, Rodney McMullen; and chief financial officer, Gary Millerchip. Before we begin, I want to remind you that today's discussion will include forward-looking statements.

 



 We want to caution you that such statements are predictions, and actual events or results can differ materially. A detailed discussion of the many factors that we believe may have a material effect on our business on an ongoing basis is contained in our SEC filings. The Kroger Company assumes no obligation to update that information. Our first-quarter press release and prepared remarks will be available on our website at ir.kroger.com.Additionally, we have introduced a new presentation summarizing our first-quarter results, which is also available on our website, and we welcome your feedback once you have a chance to review this new document. After our prepared remarks, we look forward to taking your questions. In order to cover a broad range of topics from as many of you as we can, we ask that you please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up question if necessary. I will now turn over the call to Rodney. Rodney McMullen -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Rebekah, and thank you for joining us. While the COVID-19 health crisis has not ended, this is the first quarter where we saw significant signs of recovery and the beginning of a return to what we are hopeful will be a new normal. Our quarter results demonstrate that Kroger is even better positioned today to connect with our customers than we were before the pandemic because of our relentless focus on leading with fresh and accelerating digital for our customers. I'm incredibly proud of our amazing associates who continue to be there for our customers, communities, and each other.

 



 Because of our associates' commitment, Kroger's first-quarter identical sales without fuel grew ahead of our internal expectations. Digital sales grew triple digits since the beginning of 2019. We struck -- we saw strong growth in alternative profits and significant progress with our cost-savings initiatives. All of this gives us the confidence to raise guidance for the year and announce a new $1 billion share buyback program. I'd like to spend the next few minutes discussing three key areas. First, how customer behavior is changing in this transition period. Second, how we are leading with fresh and accelerating with digital. Finally, I will highlight how we continue to live our purpose to feed the human spirit through the associate experience and our work to vaccinate millions of Americans. Our customers are in a time of transition. During the quarter, we began to see some free pandemic habits resume. For example, smaller holiday gatherings are likely to fade as more than half of our shoppers believe holidays will return to normal by July 4th. We are also seeing customers shopped more frequently as COVID restrictions ease. Importantly, we saw a continuation of several pandemic trends. This includes heightened digital engagement across demographics; expanded consumption in key fresh areas like meat, produce, and natural foods; and trading up to more premium products. New trends are emerging as well as customers settle into new routines. In a recent survey of our customers, a remarkable 92% of the people say they enjoy cooking the same or more than they did pre-COVID.

 



 And as people's busy social lives pick up, more customers are looking for convenience in cooking options. We continue to utilize our data to understand those behaviors that are more permanent in nature. Whether customer habits are returning, hardening, or emerging, we will continue to meet the customer where they are and use our data science expertise to be where they are going. As we discussed during our Investor Day, fresh is incredibly important to our customers. Our produce fresh score metrics continue to improve, and we are testing and learning through end-to-end fresh initiatives to consistently improve the experience and deliver even more value to our customers. We announced our Go Fresh and Local Supplier Accelerator, providing more local and regional suppliers the opportunity to partner with Kroger and providing our buyers with the opportunity to discover new suppliers who share our commitment to advancing freshness, quality, and our fresh-for-everyone commitment. In fact, since launching on May 12th, we have already received more than 1,000 applications to participate. We are building on the momentum of 2020 within our seamless ecosystem through expanded capacity, improved customer experience, and continuous innovation. During the first quarter, we expanded capacity by 15% to support our continued sales growth. Our teams work together to improve in-stock bill rates and further reduce wait time at curbside, enhancing -- both enhancing the customer experience. To date, we have over two million time slots available per week to serve our customers the fresh food and essential products they want when they want it. We continue to expand our seamless ecosystem through our new customer fulfillment centers powered by Ocado. We opened our first facility in Ohio in March and at the beginning of June, launched Kroger delivery in Florida. Launching in a new geography is incredibly exciting and a milestone moment in our history. Our Kroger delivery team is ready to bring fresh, affordable food and a consistent customer experience directly to the doors of our customers. In addition to the Groveland CFC, a spoke in Tampa and Jacksonville are also now open. The hub-and-spoke model allows us to extend the range of our CFCs, allowing us to serve more customers incredible products directly to their door. And we are just getting started. We are thrilled to report that our NPS scores are among the highest in digital retail and we continue to be pleased with our fill rates and our on-time delivery metrics. Kroger's data and personalization capabilities will contribute to increasingly meaningful ways to grow our e-commerce reach and capability, and we continue to elevate our personalized customer experience with our data today. During the quarter, we made more than 258 billion personalized recommendations to our customers through our digital experience. At Kroger, we have always known that our associates are the heart of our business. We are proud of our opportunity culture, where people can come for a job and stay for a career. More than 70% of our store directors began as part-time clerks. We are building a connected culture that embraces agility and collaboration that celebrates and incentivizes lifelong learning and growth. For example, since launching it in 2017, our industry-leading education assistance program has helped more than 6,300 associates take steps to learn and grow as individuals and employees. That is one of many ways we invest in our associates. We continue to invest in wages with our average hourly rate increasing during quarter one as well. We are on track to increase our average hourly rate to over $16. And with comprehensive benefits, our average hourly rate will be approaching $21 by the end of the year. As we have done throughout the pandemic, Kroger remains committed to health and safety. To support the Biden administration's goal to have at least 70% of U.S. adults receive their first COVID-19 vaccine dose by July 4th, we've launched an aggressive customer and associate marketing campaign and community immunity giveaway. Next week, we will announce the first $1 million winner and 10 free-groceries-for-a-year winners. Since announcing the giveaway, we are running 29% ahead of forecasted vaccinations. To date, Kroger health has administrated over 5 million vaccines in our pharmacies, clinic locations, and community sites across the country. Now, I would like to turn it over to Gary to take you through our first-quarter results. Gary?Gary Millerchip -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Rodney, and good morning, everyone. Kroger delivered strong results in the first quarter, providing further proof points of momentum we have created in our business model. We continue to execute our priorities of leading with fresh and accelerating with digital, which led to top-line sales results ahead of our internal expectations. We were disciplined in balancing investments in our associates and customers with strong cost management and achieved record growth in alternative profit streams. While year-over-year comparisons are impacted by the pandemic shaped by the dramatic change in customer behavior we saw in Quarter 1 last year due to COVID-19, looking over a two-year time horizon, our adjusted EPS of $1.19 represents a compounded annual growth rate of 28.6% versus 2019. I'll now provide additional color on our first-quarter results. Identical sales without fuel declined 4.1%, which translates to a two-year stacked growth of 14.9%. Digital sales grew 16% on top of the 92% growth during Quarter 1 of 2020, and we continue to make progress in improving the sustainability of our digital business. As previously shared, two key drivers of long-term digital profitability are the cost to fill a digital order and the retail media revenue generated from a digital transaction. In the first quarter, we reduced the amount of time taken to pick a digital order by 5% and increased media revenue per digital basket by 33%. Gross margin was 22.6% of sales for the quarter. The FIFO gross margin rate excluding fuel decreased 65 basis points compared to the same period last year. This decrease was wholly attributable to sales deleverage, higher shrink, and the COVID-19 related inventory writedowns for PPE to be donated to community partners. Pricing investments during the quarter and the impact of mix changes as a result of cycling COVID-19 trends last year were fully offset by sourcing benefits and alternative profit growth. On a two-year basis, FIFO gross margin rate excluding fuel decreased 21 basis points compared to 2019. The operating general and administrative rate decreased 108 basis points, excluding fuel and adjustment items, reflecting our continued discipline in cost management. This improvement was driven by decreased COVID-19-related costs, lower contributions to multi-employer pension plans, execution of cost-saving initiatives, and decreased incentive costs, partially offset by sales deleverage. On a two-year basis, our OG&A rate decreased by 58 basis points compared to 2019, and we remain on track to deliver $1 billion in cost savings for the four consecutive years. Alternative profits achieved record profit growth during the quarter led by exceptional growth in retail media. Kroger's personal finance also delivered double-digit profit growth with strong performance across several key product areas. Based on our performance in the first quarter, we now expect alternative profit growth to be toward the top end of our goal of 100 million to 150 million of incremental profit in 2021. Fuel remains an important part of our overall value proposition. Gallons grew in the first quarter by 13% as we started to cycle the impact of COVID-19 last year. The average retail price of fuel was $2.79 this quarter versus $2.13 in the same quarter last year. Our cents per gallon fuel margin was $0.35, compared to $0.48 in the same quarter last year. While fuel was a headwind to operating profit of approximately $130 million versus 2020, we were encouraged by our trends, which were better than expected. Kroger continues to generate strong free cash flow and remains committed to investing in the business to drive long-term sustainable net earnings growth, maintaining its current investment grade debt rating, and returning excess free cash to shareholders via share repurchase and the growing dividend over time. Last month, we announced the restructuring of the Sound Pension Trust. Similar to previous multi-employer pension restructurings, this transaction will improve the security and stability of future bench pension benefits of our associates while also minimizing our future exposure to market risk and produces a return of investment above our internal hurdle rates by mitigating future pension contribution costs. On an after-tax basis, $344 million will be needed to execute the transaction, and we expect this to be funded evenly over seven years. Kroger's net total debt-to-adjusted-EBITDA ratio is 1.79, compared to 1.81 a year ago. The company's net total debt-to-adjusted EBITDA ratio target range is 2.3 to 2.5. Net total debt increased during the quarter, primarily due to the company entering into a transaction to purchase and then immediately sell a portfolio of 28 of our existing stores. This transaction allowed us to secure long-term access to these locations at very favorable lease rates. The unusual structure used to complete this transaction requires Kroger's liability for the long-term commitment to these stores to be shown as debt, similar to the capital or finance lease as opposed to being recognized as a typical operating lease. Our new $1 billion share buyback program announced today reinforces the board's and management's confidence in our cash flow generation and is consistent with our commitment to deliver sustainable and attractive total shareholder returns of 8% to 11%. Our associates have been incredibly -- have been incredible throughout the pandemic. We continue to invest in our associates and strive to make our overall benefits package relevant in today's employment market. During the first quarter, we ratified a new labor agreement with the UFCW covering associates in the Cincinnati division. Looking ahead, we have several major negotiations later in the year, including contracts with the UFCW for store associates in Atlanta, Houston, Little Rock, Michigan, Memphis, Mid-Atlantic, and Portland. Our financial results continue to be pressured by healthcare and pension costs, which most of our competitors do not face. We continue to communicate with our local unions and the international unions, which represent many of our associates about the importance of growing our business in a profitable way, which will help us create more jobs and career opportunities and enhance job security for our associates. Looking forward to the rest of 2021, while there remain uncertainties regarding what will emerge as the new normal in food-at-home trends, based on our strong results to date and confidence in our ability to execute our strategy, we are increasing our full-year 2021 guidance. We now expect identical sales for the year to be between negative 4% and negative 2.5%, which represents a two-year stack of 10.1% to 11.6%. We also expect full-year adjusted net earnings per diluted share to be in the range of $2.95 to $3.10, representing a two-year compounded annual growth rate of 16% to 19%. Looking at the cadence for identical sales for the remainder of the year, we would expect our identical sales in Quarter 2 to be within our new target range of a negative 4% to negative 2.5%. And we would expect Quarter 3 and Quarter 4 to be at the top end or slightly better than the range. Turning to EPS, our increased guidance implies adjusted EPS will be between 10.5% and 15% lower than 2020. We expect second-quarter adjusted EPS will be around the top end of this range as we continue to cycle higher COVID-related costs from Quarter 2 last year, and we expect Quarter 3 and Quarter 4 will be slightly below the range. In closing, we believe our year-to-date performance provides further -- a further proof point of the strength and momentum we are seeing in our business model and builds on the progress achieved in 2019 and 2020. We remain confident in our ability to deliver strong and sustainable total shareholder returns by leveraging our leading market position and executing on the exciting growth opportunities shared at our Investor Day. And now, I'll turn it back to Rodney.Rodney McMullen -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Gary. I want to, again, thank our amazing associates for their tireless work to serve our customers. As Gary and I noted, our customers have changed because of COVID. Our job is to be there for them. This quarter's results are evidence that we are deepening our connection with our customers by focusing on and leading with fresh and accelerating with digital. And we remain a purpose-driven company that honors and appreciates our associates and lifts up our communities. As we look forward, we are incredibly confident that we will deliver for our shareholders and all stakeholders. Now, we look forward to your questions. 