  OperatorWelcome to the Signature Bank's 2022 first quarter results conference call. Hosting the call today from Signature Bank are Joseph J. DePaolo, president and chief executive officer; Eric R. Howell, senior executive vice president and chief operating officer; and Steve Wyremski, senior vice president and chief financial officer. Today's call is being recorded. [Operator instructions] It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to Joseph J. DePaolo, president and chief executive officer. You may begin.Joe DePaolo -- President and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thank you, Ashley. Good morning and thank you for joining us today for the Signature Bank 2022 first quarter results conference call. Before I begin my formal remarks, Susan Lewis will read the forward-looking disclaimer.Please go ahead, Susan.Susan Lewis -- Investor Relations Thank you, Joe. This conference call and oral statements made from time to time by our representatives contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should not place undue reliance on those statements because they are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties relating to our operations and business environment. All of which are difficult to predict and may be beyond our control. Forward-looking statements include information concerning our expectations regarding future results, interest rates and the interest rate environment, loan and deposit growth, loan performance, operations, new private client team hires, new office openings, business strategy, and the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on each of the foregoing and on our business overall. Forward-looking statements often include words such as may, believe, expect, anticipate, intend, potential, opportunity, could, project, seek, target, goal, should, will, would, plan, estimate, or other similar expressions. As you consider forward-looking statements, you should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. They involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements and can change as a result of the many possible events or factors, not all of which are known to us or are in our control.

 



 These factors include those described in our quarterly and annual reports filed with the FDIC, which you should review carefully for further information. You should keep in mind that any forward-looking statements made by Signature Bank speak only as of the date on which they were made .Now I'd like to turn the call back to Joe.Joe DePaolo -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Susan. Before discussing this quarter's results, we are making a few changes to our earnings call. Along with our earnings release, you will find a presentation deck has been posted to the Investors section of our website. I would also like to introduce Steve Wyremski, our chief financial officer. Welcome, Steve. As always, I am joined here today by Eric Howell, our chief operating officer. Good morning, Eric.

 



Eric Howell -- Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Good morning, Joe.Joe DePaolo -- President and Chief Executive Officer Together, the three of us will provide an overview of the quarterly results. We will address your questions at the end of our remarks. Signature Bank continues to prove its earnings power, driving both profitability and efficiency at a rapid pace, while expanding the balance sheet and maintaining a robust risk management discipline. This is exhibited by strong profitability and growth metrics achieved across the board. Let me take a step back one moment. The quarter played out as we anticipated. Interest rates rose and as a result, our deposit growth normalized but still remains strong. We deployed some of the excess cash into high-yielding assets and monetized our balance sheet, reducing excess cash for the first time in two years. For the quarter, net income increased 78% year over year to $338.5 million, and diluted earnings per share increased $2.06 or $0.64 to $5.30. The significant earnings expansion this quarter is in large part driven by the deployment of our cash into securities and loans, which drove revenues up 38% year over year. While we are actively spending to support our growing businesses, our revenue growth far outpaced expense growth. This resulted in operating leverage where our efficiency ratio further improved to a low point, and our ROE expanded to a high 17.4%. Now adjusting for these onetime tax items, ROE would still have been a high 15.2%. Not bad for a growth company. Moving on to the balance sheet. Growth remained strong on all fronts. Total assets grew by $3.4 billion. We grew our securities portfolio by a record $4.1 billion. And our patient and prudent deployment has proven to be advantageous as we are now more active in a higher rate environment. We continue to see opportunities to grow across all lending verticals, and total loans expanded by $1.5 billion. Total asset growth of $3.4 billion means, as I just stated, we were able to reduce cash balances for the first time in two years. Now let's take a closer look at deposits, the core of our philosophy. Deposits increased $3 billion or 2.8% to $109 billion this quarter, while average deposits grew by $5.3 billion. Since the end of the 2021, first quarter deposits increased a remarkable $35.2 billion or 47.6% and average deposits increased nearly $37.1 billion. Of the $3 billion in growth of total deposits, noninterest-bearing deposits grew $2.4 billion to $46.7 billion, which represents a high 42.8% of total deposits, which will be extremely valuable in a rising rate environment. Let me repeat it. $2.4 billion of the $3 billion total growth was in noninterest-bearing. The quarter's growth was across the board and all of our businesses positively contributing. Essentially, we are seeing the power of diversification. Over the last two years, we have expanded to new geographies and industries. As a result, we have created a very stable franchise that is not reliant on any one business line for deposit growth, which was one of the vital goals of our transformation. On the digital front, we are seeing tremendous positive momentum. The business continues to grow as evidenced by the onboarding of a record 160 new clients. Also, we doubled the amount of major exchanges to eight at the top 12 where we are now the primary bank, which should bode well for future growth. All of these exchanges are integrating onto Signet in part due to our latest enhancement. This new feature allows for our clients to execute automated Fed wires from within Signet in addition to blockchain-based payments, creating efficiency for our client and streamlining their payments process. As one of the leading banks in this space, we listened to our clients and developed Signet into an all-in-one payment solution. Now I'd like to turn the call over to Eric.Eric Howell -- Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Thank you, Joe, and good morning, everyone. I'd like to turn our attention to our lending businesses. We had success on several fronts, leading the growth in total loans of $1.5 billion or 2.4% to $66.4 billion and core loan growth of $1.9 billion. For the prior 12 months, total loans grew $15.5 billion or 30.3%. The largest driver of growth continues to be the Fund Banking Division, which grew loans by $1.3 billion. Similar to deposits, the power of diversification is taking hold with our lending verticals with numerous teams contributing to our growth this quarter. Corporate mortgage finance had a solid quarter with $160 million in growth. And already this quarter, they have grown over $300 million. Additionally, we saw $109 million out of Signature Financial, which is great to see as the first quarter tends to be slower business for them. And our Venture Banking Group had a record quarter of $88 million in growth. And our West Coast C&I, ABL Group, and SBA originations platform all positively contributed to growth. Furthermore, commercial real estate grew by $157 million as we've turned our attention back to growth in the space. The growth was all in multifamily CRE, which increased $300 million. So a very solid quarter in multifamily, but partially offset by a decline of $142 million in other CRE. Despite the strong growth this quarter, our concentration levels further declined below 300% and is now at 299%, which was a goal we finally reached, and we have now put the topic of CRE concentration behind us. Now turning to credit quality. Our portfolio continues to perform well. Nonaccrual loans decreased $41 million to $178 million or 27 basis points of total loans compared with $218 million or 34 basis points for the 2021 fourth quarter. Our past due loans remained within their normal range with 30 to 89-day past due loans at $100.6 million or 15 basis points of total loans and our 90-day-plus past due loans remained very low at $10.8 million or just two basis points. Net charge-offs for the 2022 first quarter declined to $17.8 million or 11 basis points of average loans compared with $33.7 million or 22 basis points for the 2021 fourth quarter. The provision for credit losses for the 2022 first quarter was lower at $2.7 million compared with $6.9 million for the 2021 fourth quarter. This brought the bank's allowance for credit losses to 69 basis points, and the average ratio stands at a healthy 259 -- I'm sorry, the coverage ratio stands at a healthy 259%. I'd like to point out that excluding very well-secured Fund Banking capital call facilities and government-guaranteed PPP loans, the allowance for credit loss ratio would be much higher at 119 basis points. And now on to the expanding team front, where we continue to realize success. We started onboarding teams early in the second quarter after bonuses were paid. Thus far, the bank onboarded six private client banking teams, including one in New York. On the West Coast, we further expanded our footprint to include Sacramento and the Central California region, adding three teams. Additionally, two teams are added to Reno, Nevada, marking our entry into this business-friendly state. Our overall West Coast presence now consists of 32 teams: 16 in Los Angeles, nine in San Francisco, five in Central California, and two in Reno, as well as representation from all our national businesses. We're excited to see the significant level of opportunity to actively grow with teams on both coasts. In New York, we now have 96 teams serving the marketplace, and we are seeing renewed opportunities with numerous teams in the pipeline. Additionally, we will soon be announcing a new C&I lending vertical as a few members of the team have already joined us with the rest to follow shortly. In order to support our team expansion, we have hired extensively throughout our operations and support infrastructure so that we can continue to best serve our clients' needs. And at this point, I'll turn the call over to Steve. Thank you.Steve Wyremski -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Eric, and good morning. I'll start by reviewing net interest income and margin. Net interest margin increased eight basis points to 1.99% compared with 1.91% for the 2021 fourth quarter. As we anticipated, our deposit growth moderated as interest rates rose, allowing us to put our cash balances to use. This led to margin expansion during the quarter, and we expect it will lead to further expansion over time. Excess cash balances remain elevated and continue to impact margin by approximately 36 basis points. Our deployment of cash also led to a meaningful increase in our net interest income, which for the first quarter reached $574 million, up $167 million or 41% when compared with the 2021 first quarter and an increase of $38 million or 7% from the 2021 fourth quarter. We expect continued cash deployment and anticipated higher interest rates to drive net interest income growth in the upcoming year. Let's look at asset yields and funding costs for a moment. Interest-earning asset yields for the 2022 first quarter increased six basis points from the linked quarter to 2.22%. The increase this quarter was again driven by the cash deployment into higher interest-earning loans and securities. Average cash balances for the quarter decreased $2 billion, while average total loans increased $4.6 billion and average securities grew $3.3 billion. Yields on the securities portfolio increased nine basis points linked quarter to 1.61% given a much stronger market for reinvestment rates and slower CPR speeds on our mortgage-backed securities portfolio. Additionally, our portfolio duration increased 4.14 years due to the higher interest rate environment. New purchases during the quarter came in at a blended 2.39%. Many of these trades were executed to take advantage of the shape of the curve and came with a shorter term. Turning to our loan portfolio. Yields on average commercial loans and commercial mortgages declined seven basis points to 3.33% compared with the 2021 fourth quarter. The decline in yields was driven by the substantial growth in lower-yielding, very well-secured capital call lines. However, we are just beginning to see the early effects of this portfolio reprice higher. Since over 40% of our loans we set within 90 days or less, we expect loan yields to increase dramatically as short-term rates moved higher this year. Now looking at liabilities. Our overall deposit cost this quarter decreased one basis point to 18 basis points. We are now at the bottom on deposit costs as some of our rates have already begun to move slightly higher. During the quarter, average borrowing balances decreased by $89 million to allow $2.7 billion, and the cost of borrowings remained stable at 2.45%. The overall cost of funds for the quarter decreased two basis points to 25 basis points driven by the reduction in deposit costs. As we have pointed out, the bank is significantly asset-sensitive. The bank's focused on growing floating rate loans, which now comprise 51% of our loan portfolio, in addition to our core deposit funding and significant cash balances to make us extremely well positioned to take advantage of a rising rate environment. On to noninterest income and expense. We continue to emphasize fee income. Noninterest income for the 2022 first quarter was $34.4 million, an increase of $1.7 million or 5% when compared with the 2021 first quarter. The increase was generally across the board as many of our fee income initiatives are taking hold. Noninterest expense for the 2022 first quarter was $193 million versus $166 million for the same period a year ago. The $27 million or 16.2% increase was principally driven by the addition of new private client banking teams and operational support to meet the bank's growing needs. Despite the significant team hiring and substantial investment in our operations, the bank continues to gain operating leverage. And as a result, our efficiency ratio improved to a best-in-class 31.8% for the 2022 first quarter versus 37.9% for the comparable period last year. Quickly looking at taxes. This quarter, we benefited from multiple onetime tax items, which totaled $41.6 million, and mostly relates to the impact of our annual restricted stock vesting. This lowered our tax rate to 17.8% for the quarter. Excluding these benefits, the tax rate would have been 27.9%. Turning to capital. Our capital ratios remain well in excess of regulatory requirements and augment the relatively low-risk profile of the balance sheet as evidenced by a common equity Tier 1 risk-based ratio of 10.49% and total risk-based ratio of 12.58% as of the 2022 first quarter. Now I'll turn the call back to Joe. Thank you.Joe DePaolo -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Steve. This quarter, our results speak for themselves as we continue to do what we said we would do. We achieved an ROE of 17.4%. Backing out the onetime tax items just mentioned by Steve, it would have been a very strong 15.2%. Again, not bad for a growth story. Our efficiency ratio improved to 31.8%. We see banks with efficiency ratios over 60% being employed. Deposit growth came from across the board. It's slow like we said it would, but it was still strong. And if you want to know more information, see Slide 4 of the deck. In our loan portfolio, the CRE concentration fell below 300% for the first time in over a decade. And contributions came from eight different areas, see Slide 5 of the deck. We continue to geographically diversified, particularly on the West Coast, where we have expanded to Central California and now Reno. We have seen tremendous consolidation of market disruption on both coasts. Recent M&A in New York has already resulted in more veteran bank prospects than seen in many, many years. We will continue to exercise discipline in selecting the very best bankers and teams. We will invest in all of our colleagues in the support and administrative functions in order to support strong growth. We will stay on top of the enhancements, both current and future for Signet, and we will continue to build infrastructure to support our clients' needs. Today, we are stimulated by the enormity of opportunities to continue to grow our franchise. Now Eric, Steve, and I are happy to answer any questions you might have. Ashley, I'll turn it back to you. 