
OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Parker-Hannifin Fiscal 2021 Fourth Quarter and Full Year Earnings Conference Call and Webcast. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Parker's Chief Financial Officer, Todd Leombruno.Todd M. Leombruno -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Dawn, and good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining our FY '21 Q4 earnings release webcast. As Dawn said, this is Todd Leombruno, Chief Financial Officer speaking. I'm here today with Tom Williams, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Lee Banks, our President and Chief Operating Officer. If you could focus on Slide two, this is the company's safe harbor disclosure statement addressing forward-looking statements and non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations for any non-GAAP measures are included in today's materials. Those reconciliations and our presentation are accessible under the Investors section at parker.com and will remain available for one year. As usual, we'll start today with Tom providing some highlights for the quarter and our record fiscal year as well as some color on Parker's transformation. Following Tom's comments, I'll provide a brief financial summary and provide some details on our FY '22 guidance that we just released this morning. I'll then hand it back to Tom for closing comments. And then Tom, Lee and I will open the lines for Q&A. And just one reminder, in respect to the announcement we made Monday, concerning the Meggitt acquisition, we are still bound by the requirement of the U.K. takeover code. With that, I'll ask you to move to Slide three, and I'll hand it off to Tom.

 



Thomas L. Williams -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Todd. Good morning, everybody. Thanks for joining us today. This marks the end of FY '21 for us, and it was a difficult year personally and professionally for everybody due to COVID, but it was a year where the Parker team really shined. We delivered outstanding results and lived up to our purpose in enabling a better tomorrow, and my thanks goes out to the global team for just a great year, great quarter. So let's start with the quarter. It was dynamite. Top quartile safety performance, 29% reduction in reportable incidents. The sales growth in the quarter was 25% approximately. Organic was almost 22%, and the industrial portion of the company grew at almost 27% in the quarter. We have six all-time quarterly records: sales, net income, EPS, segment margins for total Parker as well as North America and international.The EBITDA margins were very strong at 21.8% as reported or 22.1% adjusted. That was 190 basis points improvement versus prior. On the segment operating margin, on an adjusted basis, if you go to last row, 22.2% or a 230 basis point improvement versus prior. Just a great quarter and a really great team effort by everybody around the world. Go to Slide four, we'll move to the full year. It was a year of records, and I won't read all of these to you, but you can see eight all-time fiscal year records. And just -- that's in the history of the company, so that's 104 years to put up a record. So it speaks to how well the team performed in this last fiscal year. Sales growth came in almost 5% year-over-year. Organic was flat, but clear momentum building on orders and organic growth in the second half of the year as you see from our order rates. FY '23 margin targets, we hit them at full two years early, and we'll be announcing new targets once we have Investor Day, March of next year, and we're going to go out for a new 5-year target, so we'll be going out to FY '26.We look forward to a discussion at that time. Operating cash flow was $2.6 billion, a record, that was almost 18% of sales. Free cash flow conversion rate was 135%. And we were very pleased to be able to announce the offer to acquire Meggitt PLC, which greatly enhances our aerospace portfolio, and I'll touch on that briefly here in a few minutes. So if you go to Slide five, I want to talk about the transformation of the company, give you a little bit of color behind what's driving it and the progress we're making on the results.

 



And Slide six speaks to those three drivers: living up to our purpose, being great generators and deployers of cash, and being a top quartile performer. I'm going to touch on each one of these over the next several slides. When it comes to purpose, enabling engineering breakthroughs that lead to a better tomorrow. This is something that really resonates with our people. It represents a higher calling to your work, and it acts as our North Star. In the next few slides, I'm going to talk about and highlight our purpose in action, specifically our technologies and how they're helping healthcare and how they're helping the climate and create a more clean technology world for everybody.So on Slide eight, we're going to talk about vaccine production, in particular, something that's obviously very pertinent for today, COVID-19 production. On the left-hand side speaks to the challenges that drug manufacturers have today. This is a batch process typically with extensive inventories, long lead times to produce these products. They take huge space requirements, large footprints for storage, large footprints with the manufacturing processes and very difficult changeovers.The cleaning cycles between the batch processes is very complicated. So the idea here is a simple concept that most of us can relate to. All those that have been in some kind of a restaurant with a soda fountain, where you can pick your beverage of choice. And of course, the technology behind that is a concentrated syrup and carbonated water and you get to pick the soft drink of your choice. So the idea here is instead of soft drinks, could we deliver sterile vaccine ingredients with a similar type of process? And Slide nine is that process. So that's our Inline Dilution System. It's a proprietary point-of-use process for combining the purified vaccine ingredients. So if you look at that piece of equipment, you can see it's on wheels, so it's modular, easy to move around, easy to deploy.As mixing and sensing combined, it has 2-way communications via the IoT-enabled, so it can talk to the manufacturer's enterprise system to enable scheduling it just in time. It uses, very importantly, intellectual property-protected single-use consumables. So instead of these massive batch processes, huge cleaning events for changeovers, this is a giant productivity improvement for the drug manufacturers on the speed of the changeover, but also just reducing contamination tied to the changeover. Then our software and automation helps control the amount and the flow of these various ingredients. So this applies obviously to COVID-19 and apply to other vaccines that are being developed and that we can use this for other drugs as well. So this is a really attractive business opportunity for us. But more importantly, it's a great help to customers and the society. It's a great example of our purpose in action. Move to Slide ten, move to the climate and the clean technology portion of our purpose. We just recently announced last month new sustainability targets. You see on the right-hand side of this page is our new sustainability report, which you can reach electronically, where we announced a 50% reduction in emissions by 2030.

 



So that would be Scope one and two emissions, direct and indirect. And by 2040, same things go pointing to be carbon neutral. So enabling a more sustainable future with what we do with our plants, our operations, our supply chain. But in addition, if you go to Slide 11, and actually, more importantly, how can we help our customers? Like how can we help society with the sustainability journey? And so in this page you see, the eight motion control technologies across the top and that this portfolio, approximately 2/3 of this portfolio is a very much part of the enabling of clean technologies for our customers. The exciting part is an expanding bill of material on automobiles, on construction equipment, on forestry and mining, basically almost every piece of equipment on airplanes, engines, everything is feeling this impact of more electric applications. So there's onboard opportunities, but there's also infrastructure opportunities as the world has to build in infrastructure to support that growth. Our technologies can help with that infrastructure move.And then I want to move to Slide 12, which illustrates the top quartile performance portion of those three drivers. And you can see we're using two metrics to illustrate this: adjusted EPS on the left and adjusted EBITDA margin on the right. It's really been our people, the strategic portfolio changes we made, the capital deployment decisions that we made over the last seven years and The Win Strategy that's transformed this performance. And when you step back and look at this, this is just a remarkable improvement. On the left is a more than doubling of our EPS, and that's hard to do. I can assure you that's really hard to do. This is a fantastic progress, a little less than $7 in FY '16 and over $15 as we closed last year. And the EBITDA margin, which has clearly been propelling that from 14.7% to 21.3%, so a 660 basis point improvement there. And then the last part on transformation and the drivers is cash generation and deployment.We touched on the cash generation piece in my opening comments, but clearly, in the deployment is how do you deploy capital and buying effective companies. And we're very excited to put two high-quality companies together, an aerospace combination that we announced Monday, Parker and Meggitt, nearly doubles the size of our Aerospace Systems segment with highly complementary technologies, 70% sole source, a strong recurring revenue, excellent growth potential, combination of commercial aerospace recovery as well as the synergies, and this will be accretive to our organic sales growth margins, EPS and cash flow. This deal makes sense for all stakeholders, the shareholders of Parker and Meggitt. The team members of both of our companies, their parishioners, pensioners and, of course, both of our customers.Following the announcement on Monday, we've introduced ourselves to the key stakeholders in the U.K., reinforcing why we are the best home for Meggitt. Our long great track record in the U.K., a clear strategic rationale for the deal including a premium we are offering to the Meggitt shareholders, our shared interest to continue to innovate and invest, that we are committed to being a responsible steward of Meggitt. And that is why we've agreed with Meggitt to offer the U.K. government a number of legally binding commitments about how we're going to operate going forward. These type of transactions take time, but we are pleased with the reception so far, and we look forward to constructive discussions with the key people in the U.K. government. And we'll keep you updated as the process unfolds and we go to the planned completion of this in approximate 12 months. And with that, I'll hand it back to Todd for more details on the quarter.Todd M. Leombruno -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerYes. Thanks, Tom. I guess I would like to direct everyone's attention to Slide 15. And I'll just, real quickly, walk through the FY '21 Q4 results. As Tom mentioned earlier, we have some outstanding results to share here. Sales increased over 25% in Q4 versus prior year and finished at $3.9 billion. As we've said, that's an all-time record for the company. And we're really particularly proud of this due to the fact that our aerospace markets are still challenged. It really demonstrates the strength of the portfolio additions that we've spoken about, CLARCOR, LORD and Exotic, and really is driven by strong broad-based demand across all of our industrial businesses. Organic sales are up 22% in the quarter. So basically, the majority of that change is all organic.This is the first time organic sales have been positive for the company in over two years. Currency also was favorable with a 3.5% impact to total sales. Moving to adjusted segment margins. That 22.2% is an improvement, like Tom said, of 230 basis points from prior year, and it's also 80 basis points improved sequentially from Q3. Just another strong quarter of margin performance as really our teams around the world pivoted to the increased demand levels and managed through a number of challenges. Very proud of our team for that margin performance. Incrementals are also commendable at 31% year-over-year, really impressive considering last year with the depth of the pandemic. And our decrementals last year were fantastic at plus -- or excuse me, minus 13%. And if you remember, that included approximately $175 million of temporary savings in that FY '20 Q4. So we're really happy with the 31% incrementals.EBITDA margins also expanded 190 basis points from prior year, finishing the quarter at 22.1%. And if you look at that net income number, $577 million, that's an ROS of 14.6%, and that's an increase of nearly 50% from prior year. All of those great results translated to an adjusted EPS of $4.38. That's an increase of $1.39 per share or 46% compared to the prior year number on this slide of $2.99. Just one point I want to reference to the prior year numbers, and I'm really speaking to net income and the EPS numbers only. We have been planning for some time to convert our remaining U.S. locations that used to use LIFO for inventory evaluation to standardize that across the company and move to FIFO inventory valuation purposes.We made that voluntary change in FY '21 Q4, and we've retrospectively applied that change to prior years, and we've attached the impact of those prior years to this press release in the table section. So the impact to the previously reported quarter last year was minimal. It was only $0.04 last year. So the $2.99 on this page, if you're looking back to prior year, that would have been $3.03 in FY '20. So one other note I want to make, LIFO, we've always booked this at the corporate level. This has no impact to our segment operating margins or the incrementals that I just mentioned to and now 100% of the company's inventory is valued using the FIFO method. So just one last comment on the quarter. Really proud of our team globally. It's just a tremendous effort the team put forth to put up just such a solid quarter to finish really, as Tom said, a record year. So if we can move to Slide 16, this is just a bridge of that $1.39 increase to adjusted EPS that I just mentioned, and what I love here is the largest bar on the page.Signals the strong operating performance that the teams put together. Our segment operating income on an adjusted basis increased $250 million or 40% from prior year Q4. That accounts to $1.50 of the increase in EPS that we just put up for the quarter of $1.39, so it's really strong execution really everywhere across the company. All the other items you see on the slide, if you net it, it's $0.11 unfavorable. Corporate G&A, income tax and shares were slightly unfavorable, but lower interest and lower other expense partially offset the impact there. So again, most of this is really fantastic due to comparing back to our COVID-impacted quarter of the prior year. If you go to Slide 17, just some color on our segment performance. Really, the message here is our industrial businesses delivered outstanding results across the board. We've spoken in the past about the impact of these portfolio changes have had on the company, and you can see it here in these margin numbers.Diversified North America sales were $1.8 billion in the quarter. Organic sales improved again in this segment sequentially up and are up 26% versus prior year. Operating margins improved an impressive 300 basis points versus prior year and really finished at 22.5% for the quarter. Obviously, volume helped us a little bit there, but really the disciplined operating performance and cost control really continue to drive the sizable increase to margins. Margins in this segment are a record, all-time record. And incrementals also were very healthy at 34%. And again, I keep referencing the comparables back to last year, which is just a very tough comparison. If you look at order rates, order rates are robust at plus 56%. This is up sequentially from last quarter where we reported plus 11% and really just strong across the board.If I move to the International -- Diversified International segment, really same story here, a little bit higher organic growth of 28.5%. Sales just reached $1.5 billion in that segment. And again, another story here, adjusted segment operating margins expanded 300 basis points versus prior year and finished at 22.1% in the International segment. Just really, again, strong organic growth in that volume, coupled with that cost containment and productivity initiatives really generated this record margin performance in this segment as well. Order rates again here, tremendous, up a little bit higher than North America at plus 58% versus 14% positive in the last quarter. So really just a great performance out of our industrial businesses. I'll just touch on Aerospace Systems, really slightly. Very sound performance in the current market.Sales here were $630 million for the quarter. And I'm happy to report organic sales have turned positive in this segment. They are up 1%. We saw strength in commercial and military aftermarkets with strong sequential growth again in Q4, and we're happy to start seeing rate increases from OEMs, particularly in the narrow body and business jet platforms. Aerospace orders also got less negative and improved to minus 7% this quarter on a rolling 12 basis versus minus 19% last quarter and further proof that we are seeing signs of recovery in this area. Operating margins also very strong, 21.6%. That improved sequentially from Q3 and really finished the year at the highest level they've had in the entire fiscal year. So very proud of our aerospace team there. So just looking at the company as a whole, we're really pleased with these results. It's a solid finish to the fiscal year.Our total incrementals were 31%. I'm really proud about that. And really just a comment, if I look at just our industrial businesses, if I go back to pre-pandemic FY '19 and on a like-for-like basis, if I include LORD in those FY '19 numbers, in the industrial businesses, our sales volume has surpassed pre-COVID levels. So we're really proud about that. Orders you can see in total are plus 43%. And as Tom mentioned, not only did we achieve our FY '23 margin targets, but we surpassed them, and we did that two years early. So if I go to the next slide, Slide 18, cash flow.We're obviously very proud of this. Tom mentioned this earlier. Full year cash flow from operations was $2.6 billion, that's an all-time record for the company. 17.9% of sales, just outstanding top quartile performance. If you look at that compared to prior year, we generated over $500 million more cash. That's 24% more cash than we did prior year. And like I said, that CFOA at $2.6 billion is a record. Working capital, really solid performance here. And I want to just really thank our teams everywhere around the world for focusing on this. We asked them to focus on this through the pandemic and they delivered soundly. So I want to thank you all for your focus on that.Free cash flow, also fantastic, 16.5%. That's up 310 basis points versus prior year, and the free cash flow conversion for the year, 135%. So with that, this now marks the 20th year that free cash flow conversion has been greater than 100% and cash flow from operations have been greater than 10%, 20 years running. All of these allowed us to significantly pay down our serviceable debt. We've been vocal about that for the last couple of months. If you look at the last 20 months, we've paid down $3.4 billion of debt and our gross debt-to-EBITDA finished the year at 2.1%. Net debt is 1.9%. So again, the similar story here, we achieved these leverage levels a full one year sooner than we had originally forecast, and it's just an outstanding cash position. It's top quartile execution and really impressive considering the backdrop of the global pandemic. So 19, I will ask you to focus on 19, just flipping to FY '22 and our guidance.You saw that we released this, this morning. As usual, we're going to provide this on an as-reported and adjusted basis. And I'll just start at the top. Sales. We're forecasting sales to increase in the range of 5% to 9%, really 7% at the midpoint. And really the breakdown of that sales growth is essentially all organic. We do not expect the Meggitt transaction to close in FY '22. Both LORD and Exotic have anniversary-ed, so those are no longer considered acquisition sales. Therefore, we are forecasting no impact to sales from acquisitions. And currency is just a minimal drag at 0.2% of sales. And just like we always do, we have calculated the impact of currency to spot rates at the end of June 30, and we've held those rates study as we forecast FY '22.One thing I'll note, the sales split for the guide is 48% first half, 52% second half. The next item I'll talk about is segment operating margin. On an as-reported basis, the guidance for the full year is 19.3% at the midpoint, and there's a range of 20 basis points on either side of that. But more importantly, on an adjusted basis, segment operating margin guidance for the full year is 21.6% at the midpoint, same range of 20 basis points on either side of that. This adjusted segment operating margin guide is 50 basis points higher than what we just finished our record FY '21 at. Just some color on adjustments. At a pre-tax level, business realignment charges are expected to be $35 million for FY '22. LORD cost to achieve are only $7 million for the forecasted year and acquisition-related intangible amortization is $320 million. Just a note on the split, adjusted segment operating margins 46% first half, 52% second half. If you look at the corporate G&A interest and other, $480 million is our forecast. That is the same on an adjusted and an as-reported basis.Tax rate, we are forecasting full year to be 23%. And finally, EPS on an as-reported basis, our guidance is $14.48 at the midpoint. There's a $0.40 range on either side of that. And our adjusted EPS guidance is $16.60 at the midpoint, same $0.40 range on either side of that. Adjusted EPS split first half is 45%, second half is 55%. And a little color on Q1, we are forecasting adjusted EPS to be $3.60 at the midpoint. Slide 20 is the bridge. And again, this is very similar to Q4. Main driver of the $1.56 or 10% increase to adjusted earnings per share is just our continued strong execution across the enterprise. Segment operating margin is accounting for $1.76 of that change. And then again, just slightly higher corporate G&A, tax and average shares outstanding are a little bit of a drag. But all in, a $1.56 increase in earnings per share, increasing earnings per share by 10%. Lastly, I will just talk about capital deployment. For FY '22, we are committed to our capital deployment strategies. We have a strong 65 year of -- record of consistently, consecutively increasing the annual dividends paid. We're going to continue with that record.Our payout target is not changed. It remains 30% to 35% of the 5-year average of net income. And of course, we're going to continue to fund organic growth and productivity across our global locations. We expect capital expenditures to be 2% for the year. Our 10b5-1 share repurchase program, we reinstated that this year. We are committed to continuing that in FY '22. And as I mentioned, when I was talking about cash flow, we have extinguished all of our serviceable debt, and we are now in a cash-building position. So our focus for FY '22 will be to continue our record of strong cash flow generation and accumulation in preparation for the closing of the Meggitt transaction. So with that, Tom, I'll turn it back to you, and I'll ask the audience to focus on Slide 22.Thomas L. Williams -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Todd. Just closing messages. What drives these results, the engine behind the companies are people, our engaged team, great culture, higher levels of ownership driving this performance parity and inspiring results that you've seen, living up to our purpose, the vaccine production is a classic example. That top quartile performance, the more than doubling of EPS, the 660 basis points improvement in EBITDA margin for the last six years, getting the margin targets that we laid out for you two years early. And obviously, we're going to keep improving upon that. And the strategic deployment of capital and change in the portfolio, CLARCOR, LORD, Exotic, and now Meggitt. You put that together with The Win Strategy 2.0 and now 3.0, and it really spells for a bright future, and we'll continue to accelerate this performance. And with that, I'll turn it over to Dawn to open up to Q&A.