  OperatorGood day, and welcome to the fourth quarter 2021 ONEOK earnings call. Today's conference is being recorded. At this time, I'd like to turn the conference over to Andrew Ziola, vice president of investor relations and corporate affairs. Please go ahead, sir.Andrew Ziola -- Vice President, Investor Relations and Corporate Affairs Thank you, Jennifer. And welcome, everyone, to ONEOK's fourth quarter and year-end 2021 earnings call. We issued our earnings release and presentation that includes 2022 guidance after the market closed yesterday and those materials are on our website. After our prepared remarks, we'll be available to take your questions.

 



 Statements made during this call that might include ONEOK's expectations or predictions should be considered forward-looking statements and are covered by the safe harbor provision of the Securities Acts of 1933 and 1934. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. For a discussion of factors that could cause actual results to differ, please refer to our SEC filings. [Operator instructions] With that, I'll turn the call over to Pierce Norton, president and chief executive officer.Pierce? Pierce Norton -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Andrew, and good morning, everyone. We appreciate your interest and investment in ONEOK. Thank you for taking the time to join us. We've got a lot to cover today.

 



 With me on the call today is Walt Hulse, chief financial officer and executive vice president, strategy and corporate affairs; and Kevin Burdick, executive vice president, chief operating officer. Also available to answer your questions are Sheridan Swords, senior vice president, natural gas liquids; and Chuck Kelley, senior vice president of natural gas. Yesterday, we announced strong fourth quarter and full year 2021 performance, recording our eighth consecutive year of adjusted EBITDA growth. That equates to a 13% annual growth rate during that 8-year period, highlighting the stable and resilient earnings power of our assets despite various economic and commodity cycles. In 2021, during a year of continued economic recovery and lingering pandemic-related challenges, we grew adjusted EBITDA 24% compared with 2020, continue to strengthen our balance sheet, and achieved record natural gas and NGL volumes on our Rocky Mountain region assets. 2021 provided other milestones as well, including our announcement of a greenhouse gas emissions reduction target, receiving an upgraded AA ESG rating from MSCI, and once again receiving a perfect score in the latest Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality Index. These are only a few of the many great things we're doing as a company to ensure ONEOK remains a great workplace, community partner, and service provider. With yesterday's earnings announcement, we also provided 2022 financial and volume guidance expectations. We expect increasing producer activity and improving market demand to drive strong volume and earnings growth across our operations. As we've said before, we are well-positioned financially and operationally in 2022 and for many years to come. Before I hand the call over to the team for more details on 2022, I'd like to reiterate what makes ONEOK so uniquely well-positioned for the long term. First, our extensive and integrated assets, which are located in some of the most productive U.S. shale basins. Our customers are well-capitalized with decades of proven reserves and many have announced plans to sustain and grow production levels in 2022. In the Williston Basin, in particular, steady crude oil production still means NGL and natural gas growth for ONEOK due to rising gas to oil ratios. Second, our dedication to safe, reliable, and environmentally responsible operations.

 



 Our commitment to safety in the environment is a core value for ONEOK. It's critical for us to be safe and reliable service provider, and we strive to be a good partner in the areas where we operate. Our ESG-related performance is a source of pride for ONEOK, and we're committed to continuing to make progress. Third, our strong balance sheet and investment-grade credit ratings, which provides significant financial flexibility. We've reduced our leverage to below four times and continue to drive that lower, providing optionality for the future cash flows and investor returns. Fourth, our built-in operating leverage and proven track record of disciplined and intentional growth. After completing more than $5 billion of capital growth projects prior to the pandemic, our systems have significant capacity to grow alongside the needs of our customers. And because of our large infrastructure projects are complete, we now have opportunities for short-cycle, bolt-on-type projects at attractive returns. Fifth, the resilience and increasing demand for natural gas and NGLs. We deliver energy products and services that are vital to an advancing world, and we believe these resources will play an important role in the energy transformation. And finally, the depth and experience of this management team who have a proven track record and extensive experience. This team has been through commodity cycles, adapted business models, and adopted significant changes in technology and innovation over the years. This team continues to grow our core business and advance our company forward. It is because of these factors and the segment-specific drivers the team will discuss in a moment that I have such confidence and excitement for ONEOK's future. With that, I'll turn the call over to Walt for discussion of our financial performance.Walt Hulse -- Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, Strategy and Corporate Affairs Thank you, Pierce. ONEOK's fourth quarter and full year 2021 net income totaled $379 million and $1.5 billion, respectively. Adjusted EBITDA for the same periods totaled $847 million and $3.38 billion, respectively, representing year-over-year increases of 14% for the fourth quarter and 24% for the full year. Our December 31 net debt-to-EBITDA was just below four times, passing through an important marker and our continued deleveraging strategy. We continue to prioritize reducing leverage below four times and view three and a half times or lower as our long-term aspirational debt-to-EBITDA goal. In 2021, we reduced our total outstanding debt more than $600 million by proactively paying off nearly $550 million of maturing debt on November 1 with cash on hand and being opportunistic with open market repurchases earlier in 2021. We currently have no debt maturities due before the fourth quarter of 2022. Fourth-quarter results reflect volume growth in our Rocky Mountain region that was offset by higher operating costs. These higher costs were driven by discretionary employee-related benefit costs and expenses related to planned O&M maintenance projects completed in the fourth quarter in our natural gas liquids and our natural gas pipeline segment. As Pierce mentioned, with yesterday's earnings announcement, we provided 2022 financial guidance, including a net income midpoint of $1.69 billion and EPS of $3.76 per diluted share. We also provided an adjusted EBITDA range of $3.5 billion to $3.8 billion, with $3.62 billion as our midpoint, representing a 7% increase compared with 2021. We expect double-digit earnings growth at the midpoints for both the natural gas liquids and natural gas gathering and processing segments, driven by higher volume expectations across our operations. Kevin will provide more detail on our volume outlook. In our natural gas pipeline segment, we expect earnings to be stable year over year when adjusting for Winter Storm Uri in the first quarter of 2021. Our 2022 guidance assumes producer activity associated with WTI crude oil prices in the low $70 range. Sustained higher prices could lead to more activity and a quicker volume ramp, which could drive earnings toward the higher end of our guidance range. We expect total capital expenditures of approximately $975 million, which includes growth and maintenance capital. This midpoint reflects the investments necessary to keep up with the expected increase in producer activity and volume expectations, including investments to complete Demicks Lake 3 in early 2023 and MB-5 in mid-2023. Our routine growth capital accounts for a higher number of well connects and other high-return routine growth projects, such as pump stations, compression expansions, and other debottlenecking projects to meet our customer needs. Our guidance also assumes the impact of inflation. As we've mentioned previously, we have escalators on many of our natural gas liquids and gathering and processing contracts. These are typically tied to either CPI or PPI indexes and provide protection from rising costs. We expect these types of escalators to keep pace or exceed inflationary costs as we move forward. I'll now turn the call over to Kevin for an operational update.Kevin Burdick -- Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Thank you, Walt. Fourth-quarter volumes continued to show strength, particularly in the Rocky Mountain region, where processed volumes increased 5% and NGL volumes increased 6% compared with the third quarter of 2021. Natural gas processed volumes in the Mid-Continent increased in the fourth quarter compared with the third quarter as we've seen -- as we've continued to see more activity in the region, while NGL volumes in the Mid-Continent decreased due to some reduced third-party volumes and lower ethane recovery levels. Overall, for 2021, natural gas and NGL volumes saw significant increases from 2020 levels. We saw record natural gas and NGL volumes on our Rocky Mountain region assets with significantly higher activity in rising gas to oil ratios. In the fourth quarter alone, our team connected 130 wells, nearly doubling the amount from the third quarter for a total of more than 320 in 2021. A great accomplishment for our team in meeting the needs of our customers and continuing to provide momentum into 2022. Now taking a closer look at 2022. At the midpoint, our volume guidance would result in an 8% increase in total NGL volumes and an 11% increase in total natural gas processing volumes compared with 2021. These higher expectations are supported by increasing producer activity, volume growth from recently completed ONEOK and third-party projects, rising gas to oil ratios in the Williston Basin, and ethane recovery opportunities across our NGL system. With the recent completion of our Bear Creek plant expansion, we are already seeing increasing volumes from Dunn County, and we expect the plant will continue to ramp up over the next two to three years. However, with activity levels in the area consistently outpacing our expectations, we could be looking at an even quicker ramp. In the natural gas liquids segment, we expect continued volume growth from our existing customers and from new third-party plant connections. In the Williston Basin, volumes are expected to increase compared with 2021, supported by higher activity levels and recently completed and expanded processing plants. The Mid-Continent also continues to pick up, particularly from private producers with very recent activity levels providing potential tailwinds not fully factored into our guidance expectations. Our NGL system is connected to more than 90% of the natural gas processing plants in the Mid-Continent. So any increased producer activity in the region is likely to provide NGL volume to ONEOK, regardless if the activity is on our gathering and processing dedicated acreage. In the Permian Basin, we expect double-digit NGL volume growth on our West Texas NGL pipeline compared with 2021, driven by increased volumes in the Midland and Delaware basins. The volume growth is primarily from long-term contracts entered into a few years ago as well as new contracts we have recently signed. Switching to ethane. Demand continues to increase with more than 300,000 barrels per day of incremental demand expected to come online in 2022 from new and expanding petrochemical facilities and from growth in exports. Our NGL volume guidance assumes full ethane recovery in the Permian Basin and partial Mid-Continent recovery throughout the year. We've assumed no full rate Rocky Mountain region recovery. However, we do anticipate opportunities to incent some recovery. This opportunity will fluctuate throughout the year, but a conservative amount is assumed in our 2022 guidance. Moving on to the natural gas gathering and processing segment. We expect volume growth this year in both the Rocky Mountain and Mid-Continent regions. In the Rocky Mountain region, we expect processed volumes to grow 15% at the midpoint compared with 2021 and average nearly 1.5 billion cubic feet per day in 2022. Just five years earlier, in 2017, volumes totaled 830 million cubic feet per day. That's an approximately 12% annual growth rate over the last five years, while crude oil production has increased in the low single digits. Accordingly, GORs have increased nearly 70% during that same time period. The Williston Basin remains resilient and highly productive. Producers continue to gain efficiencies as they drill in this proven and highly economic region, and the core of the basin is expanding. The North Dakota Pipeline Authority recently estimated that in the last two years alone, more than 7,000 drilling locations have been added to inventory that are profitable at $60 per barrel. This is consistent with what our customers are telling us, as most of them still have decades of inventory remaining. There are currently 33 rigs and 10 completion crews operating in the basin with 15 rigs and five completion crews on our dedicated acreage. This is more than enough activity to grow gas production on our acreage, and we expect that as DUCs are completed through the spring, rigs across the basin will increase. As we've said previously, approximately 14 to 15 rigs, which can drill around 300 wells per year, is enough to maintain 1.4 billion cubic feet per day of production on our system. Any additional rigs combined with the rising gas to oil ratios of wells already connected to our system would provide additional volume growth. Additionally, more than 475 DUCs remain basinwide with more than 250 on our dedicated acreage. We expect to connect 375 to 425 wells in the region this year. In the Mid-Continent region, activity continues to increase. We expect processing volumes in the region to increase compared with 2021, and we expect to more than double our well connections in 2022 to 30 to 50 wells compared with 15 last year. In the natural gas pipelines segment, we expect transportation capacity to be approximately 95% contracted and earnings to remain nearly fully fee-based in 2022. Following a successful open season in 2021, we're in the process of expanding our Texas natural gas storage capacity by 1.1 billion cubic feet, which will increase our total systemwide storage capacity to more than 53 billion cubic feet. We continue to work with customers seeking additional long-term transportation and storage capacity on our system, which remains highly valued as these critical services are used year around. Pierce, that concludes my remarks.Pierce Norton -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Kevin, and thank you, Walt. Strong financial and operating results in 2021 have provided momentum for another year of growth. We continue to benefit from our interconnected systems, built-in operating leverage, and the ability to incrementally grow with our customers. We continue to invest in our core businesses, remaining focused on optimizing our assets and staying dedicated to operating responsibly and reliably. Service is another one of ONEOK's core values, and it is something that our more than 2,800 employees know very well. Through 2021, they worked tirelessly through severe weather events like Winter Storm Uri to serve our customers and continue delivering the vital energy products necessary for the global economy to run. Our employees' dedication to meeting customers' needs while operating safely and responsibly, enabled our strong 2021 performance and has set us up for another year of growth in 2022. With that, operator, we're ready to answer questions. 