  OperatorGood day. Thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Intel Corp's first-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker, head of investor relations, Tony Balow. Please go ahead.Tony Balow -- Head of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, operator. Welcome, everyone, to Intel's first-quarter earnings conference call. By now, you should have received a copy of our earnings release and the earnings presentation. If you've not received both documents, they're available on our investor website. The earnings presentation is also available in the webcast window for those joining us online. I'm joined today by our CEO, Pat Gelsinger; and our CFO, George Davis. In a moment, we'll hear brief remarks from both followed by Q&A. Before we begin, let me remind everyone that today's discussion contains forward-looking statements based on the environment as we currently see it and as such, does include risks and uncertainties.Please refer to our press release for more information on the specific risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially. Today, we provided both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. We will be speaking to the non-GAAP financial measures when describing our consolidated results. As a reminder, our non-GAAP results exclude our NAND memory business, which is subject to a pending divestiture, and our non-GAAP year-over-year comparisons also exclude NAND from 2020 results. The earnings presentation and earnings release available on intc.com include the full GAAP and non-GAAP reconciliations. With that, let me hand it over to Pat. 

 



Pat Gelsinger -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Tony. Good afternoon, everyone. It's a pleasure to be with you for my first earnings call. I consider it an honor to be CEO of this great company. Thanks for joining today. Intel delivered a strong Q1 that beat our January guide on both the top and bottom line, driven by exceptional demand for our products and exquisite execution by our team. We shipped a record volume of notebook CPUs. We launched new competitive Intel Core and Xeon processors. Mobileye had its best quarter ever. With tremendous industry support, we unveiled our IDM 2.0 strategy, setting a bold new course for technology leadership at Intel. The response from employees, partners, and customers has been incredible. Our teams are reinvigorated, innovating, and executing.

 



 It's amazing to be back at Intel, and Intel is back. Before George takes you through the financial details of the quarter, I'll begin with the industry trends we're seeing and why Intel is well-positioned to aggressively capitalize on them. Said simply, Intel is the only company with the depth and breadth of software, silicon, and platforms and packaging and process with at-scale manufacturing that customers can depend on for their next-generation innovations. There are four superpowers driving digital transformation: cloud, connectivity, artificial intelligence, and the intelligent edge. Intel's mission, and we are uniquely positioned to do so, is to help customers harness these superpowers to improve the lives of every human on the planet. The digitization of everything was markedly accelerated by COVID and has spurred innovation and new models of working, learning, interacting, and care. Technology is increasingly central to every aspect of human existence, and semiconductors are the foundation. This is creating a cycle of explosive growth in semiconductors that will result in sustained growth for a decade or more. The PC ecosystem, in particular, is experiencing a resurgence. This remote work and learning dynamics of COVID led to more PC shipments in 2020 than at any point since 2012, and that's continuing. 2021 is shaping up to be the largest PC market ever. In fact, we shipped more notebook CPUs in Q1 than in any other quarter in our history. Total platform unit volumes were up well over 30% in the first quarter. In many markets, one PC in every home is no longer enough. The number of PCs per household, what we call PC density, is increasing. We are seeing strong growth in education where, on a global basis, the number of PCs per 100 students and teachers still remains in the single digits. Every student needs a laptop, and we have a long way to go. In addition, there are over 400 million PCs running Windows 10 that are over four years old today, which is an enormous PC refresh opportunity. Intel is leading this rejuvenation of the PC with marketing, user experience, and purpose-built innovation at the software, silicon, and platform level. We shipped Tiger Lake-H for notebooks and Rocket Lake for desktops, and customer reception has been enthusiastic. As a sign of our improving execution, we qualified Tiger Lake-H ahead of schedule in 10 nanometers, and we expect 10-nanometer unit volumes to cross over 14 nanometers in the second half of the year. Our Intel Evo platform gives buyers the very best mobile experience, and we're deepening our ecosystem engagement with partners, including Microsoft, Google, and Samsung to advance the PC experience in new, innovative ways. We see no signs of PC demand slowing and believe the industry will return to shipping more than 1 million units a day. With over 100 million Xeon servers in the installed base, the world runs on Intel. Building on that foundation, we recently launched our most advanced high-performance data center platform optimized to power the industry's broadest range of workloads from the cloud to the network to the intelligent edge. At the heart of this is our new third-gen Intel Xeon Scalable processor codenamed Ice Lake, which offers nearly 50% gen-over-gen performance improvements across a range of workloads. We are already shipping Ice Lake to more than 30 customers, including major cloud providers, communication service providers, enterprise and HPC customers. Another trend driving demand for more and more optimized computing performance is the infusion of artificial intelligence and machine learning into nearly every application. As the only x86 datacenter CPU with built-in AI acceleration, Ice Lake provides 74% gen-over-gen improvement on AI workloads. And our Habana discrete solutions address the needs of those customers with extreme AI demands in areas like training. Sometimes customers want both. For example, you see San Diego will use Intel Xeon and Habana AI accelerators to power their new Voyager supercomputer. Mobileye set a new quarterly record. Mobileye's assisted driving technology continues to win over automakers with eight new design wins in Q1. We have programs with 13 of the 15 top automotive OEMs. Mobileye continues to open new categories such as delivery transport with the win at Udelv and is rapidly evolving to power L4 fully autonomous robotaxis beginning next year. We continue to have extraordinary success winning the next-generation 5G environments. A great example from this quarter is our collaboration with Google Cloud to develop solutions that help communication service providers accelerate 5G deployment across multiple network and edge locations. We're already seeing significant adoption of OneAPI and OneAPI-powered toolkits for high-performance computing, AI, and data analytics. Developers and customers are embracing One API's open standards-based approach for unified programming across architectures and vendors. This includes leading cloud service providers who are embracing OneAPI at scale. The unprecedented demand for semiconductors has stressed supply chains across the industry. We've doubled our internal wafer capacity in the last few years, but the industry is now challenged by a shortage of foundry capacity, substrates, and components. We expect it will take a couple of years for the ecosystem to make the significant investments to address these shortages. This fundamental industry challenge underscores the importance of our unique and differentiated IDM 2.0 strategy. IDM 2.0 utilizes our internal factory network to reliably deliver leadership products and provide the industry another source of foundry capacity through our new Intel Foundry Services. Leveraging our IDM advantage, we are working aggressively across our global supply chain to solve substrate shortages to satisfy our customers' surging demand and gain market share. For example, by partnering closely with our suppliers, we are creatively utilizing our internal assembly factory network to remove a major constraint in our substrate supply. Coming online in Q2, this capability will increase the availability of millions of units in 2021. It's a great example where the IDM model gives us flexibility to address the dynamic market. It's clear the industry and Intel will need more capacity to meet strong future demand, which is why we are dramatically expanding our foundry capability with Intel Foundry Services starting with a $20 billion investment for our first large-scale foundry operations in Arizona. We plan to expand other locations and establish Intel Foundry Services as a major provider of committed foundry capacity in the U.S. and Europe while ensuring a sustainable and secure semiconductor supply for the world. Since its announcement, the industry response to Intel Foundry Services has already been incredible. We are engaged with well over 50 potential customers today. We're seeing excitement from some of the top technology giants in the world across industry verticals ranging from automotive to high-performance compute and cloud service providers. We've been responding to and proactively engaging with automotive component suppliers on how we can help them with their supply chains and alleviate shortages in both the near and long term. We're doing our part to address this global supply crisis, but we cannot do it alone. The investment needed at the scale required is immense, and it will require close industry and government partnership to address this need. Governments around the world are recognizing the critical nature of semiconductors and the need to increase advanced chip manufacturing capacity and prepare for the future. We are encouraged by President Biden's recognition of semiconductor manufacture as a critical component of our national infrastructure and its inclusion along with key research and infrastructure investments in broadband in the American Jobs plan. Looking ahead, we're confident our strategy will drive innovation and technology leadership for Intel. 7 nanometers is progressing well, and IDM 2.0 puts us on a path to restore process performance leadership and build on our industry-leading packaging technologies. With IDM 2.0, we will have superior capacity and supply resilience by leveraging our internal and external capacity and a superior cost structure. By accelerating our clock rate of innovation, we will deliver leadership products in every category. In the PC business, we will follow the successful launches of Tiger Lake and Rocket Lake with Alder Lake, which is currently sampling and will ship in the second half of this year. Within the next couple of weeks, we'll tape in the compute tile for Meteor Lake, our first 7-nanometer CPU for 2023. In the data center, we will follow the strong ramp of Ice Lake with Sapphire Rapids, which is scheduled to reach production around the end of this year, and ramp in the first half of 2022. Overall, our 2023 road maps are firm and under execution, and our 2024 and 2025 plans are well under way to provide unquestioned leadership products in every category we participate in. The Intel innovation machine is fired up. Before I pass it to George for the details in the quarter, let me reiterate how excited I am to be back. You can feel the energy inside of Intel, the passion to innovate, and the drive that made us great. We are reigniting our culture to attract, retain and motivate the best and brightest engineers in the industry. In fact, we've onboarded over 2,000 engineers so far this year, including the recent key hire of Sanjay Natarajan, who will co-lead our logic technology development. In total, we expect to add several thousand more engineers by the end of the year. 2021 is a pivotal year as we lay the foundation of our winning IDM 2.0 strategy and invest in our future to accelerate our trajectory and execution. Given the incredible demand for computing, the strength of our IDM 2.0 strategy, and the technology investments we're making, I'm certain Intel's best days are in front of us.George Davis -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Pat, and good afternoon, everyone. Q1 marked a stronger-than-expected start to the year with both our PC notebook and Mobileye businesses achieving record quarters, when revenue was $18.6 billion, exceeding our guidance by $1.1 billion, led by strength in our PC business and the first signs of recovery in the enterprise and government portion of our data center business. Our IOTG, Mobileye, and PSG businesses also posted strong sequential growth as they began to emerge from an adverse macroeconomic environment driven by COVID. As noted in our January guidance, Q1 revenue includes an approximately $580 million one-time corporate revenue item. Gross margin for the quarter was 58.4%, exceeding guide by approximately 40 basis points, largely due to flow-through on higher revenue. Q1 EPS was $1.39, up $0.29 versus guide, with the majority of the beat on strong operational performance and the balance on gains related to our ICAP portfolio. Note that these non-GAAP results exclude the impact of a charge related to VLSI litigation that are included in GAAP results. In Q1, we generated $5.5 billion of cash from operations and free cash flow of $1.6 billion. We repurchased $2.4 billion of shares, completing the $20 billion repurchase plan announced in October 2019. Going forward, we expect to have lower stock repurchases as we enter an investment phase to support strong demand growth in clients, build initial infrastructure for future foundry volumes and make necessary investments to accelerate our return to process leadership. We remain committed to growing the dividend. Moving to segment performance in the quarter. CCG revenue was up 8% year over year, driven by all-time record notebook unit volumes, up 54% year over year. Increased volume in the consumer entry and education segments resulted in platform ASPs being down 20% year over year. Excluding this upside volume, ASPs were flat year over year. Combined with growth in our WiFi and Thunderbolt connectivity businesses, revenue grew overall in CCG despite the ramp down of our modem and MAX sales and the impact of exiting our connected home division. Operating income was $4.1 billion, down 2% year over year on higher 10-nanometer mix and increased R&D investment. DCG delivered revenue of $5.6 billion, somewhat above our expectations, but down 20% year over year on a challenging compare. Enterprise and government saw initial recovery with sequential performance above seasonal expectations, while cloud inventory digestion persisted through the quarter as expected. Strong network SoC growth and product mix drove more than half of the 14% year-over-year ASP decline. DCG operating income in Q1 was down $2.2 billion year over year on lower revenue, transition to 10-nanometer, and increased R&D investment in our Xeon road map. Our intelligent edge businesses were up year over year and quarter over quarter as COVID-related demand impacts began to subside. Specifically, IOTG revenue was up 18% quarter over quarter with strength in retail and industrial segments. Mobileye revenue and operating margin were both all-time records at $377 million and $147 million, respectively. Mobileye continues to execute well and gain market segment share as the auto industry recovers from pandemic blows. PSG revenue was up 15% quarter over quarter with strength in its communications and embedded segments. Moving to our Q2 and full-year outlook. For Q2, we are guiding revenue of $17.8 billion, down 2% year over year, excluding our NAND business. We continue to see very strong demand for PCs with fulfillment challenges on industrywide component and substrate shortages. In data center, we believe revenue bottomed in Q1 and will increase in Q2 as cloud digestion impacts begin to subside and enterprise and government momentum continues. Gross margin is expected to be approximately 57%, up approximately 1 point year over year, driven by lower inventory reserves and improved 10-nanometer cost, partially offset by factory start-up costs. We are forecasting EPS of $1.05 per share and a tax rate of 13%. For full year, we are increasing our guidance provided in March, now forecasting $72.5 billion in revenue, up $500 million from our prior guidance, gross margin of 56.5%, and EPS at $4.60, up $0.05 from our March 23 call. We now expect free cash flow to be $10.5 billion, up $500 million versus prior expectations. We continue to see very strong PC demand with both TAM and our internal PC supply growing double digits year over year. But we expect CCG revenue to be more first half-weighted than normal seasonality due to industrywide supply constraints and the continuing ramp-down of modem and Apple Mac revenue. In data center, we expect increased demand in the second half as both cloud enterprise and government segments returned to growth. Gross margin percent will be lower in the second half of the year predominantly due to increased 7-nanometer start-up costs and industrywide supply constraints impacting client volume and mix. We expect increased R&D throughout the year as we invest in our road map and IDM 2.0 strategy. As stated in March, this guide is tempered by DCG-related entity list uncertainty and industrywide supply constraints primarily impacting our client, IOTG, and PSG businesses. We are working closely with our supply chain partners and leveraging our unique IDM capabilities to mitigate these supply constraints, gain market segment share, and outperform this guide. With that, let me turn it back over to Tony and get to your questions.Tony Balow -- Head of Investor Relations All right. Thank you, George. Moving on now to the Q&A. As is our normal practice, we would ask each participant to ask just one question. Operator, please go ahead and introduce the first caller. 