
OperatorGood morning. My name is Crystal, and I'll be your conference operator. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to ADP's Third Quarter Fiscal 2021 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions]I will now turn the conference over to Mr. Danyal Hussain, Vice President, Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Danyal Hussain -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



Thank you, Crystal. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining ADP's third quarter fiscal 2021 earnings call and webcast. Participating today are Carlos Rodriguez, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Kathleen Winters, our Chief Financial Officer.Earlier this morning, we released our results for the quarter. Our earnings materials are available on the SEC's website, and our Investor Relations website at investors.adp.com, where you will also find the investor presentation that accompanies today's call. During our call, we will reference non-GAAP financial measures, which we believe to be useful to investors, and that exclude the impact of certain items. A description of these items along with a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to their most comparable GAAP measures can be found in our earnings release. Today's call will also contain forward-looking statements that refer to future events and involve some risk. We encourage you to review our filings with the SEC for additional information on factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations.And with that let me turn it over to Carlos.Carlos Rodriguez -- President & Chief Executive Officer

 



Thank you, Danny. And thank you everyone for joining our call. This morning, we reported another strong set of quarterly results that were ahead of our expectations, with a revenue growth of 1% and adjusted EBIT margin down 90 basis points. Combined from margin adjusted, diluted EPS diluted EPS decline of 2%. This of course, was the final quarter, before we begin to lap the impact of the pandemic and I'm very proud of our organization's ability to have delivered positive revenue and earnings growth for the first nine months of the fiscal year despite unprecedented challenges in the economy and the labor markets.I'll start with a review of some of our key performance drivers, and an update on the operating environment we've been experiencing. This quarter our Employer Services New Business Bookings reaccelerated and we delivered 7% growth, a strong result for the team. The improved year-over-year growth compared to the second quarter was driven by every business unit.Importantly, we ended the quarter on a particularly strong note with record March sales performance that was well above pre-pandemic fiscal 2019 levels, which we see as a positive signal for client engagement in the quarters ahead. The selling environment will likely continue to evolve month-on-month and with differences on a regional basis, as COVID cases and the reopening trajectories stabilize. We are optimistic that with vaccine deployment progressing steadily our clients are in the best position since the pandemic started to begin making buying decisions again.Also encouraging is that we started to hold more in-person sales meetings with over a third of our field sales force, having conducted at least one in-person meeting this quarter. We expect in-person engagement to pick up over the coming quarters as well. With our Q3 performance and the trajectory we see in Q4, we're pleased to narrow our bookings range around a higher midpoint. We now expect growth of 20% to 25% for the year versus 15% to 25% prior.

 



Achieving this growth rate would put us at first full year sales productivity, close to 90% of pre-pandemic levels, which would be an incredible achievement for our sales associates. Our retention which has been a key driver for our strong results this year was a positive development once again and performed slightly ahead of even our revised and elevated expectations. Retention remains at record levels.Many of you have been asking about how sustainable this improved retention performance is for ADP, it's a great question and hard to answer with precision given the unpredictable environment we're all in. But our belief is that during the pandemic, there have been some temporary benefits from client hesitancy to make major decisions plus lower out of business losses given government support in North America and Europe. But we also believe there will be enduring benefit resulting from the record client satisfaction we've seen, as our product and service both have continued to improve.Next quarter, we expect to be in a better position to talk about retention expectations for fiscal 2022. But clearly, we feel very good about what we've achieved this year. On the back of our record Q3 performance, we are pleased to raise our guidance and now expect full year retention to be up at least a 125 basis points from 2020 versus our prior guidance of up a 100 basis points. As a reminder this guidance would put us in record territory for the year.Moving to the overall employment picture, our pays per control metric performance was softer than expected as it improved only modestly from Q2 and rounded again to a decline of 6% for Q3. But that said, we are encouraged by the recent trends in employment data, particularly in the U.S. as more of the economy reopens. As of April, we've now started to lap the pandemic affected pays per control figures and have been pleased with the positive year-over-year growth we've seen so far in Q4. So we're making no change to our full year pays per control outlook of down 3% to 4%.I'd like to now provide an update on some of our key product and strategic initiatives. In February, we announced the launch of Roll a new payroll and tax filing product for small businesses. Roll combines a simplicity of an AI-driven chat-based interface with the power and scale of our payroll and tax filing expertise, solved digitally and delivered through an app-only interface.With this offering, we believe we can expand our reach into the U.S. small business market beyond the businesses we've historically targeted with RUN. As the target clients for Roll users are with -- is with simpler needs, who prioritize a mobile first fully chat-based interface. This is a different set of users compared with the target clients for a more comprehensive RUN solution. We look forward to sharing Roll's progress with you in the quarters ahead.Parallel to this, we're also making great progress in increasing the amount of digital onboarding we're conducting with RUN, and we've continued to scale up this capability since we discussed it with you during our Innovation Day in the early 2020. This quarter alone 15,000 or over one-third of our new RUN clients on-boarded themselves digitally, enabling a better experience for the clients, as well as cost savings for ADP. This initiative is just one of many digitally enabled efforts we are making to drive improved efficiency at ADP. And as we've mentioned in the past, we have more to look forward to as our digital transformation continues.Our Next Gen Payroll engine also continues to scale up and demonstrate success in the mid-market. In this quarter, we sold hundreds of more clients and continued to expand our capability set to accommodate more complex payroll needs. We now have over 400 clients live on WorkforceNow with our Next Gen Payroll engine and we expect to accelerate this further in the coming quarters.In addition to its improving position in the mid-market WorkforceNow continues to scale nicely into the enterprise market. And this quarter, ADP was recognized as a customers' choice leader in Gartner's Voice of the Customer for Cloud HCM Suites from North American companies with 1,000 or more employees. This is the great milestone for the team and strong validation of the flexibility of WorkforceNow, as we've continued to sell it to larger clients in recent years, while of course concurrently scaling implementation and service of our Next Gen HCM platform.Ultimately these product enhancements are all designed to drive growth, and I'm happy to report that this quarter, our client count reached 900,000 a remarkable achievement, particularly during the pandemic. This is a testament to both the strong retention we've experienced this year, as well as better than expected year-to-date sales performance. We're very proud of our execution so far this year and we look forward to putting the impact of the pandemic behind us.On that front, we recognize there is a lot of interest in our potential growth and earnings profile for next year. As you can appreciate, it's still early to discuss fiscal 2022 with any precision given the dynamic environment and the fact that we're still going through our operating plan process for next year, but Kathleen will share some additional perspective on fiscal 2022 in a moment.I'd also like to share that we plan to host a virtual Investor Day later this calendar year, where we plan to update you on our strategy and discuss our post-pandemic aspirations. We are tentatively aiming for November, and we'll share a date shortly. For now, we remain focused on maintaining our very positive momentum as we close out this fiscal year.And with that, I'll now turn the call over to Kathleen for more detail on the quarter and the outlook.Kathleen Winters -- Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Carlos, and good morning everyone. Q3 represented another strong quarter for us with our performance on both revenues and margins driven by excellent execution across the organization. Our revenues grew 1% on both a reported and organic constant currency basis, which represented a slight acceleration versus Q2. We delivered this growth despite incremental drag from client funds interest versus Q2, as well as some incremental pressure related to our usual seasonal Q3 revenue drivers such as annual W-2 Forms, I'll share more on these in a moment.As anticipated, we also experienced a margin decline as we continue to make additional growth and productivity investments. And as we experienced a more significant client funds interest revenue decline compared to prior quarters, but the 90 basis points of margin decline was better than our expectations. Combining this revenue and margin performance, our adjusted EBIT was down 2% to $1.1 billion. Our adjusted effective tax rate increased slightly compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2020, as we had less contribution from excess tax benefit on stock comp, but our share count was lower year-over-year driven by share repurchases. And as a result, our adjusted diluted earnings per share of $1.89 was down a modest 2% versus last year.For our Employer Services segment revenues declined 1% on a reported basis and 2% on an organic constant currency basis, demonstrating steady growth rates compared to last quarter, despite additional pressure from two sources as I just mentioned, both of which were fully anticipated. First, with greater pressure from client funds interest our Q3 has a seasonally larger client funds balance than other quarters of the year, and as a result, it skews more to cash and cash equivalent investments where interest rates have been pushed down to near zero. As a result, our client funds interest declined 32% versus last year, with average yield down 70 basis points more than offsetting our strong balance growth, which improved to 6%. Second, with a headwind related to seasonal Q3 revenues, like the annual Form W-2, which effectively makes our Q3 slightly more sensitive to pays per control, and employment turnover trends than other quarters.Looking past these two headwinds, underlying ES performance showed sequential improvement, driven in part by continued record level retention that was partially offset by slightly lower than expected pays per control. Employer Services Q3 margin was down 120 basis points compared to last year, ahead of our expectations. We continue to invest in headcount to support our growing client base.We also started lapping lower incentive costs from last year, and we experienced greater pressure from the lower client funds interest revenue, compared to the first half of this year, but at the same time, we kept our focus on prudent cost control and continue to execute on our transformation initiatives. Our PEO also had another very strong quarter. Average worksite employees increased sequentially to 594,000. This was flat on a year-over-year basis, and this strong result was supported by retention outperformance and a slight sequential improvement in pays per control, which was more impactful than what we experienced in our ES segment.Although PEO sales growth still lags that of our ES segment we did see an improvement in sales performance in Q3, and are encouraged that unit sales growth for the PEO was positive. Our PEO revenue growth meanwhile was very strong at 7%, and revenues excluding zero margin benefits pass-throughs grew 10%, both ahead of our expectations. Once again, this strong performance benefited from higher payroll for WSE, supported by employee mix.Additionally this quarter our revenue per WSE was further supported by more favorable SUI rate environment, as some states have started to increase SUI rates. Workers' comp rates remained a headwind in the quarter. PEO margin increased 100 basis points in the quarter driven by revenue growth and continued expense discipline, as well as roughly 50 basis points of contribution from workers' compensation reserve true-ups.I'll turn now to our updated guidance for fiscal 2021. With only one quarter remaining, we're pleased to raise our guidance midpoints for several key metrics, and narrow our guidance ranges for others. Beginning with the ES segment, we now expect revenue to be up 1% -- to be up about 1% for the full year versus our previous expectation for flat to up 2%. There is no real change in our revenue expectations, and this revised outlook includes the impact from the following drivers.We now expect our ES New Business Bookings to be up 20% to 25%, compared to our prior forecast of up 15% to 25%. This reflects Q3 sales performance that came in slightly ahead of our expectations and are better line of sight into Q4. We're very happy to raise our bookings guidance again. And although, this doesn't materially change our revenue expectations for this fiscal year, it does add to our optimism about next year.We now expect our ES retention to be up at least 125 basis points versus up 100 basis points prior. Similar to our updated bookings guidance, this improvement is driven by our Q3 performance and encouraging visibility into Q4 retention. We are raising our client funds interest expectations slightly, and now expect $415 million for the full year. We've seen the interest rate environment improve compared to what we had contemplated last quarter. However, those improvements only apply to our new fixed income purchases over these last few months of the year there is no material change to our expectation for 1.6% average yield in our client funds portfolio for fiscal year 2021.We are encouraged by the signs of improvement in the U.S. labor markets. But as we mentioned, over this last quarter, pays per control did underperform our Q3 expectations modestly. We have tempered our Q4 expectations slightly as a result, but our full year fiscal 2021 outlook remains a decline of 3% to 4%. For our expected Employer Services margin for the year, we are narrowing to a decline of 50 to 75 basis points. While we experienced stronger than expected margin performance in Q3, we will reinvest some of this on discrete projects in Q4, to further accelerate our growth, Investing, for example, in our Next Gen rollout Wisely card program, and additional marketing and advertising.For our PEO segment, we now expect revenue up 5% to 6% versus our prior forecast of up 3% to 5%, and we expect average worksite employees to be up 1% to 2% versus our prior forecast of flat to up 2%. We also expect our revenues, excluding zero margin pass-throughs, to be up 5% to 6%, compared to our prior forecast of up 3% to 5%. Our top line raise for the PEO is driven primarily by the strong Q3 performance we experienced, and slightly higher payroll per WSE assumptions for Q4.Last, per PEO margin, we now expect to be up about 75 basis points in fiscal 2021 versus our prior forecast range for up 50 to 100 basis points. Our visibility into Q4 has improved, and year-to-date, we've seen stronger revenue performance, and better than expected contribution from workers' compensation true-ups, offset by greater pass-through revenue.For our consolidated outlook, we now anticipate total ADP revenue to be up to 2% to 3% in fiscal 2021 versus up 1% to 3% prior, and we anticipate our adjusted EBIT margin to be down 50 to 75 basis points, an improvement of our prior guidance of down 52 to 100 basis points. There is no change to our expected effective tax rate of 23% for the year, and we continue to assume a net share count reduction in our guidance.Net of all these changes, we are updating our adjusted diluted EPS guidance to be flat to up 1% versus our prior guidance of down 2% to up 2%. As you know, with Q4, we will begin to lap the impact of the pandemic, and we recognize there is a lot of interest in what our growth rate will look like, as conditions continue to normalize. With that said, we're still going through our planning process. As usual, we will provide fiscal '22 guidance when we report our fourth quarter results, but I'd like to share some preliminary considerations.The most important factor for us in accelerating growth is driving strong, new business bookings, and we expect our sales productivity to improve further next year, as in-person visits increase and clients and prospects continue to reengage more fully. As that productivity continues to progress toward pre-pandemic levels and beyond the contribution it makes to our revenue growth will likewise, continue to build.Pays per control should provide a tailwind, and the magnitude of contribution will depend on the pace of global employment recovery. We've provided sensitivities to pays per control in the past, and we'll share a pays per control assumption next quarter. Client funds interest will likely remain a headwind if the current rate environment holds, there should be much less of a headwind than we are experiencing in fiscal 2021. And on retention, improving economic activity could mean greater client switching levels compared to this year, but we're not seeing pressure yet, and will remain focused on holding onto the gains we've achieved. We'll share our assumption about it next quarter.Clearly, there are a number of moving pieces, but the net effect should be favorable. The 2% to 3% revenue growth we expect to deliver this year demonstrates the resilience of our business model. And we look forward to building from this higher revenue base, and accelerating our growth back to pre-pandemic levels as quickly as we can. We are going into next year from a position of strength, and our aim is to deliver an improved market position, stronger top line growth, and margin expansion, while maintaining the steady cash flows that have allowed us to increase our shareholder distributions consistently for more than seven decades. More on all of this will come next quarter, and we look forward to updating you then.I'll now turn it back over to the operator for Q&A.