
OperatorGood morning, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to Abbott's First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] This call is being recorded by Abbott, with the exception of any participant questions asked during the question-and-answer session, the entire call, including the question-and-answer session is material copyrighted by Abbott. It cannot be recorded or rebroadcast without Abbott's expressed written permission.I would now like to introduce Mr. Scott Leinenweber, Vice President, Investor Relations Licensing and Acquisitions.Scott Michael Leinenweber -- Vice President of Investor Relations, Licensing and Acquisitions

 



Good morning, and thank you for joining us. With me today are Robert Ford, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Funck, Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer. Robert and Bob will provide opening remarks. Following their comments, we'll take your questions.Before we get started some statements made today may be forward-looking for purposes of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including the expected financial results for 2021. Abbott cautions that these forward-looking statements are subject to risk and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements.Economic, competitive, governmental, technological and other factors that may affect Abbott's operations are discussed in Item 1A Risk Factors to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31st, 2020. Abbott undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements, as a result of subsequent events or development, except as required by law.Please note that financial information provided on the call today for sales, EPS and line items of the P&L will be for continuing operations only. On today's conference call as in the past non-GAAP financial measures will be used to help investors understand Abbott's ongoing business performance. These non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled with the comparable GAAP financial measures in our earnings news release and regulatory filings from today, which are available on our website at abbott.com. Unless otherwise noted our commentary on sales growth refers to organic sales growth, which excludes the impact of foreign exchange.

 



With that, I will now turn the call over to Robert.Robert B. Ford -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Scott. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us. Today we reported the results of a very strong quarter. Ongoing earnings per share were $1.32 reflecting more than 100% growth compared to the prior year. Sales increased 33% on an organic basis in the quarter.At the start of the year, we issued full year guidance that reflected another year of strong performance, and through the first quarter we're right on track with those expectations. Our full year 2021 adjusted earnings per share guidance of at least $5 remains unchanged and reflects over 35% growth compared to last year.

 



Our strong first quarter will comprised of several factors including global COVID testing related sales of $2.2 billion with rapid tests compromising roughly 85% of those sales. Strong sales growth across all four of our major business areas, which resulted in base business organic sales growth excluding COVID testing related sales of nearly 6%. Growth contributions and momentum from several recently launched products across all of our businesses and the impact of significant investments we're making across our portfolio in R&D and commercial initiatives that will further strengthen our sustainable growth profile.I'll now summarize our first quarter results before turning the call over to Bob. And I'll start with Nutrition, where sales increased nearly 6.5% in the quarter. Performance was led by our Adult Nutrition business, with sales growth of more than 18% in the quarter. The pandemic has brought a lot of awareness to the value of good nutrition including immune support, which is helping to bring new users into the category and more specifically, to our market leading Ensure and Glucerna brands.Pediatric nutrition sales declined 2.5% in the quarter. Recall, during the first quarter of last year, this business experienced significant pantry stocking ahead of the shelter in place restrictions in several countries at the start of the global pandemic. Our sales growth of this quarter in pediatric nutrition reflects that difficult year-over-year comparison. In the US and several international markets, we continue to capture share with our leading portfolio of Infant formula and toddler brands.In Diagnostics, sales increased 115%, which was led by significant demand for our portfolio of COVID-19 tests, as well as improvement in the base business. As I mentioned earlier, strong COVID testing related sales were led by our rapid point-of-care platforms, ID NOW, BinaxNOW, and Panbio, as we continue to see demand shift toward rapid testing worldwide. During the quarter, BinaxNOW received US Emergency Use Authorization for over-the-counter non prescription self use for people with or without symptoms. We began shipping test kits to major retailers yesterday.Just as importantly, our underlying base business continues to improve, driven by improving routine diagnostic testing levels and the continued roll out of our Alinity platforms. Excluding COVID testing related sales, our Core Lab and Molecular Diagnostic businesses, both achieved double digit sales growth in the quarter.Turning to Established Pharmaceuticals, where sales grew over 6% in the quarter. It was particularly strong given the comparison versus a strong first quarter last year. Performance in the quarter was led by double digit sales growth in India, China and Brazil. And while we continue to see elevated COVID case levels across several emerging markets, the business is executing at a high level to ensure patients have access to our branded generic medicines.And lastly, I'll cover Medical Devices, where sales grew nearly 9% in the quarter, led by strong growth in Structural Heart, Rhythm Management, Electrophysiology and Diabetes Care. Although, procedure volumes across our cardiovascular and neuromodulation businesses were impacted early in the year by elevated [Indecipherable] case rates in certain countries, including the US. We saw growth improved throughout the quarter and exited with good momentum.On average in March, US procedure levels were up mid single digits compared to pre-COVID baselines across our cardiovascular business with some areas even higher. In Structural Heart, sales were up mid teens overall with growth contributions coming from several products within our innovative portfolio including MitraClip, TriClip, Portico and others.MitraClip sales grew more than 15% in the US, where we achieved our highest number of monthly procedures ever in the month of March. In January, CMS expanded reimbursement coverage for MitraClip, which significantly increases the number of people who can benefit from this market leading device.And I'll wrap up with Diabetes Care, where growth was led by Freestyle Libre sales of nearly $830 million. The global user base for Libre has now surpassed 3 million users, driven by market expansion and awareness efforts, as well as ongoing new product launch activity in every major market around the world.So in summary, we're off to a very strong start and right on track with our expectations for the year. All four of our major businesses are achieving strong growth. We're particularly pleased with the growth contributions and momentum of several recently launched products, and we're well positioned to achieve more than 35% EPS growth as we have forecasted at the beginning of the year.And I'll turn over the call to Bob to discuss our results and outlook for the year in more detail. Bob?Robert E. Funck -- Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Finance OfficerThanks, Robert. As Scott mentioned earlier, please note that all references to sales growth rates unless otherwise noted are on an organic basis, which is consistent with our previous guidance.Turning to our results. Sales for the first quarter increased 32.9%, which was led by strong performance across all of our businesses along with strong global COVID testing related sales. Organic sales growth was balanced with 34% growth in the US and 32% growth internationally. COVID testing related sales were also balanced geographically with a little more than half of those sales coming from international markets.Foreign exchange had a favorable year-over-year impact of 2.5% on first quarter sales. During the quarter, we saw the US dollar strengthened somewhat versus several currencies, which resulted in a slightly less favorable impact on sales compared to exchange rates at the time of our earnings call in January. Based on current rates, we would expect exchange to have a favorable impact of approximately 4% on our second quarter reported sales and would now expect exchange to have a favorable impact of nearly 2% on our full year 2021 sales. Regarding other aspects of the P&L for the first quarter, the adjusted gross margin ratio was 58.3% of sales, adjusted R&D investment was 6% of sales and adjusted SG&A expense was 25.1% of sales.As Robert mentioned, the strength of our business performance has created an opportunity to significantly increase our investments in R&D and SG&A to further strengthen our pipeline and growth initiatives. During the first quarter, our combined investments in these areas increased approximately $200 million compared to the same quarter last year and was at the highest level since our separation with AbbVieFor the first quarter, net interest expense was $124 million, non-operating income was $73 million, and our adjusted tax rate was 15%, which is consistent with our full year effective tax rate from last year.With that, we'll now open the call for questions.