
OperatorGood day and thank you for standing by. And welcome to the Q1 2021 PerkinElmer Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participant lines are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers' presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator Instructions]I will now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Bryan Kipp, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Bryan Kipp -- Vice President of Investor Relations

 



Thank you operator. Good afternoon and welcome to the PerkinElmer first quarter 2021 earnings conference call. With me on the call today are Prahlad Singh, President and Chief Executive Officer and Jamey Mock, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. If you have not received a copy of our earnings press release, you may get one from the Investors section of our website at www.perkinelmer.com. Please note, this call is being webcast live and will be archived on our website until May 18, 2021. Before we begin, we need to remind everyone of the Safe Harbor statements that we have outlined in our earnings press release issued earlier this afternoon and also those in our SEC filings.Statements or comments made on this call may be forward-looking statements, which may include, but are not necessarily limited to, financial projections or other statements of the company's plans, objectives, expectations or intentions. These matters involve certain risks and uncertainties. The company's actual results may differ significantly from those projected or suggested by any forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors, which are disclosed in detail in our SEC filings. Any forward-looking statements made today represent our views as only of today. We disclaim any obligation to update forward-looking statements in the future, even if our estimates change. So you should not rely on any of today's forward-looking statements as representing our views as of any other date after today. During this call, we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures we plan to use during this call to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is available as an attachment to our earnings press release. To the extent we use non-GAAP financial measures during this call that are not reconciled to GAAP in that attachment, we will provide reconciliations promptly.I am now pleased to introduce the President and Chief Executive Officer of PerkinElmer, Prahlad Singh. Prahlad?Prahlad Singh -- President & Chief Executive Officer

 



Thank you, Bryan and good afternoon, everyone. I would like to begin by welcoming Steve Willoughby as our new Vice President of Investor Relations. We are excited to have him join the team. He brings a wealth of industrial knowledge, deep research and analyst experience. And as many of you know, Steve's industry surveys always seem to have a real-time finger on the pulse of market trends. We are looking forward to his insights and expertise as we continue to grow and transform PerkinElmer into a veteran class life sciences and diagnostics organization.Stepping back, I know it is a cliche, but we are living in a new world compared to 12 months ago. 2020 was one of the most dynamic years in my career and I suspect yours too. It felt like we were living in rolling four week periods. Success was a byproduct of teamwork and agility. And quite frankly, little has changed in that regard during the first four months of 2021. While our core markets are improving, COVID continues to keep us on our toes.Two things are for certain. Our team is tested and the first quarter performance reinforces that PerkinElmer, top to bottom, is emerging from COVID as a stronger organization. We have shown we can and will respond quickly to whatever challenges are thrown our way. And our rallying cry of putting the customer first and our mission of innovating for a healthier world resonates and impassions our team.We shined throughout 2020 and our resiliency, customer first mindset and team first culture will continue to differentiate us in 2021 and beyond. I have said it countless times over the past year, but I remain incredibly appreciate of and inspired by the entire PerkinElmer team for continuing to demonstrate the kind of dedication, agility, collaboration and genuine compassion for one another and the world around us that make PerkinElmer a world-class organization. Our recent commercial and financial success is really a byproduct of the team's commitment to driving our mission, day in and out. And I could not be prouder.

 



Turning to the first quarter results. PerkinElmer delivered an outstanding financial performance. Adjusted and organic revenue grew by 101% and 92%, respectively. Adjusted earnings per share increased 455% and we delivered 114% adjusted free cash flow conversion. Jamey will go into further detail around the broad-based momentum we experienced across the portfolio. But overall, it was a strong start to the year and we are encouraged by the underlying recovery we are seeing across most of our core end markets.The new PerkinElmer that is emerging from the COVID pandemic is a direct byproduct of the conscious execution against our four strategic priorities, people, customers, innovation and operational excellence. I know, in many ways, the playbook sounds simple. But going back to the basics has truly reinvigorated our organization.On the people front, we made progress in several areas over the course of the quarter. Magali Four was promoted to become our first Chief People & Culture Officer to accelerate the transformation of our culture and talent engagement efforts. Near term, Magali and her team will be laser focused on reinforcing our foundation, instituting caring beyond work programs and bolstering PerkinElmer's profile as a destination of choice for top talent.Specific to learning and development, we recently launched the PerkinElmer Leadership Academy and invested in external tools and resources to better engage employees of all levels in their own professional growth. Additionally, we are increasingly holding managers accountable for employee engagement. Tracking and managing goals and objectives and maintaining contact even in remote environments with teams and direct reports is pivotal to individual development as well as ensuring that we are empowering our next generation of leaders.On the diversity, equity and inclusion front, we recently established an inclusion board and identified over 100 inclusion champions around the world. The immediate focus of the team has been to execute on both a global and local DEI efforts. One great example was spearheading the creation of a moving video montage to honor International Women's Day. Looking outward, we continue to reposition the portfolio and accelerate momentum through increased investments in innovation.On the COVID front, the explorer workstation remains a differentiator for PerkinElmer. Customers love the seamless workflow and ability to rabidly toggle throughput based on real-time demand dynamics. The best-in-class nature of the platform is further reinforced by the fact that the competitive tender win rate has remained well north of 90% since the platform was launched last August.Additionally, we were proud receive an EUA from the FDA during the quarter to test for asymptomatic individuals as we anticipate that COVID surveillance testing will remain important for the foreseeable future. And largely target asymptomatic carriers as economies across the globe reopen. PerkinElmer continues to be uniquely positioned to help in the march toward normalization. As we are one of the few suppliers to have an EUA for asymptomatic testing, maintain the most sensitive PCR and rapid tests on the market and have end-to-end capabilities to promote pool testing which saves time and resources for diagnostic laboratories.Outside of COVID, our life sciences team reintroduced a groundbreaking cell painting kit as part of the new portfolio of PhenoVue cellular imaging reagents. Cell painting is a powerful high content screening approach which combines cell and computational biology to unravel cellular responses. With this new and novel workflow, researchers will be able to better understand diseases and develop more pinpointed therapies to treat them. Additionally, these reagents were recently approved for use by the JUMP-Cell Painting Consortium, which includes many of the top global pharmaceutical companies as well as the Broad Institute.Meanwhile, our recently acquired Horizon Discovery business had an exciting announcement of their own during the quarter. The team launched a new family of crystal moderation reagents for CRISPR Interference or CRISPRi. CRISPRi is CRISPR without the cut which allow researchers to repress rather than completely knockout a gene, allowing for more nuanced research. Researchers will have the flexibility to repress genes in almost all cell lines, over any length of time and at any scale from single gene readouts to high throughput studies.From a customer standpoint, we continue to execute on expanding existing partnerships as well as forging new relationships. During the first quarter, we were selected as the largest supplier in a sizable tender with the Yunnan province CDC to support environmental and food safety testing. In total, 70 PerkinElmer instruments will be distributed to nine municipalities and 45 country level technical centers to improve testing and early warning capabilities around hazardous ingredients. The win was a seminal event for our new LC 300 UHPLC franchise as it is the largest order to date for the platform which approximately is 20 systems.Vanadis is another examples of where we forge new and exciting relationships. We added several new customers in both Europe and North America. And we established the Vanadis lab in India. We will provide more substantive updates on Vanadis in due time, but with a strong funnel and growing pipeline, the platform is emerging from COVID in a great position to experience accelerating momentum over the next several quarters.As I said earlier in my prepared remarks, the new PerkinElmer that is emerging from COVID is on a much stronger footing than two years ago. The addition of Horizon Discovery, Omni and most recently Oxford Immunotec further bolsters our position. While inorganic contributors during the first quarter, these three assets combined grew over 25% year-over-year. But more importantly, all three carve out new niches in high-growth areas where we see significant opportunity in the future.Specifically, the Horizon Discovery integration is proceeding very well. The team executed phenomenally during the quarter. Both commercial teams are actively engaged and driving some early commercial wins. And Horizon has already begun to leverage internal PerkinElmer automation capabilities to scale their automated screening and cell line engineering efforts.Meanwhile, Omni International's homogenization process are highly complementary with PerkinElmer's applied genomics portfolio. Omni's bead mill technology has been a critical component in PerkinElmer's differentiated COVID-19 saliva test workflow. And it also has the potential to enhance our end-to-end workflows in the food and cannabis markets.Lastly, while we are only a couple of months into the Oxford Immunotec integration efforts, visibility on both revenue and cost synergy opportunities continues to improve. The team has quickly executed on several small early wins out of the gate and the progress on the automation rollout is already having an impact on new account wins.In closing, I could not be more excited about the future for PerkinElmer. The organization is eager and energized to build on our recent momentum. We have fundamentally transformed ourselves and we are undoubtedly better positioned to capture the opportunities of tomorrow. We are stronger in core markets where we have a right to win, successfully leveraging our scale to deliver novel solutions to the market and proactively investing to further augment our portfolio and expand into faster growing markets. We are not going to take our foot off the gas. The second quarter shaping up to be another outstanding quarter with 29% organic growth and we are well positioned to grow faster on both our core and COVID businesses in 2021 than we guided a quarter ago.And to that point, I am excited to announce that we plan to delve further into what has been going on behind the scenes at PerkinElmer during our upcoming analyst Day on June 24. I encourage everyone to go to the Investors section of our website after the call to pre-register.Before I turn the call over to Jamey, I want to take a moment and comment on the devastating COVID-19 situation in India, which is taking the lives of thousands every day. Having been born in India and working for a company that employs over 2,000 locally in that country, the security of the present situation truly hits home. At PerkinElmer, we feel that it is our role as a global citizen to do everything we can to help both our employees and the country. We have joined other U.S. companies and engaged government officials both in the U.S. and India to provide vital goods and services.Locally, our team in India is working around the clock to assist our employees in every possible way, including organizing vaccination drives, providing testing support and seeking to facilitate meeting their urgent medical needs. While many people are eagerly looking to transition to a post-COVID world, countless others around the globe are still struggling daily with the pandemic and its deadly impact. My heart and prayers go out to everyone who are still acutely dealing with the pandemic daily and I promise that at PerkinElmer, we will continue tirelessly support afflicted regions and countries in their efforts to combat COVID-19 and flatten the curve.Jamey?Jamey Mock -- Senior Vice President & Chief Financial OfficerThanks a lot and good evening everyone. To start, I echo Prahlad in welcoming Steve Willoughby as our new Vice President of Investor Relations. Steve has been a terrific research analyst over the past decade-plus. But more importantly, he is a great person and I thoroughly enjoyed getting to know him over the last two years. I have no doubt that he will be an invaluable addition to the PerkinElmer family.Before turning to the financial results, I want to remind everyone that our first quarter earnings call presentation has been posted on the Investors section of our website under Financial Information. I will begin my prepared remarks by highlighting the first quarter. Then I will provide some additional color on our served end markets and financial metrics. And I will end with our second quarter and updated full year 2021 guidance.At a high-level, the team executed extremely well during the first quarter. As Prahlad mentioned, we are seeing signs of normalization in our core markets. Non-COVID product's core growth exceeded reported revenue growth for the second quarter in a row and service level activity continued to improve on a sequential basis. And as we look ahead, we are even more confident that we will be a faster growing company in a post-COVID world.During the first quarter, adjusted revenue grew 101% compared to last year to $1.3 billion and included a 3% foreign exchange and a 5% acquisition tailwind. Organic revenue grew 92%, two percentage points better than what we previously communicated. Overall, COVID related products and services contributed $550 million in the quarter, propelled primarily by our PCR tests and RNA extraction solutions, as well as our turnkey Lab-In-A-Lab testing solutions in the state of California and the United Kingdom. In total, excluding the impact of our labs, our COVID solutions contributed approximately $250 million during the quarter.By business, diagnostics representing 65% of total sales increased 227% organically. Strength in our immunodiagnostics and applied genomics businesses lead the way and our reproductive health franchise returned to growth for the first time since the fourth quarter of 2019. Discovery and analytical solutions representing 35% of total sales increased 6% organically, led by broad-based growth across life sciences, food and applied. You will recall that during the first quarter of 2020, we benefited from an extra week. We estimate that the revenue impact of the extra week was approximately $11 million with the vast majority of it benefiting the DAS business. Normalizing for the extra week, DAS grew 9% on a core basis year-over-year.On a geographic basis, Americas and Europe grew triple digits. Asia-Pacific grew strong double digits. China grew over 50% year-over-year. Operationally, we are extremely pleased with our performance. Adjusted operating margins expanded approximately 2,600 basis points to 41%, led by volume leverage, business mix and productivity programs. Adjusted earnings per share of $3.72 in the first quarter increased 455% relative to the first quarter of 2020.Looking further into the key drivers within our segments, let's start with our diagnostics business. As mentioned in my earlier remarks, organic revenue increased 227% with all three major geographic regions growing triple digits. Our immunodiagnostic franchise led the way posting 420% growth with the non-COVID portfolio increasing over 20%, led by EUROIMMUN and Tulip. Demand for our portfolio of RT-PCR COVID assays remained strong and serology demand remained consistent with the past two quarters.Meanwhile, our applied genomics business grew 330% on broad-based momentum across all geographies with strength in our nucleic acid extraction, liquid handling and sample test prep product lines. Automated liquid handling and nucleic acid extraction grew over 10 times and 9 times respectively versus the first quarter of 2020. And despite ongoing concerns around the impending centralization of testing, we experience a mid-teens sequential growth in our automated liquid handling solutions led by our molecular franchise. Customers continued to invest in expanded testing capabilities during the first quarter and the JANUS brand continues to take market share.Reproductive health increased high single digits organically, driven by a rebound in clinical immunoassay and next generation sequencing testing demand. Birthrate trends have yet to inflect, however the easier comparisons limited the headwind on the overall reproductive health franchise. Excluding the clinical lab and sequencing businesses, the reproductive health business was flat year-over-year.Turning to discovery and analytical solutions. Organic revenue increased 6% in the first quarter versus the same period last year. By end market, we experienced low single digit organic revenue growth in life science. Pharma biotech was up low single digits. Excluding the extra week headwind, pharma biotech would have been up high single digits. Discovery and informatics grew mid-teens and high single digits respectively. Enterprise declined high single digits, adversely impacted by the extra week and our effort to improve the margin mix of this franchise.The academic and government end market was a bit noisy this quarter. U.S. and European customers have yet to fully normalize and APAC moderated sequentially. Overall, academic and government declined low single digits. Food increased high single digits led by demand in Europe and Asia Pacific. Food safety led the way with approximately 30% growth despite a tough double digit comparison year-over-year. Our Meizheng business in China rebounded extremely well, growing over 70% compared to the first quarter of 2020.Applied market demand continued to improve as well, growing low double digits during the first quarter. Asia-Pacific led the way with over 20% growth. Breaking down applied further, the environmental safety end market rebounded nicely with approximately 30% growth, driven by European and Asia-Pacific demand while industrial continued on its recovery trajectory increasing high single digits.Shifting to below the line items. Adjusted net interest and other expense for the first quarter was approximately $12 million and our adjusted tax rate was 21%.Turning to the balance sheet. We finished the quarter with approximately $2.6 billion of debt and nearly $1 billion of cash. Adjusted free cash flow was $479 million in the quarter which resulted in an adjusted free cash flow conversion rate of 114%. Finally, we exited the quarter with a net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of approximately 0.9 times, down over a quarter of a turn compared to the fourth quarter of 2020.Turning to guidance. We now anticipate full year 2021 revenue of $4.37 billion. Embedded in this guidance, we assume COVID revenues increase 5% year-over-year compared to our prior guide of at least flat. And we expect a continuation of the non-COVID momentum we saw in the first quarter translating to a full year non-COVID organic growth of 11%. These assumptions do not account for any incremental lockdowns and/or any COVID-related disruptions.Additionally, we are anticipating a 4% benefit from acquisitions and a 2% benefit from foreign exchange for the full year. And on the bottom-line, we anticipate adjusted earnings per share of $9.40 which assumes approximately $60 million in adjusted interest and other expense, a tax rate of 20% and our average diluted share count to be in the range of 112 to 113 million shares.For the second quarter, we are forecasting adjusted revenue of approximately $1.11 billion representing 29% organic revenue growth, including 5% from acquisitions and 4% benefit from foreign exchange. Embedded in the guidance is $325 million of COVID-related revenue and organic growth of high teens for our non-COVID product lines.In terms of adjusted earnings per share guidance for the second quarter, we are forecasting $2.35, which assumes approximately $16 million of interest and other expenses, a 21% tax rate and a diluted share count of 112 to 113 million shares. All of this is detailed in the second to last page of our first quarter earnings presentation.In closing, we delivered a very strong start to 2021. I have no doubt, we are better positioned as an organization to drive more consistent and faster topline growth and improve shareholder returns compared to where we were a year ago. We remain extremely excited for what is ahead for PerkinElmer I could not be prouder of our team and the effort that they have put in over the past year-plus to get us to this point.Operator, at this time, we would like to open the call to questions.