  OperatorGood afternoon. And welcome to the Seagate Technology fiscal second quarter 2022 financial results conference call. My name is Brent, and I will be your coordinator for today. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded for replay purposes. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Shanye Hudson, senior vice president, investor relations,  and treasury. Please proceed, Shanye.Shanye Hudson -- Senior Vice President, Investor Relations,and Treasury

 



 Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to today's call. Joining me are Dave Mosley, Seagate's chief executive officer; and Gianluca Romano, our chief financial officer. We posted our earnings press release and detailed supplemental information for our December quarter fiscal 2022 results on the investors section of our website. During today's call, we'll refer to GAAP and non-GAAP measures. Non-GAAP figures are reconciled to GAAP figures in the earnings press release posted on our website and included in our Form 8-K that was filed with the SEC. We've not reconciled certain non-GAAP outlook measures because material items that may impact these measures are out of our control and/or cannot be reasonably predicted. Therefore, a reconciliation to the corresponding GAAP measures is not available without unreasonable efforts.Before we begin, I'd like to remind you that today's call contains forward-looking statements including our March quarter financial outlook and expectations about our financial performance, market demand, industry growth trends, planned product introductions, ability to ramp production, future growth opportunities, possible effects of the economic conditions worldwide resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic and general market conditions. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions and information available to us as of today and should not be relied upon as of any subsequent date. Actual results may vary materially from today's statements. Information concerning our risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause results to differ from these forward-looking statements are contained in our most recent Form 10-K and 10-Q filed with the SEC, our Form 8-K filed with the SEC today and the supplemental information posted on the investors section of our website. As always, following our prepared remarks, we'll open the call up for questions. Now I'll hand the call over to you, Dave. 

 



Dave Mosley -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Shanye. And hello to everyone joining us on today's call. Seagate ended calendar year 2021 on a high note, delivering another solid performance in the December quarter, highlighted by revenue of $3.12 billion, our best in over six years. And non-GAAP EPS of $2.41, representing the highest level in nearly a decade. This performance is all the more impressive in light of the supply chain disruptions and inflationary pressures we are experiencing today and further demonstrates the consistent execution, operational agility and sharp focus on expense discipline that we have displayed throughout the year. To that point, in calendar year 2021, we achieved revenue of nearly $12 billion, up 18% compared with the prior calendar year. We expanded non-GAAP EPS by more than 75%, and we grew free cash flow by nearly 40%, truly an outstanding year of growth that shows we are capitalizing on the secular tailwinds driving long-term mass capacity storage demand. As we shared many times before, driving profitability and free cash flow generation remain two of Seagate's top priority and underpin our focus on enhancing value for our customers and shareholders. Since the onset of the pandemic, we have consistently executed our product road map and made investments to deliver cost-efficient, higher capacity drives that offer business value for our customers while also enhancing Seagate's financial profile. We extended our proven common platform drive family from 16 to 18 and now to 20 terabytes and beyond. We also address cloud customers' performance needs through our industry-leading dual actuator technology. We've made these advancements while notably returning more than $4 billion to our shareholders through our quarterly dividend and share repurchase programs.

 



 Our execution and product momentum position Seagate to deliver a third consecutive calendar year of top-line growth. We currently expect calendar year '22 revenue to increase 3% to 6% with further growth beyond, consistent with our long-term model range. Let me spend a few minutes discussing the current business environment. In the December quarter, we again generated record mass capacity revenue with growth led by demand from cloud customers. We achieved our highest ever cloud customer revenue, supported by sales of our 18 terabyte near-line products, which significantly increased quarter over quarter, consistent with our plans. HDDs are a critical enabling technology for the growing data sphere. As we shared a year ago at our analyst event and our results demonstrate, HDDs have a well-established place in the data center ecosystem, and we do not expect that to change over the next decade or longer. For the past couple of years, Seagate has been a beneficiary of increasing cloud data center investments to support remote work, remote education and the digital transformation trends that continue to take place. Analysts forecast another year of strong double-digit cloud capex growth in calendar 2022. Several powerful themes emerged from this year's CES conference that support our longer-term demand outlook. And underscore a clear business need to capture, access and analyze massive and growing volumes of data. New use cases highlight how data-intensive applications such as AI, autonomous vehicles or smart cities can improve business or social value and drive demand for mass capacity storage, both in the cloud and at the edge. We have previously shared how emerging use cases at the edge are driving meaningful opportunities within the VIA market. These applications utilize high-definition video and AI analytics to capture and extract data value. In the December quarter, sales of our VIA products remain healthy, and we expect the March quarter to be seasonally slower, consistent with historical trends. Longer term, we continue to forecast exabyte growth in the mid-teens, supported by expanding opportunities at the edge. Moving to our other markets. Sequential growth from the cloud in the December quarter was somewhat counterbalanced by lower revenue in the enterprise, OEM and legacy PC markets that we attribute primarily to the COVID-related supply challenges that dominated broader industry headlines. As we indicated last quarter, non-HDD component shortages are disrupting some of our enterprise and OEM customer shipment plans, which impact both mass capacity near-line and legacy mission-critical drives. We are mindful that these supply pressures and other COVID-related measures could further weigh on the typical March quarter seasonality that we anticipate in the VIA and legacy markets. However, customers are managing through the tight supply environment and expect conditions to ease over the next couple of quarters. Seasonality and temporary constraints aside, the long-term mass capacity demand trends remain strong. In this environment, we remain focused on exercising capital discipline to align supply with demand and continue to engage with customers on their longer-term demand requirements to ensure that our production capacity plans align with their future ramp time lines. With lead times for high-capacity HDDs of six months or longer, an increasing portion of our near-line drive revenue is under long-term agreements with momentum to expand even further. We are executing our innovative mass capacity road map and cost reduction plans to offer a compelling value proposition for our customers that is also financially attractive for Seagate. We are ramping 20-terabyte drives, extending our common platform to a third generation. For a couple of quarters now, cloud data center customers have shown very strong pull for these drives. The TCO value proposition for transitioning to higher capacity drives is compelling. Consider first that a move from 18 to 20 terabytes represents an 11% boost in storage capacity, and then layer on the savings realized across the data center build-out. At the system level, customers require less networking gear and other ancillary parts to support the same storage capacity. On both fronts, these gains translate to meaningful cost efficiencies, which may be further enhanced given the part shortages and inflationary pressures in today's market. All indications point to a very steep production ramp for our 20-terabyte products with the potential of surpassing the record-setting ramp we saw for our 16-terabyte drives. As a result, we are using the seasonal slowdown in the March quarter to stage our factory operations to support strong 20-terabyte demand as the year unfolds. Our common platform approach helps to facilitate this process by enabling us to quickly transition and ramp new products into the market. Our 20-terabyte drives highly leverage the head and media technology that power our 18-terabyte product family, making the production process well understood and haste in time to yield. This strategy also provides manufacturing flexibility and improves our overall cost efficiencies across the breadth of our common platform family, which currently spans 16 through 20 terabyte capacities for CMR products with some customers stretching to 22 terabytes using SMR feature sets. We are driving additional manufacturing and cost benefits by incorporating the same media and head technology to produce cost optimized drives, spanning capacities down to 2-terabyte drives. In addition to improving manufacturing flexibility, these cost optimized drives can require fewer heads and disks, which offset some of the near-term inflationary component pressures. In the December quarter, the revenue contribution from products using higher aerial density drives increased to nearly 40% of total HDD revenue. Wrapping up, we entered the March quarter amid a challenging supply environment. However, I remain optimistic for conditions to gradually improve. Importantly, our strong product portfolio and operational execution put Seagate in excellent position to deliver on our long-term revenue growth model and generate strong free cash flow in 2022 and beyond, underpinned by growing demand for mass capacity storage beyond 20 terabytes. I'll now hand the call over to Gianluca to cover the financial results.Gianluca Romano -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Dave. Seagate continued to execute well and navigate a complex business environment to deliver a solid financial performance aligned with our expectations. In the December quarter, we grew revenue to $3.12 billion, up 19% year over year. Delivered non-GAAP operating margin of nearly 20%, up 520 basis points year over year and increased non-GAAP EPS to $2.41, up 87% year over year. In our HDD drive business, we achieved the fifth consecutive quarter of record capacity shipments, totaling 163 exabytes, up 3% sequentially and up 26% year on year. Ongoing cloud demand for our near-line products supported mass capacity revenue of $2 billion, up 1% sequentially and up 25% compared with the prior-year period. Shipments into the mass capacity market totaled 137 exabytes, up 4% sequentially and 41% year over year. Near-line remains our fastest growing product segment with revenue outpacing the broader mass capacity business. In the December quarter, we increased shipment to 111 exabytes, up 4% sequentially and 56% year on year, supported by the ongoing cloud adoption of 18-terabyte drives, as well as healthy demand for mid-capacity products from enterprise and OEM customers. Our 20-terabyte product family is growing strong customer interest, and we are continuing to scale 18 terabyte shipments while also preparing for an anticipated steep 20-terabyte ramp in the coming quarters to support demand. Sales into the VIA markets remained healthy in the December quarter, following two quarters of rapid growth and near record revenue in September. We project a seasonal slowdown in the VIA market during the March quarter, but expect revenue to remain up on a year-over-year basis. Within the legacy market, revenue came in at $775 million, down 7% sequentially and 15% year over year. Seasonal demand for consumer drives partially offset weaker-than-anticipated PC sales due in part to ongoing PC component shortages and lower mission-clinical sales. As we discussed last quarter, component shortages are also impacting sales in our system business as customers delay some ordered product deals due to constrained supply of non-drive components. Despite these headwinds, non-HDD revenue increased 17% sequentially and 48% year over year to a record $294 million, boosted by strong SSD demand. While we continue to face near-term supply challenges for both the system and SSD businesses, we remain confident in growing the non-HDD business in fiscal 2022, particularly for our system solution, where we see ongoing demand and continue to capture new customer logos. Looking at our operational performance. Non-GAAP gross profit in the December quarter was $958 million. Our corresponding non-GAAP gross margin was 30.7%, down 30 basis points sequentially, but up nearly 400 basis points year over year. The ongoing transition to both higher capacity drives and cost-optimized products mostly offset higher freight and logistic costs and the less favorable product mix with a record non-HDD sales. Notably, HDD gross margin remain in the upper half of our long-term target range of 30% to 33%, flat with the prior quarter. We maintained relatively flat non-GAAP operating expenses at $337 million, lower than expected, reflecting our disciplined expense management and the timing of certain spending. We expect opex to be somewhat higher in the March quarter due to an increased R&D expenses and business travel. Our resulting non-GAAP operating income was $621 million, down 1% sequentially and up 61% year on year. Non-GAAP operating margin remained relatively flat with the prior quarter at 19.9% and at the top end of our long-term target range of 15% to 20% of revenue. Based on diluted share count of approximately 225 million shares, non-GAAP EPS for the December quarter was $2.41, which is $0.06 above our guidance midpoint. We increased inventory by approximately $100 million with days inventory outstanding of 54 days to support the upcoming 20-terabyte product trend. Capital expenditures were $95 million for the quarter, down 19% sequentially. For fiscal '22, we continue to forecast capex at the low end of our target range of 4% to 6% of revenue, which is sufficient to support our future product road map while maintaining alignment between near-term supply and demand. Free cash flow generation increased to $426 million, up 12% quarter over quarter and 36% year over year. We delivered strong performance in the December quarter and expect to improve free cash flow generation through the fiscal year, enabling us to continue to fund our strong capital return program. In the December quarter, we used $151 million for the quarterly dividend and $471 million to repurchase 5.1 million ordinary shares, exiting the quarter with 219 million shares outstanding and approximately $3.3 billion remaining in our authorization. We ended the December quarter with cash and cash equivalents of $1.5 billion. And total liquidity was approximately $3.3 billion, including our revolving credit facility. Adjusted EBITDA increased to $723 million in the quarter, our highest level in seven years, and was $2.6 billion for the 12-month period ending in December. Total debt balance at the end of the quarter was $5.9 billion, and as we previously reported, we plan to repay $120 million in debt coming due in March. In summary, we delivered solid financial performance, maintaining our focus on driving profitability and free cash flow generation while navigating a dynamic business environment. Looking ahead to the March quarter, we expect a continuation of the healthy demand environment in the near-line market with anticipated seasonal decline in VIA and the legacy markets. As Dave noted, we are mindful of the ongoing impact related to corporate dynamics and will continue to manage through supply chain constraints and other inflationary pressures that we expect to persist through at least the fiscal year. We expect March quarter revenue to be in the range of $2.9 billion, plus or minus $150 million. We expect our operating margin to be impacted by COVID-related pressure, what I just discussed over the near term. However, we believe the structural changes in the industry combined with Seagate disciplined execution will support a higher operating margin over time. As a result, we are raising our long-term target non-GAAP operating margin range to 18% to 22% of revenue compared with our prior range of 15% to 20% of revenue. With that in mind, we expect our March quarter non-GAAP operating margin to be at the lower end of our revised long-term range of 18% to 22% of revenue. And finally, we expect non-GAAP EPS to be in the range of $2, plus or minus $0.20. Looking further ahead, ongoing demand for mass capacity storage, combined with our strong product pipeline, give us confidence to further raise our fiscal year 2022 revenue growth to be between 12% and 14%, up from our prior outlook in the low double-digit range. I will now turn the call back to Dave for final comments.Dave Mosley -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Gianluca. I'm very proud of the results Seagate posted in the December quarter and also our ability to deliver consistent performance during this unique period of transitory issues. Through it all, the trends driving explosive growth in data remain powerful. Longer-term demand tailwinds that will push growth in mass capacity stores in 2022 and for years to come. Seagate has the right product portfolio, operational know-how and partnership focus to capture these opportunities and lend confidence in our ability to deliver on the annual growth targets we've outlined today, as well as achieve strong profitability and cash generation to fund our robust capital returns program. Seagate has been a technology company, innovation leader for over four decades. We are now leading the industry into a new era of technology with HAMR and multi-actuator drives. The industry has undergone a positive structural change with the transition of mass capacity markets. These innovations are the result of years of intense focus and significant investments that bring value to our customers and to their customers by unlocking the power of their data. We are focused on capturing an appropriate return to continue fueling our mass capacity innovation engine, which we believe is healthy for Seagate and for the industry at large. In closing, I would like to thank our employees who deserve the credit for Seagate's outstanding performance this past year. We are a values-driven company, and last week, we published our third annual diversity, equity and inclusion report that captures the many ways we put our value of inclusion into action. Among the many positive measures in the report, I want to highlight an increase in the overall percentage of women in director and executive roles, as well as an increase in minorities in our U.S. workforce. These are important areas of focus for the company and reflects positive progress in our efforts to build a more global, diverse and inclusive workforce, which we believe leads to better business sustainability. I would also like to thank our customers and suppliers for their continued support and our shareholders for their trust in Seagate. Gianluca and I are now happy to take your questions. 