  OperatorGood morning. My name is Frank and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the PNC Financial Services Group earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this call is being recorded. I will now turn the call over to the director of investor relations, Mr. Bryan Gill. Please go ahead, sir.Bryan Gill -- Director of Investor Relations

 



 Well, thank you and good morning, everybody. Welcome to today's conference call for the PNC Financial Services Group. Participating on this call are PNC's chairman, president, and CEO, Bill Demchak; and Rob Reilly, executive vice president and CEO -- CFO. Today's presentation contains forward-looking information. Cautionary statements about this information, as well as reconciliations of non-GAAP measures, are included in today's earnings release materials, as well as our SEC filings and other investor materials. These materials are all available on our corporate website, pnc.com, under investor relations. These statements speak only as of April 16, 2021, and PNC undertakes no obligation to update them. Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Bill.Bill Demchak -- Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Bryan, and good morning, everybody. As you saw, we had a solid start to the year as we grew revenue and controlled our expenses to generate positive operating leverage in the linked quarter comparison. Our first-quarter results also benefited from our provision recapture, driven largely by an improving economic outlook. Despite this recapture, our reserves remain at over 2% of loans as we continue to work through the COVID fallout and work to understand potential secular changes on certain asset classes.

 



 Our capital on liquidity levels also remain at record highs. With the rise in term yields, we've been deploying some of this excess liquidity and increased our investment securities by $9 billion at period-end. You'll notice they didn't change much on an average basis as we bought later in the quarter. We also actually added another $9 billion in TBAs that are going to settle early in the second quarter here. And well -- and finally, we've -- we've continued our purchase activity into the second quarter and we continue to operate notwithstanding this at very high levels of cash at the Fed that can be deployed over time in loans or securities based on market opportunities. While not a surprise, the quarter was impacted by continued weak loan demand in the face of strong markup -- strong bond market issuance levels, pay downs, and competition resulting in historically low utilization levels. Based on the strength of the U.S. economy, we would expect to see loan demand improve and ultimately drive utilization rates higher over time. We continue to execute well against our strategic priorities, including our national expansion, which will significantly accelerate through our pending acquisition of BBVA USA. We're making good progress on BBVA integration planning and are on track for a midyear close pending regulatory approval. We haven't found any significant surprises regarding the quality or nature of BBVA's business and our employees are working effectively with their BBVA counterparts on everything, including the technology conversion. For the quality of BBVA markets, especially in their largest market in Texas, excuse me, and the quality of their largest markets, especially in Texas, and it's proving to be everything we hoped it would be. As we plan for the integration of BBVA USA, we continue to invest in and leverage our own technology so that we can better serve our customers. Earlier this week, PNC launched Low Cash Mode, which fundamentally changes the banking experience for our Virtual Wallet customers by -- by allowing them to avoid overdraft fees through unprecedented account transparency and control. Low Cash Mode represents a shift away from the industry's widely used overdraft approach, which drives customer dissatisfaction and which we believe is unsustainable. We firmly believe this differentiated approach will drive significant growth in new and existing customer relationships over time as we execute our national expansion strategy.

 



 Low Cash Mode allows our Virtual Wallet customers to see and control what's happening in their checking accounts in real-time. If the customer's balance is negative or about to go negative, they have at least 24 hours to cure their negative balance by determining whether certain payments are processed that otherwise might result in overdrafts. This payment control is a significant differentiator that we believe will help customers avoid overdraft fees of approximately $125 million to $150 million annually. PNC's full '21 -- full-year '21 revenue outlook anticipated this fee reduction, as did our estimate of BBVA's PPNR contribution to PNC, as a result -- and as a result, is not impacted by this change. I'd like to close by thanking our employees who continue to support our clients and communities through the various COVID challenges by executing on our value-added relationship-based models. And with that, I'll turn it over to Rob for a closer look at results, and then we'll take your questions.Rob Reilly -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Bill, and good morning, everyone. As you've seen, we reported first-quarter net income of $1.8 billion or $4.10 per diluted common share. Our balance sheet is on Slide 3 and is presented on an average basis. During the quarter, loans declined by $8 billion, or 3%, due to lower utilization and continued soft loan demand. Investment securities grew approximately $700 million, or 1%, linked quarter. However, on a spot ba -- basis, balances increased $9 billion, or 11%, as we accelerated our purchase activity near the end of the quarter due to the steepening yield curve. Our average cash balances at the Federal Reserve grew to $85 billion in the first quarter, driven by continued deposit growth and lower loan balances. On the liability side, deposit balances averaged $365 billion and were up $6 billion or 2% linked quarter. Borrowed funds decreased $3 billion compared to the fourth quarter due to the runoff and redemption of debt obligations. Our tangible book value was $96.57 per common share as of March 31, a decrease on a linked quarter basis primarily due to a decline in AOCI. Year-over-year tangible book value increased 14%. And as of March -- and as of March 31, 2021, our CET1 ratio was estimated to be 12.6%. Regarding capital return, our board recently approved a quarterly cash dividend on common stock of $1.15 per share or approximately $500 million. And as you know, we continue to suspend our share repurchases during the first quarter as we await regulatory approval for our pending BBVA USA acquisition. Assuming a midyear close, we exec -- we expect to resume share repurchases in the second half of the year. Slide 4 shows our average loans and deposits in more detail. Average loan balances of $238 billion in the first quarter were down $8 billion or, 3%, compared to the fourth quarter. Commercial loan balances declined $5.4 billion, or 3%, as overall utilization rates declined to historically low levels. Beyond that, Paycheck Protection Program balances remained flat as originations were offset by loans forgiven. And within our commercial real estate business, multi-family warehouse lending declined seasonally by two mil -- $2 billion. Consumer loans were down $2.3 billion with lower balances across all consumer categories as loan demand continued to soften due to higher consumer cash levels. The yield on loan balances was 3.38%, a 3-basis-point increase compared to the fourth quarter. However, the increase reflected elevated commercial real estate prepayment fees and higher PPP loan forgiveness during the quarter. The rate paid on our interest-bearing deposits is now 6 basis points, a 2-basis-point decline linked quarter. Average deposits increased $6 billion, or 2%, driven by enhanced consumer liquidity primarily related to government stimulus payments. In the year-over-year comparison, total average loans decreased 2%, or $5 billion, primarily due to the elevated drawdowns that occurred during the first quarter of 2020. Deposits increased $76 billion, or 26%, and, again, we're driven by the high cash balances of our customers. As a point of context, consumer checking account balances are on average roughly 40% higher than this time a year ago. As a result, our period-end loan to deposit ratio has declined to hit a historic low of 63% at the end of the first quarter, compared to 87% in the same period in 2020. Slide 5 details of a change in our average securities and Federal Reserve balances over the past year. Security balances of $86 billion in the first quarter increased $2 billion, or 2%, compared to the same period a year ago. Over the same time, our Fed balances have increased nearly fivefold driven by significant government stimulus, as well as the proceeds from the sale of our equity investment in BlackRock. As most of you know, during 2020, we were patient in deploying this excess liquidity while interest rates remained at historically low levels. However, with the recent yield curve steepening, we accelerated our rate of purchasing, increasing our spot balances by $9 billion with another $9 billion of forward settling securities as of March 31. Average security balances now represent approximately 20% of interest-earning assets, and our expectation is to build these balances to approximately 25% to 30% by year-end. As you can see on Slide 6, net income of $1.8 billion grew 25% compared to the fourth quarter, reflecting strong pre-tax pre-provisioned earnings and a substantial provision recapture. First-quarter revenue was $4.2 billion, up slightly compared with the fourth quarter, driven by higher noninterest income, which was 44% of total revenue in the first quarter. Expenses declined $134 million, or 5%, and remained well-controlled. The provision recapture of $551 million reflected improved forecasted economic conditions and lower loan balances. Now, let's discuss the key drivers of this performance in more detail. Turning to Slide 7. This chart illustrates our diversified business mix. Total revenue increased $12 million compared to the fourth quarter of 2020. Net interest income of $2.3 billion was down $76 million, or 3%, primarily due to lower loan balances and two fewer days. Net interest margin of 2.27% declined 5 basis points, reflecting the impact of higher Fed cash balances. Importantly, we think NIM has bottomed this quarter and expected to slowly rise through -- throughout 2021. Noninterest income grew $88 million compared with the fourth quarter. Fee income of $1.4 billion decreased $102 million or 7%. Most of the decline was driven by lower corporate service fees related to elevated fourth-quarter merger and acquisition advisory activity. Additionally, consumer services and service charges on deposits were down slightly, reflecting seasonally lower activity and higher consumer cash balances, and growth in both asset management fees and residential mortgage revenue partially offset some of the decline. Other non-interest income of $483 million grew $190 million and included higher revenue from both private equity and underwriting. Linked quarter growth also reflected the impact of the $173 million negative visa derivative adjustment in the fourth quarter. Compared to the same period a year ago, total revenue declined $116 million as the decrease in net interest income from lower interest rates and volumes was partially offset by growth in our broad-based fee businesses. Turning to Slide 8, expenses were down by $134 million or 5% linked quarter across all categories, primarily due to disciplined expense management and seasonality. Year-over-year expenses increased $31 million or 1% and remained well-controlled. During the first quarter, we generated 5% linked-quarter positive operating leverage. And as a result, our efficiency ratio for the first quarter was 61%. We remain delivered around our expense management. And as we've previously stated, we have a goal to reduce costs by $300 million in 2021 through our continuous improvement program, and we're confident we'll achieve our full-year target. As you know, this program funds a significant portion of our ongoing business and technology investments. Our credit metrics are presented on Slide 9 and reflect improvement in all these three major categories. Non-performing loans decreased $148 million or 6% compared to December 31. Commercial non-performing loans declined by $174 million or 19%, which reflected portfolio activity as well as improved credit performance. Consumer non-performing loans increased $26 million related to residential real estate and home equity loan as a result of borrowers exiting forbearance. Total delinquencies of $1.1 billion at March 31 decreased $217 million or 16%. Consumer loan delinquencies declined $203 million, primarily due to lower auto and residential real estate. And commercial loan delinquencies decreased by $14 million. Net charge-offs for loans and leases were $146 million, a decline of $83 million linked quarter. Commercial net charge-offs of $51 million decreased by $58 million, driven by lower low -- lower gross charge-offs. And consumer net charge-offs of $95 million declined by $25 million, primarily in our auto and credit card portfolios. Annualized net charge-offs to total loans in the first quarter with 25 basis points, a decrease of 10 basis points compared to the same period last year. Slide 10 shows the $724 million reduction in our allowance for credit losses during the -- during the first quarter. Portfolio changes represented $251 million of the decline, primarily driven by lower loan balances. $473 million of the release in reserves was related to economic and qualitative factors. Improvement or economic outlook was partially offset by increased reserves within our CRE portfolio, particularly in the areas directly impacted by COVID. In total, our quarter-end reserves were $5.2 billion, representing 2.2% of our loans. Turning to Slide 11, I want to highlight the progress we've made toward completing the acquisition of BBVA USA. Notably, we filed all major regulatory applications and have completed a number of our key pre-close objectives. We're on track to close the acquisition mid-year and remain confident in our ability to achieve the financial objectives we laid out at the time that we announced the deal. In summary, PNC reported a strong first quarter. In regard to our view of the overall economy, our current expectations are for GDP to surpass pre-recession level sometime during the third quarter and for the fed funds rate to remain near zero throughout 2021. Looking at the second quarter of 2021, compared -- compared to the first quarter of 2021, we expect total average loan balances to be stable. We expect NII to be up approximately 2%. We expect fee income to be up approximately 3% to 5%. We expect other non-interest income to be between $300 million and $350 million, excluding net securities and visa activity. We expect total non-interest expense to be stable and we expect second-quarter net charge-offs to be between $150 million and $200 million. Looking at the full-year 2021 guidance, we expect PNC stand-alone to remain stable year over year in regard to both revenue and expenses. We do expect revenue benefits from the higher-rate environment and increased securities balances. However, average loans will continue to be a drag through at least the first half of 2021. We acknowledge some upside exists in spot loan growth during the second half of the year, but that remains to be seen. And as a result, is not included in our guidance. Regarding the pending acquisition of BBVA USA, we're increasing our expectations for the full-year benefit to PNC's 2021 pre-provision net revenue from $600 million to $700 million, primarily driven by refinements to interest rate assumptions. Consistent with last quarter, this expectation excludes integration costs and assumes a mid-year close. And with that, Bill and I are ready to take your questions. 