
OperatorHello, and welcome to the ATO Q2 2021 Conference Call and Webcast. [Operator Instructions]It's now my pleasure to turn the call over to Dan Meziere, Vice President, Investor Relations and Treasurer. Please go ahead, sir.Daniel M. Meziere -- Vice President of Investor Relations and Treasurer

 



Thank you, Kevin. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. With me this morning are Kevin Akers, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Chris Forsythe, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Our earnings release and conference call slide presentation, which will be -- which we will reference in our prepared remarks, are available at atmosenergy.com under the Investor Relations tab. Today's presentation also includes references to non-GAAP financial measures.You should refer to the information contained in the slides accompanying today's presentation for definitional information and reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to the closest GAAP financial measure. As we review these financial results and discuss future expectations, please keep in mind that some of our discussion might contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Securities Exchange Act. Our forward-looking statements and projections could differ materially from actual results. The factors that could cause such material differences are outlined on slide 29 and more fully described in our SEC filings.With that, I will turn the call over to our President and CEO, Kevin Akers. Kevin?Kevin Akers -- President and Chief Executive Officer

 



Thank you, Dan. And good morning, everyone. We appreciate you joining us today and your continued interest in Atmos Energy. During this quarter, we continued to successfully execute our proven investment strategy of operating safely and reliably, while we modernize our natural gas distribution, transmission and storage systems. This strategy, along with the exceptional dedication and effort of all 4,700 employees at Atmos Energy, continue to benefit our customers in the form of safe and reliable natural gas service.This was clear during Winter Storm Uri as the modernization of our systems, especially over the last 10 years, provided the reliability necessary to meet the human needs requirements of our customers. I want to take this opportunity to highlight and thank our gas supply and gas control teams and the many operations, transmission and underground storage employees that dedicated countless hours to keeping natural gas safely flowing during Winter Storm Uri.The winter storm certainly highlighted the importance that reliable natural gas systems, diversified supply portfolios, system versatility, along with underground storage capacity, bring to delivering safe and reliable natural gas service. As an example of system modernization and reliability, I want to highlight our third Atmos pipeline storage salt-dome project. This project nearing 50% completion will provide an additional five to six Bcf of cavern storage capacity when in full service late '22 or early '23.This new cavern will provide us the continued capability to meet the growing demand in the Dallas-Fort Worth metroplex as well as allow us to safely perform the required regulatory compliance work, while meeting the current needs of our customers. Additionally, APT has started our Line S-2 replacement project that will create an enhanced supply hub to the east of the growing Dallas-Fort Worth metroplex and bring additional supply in from the Haynesville and Cotton Valley shale plays. We anticipate this 36-inch 90-mile project to be completed in three phases, with the final phase being complete in 2023.

 



The storm once again highlighted the strength of our balance sheet. After incurring unprecedented gas costs during the storm, we were able to quickly finance these purchases with the issuance of $2.2 billion in long-term debt for an all-in debt cost of 83.4 basis points. This financing is structured to provide us flexibility as we work with our regulators to recover these costs. In Kansas and Texas, where we incurred most of our extraordinary gas costs, new legislation was introduced to minimize the impact on the customer bill by extending the recovery periods for these unprecedented costs through securitization.The legislation in Kansas was signed into law on April nine and allows utilities to file for the permission from the commission to securitize these costs for a period of up to 32 years. In Texas, the legislature is considering a statewide securitization program. Under this program, natural gas utilities would have the opportunity to apply to the Railroad Commission to have their extraordinary costs securitized by the Texas Public Financing Authority and to use the net proceeds to pay off the debt they incurred to finance these natural gas purchases.This legislation has been passed by the house and is currently being considered in the Senate. In our remaining states, we anticipate recovering gas costs through our normal purchase gas cost mechanisms over a 12- to 18-month time frame. I am very proud of all 4,700 Atmos Energy employees in the work they do every day to provide safe and reliable natural gas service to our 1,400 communities and 3.2 million customers. Their dedication and commitment have Atmos Energy well positioned for success in the second half of the fiscal year.I will now turn the call over to Chris for an update on our financial performance. Chris?Christopher T. Forsythe -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Kevin, and good morning, everyone. Last night, we reported fiscal '21 second quarter net income of $297 million or $2.30 per share compared to $240 million or $1.95 per share in the prior year quarter. Year-to-date, earnings were $514 million or $4.01 per share compared with earnings of $418 million or $3.42 per share in the prior year period.Our second quarter and year-to-date performance largely reflects positive rate outcomes, driven by safety and reliability spending, customer growth in our distribution segment, lower O&M spending and a reduction in our annual effective tax rate. During the second quarter, APT began refunding $107 million in excess deferred tax liabilities to its customers over a three year period. Additionally, in Tennessee, we began refunding $17 million in excess deferred taxes over a three year period.As a reminder, these refunds result in a reduction to revenue and a corresponding reduction in income tax expense resulting in no material impact to our net income. Since these excess deferred taxes were approved during the second quarter, we adjusted our annual effective tax rate to reflect the lower tax expense that we will realize this fiscal year. The application of this lower annual effective tax rate to our results for six months ended March 31, resulted in an $0.11 benefit during the second quarter. However, we can only recognize the associated reduction in revenue as it is built over the last six months of the fiscal year.Therefore, this $0.11 benefit will be fully offset during the third and fourth quarters as we build those lower revenues. Consolidated operating income increased about 17% to $681 million during the six months ended March 31. Slides four and five summarize the key performance drivers for each of our operating segments. Rate increases in both of our operating segments, driven by increased safety and reliability capital spending, totaled $130 million.Customer growth in our distribution segment contributed an incremental $11 million as we continue to benefit from strong population growth in several of our service areas. For the 12 months ended March 31, we experienced 1.87% net customer growth in our North Texas distribution business and 1.61% net growth across our 8-state footprint. We experienced an $8 million decline in service order revenues in our distribution segment, primarily due to the temporary suspension of collection activities.Additionally, our provision for bad debt expense increased almost $9 million in our distribution segment compared to the same period last year. This combined $17 million decrease represented the most significant impact to our financial performance through the economic downturn caused by the pandemic. Our commercial sales volumes have turned significantly better than our expectations since the start of the fiscal year.After 15% period-over-period decrease in sales volumes during the first quarter, commercial sales volumes increased 16% in the second quarter compared to the same period last year and were about 2% higher year-over-year. While some of this increase is attributed to the significantly colder weather experienced during the second quarter, commercial sales volumes have trended less than 5% below the two year weather-normalized average, which much of that -- much of that decrease experienced during the first fiscal quarter.Throughout the second quarter, we have noted steady improvement as economic activity has started to pick up. Consolidated O&M expense, excluding bad debt expense, decreased $14 million. O&M in our distribution segment was about $6 million lower than the prior year, primarily reflecting lower travel costs. O&M in our pipeline and storage setting was approximately $8 million lower than the prior year, primarily due to the completion of some nonrecurring well integrity work in the prior year period and conservative O&M management as we evaluated how our revenues would materialize over the first six months of the fiscal year.Consolidated capital spending decreased 15% to $846 million, with 87% of our spending directed toward safety and reliability spending. The decrease largely reflects the timing of spending in our distribution segment. We remain on track to spend $2 billion to $2.2 billion in capital expenditures this fiscal year to further enhance the safety and reliability of our distribution and transmission network while reducing methane emissions.We continue to execute our well-established regulatory strategy focused on annual filing mechanisms, which mitigate the incremental impact to customer bills while reducing lag. To date, we have implemented $110 million in annualized regulatory outcomes. And we have currently about $145 million in progress. Slides 27 and 28 summarize the key attributes for these outcomes. And slide 17 summarizes our planned activities for the remainder of the fiscal year.Due to the historic nature of Winter Storm Uri, we experienced unforeseen -- unforeseeable and unprecedented market pricing for gas costs, which resulted in aggregated natural gas purchases during the month of February of approximately $2.3 billion. To help pay for these costs, we completed $2.2 billion of long-term debt financing in March. As a reminder, gas costs are a pass-through cost and recover in all of our jurisdictions. However, in Kansas and Texas, due to the size of the costs incurred, our regulators issued orders authorizing natural gas utilities to record regulatory assets to account for the extraordinary costs associated with the storm.As of March 31, we have recorded a $2.1 billion regulatory asset with approximately $2 billion recorded in Texas and approximately $77 million recorded in Kansas. As Kevin mentioned, we have the ability to securitize these costs in Kansas, and we are carefully monitoring the proposed statewide securitization legislation in Texas. We also executed forward sales arrangements under our ATM for approximately 2.5 million shares for $239 million. And we settled forward agreements on 4.5 million shares for approximately $461 million of net proceeds.As of March 31, we have approximately $116 million in net proceeds available under existing forward sale agreements, and we have about $313 million available for issuance under the ATM program. We intend to satisfy our remaining fiscal '21 equity needs through our ATM program. As a result of this financing activity, our equity capitalization, excluding the $2.2 billion of storm-related financing issued during the second quarter, was 60.4% as of March 31, and we finished the quarter with approximately $3.5 billion of liquidity.Details of our financing activities and our financial profile can be found on slide seven through 10. Yesterday, we reaffirmed our fiscal '21 earnings per share guidance in the range of $4.90 to $5.10 per diluted share. As a reminder, approximately 70% of our distribution revenues are earned through the first six months of the fiscal year. And substantially all of our pipeline, storage and other segments revenues are earned under a straight fixed variable rate design.Now that the winter season -- winter heating season is over, we have more clarity around our revenues for the remainder of the fiscal year, and we believe fiscal '21 earnings per share will be at the upper end of our guidance range. We anticipate our sales volumes to be consistent with what we typically experience during the second half of the fiscal year. We also anticipate that our service order revenues will [Indecipherable] consistently with the first six months of the fiscal year.We've also reflected in this guidance the decrease in revenue over the last six months in the fiscal year as we refund excess deferred taxes to our customers, and we have updated our income tax expense guidance range to reflect the impact of these refunds. Finally, we anticipate that O&M will increase modestly during the second half of the fiscal year and be in line with our original O&M guidance range. We continue to meet all of our compliance requirements, and we will begin to address some of the system maintenance work we were able to safely delay during the first half of the fiscal year. Slides 11 and 12 provide additional details around our guidance. Thank you for your time today.And I will now turn it back over to Kevin for his closing remarks. Kevin?Kevin Akers -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Chris. I appreciate that financial update. As you heard, we continue to be focused on the long-term sustainability of Atmos Energy and remain on track to meet our fiscal 2021 targets. As we look to the second half of the year, we will continue to execute on our strategy that supports our vision to be the safest provider of natural gas services.During our last two quarterly calls, I've shared the progress we are making to minimize our carbon footprint as well as our water and land impact at some of our offices and service centers, including the work we are doing to increase the amount of RNG we have on our system today and to help customers reduce their carbon emissions. To date, we are evaluating approximately 30 RNG projects across our systems. As a reminder, our environmental strategy is focused on five key areas: gas supply, operations, fleet, facilities and customers.Today, I want to highlight how Atmos Energy is working to reduce methane emissions as we modernize our business and infrastructure by investing in innovation and technology. The following examples of how Atmos Energy will meet our goal to reduce methane emissions 50% by 2035 as well as how we are helping customers understand the role that natural gas plays in reducing their carbon footprint at home in an affordable manner. We recently installed a new methane monitoring technology at our Tri-Cities underground storage facility called gas cloud imaging camera.This 360-degree fixed base camera will continuously monitor our compression and storage field assets for methane emissions. And if necessary, the technology will send alerts, including pop-up alerts with images to our plant operations employees in addition to text and email alerts. In addition to our existing methane monitoring and detection equipment, we are finalizing plans to deploy fixed base and mobile technologies throughout our underground storage operations.Additionally, we are in the process of installing a fuel cell to generate low-carbon electricity at one of our facilities. The fuel cell will be powered with natural gas and is anticipated to substantially reduce the carbon footprint for that facility. We anticipate the fuel cell will be operational by the end of this calendar year. With affordability and community support always top of mind for us, our Colorado team partnered with the Greeley-Weld County Habitat for Humanity Group to build a 0-net energy home for a local family.This will be the first of its kind for local habitat homes. This home is designed to receive a home energy rating system score of 0, which means the home produces the same amount of energy it consumes over the course of the year by using efficient natural gas appliances, better insulation and solar technology. The total utility cost for this home is anticipated to be approximately $350 per year, which is expected to provide about $2,000 in annual utility bill savings relative to the average U.S. home.This solution is significantly less expensive than an all-electric home. We are also working with builders in two Texas locations to design homes that are expected to yield similar environmental results. Our employees put their heart, sole and time and energy into projects like these every day to modernize our system to do our part to protect and preserve our environment for generations to come and to support the communities where they live and work.I'm very humbled by their compassion and commitment to be good neighbors. Providing this family with a natural gas home that is environmentally friendly and cost-efficient is just one way Atmos Energy fuels safe and thriving communities. Last year, legislation was designed to promote the use of all energy sources and maintain customer energy choice, which we refer to as alt fuels legislation, was passed in Louisiana and Tennessee.During the second quarter, similar legislation was passed in Kansas, Kentucky and Mississippi. And earlier this week, the Texas Senate passed HB 17 and it is now on its way to the Governor for signature. Assuming it is signed, six of our eight states will have passed alt fuels legislation. The successful execution of our strategy and our financial position have us well positioned to continue safely delivering reliable, affordable, efficient and abundant natural gas to homes, businesses and industries to fuel our energy needs now and well and into the future.I will now open up the call for questions. Dan, I'll turn it back over to you and the operator.