  OperatorGood morning, and welcome to the American Airlines Group third-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. [Operator instructions] And now I would like to turn the conference over to your moderator, head of investor relations, Mr. Dan Cravens.Dan Cravens -- Moderator, Head of Investor Relations Thanks, Sarah, and good morning, everyone, and welcome to the American Airlines Group third-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. On the call this morning, we have Doug Parker, chairman and CEO; Robert Isom, president; and Derek Kerr, chief financial officer. Also on the call and on the line as well for our Q&A session are several of our senior execs, including Maya Leibman, chief information officer; Steve Johnson, our EVP of corporate affairs; Elise Eberwein, our EVP of people and global engagement; and Vasu Raja, our chief revenue officer. Like we normally do, Doug will start the call with an overview of our quarter and will update to the actions we've taken during the pandemic.

 



 Robert will then follow some remarks about our operations, commercial and other strategic initiatives. After Robert's remarks, Derek will follow with the details on the quarter and our operating plans going forward. After Derek's comments, we will open the call for analyst questions, and lastly, questions from the media. To get in as many questions as possible, please limit yourself to one question and a follow-up.Before we begin, we must state that today's call does contain forward-looking statements, including statements concerning future revenues, costs, forecasts of capacity and fleet plan. These statements represent our predictions and expectations as to future events, but there are numerous risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from those projected. Information about some of these risks and uncertainties can be found in our earnings press release issued this morning and our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2021. In addition, we will be discussing certain non-GAAP financial measures this morning, which exclude the impact of unusual items. A reconciliation of those GAAP numbers to the GAAP financial measures is included in the earnings release, and that can be found in the investor relations section of our website. A webcast of this call will also be available on the website. The information that we're giving you on the call is as of today's date, and we undertake no obligation to update the material subsequently. Thanks, again, for joining us. At this point, I'll turn the call over to our chairman and CEO, Doug Parker. 

 



Doug Parker -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Dan, and thank you, everyone, for being with us. Good morning. So our third quarter started out very strong. Our domestic business revenue, which has climbed from 27% of our 2019 levels in March to 52% in June, jumped even more in July. It actually jumped to 64%, as companies began to return to work and their employees began to return to the skies. And as a result, we at American produced a profit in the month of July. But in the spur of Delta variant led to a rebound in pandemic fears, of course. Companies deferred return to work plans. And that domestic revenue -- the domestic business revenues go back to 57% of 2019 in August and 47% in September. Now I know some people find that trend discouraging, but we actually think it's encouraging. The spike in business revenue in the month of July shows that business travel does want to return. There is enormous pent-up demand.

 



 And once this pandemic is behind us, it should resume its prior rapid trajectory to recovery. And as to highlight all it gets reflected in the financial results that profit in July, followed by larger losses in August and September, added up to a cumulative loss. On a GAAP basis, we actually reported a net profit of $169 million. But when we exclude net special items, we recorded a net loss of $641 million. And while we, obviously, don't like reporting losses, this is our smallest quarterly loss since the pandemic began in early 2020. What we're really proud of is how well the American Airlines team is performing. No one is managing through this pandemic and into the recovery better than the people at American, and it shows in the results. At a time when airlines are struggling to build back service in response to demand, no one has built back further and faster than American. We flew greater than 80% of our 2019 capacity in the third quarter, while our large competitors have restored only 70%. As a result, we flew 13% more seat miles in the quarter than our next closest competitor. And our team safely transported more than 48 million passengers in the quarter. And our team did this while doing an excellent job of taking care of our customers. And we struggled with growth ourselves as we entered the quarter, but we responded quickly and aggressively. We ended the quarter flying by far the largest airline of the world with the best September operational performance in American's history. That great performance by our team has led to strong customer acceptance, as evidenced by our industry-leading passenger counts and our revenue trends. For the quarter, revenues were significantly improved over 2020 and were down 25% in the third quarter versus the same period in 2019, whereas they were down 37.5% in the second quarter on the same year over two-year basis. And notably, our passenger unit revenues in the quarter were down 10% versus 2019 versus 12% declines of the other large international U.S. carriers despite our higher capacity production. On the costs front, we've reshaped our network, simplified our fleet and built operational and cost efficiencies into the business that will serve us well for years to come. We accelerated the retirement of more than 150 older aircraft. American continues to operate the youngest and most fuel-efficient fleet of the U.S. network carriers. And importantly, we've actioned more than $1.3 billion of permanent annual cost reductions into the business through our Green Flag initiatives. And as we've navigated through the crisis, we've been careful to think and look long term. We've announced a series of strategic relationships with other airlines around the world that strengthened the American network, adding additional utility to our customers and long-term value for our shareholders. The most notable of these are our Northeast Alliance with JetBlue and our West Coast International Alliance with Alaska, which we continue to implement and grow in the third quarter. Looking forward, we feel great about where American is positioned. Given the deferred business demand and the recent rise in fuel prices, the fourth quarter will be challenging, but that's a near-term issue finding a longer-term bullish trend. We're encouraged by the upside that exists in demand for business and international travel. And our confidence is reinforced by the incredible work the American Airlines team has done throughout this pandemic and continues to do today. And we're particularly excited about the future that lies ahead for American and our team. With that, I'll turn it over to Robert.Robert Isom -- President Thanks, Doug, and good morning, everyone. I want to start by thanking the entire American Airlines team for their efforts in the third quarter and throughout the pandemic. Our airline continues to succeed, thanks to the hard work of our team. As Doug mentioned, this summer represented the largest operational ramp-up in the history of American. As we build back the operations, much like other businesses, we have managed through supply chain constraints, vendor and staffing challenges, constantly changing travel restrictions and a lot more. Through it all, we operated more flights and carried more customers than any other U.S. airline, more than tripling our daily departures from May 2020, which was the low point of our schedule. And we're pleased with where we are. American recorded our most reliable September since the merger based on completion factor, on-time departures and on-time arrivals. We'll continue to focus on delivering a safe and reliable operations and continuing the momentum as we further scale our operation and welcome back even more customers. Now I want to acknowledge the efforts of the American team in the third quarter in support of the U.S. Civil Reserve Air Fleet program. It was a tremendous honor for American to aid in the effort to bringing more than 5,000 evacuees from Afghanistan to the U.S., as well as hundreds of members of the U.S. military. That work included working with the Customs and Border Protection to open our Philadelphia facilities as a welcoming center for four nationals. We're grateful to our team members throughout the airline and from all over the world who came together to support American's craft activation. As we reported this morning, our third-quarter total revenue was approximately $9 billion, up $1.5 billion from the second quarter. This improvement was driven by our passenger revenue recovery, which increased by more than 20% sequentially from the second quarter on a 12% increase in available seat miles. Overall passenger revenue in the third quarter was 72% of what was in the third quarter of 2019, which is up 13 points sequentially in the second quarter. Domestic leisure revenue has now returned to pre-pandemic levels at 98% of 2019 levels in the third quarter. As Doug described, business revenue growth stalled in the quarter and finished flat in the second quarter at around 50% of 2019 levels. Given the recent booking trends, with the Delta variant subsiding and everything we're seeing and hearing from our customers, we're planning for a robust peak travel period in the fourth quarter, and we're excited about the prospects for 2022. And here's why. We expect that domestic leisure revenues will surpass 2019 levels in the fourth quarter and continue that trend throughout 2022. Short haul international revenues should follow that same pattern. And recent trends show that corporate bookings month to date have improved significantly and are accelerating like they were earlier in the year before the Delta variant and associated restrictions were imposed. Our largest corporate customers tell us they'll be returning more fully to the office and travel as we move out of 2021. And because of that, we continue to expect a full rebound of business revenue to 2019 levels on a monthly basis by the end of 2022. And speaking regularly with our top corporate customers, almost all have resumed domestic U.S. business travel, to some extent. As companies return to the office and lift travel restrictions, we see continued growth in corporate travel. Industrials, healthcare and professional services continue to lead that recovery. Long-haul international travel, particularly long-haul business travel, while the slowest to return, is starting to come back. Right now, almost two-thirds of our corporate customers are traveling internationally for at least essential business. And we expect international travel to improve significantly with easing of cross-border requirements. And we're encouraged by the recent news about the U.S. government easing international travel and entry restrictions starting in November. Following the White House announcement, we saw an immediate increase in bookings in several of our key international markets. Overnight, we saw a 66% increase in bookings to the U.K., a 40% increase to core Europe and a 74% increase to Brazil. Clearly, there's significant pent-up demand for travel to and from the U.S. and many customers are eager to return to travel when it's permitted. Now just focusing on the fourth quarter, we expect total revenue will recover to approximately 80% of 2019 levels, up approximately 5 points sequentially versus the third quarter, with the strongest performance in domestic and short-haul international markets. We continue to make significant strides in building the large global network in the industry and reconnecting with our customers. Our partnership with JetBlue and Alaska are delivering tremendous benefits for customers and enabling new flying that otherwise wouldn't be possible. More than 715,000 customers were able to travel across our networks during the quarter, thanks to these innovative partnerships. Together, American and JetBlue will operate more than 700 daily flights from New York to Boston -- New York and Boston this winter, including nearly 50 international destinations out of JFK. We also continued to create a seamless experience for our customers, including rolling out reciprocal lead benefits for AAdvantage and True Blue Mosaic members. And we expect to launch miles redemption on JetBlue very soon. Our loyalty program continues to demonstrate its attractiveness to our customers and partners. New member acquisitions in the third quarter exceeded 2019 levels despite the airline flying a significantly smaller schedule. As our customers continue to engage with AAdvantage, our co-brand cash payments were essentially fully recovered at 96% in the third quarter versus the same period in 2019. This is up from just 78% in the second quarter on the same basis. We expect this trend to continue as the network returns to a more normalized level. On the ESG front, during the quarter, American became the first North American airline to commit to developing a science-based target for reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 2035. We also agreed to turn to purchase more carbon-neutral sustainable aviation fuel. American also became an anchor partner to Breakthrough Energy Catalyst. And we've committed to invest $100 million in a groundbreaking collaborative effort to accelerate the clean energy technologies necessary for achieving a net-zero economy by 2050. We're excited about this work and what it will mean for the future of aviation and the acceleration and adoption of critical next-generation clean technologies across all industries. So in summary, while the Delta variant has shifted the time line to the recovery, we remain very bullish on the return of demand, and we feel great about how we're positioned, thanks to the hard work and dedication of the American Airlines team. And with that, I'll turn it over to Derek.Derek Kerr -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Robert, and good morning, everyone. Before I begin my remarks, I would also like to thank the American Airlines team for their hard work during the quarter. Their continued resilience in the face of uncertainty due to the Delta variant is commendable. This morning, we reported a third-quarter GAAP net profit of $169 million or $0.25 per diluted share. Excluding net special items, we reported a net loss of $641 million or a loss of $0.99 per share. As Doug mentioned in his remarks, this was our strongest quarter since the pandemic began. As we have discussed in the past, as we always expected, the recovery would be unpredictable, and our third-quarter results reflect this. Despite the Delta variant-related volatility in demand and revenue trends that Robert discussed, our financial performance improved from the second quarter, but fell short of our initial expectations that we outlined in our last earnings call. While the slowdown in demand was clearly disappointing, it is important to note that the trajectory of our results continues to be positive. In fact, even with the drop-off in bookings from the Delta variant and rising oil prices, our third-quarter pre-tax earnings, excluding net special items, improved by nearly $600 million sequentially versus the second quarter. This makes it even clearer to us that the steps we are taking over the past 18 months are working. As we have navigated the pandemic, we've built back our network in a way that would keep our capacity aligned with demand while giving us the ability to be flexible as conditions change. We've also worked to keep our controllable costs down and have actioned $1.3 billion in permanent annual cost initiatives this year alone. Based on our results, it's clear these actions are paying off, as our third-quarter CASM, including fuel and net special items, was up just 10.5% versus the same period in 2019 despite flying approximately 20% less capacity. On the fleet side, we moved swiftly to retire older aircraft and accelerate our fleet harmonization project. Our 737 retrofit program was completed in May. And we continue to expect our A321 aircraft to be complete by early next year, a full year ahead of our original schedule. In addition to the customer benefits of larger overhead bins, in-seat power and streaming in-flight entertainment, these aircraft will generate more revenue and allow us to connect to more customers over our network. They will also provide a unit cost tailwind as we build back our network. With respect to our wide-body aircraft, we continue to work with Boeing to finalize the timing of our delayed 787-8 deliveries that were expected to arrive in 2021. In the meantime, due to the continued uncertainty in the delivery schedule, we have proactively removed these aircraft from our winter schedule to minimize potential passenger disruption. And I'd also like to note that these delays have had an impact on our fourth-quarter CASM since we built the cost structure to fly these aircraft during the fourth quarter. We ended the quarter with approximately $18 billion of total available liquidity, which reflects the $950 million prepayment of our spare parts term loan made in July and approximately 440 -- $649 million of scheduled debt payments made during the quarter. The scheduled debt paydown unencumbered 20 Boeing 777 aircraft further bolstering our unencumbered asset base to $3.8 billion and our first lien capacity to more than $8.4 billion. As we look ahead, we feel confident with -- we have enough liquidity to allow American to navigate the choppiness of the recovery. Because of this choppiness, we will continue to keep liquidity at elevated levels in the near to medium term, with a plan to step down our target liquidity to approximately $10 billion to $12 billion at some point next year when we are confident the recovery has taken hold and we have returned to sustained profitability. The deleveraging of American's balance sheet remains a priority, and we are committed to significant, steady and continuous debt reduction in the years ahead. Even with the slower-than-expected recovery observed during the third quarter, we remain on track with our target of reducing overall debt levels by $15 billion by the end of 2025. $10 billion of this will be achieved through amortization of debt and is net of new financing. Importantly, these debt reduction targets are based on a plan that assumes future deliveries are financed. Should we elect to use cash in lieu of financing aircraft, that decision would contribute to deleveraging and further accelerate the time line to achieve these targets. Of the incremental $5 billion, nearly $1 billion has already been actioned with the prepayment of the spare parts term loan we announced on the last call. As we look ahead, we will continue to focus our efforts on prepayable debt, which currently represents approximately 30% of our total debt obligations. In addition to deleveraging our balance sheet, this plan will allow us to smooth our near-term maturity towers and free up high-quality collateral. Assuming this level of debt reduction and continued margin improvement, our plan is targeted to result in the best credit metrics in the history of post-merger American by the end of the four-year period. Looking into the fourth quarter, the delay in the return of corporate travel and rising fuel prices will put pressure on our margins relative to the third quarter. We expect our capacity to be down approximately 11% to 13% versus the fourth quarter of 2019. Based on current demand assumptions and capacity plans, we continue to expect a slight sequential increase in our revenues and expect total revenues to be down approximately 20% versus the fourth quarter of 2019. In total, we expect the pre-tax margin, excluding net special items, of between negative 16% and negative 18%. For the full year, we -- for the full year, our projected debt principal payments are expected to be $4.4 billion. This includes the $750 million payment of spare parts term loan and the $550 million prepayment of the term loan with the U.S. Treasury that was completed earlier this year. We have $612 million in scheduled debt principal payments in the fourth quarter. With respect to capital expenditures, we expect full-year 2021 capex to remain minimal, with non-aircraft capex at approximately $900 million and net aircraft capex, including predelivery payments, remaining an inflow of $900 million. We are still in the early stages of building our operating plans for 2022. And we'll have more to say on what our capacity and cost outlook will look like on our next earnings call. But at a high level, based on the demand trends we see today along with the feedback from our corporate customers, we expect to slowly increase our capacity throughout the year and to have full-year capacity very near 2019 levels. This, of course, is subject to the future demand environment and we will always retain the ability to adapt if demand conditions warrant. Lastly, I know a lot of investors are concerned about inflationary pressure in 2022 and beyond. We'll know more once we finalized our 2022 budget, but we do see pressures in fuel prices, hiring and training for both new hires and existing crews as we ramp up our operation, including on the regional side, where we recently announced the pilot retention program. We are also seeing increased starting wages for certain regional groups, including vendors. Even with these pressures, our fleet simplification strategy enables higher aircraft utilization and higher average gauge, both of which will help offset some of these unit cost pressures. As I said earlier, we will share more specific details on these impacts to our cost structure as our 2022 plan on our next earnings call in January. So in conclusion, our team continues to do an amazing job of managing through the uncertainty, maintaining a strong liquidity position and driving efficiencies throughout the organization. And we are well-positioned for the future. So with that, I will open up the line for analyst questions. 