
OperatorGood morning. My name is Lisa, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to LKQ Corporation's Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.I would now like to turn the call over to Joe Boutross, Vice President of Investor Relations for LKQ Corporation.Joseph P. Boutross -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



Thank you, operator. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to LKQ's Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. With us today are Nick Zarcone, LKQ's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Varun Laroyia, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Please refer to the LKQ website at lkqcorp.com for our earnings release issued this morning as well as the accompanying slide presentation for this call. Now let me quickly cover the safe harbor. Some of the statements that we make today may be considered forward-looking. These include statements regarding our expectations, beliefs, hopes, intentions or strategies. Actual events or results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors.We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. For more information, please refer to the risk factors discussed in our Form 10-K and subsequent reports filed with the SEC. During this call, we will present both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP measures is included in today's earnings press release and slide presentation. Hopefully, everyone has had a chance to look at our 8-K, which we filed with the SEC earlier today. And as normal, we're planning to file our 10-Q in the next few days. And with that, I am happy to turn the call over to our CEO, Nick Zarcone.Dominick Zarcone -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Joe, and good morning to everybody on the call. This morning, I will provide some high-level comments related to our performance in the quarter, and then Varun will dive into the financial details as well as our outlook for the balance of 2021, before I come back with a few closing remarks. This was another quarter of significant operating progress at LKQ, driven by excellent execution in delivering solid financial performance, all while navigating the challenges with the supply chain and the current cost environment. We were able to produce yet another record quarter, and this represents the fifth consecutive quarter with the highest EPS reported in their respective quarters. The third quarter also reflects the second time we've been able to achieve more than $1 of earnings per share on an adjusted basis and reflects the highest third quarter segment EBITDA margin in the history of the company.

 



We are particularly pleased that our European business delivered its highest segment EBITDA level in over nine years, exceeding the 11% level. Varun will dig into the margin details shortly. While I recognize the listeners are primarily focused on the financial results, I know our performance is a reflection of the dedication and effort of our 45,000 team members around the globe who are working hard to serve our customers. I hope you can appreciate that I am more excited about the performance of my team than the quarterly results as they are the key to continued excellence. With respect to capital allocation, as you hopefully read from our press release issued this morning, I am very pleased to announce that our Board of Directors has declared the company's first-ever quarterly cash dividend.This dividend declaration and our existing stock repurchase program are key components of our strategic plan to drive total long-term returns for our stockholders. Our solid balance sheet and sustainable cash flow generation, coupled with our leading market positions across our operating segments, provide us with the opportunity to execute on that plan. The quarterly dividend of $0.25 per share will be paid on December 2, 2021, to stockholders of record at the close of business on November 11. Now on to the quarter. Revenue for the third quarter of 2021 was $3.3 billion, an increase of 8.2% as compared to the $3.0 billion in the third quarter of 2020. During the third quarter, total parts and services revenue increased 6%, comprising organic growth of 4%, the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures increasing revenue by 0.5% and foreign exchange rates increasing revenue by 1.5%.Net income for the third quarter of 2021 was $284 million as compared to $194 million for the same period last year, an increase of 46.4%. Diluted earnings per share for the third quarter was $0.96 a share as compared to $0.64 a share for the same period of 2020, an increase of 50%. On an adjusted basis, net income in the third quarter was $300 million compared to $228 million in the same period of 2020, a 31.6% increase. Adjusted diluted earnings per share for the third quarter was $1.02 as compared to $0.75 for the same period of 2020, a 36% increase. Now let's turn to some of the quarterly segment highlights. slide five sets forth the revenue trends for the quarter, and you can see growth rates improved year-over-year for all segments. The vaccination rates in our key geographic markets continued to improve; but as we progressed throughout the quarter, we started to face headwinds related to the rise in the Delta variant and also challenges with the aftermarket supply chain, both of which impacted organic growth across each of the segments.Turning to North America. According to the U.S. Department of Energy, fuel consumption for the third quarter was 8.6% above the prior year and 1.3% below the third quarter of 2019. From slide six, you will note that organic revenue for parts and services for our North American segment increased 5.9% in the quarter on a year-over-year basis. When looking at our performance relative to collision and liability repairable claims this quarter, given the aberrations associated with the significant swings in 2020, we believe the most relevant comparison is to the third quarter of 2019. During Q3, organic revenue for parts and services for our North American segment declined about 7% on a per day basis relative to 2019 levels, while repairable claims declined 10.6%, so it was another period of outperformance for our North American operations.

 



During the third quarter, our salvage business and the growth of our major mechanical product groups had solid performance. Although fill rates have been challenged, we are witnessing a positive offset from our quote conversion rates on salvage parts. Importantly, as we progressed through the third quarter and entered Q4, we've witnessed an increase in availability of the auctions, and prices are moderating versus what we experienced earlier in the year. Also, Elitek, our diagnostic and calibration services business, continued to exceed our expectations, with September being the highest monthly level of diagnostic scans since building out this business, a clear sign that shops and carriers are embracing this unique service offering. For those on the call that will be attending the SEMA event next week, Elitek will have a presence at the show. So please come visit, and you can see why we are excited about this growth opportunity.Moving on to our European segment. Organic revenue for parts and services in the third quarter increased 0.1% on a reported basis and 0.3% on a per day basis. When compared to the third quarter of 2019, our European revenue was down just 1% on a per day basis. So we have made progress on getting back to pre-pandemic levels and are optimistic we will move ahead of the 2019 levels in the next quarter or two. From an overall mobility perspective, virtually every European market experienced flat growth in the quarter, which we believe is a sign that the spike we witnessed in the second quarter due to the reopening of the economy subsided sequentially in Q3. Our regional operations continued to experience varying revenue performance in the quarter. Our Eastern European business had the strongest recovery despite a very competitive pricing environment.Germany and the Benelux markets also delivered well above total segment growth. The drag in growth was primarily driven by negative growth in Italy, a market that continues to face very difficult conditions. Other items to note in Europe would include the fact that on September 6, we celebrated the grand opening of our new Innovation and Service Center in Katowice, Poland that began operations earlier in the quarter. Also, on October 1, just after the close of the third quarter, we acquired a company named Hamu, which operates nine locations in the Central Netherlands region. With over 100 employees, Hamu is one of the largest independent automotive parts wholesalers in the Netherlands. Now let's move on to our Specialty segment, which again delivered solid performance during the third quarter by reporting organic revenue growth on a same-day basis of 13.7%.As witnessed in the first half of the year, the drivers of this ongoing performance continued to be strong demand for parts related to RVs and light trucks as well as our drop-ship business. On October 1, we finalized the acquisition of SeaWide Marine Distribution, a nationwide electronics wholesale distributor that supplies electrical and electronic products for the marine, outdoor and personal navigation markets. This acquisition is consistent with the strategy of entering adjacent markets that Bill Rogers highlighted during our 2020 Investor Day. Marine products overlapped nicely with our RV and towing product portfolio. Importantly, SeaWide now has the benefit of leveraging our network of eight specialty distribution centers in over 40 cross-docks that are strategically located to provide next-day service throughout North America.According to the National Marine Manufacturers Association, the total addressable market for the wholesale product SeaWide offers is over $3 billion. Lastly, I want to acknowledge and congratulate the Specialty team for being recognized as the RV Industry Association Distributor of the Year at the recent 2021 RV Aftermarket Conference in Atlanta, a tremendous accomplishment. In addition to the Hamu and Seawide Marine acquisitions, other corporate development transactions included divesting all of our equity interest in a very small joint venture in the U.K. And acquiring a business in the United States that remanufactures torque converters, a product used in the remanufacturing of automatic transmissions. The global supply chain continues to be under duress. It is widely known that, today, a record number of ships are anchored off the coast of California waiting for port lanes to unload containers, some of which hold our aftermarket inventory and are eventually headed to LKQ facilities.High demand for overseas products, congestions within the ports and at the rail hubs and a severe shortage of truck drivers, has led to delays and increased cost for ocean and land freight, both in North America and in Europe. The recent initiatives across the globe to begin tackling components of these route issues, such as the measures implemented by the Port of Los Angeles on October 12, are encouraging. But we expect overarching supply chain issues to persist in the near to midterm. We are doing our best to effectively navigate the difficult environment, and we are hopeful that we won't be talking about the supply chain challenges and reading draconian headlines on a daily basis at this time next year. Alongside supply chain inflationary pressures, like many businesses across the globe, we are facing wage inflation and increased competition for labor.We are constantly looking at our wage structure and turnover rates across all of our segments to ensure we stay ahead of any competitive pressures and to help backfill the open positions with the best candidates we can attract. Now a brief update on some of our ongoing ESG efforts. During the quarter, we established the LKQ Cares ESG Advisory Committee, which is comprised of key leaders across our company. The purpose of the committee is to support and provide advice regarding LKQ Corporation's ongoing commitment to environmental matters, social responsibility, corporate governance and many other public policies relevant to our company. Additionally, with inclusion being a core value at LKQ, I am excited to announce that LKQ has joined the Second Chance Business Coalition, a nationwide effort to create economic opportunity for approximately 78 million Americans trying to get back on their feet and contribute to society.We are proud to be alongside 35 other large public and private companies that also believe that supporting those seeking a second chance in life not only provides opportunities for the individual but also for their families and for their communities. It's simply the right thing to do. Lastly, as you may have read, we are both humbled and honored that LKQ North America has been recognized by WorkBuzz, an independent global employee engagement firm as a five-Star Employer after receiving positive feedback from our first-ever employee engagement survey. Part of our mission statement is to build strong partnerships with our employees and the communities in which we operate. And this award validates that our inclusive and engaged teams are proudly carrying this mission forward. And I will now turn the discussion over to Varun, who will run through the details of the strong third quarter financial performance.Varun Laroyia -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Nick, and good morning to everyone joining us today. Our third quarter results reflect continued evidence of the benefits of the operational excellence initiatives we instituted a few years ago. Record profitability and continued robust free cash flow just don't happen by accident. The team's focus on getting the fundamentals right, continuous improvement and winning each day has driven these strong results under what are incredibly challenging conditions, with a congested supply chain and strong inflationary pressures. I'd like to start with a few highlights before getting into the details. As you heard from Nick, Europe achieved segment EBITDA of 11.5% for the quarter. This gives us the confidence to narrow the full year segment EBITDA range for 2021 further to 9.8% up to 10.3%, effectively lifting the floor by a further 30 basis points.Specialty delivered yet another excellent organic revenue quarter at 13.7% despite the ongoing supply chain challenges. This is the fourth consecutive quarter of robust double-digit organic revenue growth for the segment. Cash flow generation remains strong. And the conversion ratio relative to earnings continues to be above our long-term expectation despite a challenging environment. The share repurchase program carried on with a further 4.3 million shares purchased in the quarter, bringing the year-to-date total to 12 million shares and the program to date of 29.3 million shares repurchased. And finally, the initiation of a regular quarterly dividend reflects the confidence in our strategy and the strength of our business, underscoring our commitment to deliver long-term value to our stockholders.Now I'll move to the consolidated financial results. As Nick described, Q3 was another successful quarter with growth in revenue, EBITDA margin, cash flow and earnings per share. Gross margin was again a highlight for the quarter, increasing 150 basis points relative to the prior year. We continue to feel pressure on input costs across each of our segments, but we have been able to mitigate the effects by being nimble to adjust to the new reality of higher input costs by adjusting pricing. Gross margin also benefited from the tailwinds of commodity prices, although at a much lower level than we've seen in prior quarters. Car costs remain relatively high. And with the moderation of precious metal prices in the quarter as seen on Slide 27, the benefit dipped relative to the first half of the year.We estimate that scrap steel and precious metal prices added roughly $12 million in segment EBITDA and $0.03 in adjusted EPS relative to last year. As a reminder, this benefit is well below the $57 million in segment EBITDA and $0.14 in adjusted EPS from metal prices experienced in the second quarter of 2021. Overhead expenses as a percentage of revenue increased 50 basis points year-over-year, largely driven by personnel costs. The tight labor market has pushed wages higher in many of our markets. Additionally, strong performance across all three segments is contributing to increased levels of incentive compensation in 2021, which represents 30 basis points of higher expense. Other overhead expenses are slightly favorable, as we're offsetting inflation in freight and fuel through operating efficiencies and leverage from higher scrap and core revenue.I'll now turn to the segment operating results. Starting on slide 10, North America produced an EBITDA margin of 17.3% for the quarter, down 30 basis points from a year ago. Gross margin was favorable by 60 basis points, primarily coming out of the ongoing margin initiatives in the wholesale business and improved pricing. Self-service increased gross margin dollars compared to 2020 but generated a lower margin percentage due to an increase in car cost and moderating metal prices. Segment overhead expenses increased by 100 basis points, with the largest change owing to personnel expenses. Roughly half of the increase is attributable to wages and temporary labor, with the remainder in higher incentive compensation. At the segment EBITDA line, the metals prices benefit noted previously generated 20 basis points of improvement relative to last year.I previously mentioned Europe's strong margin for the quarter, and slide 11 shows the details. Adjusted gross margin increased by 240 basis points to the highest level in recent years, primarily owing to better net pricing while overhead expenses grew by 30 basis points, driven by higher wages and incentive compensation. Moving to slide 12. Specialty grew EBITDA dollars though experienced 100 basis points of dilution in margin. The primary factors contributing to the decrease are: one, higher incentive compensation; inflationary pressures in the segment's one operations, which are behind the 30 basis point decrease in gross margin; and finally, duplicative costs associated with acquisitions done in the current fiscal year, which we expect to be transitory as the team integrates the acquired businesses over the remainder of the year and into early 2022.Similar to the first half of 2021, we are also delivering benefits from our focus on the capital structure. The early redemption of the 2026 euro notes in April of this year created interest expense savings. Additionally, deploying free cash flow to debt paydowns and share repurchases generated interest expense savings and an EPS benefit from a reduced share count. We estimate that these factors added roughly $0.06 per share to our third quarter results. and based on the characteristics of these initiatives, are expected to continue to deliver over multiple periods. Additionally, income from our equity method and other investments generated a further $0.02 of year-over-year growth. Given the improved expectation for full year profitability, we decreased our projected effective tax rate in our outlook from 26.25% to 25.75%, which contributed to a $0.04 per share year-over-year benefit in the third quarter.So to recap, our adjusted EPS of $1.02 is a $0.27 increase over the third quarter of 2020; the commodity benefits, as previously stated, were $0.03; investments generated a further $0.02; the tax rate, our capital deployment and a slight tailwind from foreign exchange produced about $0.10 of the improvement; the remaining $0.12 comes from our operating performance, by far the single largest contributor to the results. Shifting to liquidity and capital allocation. We continued the trend of robust cash flow generation in the third quarter with $429 million of operating cash flow and $384 million of free cash flow. Our conversion of EBITDA to free cash flow was a very strong 84%, roughly in line with our year-to-date ratio, as seen on slide 14. Our operating cash flows were driven by cash earnings and favorable movement in trade working capital balances.Payables represented an inflow for the quarter as we benefit from extended payment terms, including our European vendor financing initiative. Inventory was an outflow of $60 million for the quarter. But similar to the second quarter, we were unable to increase our purchasing to the designed level owing to the supply chain issues that are affecting many sectors of the economy. We are actively working to rebuild inventory levels, and we believe that our excellent relationships with suppliers and liquidity on hand puts us in a good position to acquire the needed inventory when supply chain congestion finally eases. We deployed the free cash flow to repurchase 4.3 million shares in the quarter for $219 million, acquired two tuck-in businesses for $37 million and repaid $23 million in outstanding borrowings.Our net leverage ratio dropped to 1.1 times EBITDA, and interest coverage now exceeds 24 times compared to the credit facility requirements of 4.25 times and three times, respectively. Or said differently, at this point in time, we do not need to devote further capital toward paying debt, and as you saw in the third quarter results also. With $1.6 billion in availability on our credit facility and approximately $400 million in cash, we have over $2 billion in liquidity to fund our strategic objectives. The liquidity amount is roughly $800 million below our December 31, 2020 figure, reflecting the use of liquidity to redeem the 2026 EUR0.75 billion euro notes, prepay our outstanding term loan balance of $319 million as well as the termination of the $110 million receivable securitization program earlier this year in July.We felt comfortable reducing the overall capacity owing to our ability to sustainably generate robust free cash flow. As you can imagine, we have carefully considered our liquidity position and future cash flow generation prospects in reaching the decision to initiate the quarterly cash dividend. We are confident in the company's ability to convert earnings to free cash flow in a ratio of 55% to 60% on a long-term basis, which provides us with sufficient cash to fund a dividend while continuing to repurchase shares, reinvest in the business and make accretive acquisitions. Initiating a dividend is an important milestone in the company's history and reflects the Board and the management team's confidence in our near- and long-term prospects. The decision to pay a dividend is consistent with, and does not change, our approach to capital allocation, which prioritizes growth investments and return excess cash to shareholders to enhance their returns.Our share repurchase program will run in tandem with the dividend program as part of our balanced approach to capital allocation.I will wrap up my prepared comments with our updated thoughts on the full year 2021. Consistent with the level of detail we have provided in recent quarters, we are comfortable making the following statements, all of which that assume that there are no significant negative developments related to the COVID-19 in our major markets or foreign exchange rates and scrap and precious metal prices hold near recent levels in the remainder of the year. The first statement being, with yet another excellent quarter in Q3, we are projecting full year adjusted diluted EPS in the range of $3.78 to $3.88 with a midpoint of $3.83. This is an increase of $0.18 or 5% at the midpoint over our prior quarter guidance and an increase of $1.08 or 39% relative to our original 2021 full year guidance.The increases reflect the benefits of our ongoing margin and operating expense programs and our strategic cash deployment, which have allowed us to mitigate strong inflationary headwinds related to labor, freight, fuel and inventory costs prevalent throughout the industry. While we expect our operational performance in Q4 to play out roughly in line with prior guidance, we are projecting a negative impact of roughly $0.02 a share, resulting from metal prices as these move lower going into the fourth quarter. As you think about the comparison to the fourth quarter of 2020, we are forecasting a $0.07 per share negative year-over-year effect related to sequential movements in metal prices. Additionally, having one fewer selling day in the North America and Specialty segments in the fourth quarter of 2021 creates a further $0.02 headwind.A lower share count and tax rate in 2021 should mitigate some of the year-over-year headwinds. The second statement I would like to share with everyone is we are narrowing the range for full year European segment EBITDA margin to 9.8% up to 10.3%, effectively raising the floor by a further 30 basis points, similar to what we did roughly 90 days ago following the second quarter earnings. And finally, we continue to generate outstanding free cash flow through strong profitability and judicious use of trade working capital. With this in mind, along with higher projected net income for the year, we are raising our free cash flow guidance to a range of $1.15 billion to $1.3 billion, with $1.225 billion at the midpoint. Despite the supply chain challenges, we still anticipate an inventory increase in the fourth quarter, ahead of the traditionally strong Q1 and Q2 seasonal demand, although not to the level assumed in prior guidance, as a portion of the build would likely be deferred into 2022. With that, thank you for your time this morning. And I'll turn the call back to Nick for his closing comments.Dominick Zarcone -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Varun. Let me restate our key initiatives, which continue to be central to our culture and our objectives. First, we will continue to integrate our businesses and simplify our operating model. Second, we will continue to focus on profitable revenue growth and sustainable margin expansion. Third, we will continue to drive high levels of cash flow, which in turn will give us the flexibility to maintain a balanced capital allocation strategy. And fourth, as always, we will continue to invest in our future. As Henry Ford once said, obstacles are those frightful things you see when you take your eyes off of your goal. 2021 continues to be a year where our global teams have never lost sight of our shared goal of driving long-term value for our stockholders. And for that, I offer a heartfelt thank you to each of our 45,000-plus team members that make it happen each and every day. And with that, operator, we are now ready to open the call for questions.