  OperatorThank you for standing by, and welcome to The Walt Disney Company's second quarter 2022 financial results conference call. [Operator instructions] Please be advised that this conference is being recorded. [Operator instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Alexia Quadrani, senior vice president of investor relations. Please go ahead.Alexia Quadrani -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Good afternoon. It's my pleasure to welcome everybody to The Walt Disney Company's second quarter 2022 earnings call. Our press release was issued about 25 minutes ago and is available on our website at www.disney.com/investors. Today's call is being webcast, and a replay and transcript will also be available on our website.

 



 Joining me for today's call are Bob Chapek, Disney's chief executive officer, and Christine McCarthy, senior executive vice president and chief financial officer. Following comments from Bob and Christine, we will be happy to take some of your questions. So with that, let me turn the call over to Bob to get started.Bob Chapek -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Alexia, and good afternoon, everyone. In Q2, Disney's employees and cast members continued to execute against our strategic priorities of storytelling excellence, innovation and audience focus, and I could not be more proud of what they've achieved. Our strong results this quarter, including fantastic performance at our domestic parks and continued growth at our streaming services along with the creative achievements of our content teams, once again proved that we are in a league of our own. We have entertainment's most iconic brands and the world's favorite franchises, a high-quality creative pipeline that will continue to drive engagement and consumption and an unrivaled synergy machine with touch points that reach audiences across distribution channels, geographies and demographics, all of which come together to create a deep, emotional connection with audiences across generations. I'd like to share a few highlights from the quarter that illustrate these strengths, and then Christine will go through the details of our results. As I said, our domestic parks were a standout. They continue to fire on all cylinders, powered by strong demand coupled with customized and personalized guest experience enhancements that grew per capita spending by more than 40% versus 2019. Response to next-generation storytelling like Star Wars: Galactic Starcruiser has been phenomenal.

 



 In fact, guest ratings for this immersive experience, which opened March 1, are incredibly high and in line with our best-in-class offerings. Demand is strong, and we expect 100% utilization through the end of Q3. Looking ahead, we could not be more excited to officially welcome riders on Guardians of the Galaxy: Cosmic Rewind at Epcot on May 27. One of the longest indoor rollercoasters in the world, the attraction puts guests in the middle of an exciting adventure as they're called on to help the Guardians out of a jam. With our first-ever reverse launch and rotating cars that turn riders 360 degrees, guests won't miss a second of the story during our most immersive coaster experience yet. At Disneyland Paris, we are thrilled to take the next step in our ambitious expansion plan: the opening of Avengers Campus this summer as part of the resort's 30th anniversary celebration. As Europe recovers from the pandemic, we've seen strong yield growth at Disneyland Paris and look forward to its continued recovery. Another standout this quarter were our streaming services. We ended Q2 with more than 205 million total subscriptions after adding 9.2 million in the quarter. That includes 7.9 million Disney+ subscribers, keeping us on track to reach 230 million to 260 million Disney+ subscribers by fiscal '24. The growth of the platform since its launch reinforces its unique nature. Quite simply, we believe Disney+ is one of a kind, a service based on exceptional branded content with wide appeal across all four quadrants. It's certainly popular with families, but as a reminder, almost half of Disney+ subscribers are adults without kids. In recognition of Disney+'s unique ability to attract viewers from a range of demographic groups, we are selectively enhancing Disney+ with general entertainment titles designed to drive sign-ups among specific audiences and deepen engagement among those cohorts. A benefit of our incredible creative engines and decades of general entertainment excellence is that we can reach these demographics not only through the creation of original titles but also by shifting resources from across our content ecosystem, especially as consumer behavior continues to evolve. Our strategy is not just to fill our distribution pipelines but to be thoughtful with each asset to best position it among our various distribution options.

 



 For instance, Dancing with the Stars is a beloved show that has entertained viewers for more than 30 seasons on ABC and is a wonderful example of content that brings the whole family together. We recently announced Disney+ will be the series' new home starting this fall. Beyond targeting specific demos, we are equally enthusiastic about our growth potential in international markets. We currently have over 500 local original titles in various stages of development and production. 180 of those titles are slated to premiere this fiscal year, increasing to over 300 international originals per year in steady state. We believe these premium local originals, along with branded content with broad international appeal, will attract new subscribers and drive engagement. One example in production is Nautilus from our EMEA team. Based on 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea, Nautilus is the origin story of the iconic submarine from the perspective of its mysterious commander, Captain Nemo. This is just one example of how our global network of creative hubs can develop and produce original content with worldwide appeal. And by the end of we plan to roll out Disney+ to 53 new markets across Europe, Africa and West Asia, starting with South Africa next week. Before leaving Disney+, I want to mention our recently announced plans to introduce an ad-supported subscription offering in the US by the end of the calendar year and internationally in 2023. Expanding Disney+ access through multiple price points is a win for consumers and advertisers. Of course, all of our success is rooted in great content. Our general entertainment team continued its string of phenomenal series with Hulu's Pam & Tommy and The Dropout. And while not in the quarter, we could not be happier with the performance of The Kardashians, more great general entertainment content is ahead, like the second season of Only Murders in the Building on Hulu and the record-breaking 19th season of ABC's Grey's Anatomy. This quarter, our studios earned six Academy awards, including Best Animated Feature for Walt Disney Animation Studios, Encanto, and Best Documentary Feature for Onyx Collective and Searchlight Pictures Summer of Soul. Pixar Animation Studios' Turning Red premiered on March 11 on Disney+ and became the fastest title to reach 200 million hours viewed on the platform. The Disney+ original series Star Wars: The Book of Boba Fett drew positive reaction from audiences, and Marvel's Moon Knight continue the studio's impressive track record. Looking ahead, our studios will continue to deliver high-quality content at scale with an exciting array of series and films coming to all of our distribution channels. In fact, our slate for the remainder of this year is incredibly strong with titles like Obi-Wan Kenobi, Ms. Marvel, Lightyear, Thor: Love and Thunder, Black Panther: Wakanda Forever and the long-anticipated Avatar: The Way of Water. Finally, I must mention the phenomenal success of Marvel's Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness, which opened to roughly $450 million worldwide this past weekend. Domestically, it was the second-highest opening of the pandemic era and the 11th highest opening of all time. Our strategy of distribution flexibility has worked well for us, and these fantastic results are another sign of our ability to succeed no matter of the platform. That success extends to sports. ESPN viewership was notably strong for the quarter across both live events and studio programming with ratings up double digits, and we remain encouraged by how fans are engaging with sports content coming out of the pandemic. Opening weekend of the NBA Playoffs was the most viewed in the past decade, and the ratings have been fantastic with over 4.3 million average viewers through 20 games on ABC and ESPN. Our groundbreaking NHL deal is unique in its exposure across ESPN, ESPN+, ABC and Hulu, culminating with the Stanley Cup Playoffs, which began on May 2. In fact, the combination of the NHL and NBA Playoffs going on simultaneously kicks off an exciting stretch of championship programming that also includes Wimbledon, the NCAA Women's and Men's College World Series, UFC, Boxing and more. Coming off the success of Monday Night Football with Peyton and Eli, we recently debuted our new season-long MLB alternative broadcast, KayRod Cast with Michael Kay and Alex Rodriguez. And we began the inaugural season of PGA TOUR Live on ESPN+, featuring over 4,000 hours of live golf coverage from 35 tournaments. Before I hand it over to Christine, I want to say a few words about our unique synergy machine or franchise flywheel, if you prefer. What sets Disney apart is our ability to reach people with our uniquely engaging content across an array of touch points to make our portfolio of businesses and brands a bigger part of their lives. This enables us to not only create new franchises like Encanto, but to also build on existing IP across our lines of business. One example of this is our Toy Story franchise, which was created almost three decades ago with the release of the first film in 1995 and which is now brought to life across distribution platforms, geographies, businesses and time. In our parks, we've built a portfolio of four immersive Toy Story lands with more than 20 attractions and live character interactions available around the world, as well as two themed hotels. The franchise is the cornerstone of Disney+ with all four feature-length films, as well as the original short series, Forky Asks a Question, exclusively available on the service. And nearly 30 years after the film debuted, Toy Story is still a key consumer products franchise, generating over $1 billion in annual retail sales. And in just a few weeks, Pixar's Lightyear will tell the origin story of everyone's favorite space ranger when it hits theaters on June 17. Of course, Toy Story is just one of our many franchises, but it illustrates our unparalleled ability to bring stories to life in more ways for more people in more places. In fact, our franchise library and capabilities will continue to set us apart even further as we bring our IP to life through next-generation storytelling that is more integrated and connected across consumer touch points. As we look to our second century, that's our mission: to transform entertainment by combining extraordinary storytelling with innovative technology to create an even larger, more connected and magical Disney universe for families and fans around the world. With that, I'll hand it over to Christine.Christine McCarthy -- Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Bob, and good afternoon, everyone. Excluding certain items, diluted earnings per share for the fiscal second quarter were $1.08, an increase of $0.29 versus the prior year quarter. We continue to be pleased with our financial results with total segment operating income increasing by 50% versus the prior year quarter and by over 80% year-to-date. Our Parks, Experiences and Products segment continued to show strong signs of growth and recovery as operating income increased by nearly $2.2 billion year-over-year to approximately $1.8 billion. Growth was primarily driven by our domestic parks, which were open for the entire quarter. In the prior year, Walt Disney World was open, but Disneyland was closed for the entire quarter. We continue to be pleased with the overall demand and attendance trends at our domestic parks. In fact, there were many days in the quarter where we saw demand exceed 2019 levels. However, we are continuing to control attendance through our reservation system with an eye on delivering a quality guest experience. As Bob mentioned earlier, per capita guest spending at our domestic parks increased by over 40% versus Q2 of fiscal 2019 and by 20% versus Q2 of fiscal 2021 with increases across the board on admissions, food and beverage and merchandise. Looking ahead to the third quarter. Our forward-looking demand pipeline at both Walt Disney World and Disneyland remains robust. And while attendance from international visitation is still in the early days of recovery, we are beginning to see some improvements. We are also thrilled that as of the end of March, all of our domestic resorts are now open, a major milestone as we continue to move through the impacts of the pandemic. At our international parks, operating results improved versus the prior year due to growth at Disneyland Paris, which was open in Q2 and closed during the prior year quarter. This was partially offset by lower results at Hong Kong Disneyland and Shanghai Disney, both of which were impacted by COVID-related closures in the quarter. Consumer Products operating income increased in the quarter, reflecting higher sales of merchandise based on several of our iconic franchises, including Mickey and Minnie, Spider-Man, Star Wars and Disney Princess. Moving on to the Media & Entertainment Distribution segment. Second quarter operating income decreased by approximately $900 million versus the prior year as revenue growth of about $1.2 billion, primarily driven by direct-to-consumer was more than offset by higher expenses, including programming and production expenses at linear networks and direct-to-consumer, which came roughly in line with the guidance we gave last quarter. At our linear networks business, operating income in the quarter was $2.8 billion or roughly flat versus the prior year as modest growth at our domestic channels was offset by a decline at our international channels. Domestically, higher operating income at broadcasting was partially offset by lower results at cable. Broadcasting results benefited year-over-year from affiliate revenue growth in addition to higher advertising revenue due to the timing of the Academy Awards, which aired in Q2 this year versus Q3 last year. These impacts were partially offset by higher programming and production costs also driven by the timing of the Academy Awards. At cable, lower operating income versus the prior year was primarily due to an increase in programming and production costs. The largest component of the increased cost was driven by four additional NFL games versus the prior year, consisting of three regular season games, as well as the return of the Pro Bowl. These impacts were partially offset by growth in cable advertising and affiliate revenue. Advertising revenue at ESPN increased by over 30% in the quarter, and third quarter-to-date domestic cash advertising sales at ESPN are currently pacing up significantly benefiting from a return to a pre-COVID NBA schedule that is driving increased viewership and pricing. Total domestic affiliate revenue increased by 5% in the quarter. This was primarily driven by seven points of growth from higher rates, partially offset by a 3-point decline due to a decrease in subscribers. Operating income at our international channels decreased versus the prior year, driven by lower affiliate revenue and an increase in programming and production costs, partially offset by advertising revenue growth. At direct-to-consumer, operating losses widened to almost $900 million due to higher losses at Disney+ and ESPN+ and lower operating income at Hulu. The higher losses at our DTC services were largely driven by higher programming and production expenses, in line with what we noted in our guidance last quarter. At Disney+, programming and production costs grew along with marketing and technology costs to support our growth around the world, partially offset by higher subscription revenue. We ended the quarter with nearly 138 million global paid Disney+ subscribers, reflecting close to 8 million net additions from Q1. A little over half of those net adds were from Disney+ Hotstar, which benefited from the start of the new IPL season toward the end of the second quarter. Internationally, excluding Disney+ Hotstar, we added over 2 million paid subscribers versus the first quarter with Latin America being the strongest contributor, driven by growth of the Combo+ offering. Domestically, net adds of approximately 1.5 million reflect in part the success of tentpole content releases, including Turning Red and Moon Knight, as well as the strength of our bundled and multiproduct offerings. ESPN+ ended Q2 with 22.3 million paid subscribers, a net increase of about 1 million versus Q1. Operating results decreased compared to the prior year due to higher sports programming costs and lower pay-per-view income, partially offset by subscription revenue growth. And at Hulu, which ended the second quarter with 45.6 million paid subscribers, higher subscription and advertising revenues versus the prior year were more than offset by higher programming and production, marketing and technology costs. Moving on to content sales, licensing and other. Results decreased by approximately $300 million versus the prior year, driven by lower TV and SVOD results, which we discussed in our guidance last quarter, in addition to a decrease in home entertainment results. As a reminder, these impacts are deliberately aligned with our strategic decision to utilize our content on our own direct-to-consumer services. Before I touch on a few things that we'd like you to keep in mind for the back half of the fiscal year, I'll quickly note two other relevant items for the second quarter. We recognized a revenue reversal of $1 billion related to the early termination of content licensing agreements with a customer in order to make that content available on our own direct-to-consumer services. Because substantially all of the consideration we received was recognized as revenue at the time that content was originally made available in previous years, we've recorded amounts to terminate the agreement net of remaining amounts of deferred revenue as a revenue reversal. Finally, a note on the impact of some tax-related items on our Q2 EPS. Our diluted earnings per share, excluding certain items of $1.08, includes an adverse impact of approximately $0.11 due to the impact of higher effective tax rate on foreign earnings, including the impact of a recent change in US tax regulations. It's worth mentioning that while our annual effective tax rate has generally been correlated with the US statutory rate, there are many complex puts and takes in any given period, which can lead to these variances quarter-to-quarter. And we currently expect the full year tax rate could remain somewhat elevated above the US statutory rate. Now, as it relates to the third quarter and the second half of fiscal 2022. At DPEP, closures at our Asia theme parks could adversely impact operating income in the third quarter by up to approximately $350 million versus the prior year. As a reminder, Hong Kong Disneyland was closed for the first three weeks of the quarter, Shanghai Disney has been closed quarter-to-date, and we do not yet have visibility to a reopening date. As we continue to strategically prioritize leveraging our content for our own services, we expect content sales, licensing and other operating results to decrease in the third quarter by approximately $150 million to $200 million versus the prior year. The expected decrease is primarily driven by declines in content licensing along with a continued decline in home entertainment results. direct-to-consumer programming and production costs in Q3 are expected to increase by more than $900 million year-over-year, reflecting higher original content expense at Disney+ and Hulu, increased sports rights costs and higher programming fees at Hulu Live. At Disney+, while we still expect higher net adds in the second half of the year versus the first half, it's worth mentioning that we did have a stronger-than-expected first half of the year. Additionally, note that some of the Eastern European markets we're launching in toward the end of Q3, including Poland, are in regions being impacted by geopolitical factors. As it relates to content spend, we previously stated that we expect fiscal year 2022 cash content spend to total as much as $33 billion. We've adjusted that amount to as much as $32 billion to reflect a slightly slower cadence of spending than anticipated during the first half of the year. Note that we are still expecting a strong content slate in the back half of the year. And as Bob mentioned, we are confident in our long-term subscriber guidance of 230 million to 260 million Disney+ subs by fiscal 2024. We also still expect that Disney+ will achieve profitability in fiscal 2024. And with that, I'll turn it back to Alexia, and we would be happy to take your questions.Alexia Quadrani -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Thank you, Christine. We are happy to be back here in person for this call, but to make it easier, I will help direct the questions. [Operator instructions] And with that, operator, we're ready for the first question. 