
OperatorGreetings, and welcome to the Ecolab First Quarter 2021 Earnings Release Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Mike Monahan, Senior Vice President, External Relations. Thank you, Mr. Monahan. You may now begin.Michael Manohan -- Senior Vice President, External Relations

 



Thank you. Hello, everyone, and welcome to Ecolab's first quarter conference call. With me today are Christophe Beck, Ecolab's CEO; and Dan Schmechel, our CFO. A discussion of our results, along with our earnings release and the slides referencing the quarter's result are available on Ecolab's website at ecolab.com/investor.Please take a moment to read the cautionary statements in these materials, which state that this teleconference and the associated supplemental materials include estimates of future performance. These are forward-looking statements and actual results could differ materially from those projected. Factors that could cause actual results to differ are described under the Risk Factors section in our most recent Form 10-K and in our posted materials. We also refer you to the supplemental diluted earnings per share information in the release.Starting with a brief overview, the first quarter showed continued sequential business improvement that was offset by the Texas freeze. Adjusted EPS were $0.81. That EPS included the impact of short-term supply chain and customer disruption from the freeze that were estimated to be $0.10 per share. Healthcare and Life Sciences segment showed further strong sales growth. The Industrial segment experienced a modest sales decline as its growth was offset by the freeze impact. The Other segment significantly narrowed its sales decline from the fourth quarter and the Institutional & Specialty segment sales decline narrowed slightly from the fourth quarter, as sales trends within our U.S. institutional business improved through the end of the first quarter.Our markets are broadly improving and increasing rate of vaccination along with the easing of social restrictions provides further support for the global economic recovery. We expect that broad improvement leveraged by our investments and the work we have done to further our critical innovation, service and digital business drivers as well as our cost efficiency measures will help drive strong comparison against 2020 results over the balance of the year and result in 2021 adjusted earnings per share that exceed 2019 adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding the estimated $0.15 per share impact from the Texas freeze.

 



Over the past year, we've seen the value of Ecolab's premium product and service expertise once again underscored through continued strong new business growth as well as our strengthened customer relationship, despite the difficult market conditions. Our position as a leader in food safety, clean water and healthy environments has become even more important, we believe this position along with our strong, long-term growth opportunities remain robust, driven by our huge remaining market opportunity, our leading global market position, our focus on providing our strong customer base with improved results while lowering their water, energy, and other operating costs and through that our ability to help them meet their growing ESG ambition. We believe the sustainable long-term business drivers will continue to yield superior long-term performance for Ecolab and our investors.And now here's Christophe Beck with his comments.Christophe Beck -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you so much, Mike, and good afternoon, everyone. I'm very pleased with our first quarter, which was right in line with our expectations. Excluding the Texas freeze which we discussed earlier, our business continue to show solid fundamental improvement that gives us confidence in our full year outlook. Our underlying business momentum as well as margin development kept improving across the board, leading to strong results in the first quarter. Excluding the short-term impact of the Texas freeze, our Q1 adjusted EPS showed a significantly narrowing decline versus the prior year, continuing our improving quarterly trends.

 



It's also ahead of what we delivered in Q1 2019, which is a good indication for our expected full year delivery. We did all this while continuing to invest in our major growth initiatives and in our global team capabilities to leverage our position as the markets reopen. Excluding the freeze, all segments stayed strong or showed continued sequential improvement. Our fundamental business strengths kept gaining momentum, especially in our Institutional division, which saw a definitive pickup as we exited March. Our Industrial segment, which was most impacted by the Texas freeze delivered improved underlying growth trends versus the fourth quarter of 2020 and continue to further strengthen its margin.Healthcare & Life Sciences maintained their strong double-digit growth and solid margin improvement. This good start strengthens our confidence for the full year and beyond. Our general market outlook remains largely unchanged versus what we said in previous calls. North America and China are moving ahead of our previous expectations, while Europe and several emerging markets remain behind as they recover from extended lockdowns and are still impacted by a rather slow pace of vaccination.So while the exact timing of the global reopenings might shift a few months, which might also shift some of the recovery into Q3, we expect strong growth in the second quarter driven by improving end markets and accelerated underlying growth momentum. We expect these trends to continue in the second half of the year.Our objective has been to start the year in a position of strength and Q1 shows we clearly achieved this. Our net new business pipeline increased to a record high and our global market shares are strengthening. Our differentiated innovations are continuing to help our customers protect their consumers and our world-class programs help them preserve vital natural resources, while generating very attractive financial returns. And with our new Ecolab Science Certified assurance program we have become the brands that reaasures customers and consumers in times they needed the most. All this underscores our confidence that we are on a path to deliver full-year '21 adjusted EPS ahead of 2019 EPS, excluding the estimated $0.15 impact of the Texas freeze.Looking beyond the pandemic, our longer term position is better than ever. In a world where hygiene standards are rising, where food safety and infection risk awareness has reached new levels, where the expected gap between water supply and water demand is wider than ever, our differentiated value proposition as the global leader in water, hygiene and infection prevention services and technologies positions us uniquely to capture this accelerating growth trend. The combination of these unmatched value proposition and the breadth of our comprehensive offering makes us the obvious partner for global companies to help them deliver on their most ambitious sustainability commitment.Our ability to serve customers at 3 million locations in 170 [Phonetic] countries with 25,000 dedicated on the ground experts in 40 industries allows us to deliver the same standards of quality and performance anywhere around the world. And our new business pipeline breakthrough innovation, unmatched digital footprint, world-class scientific expertise and passion for exceptional execution will continue to lead to sustained growth momentum and continued double-digit earnings growth for the years to come.I look forward to your question. So, Mike, back to you.Michael Manohan -- Senior Vice President, External RelationsThank you. That concludes our formal remarks. As a final note, before we begin Q&A, we plan to hold our 2021 Investor Day on Thursday, September 16, in St. Paul.Operator, would you please begin the question-and-answer period?