  OperatorGood afternoon. Thank you for attending today's J.B. Hunt first quarter 2022 earnings webcast. My name is Hannah, and I will be your moderator for today's call. [Operator instructions] I would now like to pass the conference over to Brad Delco, senior vice president of finance. Please go ahead.Brad Delco -- Vice President of Finance and Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, operator, and good afternoon. Before I introduce the speakers, I would like to take some time to provide some disclosures regarding forward-looking statements. This call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as expects, anticipates, intends, estimates, or similar expressions are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. These statements are based on J.B. Hunt's current plans and expectations and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause future activities and results to be materially different from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. For more information regarding risk factors, please refer to J.B. Hunt's annual report on Form 10-K and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.Now I would like to introduce the speakers on today's call. This afternoon, I am joined by our CEO, John Roberts; our CFO, John Kuhlow; Shelley Simpson, our chief commercial officer and EVP of people and human resources; Nick Hobbs, chief operating officer and president of contract services; Darren Field, president of intermodal; and Brad Hicks, president of highway services. At this time, I'd like to turn the call to our CEO, Mr. John Roberts, for some opening comments. John? 

 



John Roberts -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Brad, and good afternoon. Thank you for joining our call today. We see the start of 2022 and this first quarter's report is both encouraging and revealing. While overall labor and other supply chain issues have continued, we leveraged experience, focus and technology to move through this period with success. Execution across all disciplines within the organization is running at solid performance levels, yet we have clear opportunities for improvement. Our equipment utilization continues to underperform due to consistent challenges with philosophy and the persistent need for new driver hires. We added 1,889 net drivers during 2021 and have so far increased our driver force by just over 1,400 this year. Our hiring teams are built out to levels not seen before in our history. The increased ability to improve hiring performance are enabled by the increases in driver compensation, improved benefits, reliable schedules with predictable home time and a company environment centered on growth for future career expansion. For the past 18 months, our entire people and human resources discipline has been in a comprehensive refresh, presenting the opportunity to make meaningful changes in the quality of services these capable teams can bring to the most critical area of our business, all of our people, current and new. As noted, we announced a multiyear expansion plan for our intermodal fleet recently, coinciding with the renewed commitment between BNSF and JBHT. The opportunities that lie ahead in serving our customers are rejuvenated by this commitment and we anticipate leveraging this unique and industry leading position.

 



 The transportation dynamics of driver shortages and increasing labor costs, high fuel prices, congestion, reliable capacity, not to mention the remarkable impacts that intermodal has in the Scope 3 emission reductions for our shippers gives us confidence in our decisions here. Another important recent development is the formation of our Inclusion Council consisting of a highly cross-functional group of managers and executives whose purpose is to continue to guide the organization toward new awareness and actions. This will no doubt make us a better company. Our leadership team is here and will cover each business more specifically for you. But before that, I will turn the call over to John Kuhlow for his thoughts on the quarter. John?John Kuhlow -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, John, and good afternoon, everyone. My comments today will review our recent performance in the quarter, providing some additional perspective to the results on a consolidated level. I will provide a quick update on capital expenditure plans for the year and then I will spend a little bit more time talking about our priorities around our capital allocation in light of recent market events and opportunities we see to capitalize on long-term sustainable growth in our business. Overall, we are pleased with our performance for the first quarter of the year, highlighted by revenue growth of 33% and operating income growth of 61% versus the prior year period. These results were tempered by some fairly meaningful labor challenges at the start of the quarter related to Omicron variant outbreak. The most notable impact from this challenge was in our DCS business as driver availability and productivity were impacted. We also saw challenges in our rail velocity and intermodal and in product availability in our FMS network. That said, the market tightness presented our highway businesses opportunities to step in to meet customer needs and our technology platform, J.B. Hunt 360, provided us an efficient and effective avenue to source capacity for and on behalf of our customers. This continues to prove out the resiliency of our multimodal business model and our broader mode agnostic supply chain solutions offering. We have discontinued providing COVID-related costs on a quarterly basis a few quarters ago as the numbers were not meaningful to our consolidated results, but we did incur a little over $7 million in direct COVID-related costs for paid time off for those needing the quarantine and also for those needing time to get vaccinated in the quarter. Weather also presented some challenges to our network businesses, but no more or less than what we had expected given our line of work. I would say, similar to my comments last quarter, labor continues to be an area with the greatest inflationary pressure in both professional driver and non-driver salary wages and benefits and we expect that trend to continue throughout the remainder of the year. In the first quarter, we recognized approximately $18 million of gains on sale of equipment in the quarter, which are atypical for us. We had very few trades last year as we hold most of our equipment to support our organic growth. Below the line, our tax rate was 24.4%, slightly lower, while our interest expense was modestly higher year over year, netting us to GAAP EPS of $2.29 or a 67% increase year over year. Continuing to maintain a strong balance sheet with $145 million of cash, zero drawn on our revolver and up to $750 million capacity on the revolver and our net debt balance remains below our targeted level of 1 times trailing EBITDA at 0.6. Last quarter, I provided capex plans of $1.5 billion for the year. And while we are slightly behind plan through the first quarter due to continued constraints and equipment availability, $1.5 billion remains our target for 2022. A quick update on our capital allocation priorities is that it hasn't changed. We will continue to prioritize supporting the growth of our business with reinvestment as needed, remaining committed to our investments in capacity to help serve our growing customer base. We recently increased our quarterly dividend to $0.40 a share or 33% from prior levels and keeping with our dividend strategy. We also intend to incorporate mindful share repurchases and opportunistically execute on M&A opportunities. We remain conservatively leveraged to maintain our investment grade rating. However, we are not afraid to increase leverage as opportunities arise. I'd like to reemphasize that investments in our business will continue to be supported by sound financial discipline and maintaining fair and reasonable returns on our invested capital. This keeps our business strong, healthy and capable of growing to meet the growing needs of our customers. This concludes my remarks. And I will now turn it over to Shelley.Shelley Simpson -- Chief Commercial Officer and Executive Vice President of People and Human Resources Thank you, John, and good afternoon. My commercial update will focus on general market conditions and how we are serving our customers' needs by leveraging our investments in our people, our physical assets and our multimodal digital freight platform, J.B. Hunt 360. I'll provide an update on this season, which will provide some insight into our expectations for the year. And finally, I will provide some priorities that our organization will be focused on achieving this year for our people and for and on behalf of our customers. As has been the case much of the last two years, the market remains extremely dynamic as also evidenced by our experience in the first quarter with disruptions across the supply chain related to the Omicron variant, weather events across the network, labor availability and rapidly rising fuel and commodity cost. We believe our mode-agnostic approach with our assets and technology platform, J.B. Hunt 360, both of which are powered and enabled by our people, allow us to dynamically meet and respond to the needs of our customers. As the quarter progressed, the market finally began to find more balance, which was evidenced by the expansion in margin we saw in our Highway Services segments. As we have discussed for some time, freight has been moving inefficiently over the last two years creating additional costs for our customers and additional costs for our business. Five years ago, we launched internally our cycle of innovation to disrupt, adapt and to accelerate, which happened to coincide with the launch of J.B. Hunt 360. As we hit the five-year anniversary for J.B. Hunt 360, I'd like to reflect on our journey and our investments. The investments we have made are intended to disrupt our industry. We, as an organization, had to adapt and make sure we had the right organizational structure and processes in place to execute our strategy. A month before the pandemic began, our organization transitioned to the theme, accelerate. Going forward, we will continue with our current theme to accelerate. We will accelerate the speed at which we serve our customers, accelerate our investments in areas with promising long-term growth potential, and accelerate our ability to react to the needs of our customers. Under this theme of acceleration, we will remain focused on opportunities to add value to our customers as our people, technology and assets come together to provide highly engineered cost-saving solutions. We believe this remains the right recipe for long-term compounding sustainable growth and we will continue to approach the market that way while maintaining our financial discipline on fair and appropriate returns on our capital. We are now almost halfway through bid season and we are extremely encouraged by the feedback and the confidence that our customers have in us to deliver an efficient and cost effective solution for their shipping needs. As we sit here today, demand for our services and in particular, the asset side of our business is the strongest I have seen in my 27-year career at the company and this demand continues to put pressure on our need for more equipment and people. Going forward, we have a lot of confidence in our plan to grow our capacity. And we believe it's a matter of when, not if, some of the labor challenges, which includes our rail providers, will moderate and ultimately assist us with improved fluidity. With elevated energy prices, customers are needing and expecting a lot from us, but capacity in an intermodal network remains extremely tight. Thankfully, our scroller services allow us to continue to offer capacity solutions and say yes to our customers with our ability to source that capacity in the marketplace for J.B. Hunt 360. Finally, I want to take some time to provide you some of our priorities for the year. As I discussed last quarter, we believe that market dynamics will present us with a lot of opportunities to grow and that remains the case today, as well as a priority. But I also believe our opportunity to provide and create efficiencies for our customers, is greater this year than at any point in the last two years. Our investments in our container fleet, trailing fleet, technology and people have us in the best position to provide the right solutions for our customers in three key areas: cost, capacity and service, more than any point since the beginning of this pandemic. I strongly believe in our team's ability to execute for and on behalf of our customers, delivering value and efficient solutions and this will remain our priority, as well as it has always. This strategy, combined with our financial discipline, gives us even greater confidence as we have set out to achieve our mission to create the most efficient transportation network in North America. That concludes my comments. I'd now like to turn it over to Nick.Nick Hobbs -- Chief Operating Officer and President of Contract Services Thank you, Shelley, and good afternoon. Today, I am going to review the performance of both our Dedicated and Final Mile segments, as well as give some updated thoughts on current trends in some of our high level expectations as we move throughout the year. I will also provide some perspective on the current challenges we face and the industry are facing in sourcing both equipment and professional drivers. I will start my comments on Dedicated. At the expense of sounding like a broken record, our Dedicated business continues to have a lot of momentum as our backlog and pipeline for new business and start-ups continues to build to record levels. After coming off a record year of selling roughly 2,500 trucks in 2021, the first quarter kept pace with around 600 trucks sold in what is normally a slower time of the year for new business sales. As it pertains to the results in the quarter, revenue grew 28%, driven primarily by the average fleet size that was about 2,000 trucks or 20% larger than a year ago, which I believe is the true standout for our organization and in the industry. Margins in the quarter remained under pressure despite improving sequentially as a result of start-up cost as we onboarded almost half the accounts in the first quarter than what we did all of last year. I will also share that our operations and productivity were negatively impacted by labor challenges brought on by Omicron variant in January and weather events in February. That only added to some of the start-up expenses we incurred. That said and hopefully, with COVID and weather events largely behind us, we saw performance and momentum out of the segment in March, which we believe should carry forward. Our new accounts onboarded last year are performing as expected, which gives us confidence in our approach to the market and our annual price escalators will continue to protect us against broader inflationary pressures. Our concerns remain on both equipment and labor availability, namely professional drivers as our needs for both remain extremely elevated and may ultimately govern our pace of growth if demand remains or accelerates from current levels. In terms of priorities going forward, we will remain focused on the execution of our growth plan, as well as maintaining our culture of operational excellence, high service and safety, which supports the value we deliver to our customers. Shifting to Final Mile, revenue grew about 8% versus previous year period, driven by newly awarded accounts over the last year, but offset by some of the supply chain challenges impacting some of the primary markets we serve in this segment, namely appliances and furniture. We also announced and closed on the acquisition of Zenith Freight Lines in the quarter, which contributed about $10 million in revenue for the one month it was consolidated in our results. We continue to make investments in our service quality and performance in order to differentiate ourselves in the market. We believe these investments are wise over the long-term as safety and service will be the cornerstone to our long-term growth and success. As we discussed last quarter, we are coming off a strong year of new business sales, giving us confidence in our differentiated service product. This confidence supported our decision to put some of our underperforming business at risk which we have done over the last few months. While it's too early to come to conclusions on all the underperforming accounts, we have been successful at getting meaningful rate increases at several accounts that should support better earnings and margin performance ahead. We remain focused on generating appropriate financial returns on our business so we can reinvest to provide more capacity and services for our customers. Going forward, our priorities remain investing in the business to support its growth, but with some greater emphasis on improving the profitability in this segment in 2022. Closing out with some operational updates. As I alluded to in my dedicated comments, the equipment market and professional driver market remain extremely tight. We have clearly had success growing our equipment levels and professional driver workforce to meet the most of the needs of our intermodal and dedicated businesses. But let me be clear, it hasn't been easy and it certainly hasn't been cheap. We have relied heavily on some of our key OEMs to help support our growth, but I am afraid it's not enough and we are exploring new suppliers across all of our areas of need to support our growth. That concludes my remarks. So I will turn it over to Darren.Darren Field -- President of Intermodal Thank you, Nick, and hello to everyone on the call. My comments this afternoon will recap the performance of our intermodal business in the quarter. I will also want to give some comments on our recent joint announcement with the BNSF to improve intermodal capacity challenges and what our priorities are for the business as we continue to invest in our people and capacity for meeting the strong and growing demand for intermodal services in the months, quarters and years ahead. I will start with the performance of the Intermodal segment in the quarter. Demand for the intermodal capacity remained extremely strong throughout the first quarter and importantly, it remains so today. As has been the case for some time, our ability to execute on all of the demand for our intermodal capacity was hampered by rail velocity and to a lesser extent, the retention of our equipment from customers. Box turns did deteriorate sequentially from fourth quarter, which is in line with seasonality, but nonetheless, still disappointing at current levels. The Omicron variant did impact labor availability for our rail providers and our customers and in our operations as well. And thankfully, those trends did improve as the quarter progressed, particularly for our customers, as well as in our operations. Volumes for the month for the quarter were down 1% in January, plus 17% in February and plus 6% in March. Keep in mind, February was a fairly easy comp due to some weather events in 2021. We were successful at onboarding over 4,300 containers in the quarter and I am proud of our team for their execution on that front, which puts us in better position to meet the growing needs of our customers. We plan on taking delivery of the remaining balance of the 6,000 containers from our 2021 order during the second quarter. We did see approximately $14 million in gains on sale of equipment, which is unusual for us, but nonetheless should be transparently disclosed. Importantly, the core of our business is performing well in light of the inflationary and fluidity challenges facing the business and network, which is supported by our people running the operations and our customers who value our service offering. During the last quarter, J.B. Hunt and BNSF announced a joint initiative to substantially improve capacity in the intermodal marketplace while meeting the expanding needs of our current customers. This is an important moment for our organization as the largest railroad and domestic intermodal carrier will be collaborating even more closely together to provide an unparalleled intermodal product, leveraging the talents, skills and technologies of both companies to provide a seamless door-to-door solutions for our customers. With some channel partners leaving the BNSF network, we were provided an opportunity and have developed a plan to grow our intermodal container count to 150,000 in the next three to five years. This represents 40% growth from our count at the end of 2021. For the record, let me state the easiest thing we can do is go out and buy more containers. This will be a significant endeavor for our organization and will require investment in people, equipment and technology to get our desired outcomes. Importantly, these investments will be done with the same financial discipline as in the past. Needless to say, I'm excited and energized for our organization as we grow to meet the needs of our customers. As we look forward, I thought I would share a little bit of perspective about our priorities for Intermodal this year. As Shelley discussed, we are encouraged by the level of demand we are seeing throughout the bid process for our capacity, which continues to give us confidence to make investments. We strongly believe in the value proposition we can deliver on the three key items our customers care about, which is cost capacity and service. As it stands today, there are inefficiencies across the supply chain and within the rail network that is impacting velocity. We are cautiously optimistic that velocity will improve which will create more capacity for our customers while improving efficiencies and costs in our operations. Simply put, this is a good outcome for our rail providers, our customers and for J.B. Hunt. We will continue to prioritize investments needed to support our growth to help us meet the robust demand we are seeing for intermodal capacity. In closing, Intermodal's value proposition remains strong, supporting our view of long-term sustainable growth. We continue to see ample opportunities to convert highway freight, as well as transloading cargo into our domestic containers. We believe our service backed by our people and the ownership of our equipment is differentiated in the market and even more so when combined with the power of the J.B. Hunt 360 platform that allows us to source capacity efficiently when needed. That concludes my remarks, so I'll turn it over to Brad Hicks.Brad Hicks -- President of Highway Services Thank you, Darren, and good afternoon, everyone. I'm going to cover the performance of our Highway Service businesses, which includes both integrated capacity solutions and trucks. We continue to see tremendous opportunity to leverage our investments in our people, assets and technology to support the growth opportunities presented to us by our customers. As evidenced by our results, I think we were able to demonstrate that in the first quarter. So with that, let me go ahead and dive into the performance of the segments that make up highway and provide some perspective on our priorities moving forward, as well as some perspective on the market currently. I'd like to start with truck at JBT. Revenue grew 77% year over year to $264 million, while operating income improved to $31.5 million in the quarter. This represents some of the strongest quarterly performances in the segment going back to 2005, yet with less than 20% of the company trucks or assets than we had running in the segment at that time. This continues to support our decision to invest in trailing assets for this segment while leveraging our investments in our technology, specifically J.B. Hunt 360, to source the most efficient capacity to move freight for and on behalf of our customers. As Shelley mentioned in her comments, demand for our trailing assets, which is our 360box product, remains strong as customers continue to realize the efficiencies and benefits of giving us a holistic view of their freight and allow us to blend their live and drop trailer networks with a single-source solution. We continue to see strong customer demand for this product and service offering as they recognize these benefits. Going forward, we will continue to prioritize our investments in our people, growing our trailing fleet and leveraging our technology to support long-term sustainable growth in the segment while maintaining our financial discipline around acceptable returns on invested capital. To close out on JBT, you might have noticed an update to some of the stats we shared on this segment, which we believe better aligns with how the business has transformed with the introduction of our 360box service offering by managing a trailing capacity fleet and sourcing the most efficient capacity to move it for our customers, whether it's our truck or asset or someone else's. Shifting gears now to ICS. We delivered $675 million of revenue in the quarter with year-over-year growth of 29% versus the prior year period. This growth was driven by more balance between volumes and revenue per load than in our more recent periods as our segments volume grew 12% year over year. Specific to truckload volumes, our growth was 15% versus the prior year period. We have seen a moderation in spot opportunities as of late, which we attribute partly to more customer shifting freight out of the spot market into published or contractual business but also recognizing a movement in the market toward more balance. Taking that a step further for the quarter, our published business was up more than 20% while our spot business was up low single digits. That said, we continue to see record levels of freight opportunities from our customers to execute in our platform, J.B. Hunt 360, which we think demonstrates the power of our platform to source the most efficient means of moving freight for and on behalf of our customers. Going forward, we will continue to focus on leveraging our people and our technology to provide an efficient solution for our customers. We believe this will support our long-term growth and will be supported by fair and adequate returns on invested capital. In closing, I'd like to leave you with our confidence to continue to invest in the areas I've highlighted for you, and that is our trailing capacity, our people and our technology. We continue to see how each complements one another to provide the most efficient solution for our customers. Our customers have and always will remain focused on cost, capacity and service. And if we can differentiate ourselves and deliver on all three, we believe that is the right recipe for long-term compounding sustainable growth. As we continue to deliver on our value proposition for customers, we stay true to our mission, to create the most efficient transportation network in North America. That concludes my comments, so I'll turn it back to the operator to open the call for Q&A. 