  OperatorGood afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for joining DocuSign's second-quarter fiscal year '22 earnings conference call. As a reminder, this call is being recorded and will be available for replay from the investor relations section of the website following the call. [Operator instructions] I will now pass the call over to Annie Leschin, head of investor relations. Please go ahead.Annie Leschin -- Head of Investor Relations Thank you, operator. Good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to DocuSign's second-quarter fiscal year '22 earnings conference call. On the call today, we have DocuSign's CEO, Dan Springer; and CFO, Cynthia Gaylor. The press release announcing our second-quarter results was issued earlier today and is posted on our investor relations website. Before we get started, I'd like everyone to know that we plan to participate virtually in a few upcoming events. These include Wolfe's Inaugural TMT Conference on September 8, Citi's 2021 Global Technology Conference on September 13, Piper Sandler's Global Technology Conference on September 13, and Jefferies Software Conference on September 14. You can find more information about these events in the press releases section on our investor relations website.As other events come up, we'll make additional announcements. Now let me remind everyone that some of our statements on today's call are forward-looking. We believe our assumptions and expectations related to these forward-looking statements are reasonable, but they are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results or performance to be materially different. In particular, our expectations regarding the effects of the evolving COVID-19 pandemic on our business, including the potential effects of the pandemic on our customers' businesses and the pace of digital transformation, are based on our best estimates at this time and are therefore subject to change. Please read and consider the risk factors in our filings with the SEC, together with the content of this call. Any forward-looking statements are based on our assumptions and expectations to date. And except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update these statements in light of future events or new information. During this call, we will present GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. Non-GAAP financial measures exclude stock-based compensation expense, employer payroll tax on employee stock transactions, amortization of acquired intangible assets, amortization of debt discounts and issuance costs from our notes, acquisition-related expenses, fair value adjustments to strategic investments, impairment of lease-related assets, and as applicable, other special items. In addition, we provide non-GAAP weighted average share count and infosrmation regarding free cash flows and billings. These non-GAAP measures are not intended to be considered in isolation from, a substitute for, or superior to, our GAAP results. We encourage you to consider all measures when analyzing our performance. For information regarding our non-GAAP financial information, the most directly comparable GAAP measures and a quantitative reconciliation of those figures, please refer to today's press release, which can be found again on our website at investor.docusign.com. Now I'd like to turn the call over to Dan. Dan? Dan Springer -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Annie. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to our second-quarter earnings call for fiscal 2022. Today, I'd like to focus my comments on three key areas: our strong Q2 results, how companies are increasingly digitizing their agreement processes, and how we're cementing DocuSign as a critical pillar of the anywhere economy. Jumping straight into our second-quarter financials. DocuSign's strong performance continued as we delivered a balance of growth and profitability at scale. Revenue grew 50% year over year to $512 million, and billings grew 47% year over year to $595 million. Our international business continued its strong growth, up 71% year over year. We expanded our customer base beyond the 1 million mark, including the addition of 13,000 new direct customers and some very significant CRM wins with large customers. Finally, we continue to see a strong expansion and upsell motion for eSignature and the broader Agreement Cloud Suite, driving our dollar net retention of 124%. Overall, I am proud of how our team has continued to stay in front of the evolving COVID business environment. We are helping organizations of all sizes leverage the power of the Agreement Cloud to digitize the foundation of doing business, the agreement process. Not only do customers see DocuSign as a vital part of their response to COVID. Many have also seen a better way of doing business from anywhere. And we believe that will become their new normal. One of our customers, Stacy Johansen, who is the President of Downeast Insurance, told us that when COVID hit and they had to close their physical doors, DocuSign saved them. In her words, and I quote, If it weren't for the ability to get an electronic signature, we wouldn't have written half of the new business we did last year. Having succeeded beyond expectations by fully embracing digital tools, Downeast resolved to do business this way from here on. Another example is one of Canada's largest automotive dealers. In response to COVID, the company adopted DocuSign eSignature and DocuSign payments to support remote sales and service. The program was so successful, it spawned a larger initiative to offer digital transactions across their entire dealer network. As one company executive put it, "DocuSign has become part of facilitating a full breadth of remote experiences." These are just a few examples of what we're seeing again and again, being able to do business and operate from anywhere is what people now expect, plus it saves time, money and trees. To cement DocuSign's position as a critical pillar of the anywhere economy, we are executing on three core themes of the business. The first is to stay focused on customer success. We are helping our customers and partners to shift their perspective from reactive to proactive, and enacting enterprisewide programs to automate and digitize their end-to-end agreement processes. Let me highlight just a couple of examples. One of our largest U.S. state government customers saw a substantial increase in the thousands of employees accessing their systems remotely. We were able to scale our eSignature solution to allow the HR and the administration teams to handle the increased load. In addition, the agency rolled out DocuSign CLM to simplify three complex workflows, resulting in 97% of all contracts being completed in significantly less time. And we're not only helping state agencies. Today, DocuSign serves the majority of the cabinet agencies in the U.S. federal sector. In the private sector, one of the world's largest media and entertainment companies has been a long-standing DocuSign user and has digitized over 400 paper-based workflows with us, growing adoption by 100% year over year. Now the company has deployed in multiple use cases and has seen a multimillion dollar return on their investment in the DocuSign Agreement Cloud. The second theme is giving our customers an Agreement Cloud platform they can grow into. That means offering the most comprehensive set of applications and integrations available for the agreement process. They can start with eSignature and then expand into other areas like contract life cycle management, and into specialized solutions in verticals like mortgage and life sciences. With every DocuSign Agreement Cloud release, we keep adding to our capabilities and differentiating our platform. Let me note some of our latest highlights. For eSignature, we debuted new ID verification capability that allow both automatic and manual identity review by senders. It's now also possible for an identity check to be done once and then remain valid until the envelope is complete, dramatically improving the experience for sender and signer alike. We've improved the embedding and management of our Click Wrap solution. And one of our largest retail customers recently completed more than 1 million transactions using DocuSign Click. We introduced a new integration and add in for Splunk, bringing the security insights provided by DocuSign Monitor into one of the most popular enterprise monitoring tools. We continue to grow the number of notarized transactions completed on our platform. And today, DocuSign Notary supports remote online notaries in 18 U.S. states, with more coming in the future. Turning to CLM, two key areas stand out for me. The first is our continued build-out of buy-side CLM capabilities. We have released Obligation Management, which is huge, and a connector for our key partner, Ariba. This adds to other buy-side connector shift earlier this year. The second CLM highlight is our enhancement of AI-based search and reporting capabilities within the offering we call CLM+. It features automatic contract term extraction and allows for searching of agreements, not only by key words but also by AI-driven concepts such as renewal dates within the next 90 days. This saves a huge amount of time and manual effort. And then there's the trust and security enhancements to the DocuSign platform. We continue to bring enhanced security features to our product suite, with solutions like DocuSign Monitor, which I mentioned earlier. We are also deepening our trust and security relationship with our customers. For example, we recently held a number of CISO summits, and we are collaborating closely across our customer base in trust and security topics where there's tremendous demand. Together, these advancements in our products move us closer to a unified platform of record for agreement and agreement processes. Finally, the third theme is our international business. This remains a highlight for us, as our teams outside the U.S. contributed more revenue in Q2 than in any other quarter to date. The key drivers for EMEA, LATAM and APJ mirror those that we've seen here in the U.S. And by way of example, one of Europe's fastest-growing enterprise-focused start-ups, Celonis, saw a dramatic increase in the volume of contracts that needed to be generated, reviewed and processed, a workflow that had been largely manual to date. But by implementing DocuSign CLM, the company addressed these inefficiencies, saving the legal team countless hours and delivering contracts 80% faster than before. Further expansion is already planned into the procurement and HR team. In APJ, one of our largest financial services customers, the Commonwealth Bank of Australia, expanded its number of use cases and saw a substantial increase in transaction volumes. One team saw a 175% increase in documents processed through DocuSign, and another noted a 17-day faster time to revenue. The customer is now embarking on an automation project to further integrate and streamline the experience up and downstream. As these examples indicate, we're pleased with how our international business is accelerating, driven by the same factors of speed, cost efficiency and user experience that have propelled us domestically. OK. Before I hand it over to Cynthia to walk you through the financials, I want to mention another factor that has always been central to DocuSign: our environmental impact. Our eSignature solution alone has replaced billions of pieces of paper, along with significant amounts of the waste, water, carbon and wood that are required to make and transport that paper. In addition, to help fight global warming, DocuSign is also committed to achieving carbon neutrality by 2022. As part of this effort, we have launched an ESG portion of our website and have organized a multifunctional team to coordinate our overall sustainability strategy. We will continue to help our customers realize their ESG goals, while we work to be a positive example in the running of our own business. I'm incredibly pleased with DocuSign's performance in the second quarter. Our team has continued to deliver across the board and has done so with a real focus on customer and partner success. I look forward to talking to you in the Q&A shortly. For now, over to Cynthia.Cynthia Gaylor -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Dan, and good afternoon, everyone. Q2 was another solid quarter as we outperformed on both the top and bottom line. We crossed the $0.5 billion mark in revenue for the first time this quarter. And once again, we demonstrated our ability to balance growth and profitability with solid operating results and strong cash flow. Total revenue increased 50% year over year to $512 million. Subscription revenue grew 52% year over year to $493 million, thanks to strong customer demand, early renewals and upsells driven by accelerated consumption from our expanding installed base. Our international business had another outstanding performance with strength across the board, led by EMEA. In total, our international revenue grew 71% year over year to almost $114 million, representing a record 22% of total revenue. Billings grew 47% year over year to $595 million as we continue to see strong early renewals and expansions of existing customers. Total customers crossed the 1 million mark with more than 65,000 new customers added in the quarter. This brought our total customer count in Q2 to 1,053,000 worldwide, an increase of 41% compared to a year ago. We added 13,000 direct customers, bringing the total to 148,000, an increase of 50% year over year. We also saw customers with an annual spend greater than $300,000 grow 37% year over year to a total of 714 customers. For the fifth quarter in a row, dollar net retention exceeded the high end of our historical range coming in at 124%. Total non-GAAP gross margin for the second quarter was 82%, compared with 78% a year ago, while subscription gross margin was 85%, compared with 83% a year ago. Our strong revenue growth again outpaced spending this quarter. Non-GAAP operating margin was 19% or nearly $100 million, compared with 10% or $34 million in the second quarter of last year. Investing for top-line growth remains a high priority for us in the second half of the year, including increasing sales capacity and marketing programs, innovating our products and scaling our back office systems and processes. We see the tight talent market as an opportunity to up level and develop our people internally while adding complementary skills as we drive the next phase of growth. Non-GAAP net income for Q2 was $98 million, compared with $35 million in the second quarter of last year. We ended the quarter with 6,551 employees, an increase of 31% over last year. Our client -- our cash flow remained robust in Q2. Operating cash flow came in at $178 million or 35% margin due to continued top-line outperformance. This compares with $118 million or 35% in the same quarter a year ago. Free cash flow reached $162 million or 32% margin in the quarter, compared to $100 million or 29% in the prior year. We exited Q2 with $887 million in cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and investments. Now let me turn to guidance. Clearly, the last 1.5 years has been exceptional in nearly every way for DocuSign. In the last six quarters, we have scaled our business nearly twofold, more than doubled our operating profitability, nearly doubled our customer count and reached our highest dollar net retention levels yet. Any way you look at it, this is impressive growth at scale. Halfway through fiscal 2022, we have seen customers renewing earlier in the year as they use more envelopes and their purchases catch up with consumption levels. While we do not expect to maintain the peak levels of growth seen at the height of the pandemic, our value proposition is strong. Regardless of whether people go back to the office, we don't see them going back to pen and paper. Turning to the numbers. For the third-quarter and fiscal-year '22, we anticipate: Total revenue of $526 million to $532 million in Q3, or growth of 37% to 39% year over year; and $2.078 billion to $2.088 billion for fiscal '22, or growth of 43% to 44% year over year. Of this, we expect subscription revenue of $505 million to $511 million in Q3, or growth of 38% to 39% year over year, and $1.995 billion to $2.005 billion for fiscal '22, or growth of 44% to 45% year over year. For billings, we expect $585 million to $597 million in Q3, or growth of 33% to 36% year over year; and $2.409 billion to $2.429 billion for fiscal '22, or growth of 40% to 41% year over year. We expect non-GAAP gross margin to be 79% to 81% for both Q3 and fiscal '22. We expect non-GAAP operating margin to be 17% to 19% for Q3 and 16% to 18% for fiscal '22. We expect to see a de minimis amount of interest and other income, and we expect a tax provision of approximately $6 million to $9 million for fiscal '22. We expect fully diluted weighted average shares outstanding of 205 million to 210 million for both Q3 and fiscal '22. In closing, we ended the first half of the year in a strong financial position. We are focused on investing for future growth, scaling our business and cementing DocuSign as a critical pillar of the anywhere economy. We would like to thank our customers and especially our DocuSign team for their partnership and hard work in helping us deliver another successful quarter. We look forward to continuing to execute in the second half of the year. Thanks again for joining us today. We will now open up the call for Q&A. Operator? 