
OperatorGood morning and welcome to the Boston Scientific First Quarter 2021 Financial Results Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to turn the conference over to Susan Lisa, Vice President, Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Susie Lisa -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



Thank you, Andrew. Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us. With me on today's call are Mike Mahoney, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Dan Brennan, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.We issued a press release earlier this morning announcing our Q1 2021 results, which included reconciliations of the non-GAAP measures used in the release. We have posted a copy of that release, as well as reconciliations of the non-GAAP measures used in today's call, to the Investor Relations section of our website under the heading Financials and Filings.The duration of this morning's call will be approximately one hour. Mike will focus his comments on Q1 performance, as well as future catalysts and the outlook for our business, including Q2 and fiscal year 2021 guidance. Dan will review the financials for the quarter, provide more details regarding our Q2 and fiscal '21 guidance and then we'll take your questions. During today's Q&A session, Mike and Dan will be joined by our Chief Medical Officers, Dr. Ian Meredith and Dr. Ken Stein.Before we begin, I'd like to remind everyone that on the call, operational revenue growth excludes the impact of foreign currency fluctuation and organic revenue growth further excludes acquisitions and divestitures for which there are no comparable period net sales. Relevant acquisitions for organic growth versus 2020 and 2019 include Preventice, which closed March 1, 2020 and Vertiflex and BTG Interventional Medicine, which closed in May and mid-August of 2019, respectively. Divestitures include BTG Specialty Pharmaceuticals, which closed March 1, 2021 and the global embolic microspheres portfolio and Intrauterine health franchise, which were divested in mid-August 2019 and second quarter of 2020, respectively.

 



Guidance excludes the recently announced Lumenis Surgical acquisition and the BTG Specialty Pharmaceutical businesses, which as I mentioned was divested as of March 1 2021, one month earlier than originally anticipated. For more information, please refer to Slide 9 of our financial and operating highlights deck, which may be found on our Investor Relations website.On this call, all references to sales and revenue, unless otherwise specified, are organic. Finally growth goals of 6% to 8%, excluding COVID, represent comparisons between time periods in which results are not materially impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic.Of note, this call contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws, which may be identified by words like anticipate, expect, believe, estimate, and other similar words. They include, among other things, the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic upon the company's operations and financial results, statements about our growth and market share, new product approvals and launches, clinical trials, cost savings and growth opportunities, our cash flow and expected use, our financial performance, including sales margins and earnings, as well as our tax rates, R&D spend and other expenses.Factors that may cause such differences include those described in the Risk Factors section of our most recent 10-K and subsequent 10-Qs filed with the SEC. These statements speak only as of today's date and we disclaim any intention or obligation to update them.

 



At this point, I'll turn it over to Mike for his comments. Mike?Michael F. Mahoney -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Susie. And thank you everyone for joining us today. I'm pleased to report a good start to 2021 with a return to growth versus both '20 and '19. Financial results had exceeded our guidance for both revenue and EPS and multiple significant clinical milestones and continued advancement of our category leadership strategy with new product launches and tuck-in M&A, including Preventice in cardiac diagnostics and Lumenis, which is a leader in laser technology for kidney stones.Total company first quarter operational sales grew 5.6% versus 2020. Organic sales grew 6% versus '20 and 3% versus '19, exceeding expectations as the second half of the quarter came in stronger than anticipated, procedure recovery and market share gains across many of our businesses and regions. Many of these gains were fueled by new and ongoing product launches, most notably our Ranger DCB, Eluvia DES, POLARx catheter, LUX-Dx implantable cardiac monitor and their Vercise Genus Deep Brain Stimulation platform.First quarter adjusted EPS of $0.37 grew 33% versus '20 and 5% versus '19, which exceeds the high end of guidance by $0.03, primarily due to higher sales performance and spend controls. Adjusted operating margin of 24.3% was in line with our expectations and demonstrated solid progress from 2020 and we're really pleased with our free cash flow generation of $213 million and adjusted free cash flow of $404 million. We believe these better than expected results are indicative of our ability to regain our pre-pandemic six-year track record of excellent performance as we execute against our strategic plan, objectives and drive toward ex-COVID financial goals for 6% to 8% organic sales growth, continued operating margin expansion, double-digit adjusted EPS growth and importantly, an improved ability to deploy our healthy free cash flow.We're encouraged by the outlook of the rest of the year and we're emerging from the headwinds of the pandemic well-positioned, given our category leadership positions, innovative pipeline, commercial execution, enhanced digital capabilities and ongoing expansion into higher growth markets. And we look forward to highlighting these capabilities with you further at our Investor Day this year, which will be held on Wednesday, September 22.So looking ahead, we continue to expect a steady recovery from the pandemic with less of an impact from COVID-19 in the second quarter versus first quarter and more normal procedure levels in second half '21. Given the first quarter outperformance, we're narrowing the range for both full-year organic revenue growth and adjusted EPS. So compared to 2020, we're targeting second quarter '21 organic revenue growth of 44% to 48% and full year, plus 15% to plus 18%. Compared to '19, we're targeting second quarter organic revenue growth of 3% to 6% and for the full year growth of 2% to 5%.Our second quarter adjusted EPS estimate is $0.36 to $0.38 and we're updating full year adjusted EPS to a revised range of $1.53 to $1.60. Dan will also give the revenue contribution from Preventice and we continue to expect the second half '21 close for Lumenis.So now I'll provide some additional highlights in first quarter '21, along with some commentary on second quarter and the outlook. So, regionally in first quarter on an operational basis versus '20, the U.S. grew 9%; Asia-Pac grew 9%; Middle East-Africa grew 2%; and the emerging market sales grew 13%. Growth in the U.S. is supported by procedure recovery, particularly in March, along with new product launches across the entire portfolio. Europe, Middle East, Africa was driven by new product innovations with particular strength in PI, EP and Endo as the majority of markets grew in the first quarter versus first quarter '19 even as some countries experienced lockdowns and related procedural impacts.In Asia, every market grew in the first quarter versus first quarter '20 and going forward, in Japan, despite COVID uncertainties, we expect full year growth versus 2019, thanks to the diversified portfolio and new product launches such as Ranger DCB, STABLEPOINT, WATCHMAN FLX and LithoVue, which is expected later in the year. China sales grew 20% versus 2020 and were flat versus '19, which reflects the negative impact of tender pricing for drug-eluting stents and balloons. The rest of the China portfolio saw strong double-digit growth in first quarter versus '19 with particularly notable momentum behind both Complex PCI and imaging products, as well as Endo, Euro and PI. We continue to expect full year '21 double-digit growth for China versus both 2020 and 2019.I'll now provide some additional commentary on the business units. Urology and Pelvic Health continue to expand market share and sales grew organically 9% versus 2020 and first quarter growth was balanced regionally with strengths in Stone and Prostate Health. Product highlights include continued momentum with SpaceOAR Vue Hydrogel, which drove double-digit growth overall for the SpaceOAR business. Rezum also grew double-digits, fueled in part by the publication of the compelling five-year results demonstrating Rezum's durability with a low 4.4% reintervention rate for BPH patients. And looking ahead we're excited to continue to build out our Stone portfolio and extend our global footprint with the acquisition of the surgical business of Lumenis and its leading laser fiber technology. The deal is expected to close in the second half of the year.For Endoscopy, sales grew organically 10% versus 2020 and Endo continues to grow market share globally with double-digit growth in all regions versus '19 led by strength in key franchises such as pancreaticobiliary, hemostasis and infection prevention, and thanks to recent launches in our differentiated technologies such as Spyglass DS, Discover and AXIOS. EXALT-D momentum is gradually improving as we have started to see capacity per hospitals to establish new protocols, hospital access has increased and the Medicare outpatient pass through payment. We also continue to target launch of our single-use bronchoscope in the second half '21 and remain bullish on the long-term opportunity for single-use scopes broadly.In Cardiac Rhythm Management, sales were up 1% organically versus 2020 and we believe that our CRM performance was slightly below the overall market. For the full year '21, we forecast a slight tailwind from the replacement cycle and anticipate beginning enrollment mid-year in MODULAR ATP, which is our dual track clinical study for a stand-alone leadless pacemaker, as well as to provide pacing and anti-tachycardia pacing to EMBLEM S-ICD patients. Our LUX-Dx implantable cardiac monitor launch is gaining U.S. share, given its high-quality ECG signals, arrhythmia algorithm performance and streamlined back-end monitoring.We closed the Preventice acquisition as of March 1 and are pleased with the Preventice portfolio, which grew mid-20% on a pro forma basis for the full quarter. And despite recent reimbursement challenges of one segment of testing, long term ECG, we expect plus-20% pro forma growth for Preventice in '21, given its ability to offer all four testing modalities with Bradycardia in many -- and excellent detection algorithms. We're excited to have such a unique position in the field of cardiac diagnostics and the ability to offer all diagnostic modalities, including the ambulatory ECG, LUX-Dx, ICM and the HeartLogic detection alert for heart failure.Electrophysiology sales were up 8% versus 2020 and POLARx, which is our second-generation single-shot cryo catheter is off to a strong start in Europe and taking share, given its effectiveness and ease of use. STABLEPOINT, our force-sensing therapeutic catheter with DiresctSense is also enjoying a good start in both Japan and Europe and has begun enrollment in its U.S. IDE trial called Newton-AF.In Neuromodulation, organic revenue grew 2% versus 2020 and the first quarter result is an improvement sequentially despite the challenges of higher rates of spinal cord stim patient cancellations in December that also seeped into January and February due to the COVID surge as patient reticence waned in March, trends improved significantly and also by the ongoing launch of our next-gen WaveWriter Alpha SCS system. Alpha has driven excitement due to its fast and contour paresthesia-free waveforms with MRI compatibility, which is also supported by our Cognita software solutions that enhance the physicians' ability to identify, manage and maintain SCS patients.In deep brain stimulation, our Vercise Genus platform expands our MRI capabilities in both the rechargeable and non-rechargeable segments with Bluetooth communication capabilities. In Interventional Cardiology, organic sales grew 7% versus 2020 and every structural heart franchise WATCHMAN, ACURATE neo2 and SENTINEL delivered strong growth. The WATCHMAN franchise accelerated its recovery, growing over 30% versus 2020 with extremely positive physician feedback on FLX device performance and safety as supported by the PINNACLE FLX IDE study that was published in Circulation during the quarter. Importantly, we completed the conversion to a consignment-based model last quarter and accounts in the U.S. are now over 90% converted to FLX. We've also seen a step-up in implants per center per week versus pre-COVID levels as more physician planters adopt the FLX technology. And we continue to push for indication expansion as we enroll the CHAMPION study and target enrollment completion of the OPTION trial by the end of the year.In TAVR, our ACURATE neo2 launch continues to do quite well in Europe and we're pleased to announce that we've expanded our risk indication and our, ACURATE neo2 IDE trial. The IDE trial now includes all risk categories including low-risk TAVR patients. We continue to target U.S. approval for all risk indications and market entry in 2024. During the quarter, SENTINEL, which is our cerebral embolic protection device reached a milestone of treating 50,000 patients cumulatively and continues to enroll in its protected TAVR randomized trial.Coronary therapies grew low-single-digits versus 2020 with global strength in complex PCI and imaging. This helped to offset drug-eluting stent price weakness in the U.S. and China, and we continue to launch new products for complex PCI and are on track to begin enrollment in the second quarter for the AGENT Drug Coated Balloon study, which is a first in the U.S. for coronary in-stent restenosis. And we're pleased that AGENT has been designated a Breakthrough Device.Peripheral Interventions delivered strong performance and continues to gain market share with organic sales up 8% versus first quarter '20 and Interventional Oncology grew high-single-digits versus first quarter '20 driven by the achievement of several important milestones for TheraSphere. These include the recent PMA approval in hepatic cellular carcinoma as the positive target study outcomes were featured as a late-breaker at the Society for Interventional Radiology. In addition, we were granted a Breakthrough Device designation for the study of Therasphere in patients suffering from glioblastoma, an aggressive form of brain cancer.Performance in our venous franchise was led by mid-teens growth in EKOS versus 2020 and in arterial, drug-eluting technologies also had a strong quarter as growth accelerated sequentially, thanks to our category leadership strategy to offer both a differentiated DES and a DCB, as well as sectors' continuing recovery on multiple datasets proving the safety and effectiveness of these therapies. The Eluvia DES in-patient add-on payment and the ongoing U.S. launch of our Ranger DCB are helping us to drive share gains.I'd also like to highlight two important sustainability accomplishments this quarter. The first is the publication of our performance report and its detailed addendum referencing the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines and secondly placed in eighth on the Forbes list of America's Best Employers for diversity in 2021. We remain as committed as ever to global sustainable economic, environmental and social practices.And overall, we're pleased with our early performance for the year and optimistic on the outlook. We continue to drive toward ex-COVID financial goals of 6% to 8% organic growth, margin expansion, driving strong cash flow and double-digit adjusted EPS growth, while living our values with enduring commitment to sustainable business practices. Very grateful for our employees for their winning spirit and I'll turn things over to Dan.Daniel J. Brennan -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Mike. First quarter consolidated revenue of $2.752 billion represents 8.2% reported revenue growth and reflects a $67 million tailwind from foreign exchange. On an operational basis, revenue growth was 5.6% in the quarter. Sales from the Preventice acquisition, which closed March 1, contributed 70 basis points, more than offset by the divestiture of Specialty Pharmaceuticals and our Intrauterine health franchise, resulting in 5.9% organic revenue growth, above our guidance range of down 3% to up 3% versus 2020. Compared to the first quarter of 2019, organic growth was 3% above our guidance range of down 6% to flat. This 3% growth excludes $15 million in 2019 sales of divested Intrauterine health and embolic beads businesses, as well as $160 million in 2021 sales of acquired businesses, which consists of one month of Preventice, two months of Specialty Pharmaceuticals and a full quarter of BTG Interventional Medicines and Vertiflex.Top-line results drove Q1 adjusted earnings per share of $0.37, representing 33% growth versus 2020, 5% growth versus 2019 and exceeding our guidance range of $0.28 to $0.34. Adjusted gross margin for the first quarter was 68.9%, slightly below our expectations, driven by inventory charges and lower sales within higher margin businesses. As expected, the COVID-driven negative manufacturing variances capitalized on the balance sheet in 2020 should be substantially recognized in the P&L by the end of the second quarter, enabling higher gross margins in the second half of the year.First quarter adjusted operating margin was 24.3%, slightly above our expectations, driven by strong sales and spend control as SG&A and R&D remained slightly below historical levels as a percentage of sales.Moving to below-the-line, adjusted interest and other expense totaled $97 million in line with our expectations. Our tax rate for the first quarter was 5.9% on an adjusted basis and includes 240 basis points of benefit from discrete tax items within the quarter, as well as a 190 basis point benefit from stock compensation accounting, higher than previously expected.Adjusted free cash flow for the quarter was $404 million and free cash flow was $213 million with $284 million from operating activities, less $71 million of net capital expenditures. Our goal is to deliver adjusted free cash flow in line with 2020 despite increased working capital headwinds in inventory and accounts receivable as we return to more normalized volumes during the remainder of 2021.As of March 2021, we had cash on hand of $2 billion. Our top priority for capital deployment remains tuck-in M&A. We have capacity to pursue additional business development opportunities, while continuing to remain active with our venture capital portfolio and consider opportunistic share repurchase. We ended Q1 with 1.431 billion fully diluted weighted average shares outstanding.And now, I'll walk through the guidance for the second quarter and full year 2021. For the full year, we expect 2021 operational revenue growth to be in a range of 14% to 17%, which includes an approximate net 100 basis point headwind from the divestiture of our Intrauterine health franchise and Specialty Pharmaceuticals, partially offset by the acquisition of Preventice. Excluding the impact of acquisitions and divestitures, we expect organic revenue growth to be in the range of 15% to 18% versus 2020 and 2% to 5% versus 2019. For the organic comparison to 2019, full year 2019 sales exclude $50 million in sales of our embolic beads portfolio and Intrauterine health franchise, as well as $81 million in Specialty Pharmaceutical sales and at the midpoint of guidance, 2021 sales exclude approximately $480 million in sales from recent acquisitions, including Vertiflex through May, BTG Interventional Medicines through mid-August and Preventice as of March, as well as $13 million of Specialty Pharmaceutical sales prior to divestiture.For Q2 2021, we expect operational revenue growth to be in a range of 42% to 46%, which includes an approximate net 200 basis point headwind from the divestiture of Specialty Pharmaceuticals, partially offset by the acquisition of Preventice. Excluding the impact of acquisitions and divestitures, we expect organic revenue growth to be in a range of 44% to 48% versus 2020 and 3% to 6% growth versus 2019. For the organic comparison to 2019, 2019 sales exclude $15 million in sales of our embolic beads portfolio and Intrauterine health franchise and at the midpoint of guidance, 2021 sales exclude approximately $175 million in sales from the acquisitions of Vertiflex, BTG Interventional Medicines and Preventice. For adjusted operating margin, while we aim for sequential improvement, we expect Q2 to be similar to Q1 as we remain flexible with investment opportunities and given a strong Q1 performance. Our goal is to average 26% adjusted operating margin in the back half of the year, setting us up to exit 2021 at a higher level than full year 2019.We continue to forecast our full year 2021 operational tax rate to be approximately 11% and now expect an adjusted tax rate of approximately 10% due to the Q1 discrete tax benefits and more stock compensation favorability than previously anticipated. We continue to expect adjusted below-the-line expenses, which include interest payments, dilution from our VC portfolio and costs associated with our hedging program to be approximately $400 million to $425 million for the year. We expect fully diluted weighted average share counts of approximately 1.435 billion shares for Q2, 2021 and 1.436 billion for full year 2021.We are now raising the low end of our full year 2021 adjusted earnings per share guidance to $1.53 and maintaining the high end of $1.60, in line with our update to sales guidance as Q1 results have removed some uncertainty from our previously wider range. For the second quarter, adjusted EPS is expected to be in a range of $0.36 to $0.38. Please check our Investor Relations website for Q1, 20 21 financial and operational highlights, which outlines more detailed Q1 results.With that, I'll turn it back to Susie, who will moderate the Q&A.Susie Lisa -- Vice President, Investor RelationsThanks, Dan. Andrew, let's open it up to questions for the next 30, 35 minutes or so. As Andrew mentioned, in order to enable us to take as many questions as possible, please limit yourself to one question and one related follow-up. Andrew, Please go ahead.