  OperatorGood afternoon, and welcome to the quarterly earnings conference call. At this time, I would like to inform all participants that today's call is being recorded. [Operator instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Rich Kinder, executive chairman of Kinder Morgan. Thank you, sir. You may begin.Rich Kinder -- Executive Chairman

 



 OK. Thank you, Michelle. Before we begin, I'd like to remind you, as I always do, that KMI's earnings release today and this call include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 as well as certain non-GAAP financial measures. Before making any investment decisions, we strongly encourage you to read our full disclosures on forward-looking statements and use of non-GAAP financial measures set forth at the end of our earnings release as well as review our latest filings with the SEC for important material assumptions, expectations, and risk factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated and described in such forward-looking statements. Let me begin by today, we formally announced our dividend increase for 2022, taking the annual payout to $1.11. That's the fifth consecutive annual increase. Also, as Steve Kean and the team will tell you, the year is off to a good start. Now, I want to talk about broader issues that impact all of us.Since our last call in January, seismic events have occurred. The Russian invasion of Ukraine has shaken the world order as we know it, with a dramatic impact on the economy of Europe and indeed, the entire world predicting how this whole tragic situation will be finally resolved is far beyond my capabilities, but I'm pretty certain the impact on the energy segment of the economy will be significant at least over the next several years. This crisis has demonstrated the continued dependence of the world on fossil fuels, especially natural gas and the inability to develop a satisfactory substitute in the short to intermediate term. This situation is illustrated by the frantic efforts of Europe to wean itself from its overwhelming reliance on Russian natural gas. Beyond that, we are shown once again how tight the world market is for oil, natural gas, NGLs, and even coal as we look at the dramatic escalation in prices since the war began in late February. What does this mean for the energy space in America? In my judgment, the crisis plays to our strengths. The U.S. is a reliable supplier with the ability to grow its production modestly in the near term and more robustly in the intermediate term.

 



 We operate under a transparent legal system, and we have technical expertise from the wellhead to the burner tip that is unmatched anywhere in the world. For all of these reasons, the United States will be a major part of the solution to adequately supply the world with oil and natural gas it needs to surmount the present problem. In particular, the U.S. will be a major supplier of additional LNG to Europe to replace at least in part Russian gas. I anticipate that all of our present LNG export facilities will be running at capacity for the foreseeable future, and the contracts necessary to support the construction of new facilities in the next few years will be more attainable than they've been in the past. By way of caution, I'm still concerned that our federal government will not properly expedite permitting of these new facilities. But I'm reasonably hopeful that at some point, this administration will recognize the importance of playing its energy card to support its allies and sanction its adversaries. The impact of these developments will benefit the midstream energy segment and Kinder Morgan specifically in both the short term and the long term. At Kinder Morgan, we move about 40% of all the natural gas in America, and about 50% of the gas going to LNG export terminals. As volumes increase, throughput will increase as will the need for our selective expansions and extensions of the network. In short, it's a good time to be long natural gas infrastructure. Steve? Steven Kean -- Chief Executive Officer

 



 All right. Thanks, Rich. So after wrapping up a record year financially in 2021, we're off to a strong start in 2022, with strong performance in our base business and attractive opportunities to add growth. We're keeping our balance sheet strong, exceeded our plan in the first quarter. And even though it's early in the year, we are projecting to be above plan for the full year. In addition to commodity price tailwinds, we experienced very strong commercial performance in our gas business with continued improvement in our contract renewals, especially on our flexible gas storage services, good performance during the winter, and new emerging project opportunities in our Bakken, Haynesville, and Altamont assets and increasing interest in new Permian transportation capacity. On the Permian, we are working on the commercialization and development of compression expansions on our PHP and GCX pipelines. While we will need to do a small amount of looping most of the expansion can be accomplished with additional horsepower. Compression expansions are low risk from a siting and permitting perspective, and they are very capital efficient though they do come with a higher fuel rate for the customer. Most importantly, in today's environment, compression expansions allow for speed to market. Once we have contracts and make FID, we believe we can get to in service in about 18 months. We believe the market will need that capacity in that time frame and see one or both of these expansions as the near-term solution pushing out our potential greenfield third pipeline further in time. Combined, the two expansions can add 1.2 Bcf per day of capacity out of the Permian. Finally, for gas, our Stagecoach storage asset, which we acquired in 2021, helped us with our strong winter performance and continues to perform above our acquisition model. Our CO2 business was aided by commodity prices and also operational outperformance versus our plan. We continue to advance our three renewable gas projects, which we picked up in the Kinetrex's acquisition last year and we are advancing additional opportunities in our Energy Transition Ventures group. Our products pipelines were modestly above plan for the quarter. And while terminals missed plan by a bit, we started to see good recovery in our Jones Act charter rates and continued strong performance in our bulk terminals business. For the balance of the year, commodity prices continue as a tailwind, and we have locked in enough such that our updated sensitivity is about $4 million per $1 movement of WTI. We expect continued strength in our base business, but we also expect to experience some negative impact from cost pressures due both to additional maintenance and integrity work that we added to the plan for this year as well as some higher costs on certain materials, chemicals, parts and vehicle fuel. Still taking all of this into account, we are predicting that we will be above plan for the year. In summary, we're doing very well. And with that, I'll turn it over to Kim.Kim Dang -- President OK. Thanks, Steve. I'll go through the segments, starting with natural gas. Our transport volumes there were up 2% or approximately 0.9 million dekatherms per day versus the first quarter of 2021, and that was driven primarily by increased LNG deliveries generally colder weather, partially offset by the continued decline in Rockies production and a pipeline outage on EPNG. Deliveries to LNG facilities off of our pipes averaged approximately 6.2 million dekatherms per day. That's a 32% increase versus Q1 of '21. Our market share of deliveries to LNG facilities, as Rich mentioned, remains around 50%. Exports to Mexico were down in the quarter when compared to Q1 of '21 as a result of third-party pipeline capacity added to the market. Overall deliveries to power plants were up 5%, and we believe that natural gas power demand is becoming more inelastic relative to coal. Deliveries to LDCs and industrial also increased. The overall demand for natural gas is very strong, both our internal and WoodMac numbers project between three and four Bcf of demand growth for 2022. And in our numbers, we project growth in all major categories ResCom, industrial, power, exports to Mexico, and LNG exports. Our natural gas gathering volumes were up 12% in the quarter compared to the first quarter of '21. Sequentially, volumes were down 6% with a big increase in Haynesville volumes, which were up 14%, more than offset by lower Eagle Ford volumes, which were impacted by contract termination. Overall, our budget projected gathering volumes in the natural gas segment to increase by 10% for the full year, and we are currently on track to exceed that number. In our products pipeline segment, refined products volumes were up 7% for the quarter compared to the pre-pandemic levels using Q1 of '19 as a reference point road fuels were down about 0.5%, so essentially flat, while jet was down 18%. We did see a decrease in the monthly growth rate as we went through the quarter, so higher prices may be starting to impact demand. Crude and condensate volumes were down 4% in the quarter versus the first quarter of '21. Sequential volumes were flat with a reduction in the Eagle Ford offset by an increase in the Bakken. In our terminals business segment, the liquids utilization percentage remains high at 92%. If you exclude tanks out of service for required inspection, utilization is about 95%. Our [Inaudible] business which serve consumer domestic demand was up nicely in the first quarter. Our hub facilities, which are driven more by refinery runs, international trade, and blending dynamics were also up significantly. As Steve said, we've seen some -- marine tanker business with all 16 vessels currently sailing under firm contracts and day rates are still improving, though still lower relative to expiring contracts. On the bulk side, overall volumes increased by 19%, driven by pet coking coal, which more than offset lower steel and ore volume. In our CO2 segment, crude volumes were essentially flat compared to Q1 of '21 and NGL volumes were up 7%. CO2 volumes were down 9%, but that was due to the expiration of a carried interest following payout on a project in '21. On price, we saw very nice increases in all of our primary commodities. Overall, we've had a very nice start to the year. For the first quarter, we exceeded our DCF plan by 4%. We estimate that roughly half of that outperformance was due to price and the other half due to strength in our base business. As Steve said, we currently project that we will exceed our full year 2022 plan. We've not specifically quantified the outperformance because one, it is relatively early in the year; and two, there are a lot of moving pieces. Commodity prices, gathering volumes, inflation, regulatory demands, and interest rates to name a few. But we expect the upside to outweigh the downside. And with that, I'll turn it to David Michels.David Michels -- Chief Financial Officer All right. Thank you, Kim. So for the first quarter of 2022, we are declaring a dividend of $0.2775 per share, which, as Rich mentioned, is $1.11 annualized and 3% up from our 2021 dividend. For the quarter, we generated revenues of $4.3 billion, which is down $918 million from the first quarter of last year. However, when you exclude the large nonrecurring contribution from Winter Storm Uri from last year, our revenue would have been higher this quarter versus last year. And our net income was $667 million, down from the first quarter of 2021. But excluding the contribution from Winter Storm Uri last year, our net income during the first quarter of 2021 would have been $569 million. So relative to that recurring amount, we generated $98 million or 17% higher net income this quarter versus last year. Our DCF performance was strong. Natural gas segment was down $797 million. But again, the Winter Storm contribution from last year, which was over $950 million in the first quarter of 2021 led to the majority of that decline this quarter. Otherwise, we had nice outperformance in our natural gas segment, driven by contributions from our Stagecoach acquisition, Tennessee Gas Pipeline contributions, our Texas intrastates as well as greater volume on KinderHawk. Our products segment was up $36 million, driven by increased refined product volumes and favorable price impacts, partially offset by higher integrity costs, and our terminals business up $11 million versus Q1 of 2021 with greater contributions from our bulk terminals, driven by higher pet coke and coal volumes as well as growth in our liquids terminals business due to expansion projects, contributions and an unfavorable impact from Winter Storm Uri during 2021. And those were partially offset in the terminal segment by lower contributions from our New York Harbor terminals and our Jones Act tanker business. Our CO2 segment was down $83 million and more than all of that decline is explained by the segment's contribution from Winter Storm Uri during 2021. Other than that, the CO2 segment is up nicely year over year mainly driven by commodity prices. Total DCF generated in the quarter was $1.455 billion or $0.64 per share, that's down from last year. But again, excluding the nonrecurring contributions from Winter Storm Uri, our DCF would be up $203 million or 16% higher compared to the first quarter of 2021. Moving on to the balance sheet. We ended the quarter with $31.4 billion of net debt with a net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of 4.4 times, that's up from 3.9 times at year-end 2021. But excluding the nonrecurring EBITDA contributions from Uri, the year-end ratio would have been 4.6 times. So we ended the quarter favorable to our year-end recurring metrics. The net debt during the quarter increased $191 million. And here's a reconciliation of that change. We generated $1.455 billion of DCF. We paid out $600 million of dividends. We contributed $300 million to our joint ventures and to growth capital investments. We had $250 million of increased restricted deposits, which is mostly due to cash posted for margin related to our hedging activity. And we had a $500 million working capital use which is not uncommon in the first quarter when we have higher interest expense payments, property tax bonus payments, and we also had a rate case reserve refund paid and that explains the majority of the $191 million for the quarter. And with that, I'll turn it back to Steve.Steven Kean -- Chief Executive Officer OK. Thanks, David. Michelle, if you'd come back on and open it up for questions. And I'll just point out, we've got our entire senior management team around the table here. So we'll be passing the mic as you have questions about our different segments and their performance and outlook, etc. So Michelle, open it up, please. 