  OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to Halliburton's first-quarter 2021 earnings call. Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded I would now like to hand the conference over to Abu Zeya, head of investor relations. Please go ahead, sir.Abu Zeya -- Head of Investor Relations Good morning and welcome to the Halliburton first-quarter 2021 conference call. As a reminder, today's call is being webcast and a replay will be available on Halliburton's website for seven days. Joining me today are Jeff Miller, chairman, president, and CEO; and Lance Loeffler, CFO. Some of our comments today may include forward-looking statements reflecting Halliburton's views about future events.

 



 These matters involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to materially differ from our forward-looking statements. These risks are discussed in Halliburton's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020, recent current reports on Form 8-K, and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason. Our comments today also include non-GAAP financial measures that exclude the impact of impairments, asset dispositions, and other charges.Beginning this quarter, we have modified our free cash flow metric, a non-GAAP financial measure, to include the impact of proceeds from sales of property, plant, and equipment. We believe this item is recurring in nature and including it improves comparability of this metric relative to our large-cap peers. Additional details including recalculation of this measure for prior periods and reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in our first-quarter earnings release and can also be found in the Quarterly Results and Presentation section of our website. After our prepared remarks, we ask you to please limit yourself to one question and one related follow-up during the Q&A period to allow time for others who may be in the queue. Now, I'll turn the call over to Jeff. Jeff Miller -- Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thank you, Abu, and good morning, everyone. We're off to a good start this year. The world is reopening and even though some regions still experience lockdowns, overall economic and demand recovery continues to build. Oil demand is increasing globally, oil inventories are down near their five-year averages, and OPEC-plus actions continue to support commodity prices. The first quarter strengthened our confidence about how this transition year will play out. Our first-quarter performance demonstrates the strength of our strategy and operating leverage in this global market recovery. Here are some highlights: International revenue grew 2% compared to the fourth quarter of 2020, marking an activity inflection in the international markets; strong recovery in Latin America more than offset declines in other regions, while margins remained resilient; North America revenue grew 13% as both drilling and completions activity ramped up throughout the quarter. Power utilization and our significant operating leverage supported sequential margin expansion despite weather disruptions. Our completion and production division revenue grew 3% with increased North America and Latin America activity, offsetting seasonal declines in other regions. Our drilling and evaluation division delivered solid revenue and margin performance. Revenue grew 11%, while margins increased 2.6 percentage points, driven by stronger drilling activity in North America and software sales across multiple regions. Finally, we delivered approximately $160 million of free cash flow in the first quarter, which is a great first step to delivering strong free cash flow for the full year. This was another quarter of solid execution on our five strategic priorities that define Halliburton's path and will drive our success. We are committed to drive profitable growth internationally, maximize value in North America, accelerate and integrate digital technologies, improve capital efficiency, and actively participate in advancing cleaner, affordable energy. Our first-quarter performance demonstrated that aligning our actions with these strategic priorities boosts our returns and free cash flow generation. We expect to continue delivering strong free cash flow and industry-leading returns as we move through the year.

 



 We are encouraged by the inflection in international activity we saw during the first quarter and anticipate that recovery will gain momentum across all regions in the second quarter and beyond. Today, we see early indicators of future activity growth internationally. Our completion tool orders, a leading indicator of upcoming work, grew throughout the first quarter. The volume of tendered work has significantly increased. We're on pace to nearly double the value of submitted bids compared to last year with the most work coming from the NOCs in the Middle East followed by Latin America. These signs give us greater conviction that the second half of this year will see a low-double-digit increase in international activity year on year. We believe the international markets will experience multiple years of growth. However, this upcycle is expected to be structurally different from prior cycles. And Halliburton's international business is better prepared to benefit from it. Here's why. We expect the NOCs and other short-cycle barrel producers will increase investments and gain share to meet future oil demand growth. Halliburton has the established footprint and the customer relationships to capitalize on this growth. As deals become smaller and more complex, operators work harder to produce more barrels. Their pursuit of incremental production to meet future oil demand growth should require higher service intensity. In certain markets, maturing assets are changing hands. New owners require proven technology and experience to revitalize their assets and unlock remaining reserves. Halliburton's broad technology portfolio, local expertise, and commercial flexibility are helping these customers achieve their efficiencies and production objectives. Multiple years of service company capex reductions limit equipment availability in the international markets. In early 2020, pre-COVID, international pricing was beginning to increase on the back of equipment tightness but paused with the oil demand collapse. As the world reopens and activity rebounds, we expect large tenders to remain competitive but leading-edge pricing should increase. Our strategic priority is clear: deliver profitable growth as the expected international recovery unfolds. We believe the following factors will help us accomplish this. First, we expect our ongoing investment in technology innovations to benefit us as the market recovers. For example, as the global leader in completions technology, we introduced the Ovidius expanding isolation packer. Ovidius uses material science innovation to transform a metal alloy into a rock-like material when it reacts with downhole fluids. It creates a long-lasting seal for improved well integrity and is especially suited for high-pressure and high-temperature environments, as well as permanent plug-in abandonment operations. Our completion tools are in the pipeline incorporates the latest advancements in materials science, sensors telemetry, and digitalization. Ovidius is one good example of this pipeline. The successful rollout of our iCruise intelligent drilling system continues to deliver excellent results. In the first quarter, iCruise improved drilling speeds 55% for a customer in the Middle East, saved an operator three days of rig time in the North Sea, and increased drilling rates 25% compared to offset wells in offshore China. Second, our production business continues to expand internationally with unique growth opportunities. We plan to start executing on our first multi-year electric submersible pump contract in the Middle East in the second half of this year. We see significant volume and future growth potential for artificial lift solutions in the Middle East as many mature fields across the region come off natural flow and require ESPs to sustain production. With proven summit ESP technology, a strong local presence, and a focus on profitable growth, we expect to thrive in this market. As we progress toward completing our specialty chemicals plant in Saudi Arabia, we are actively participating in regional tendering activity. In addition to providing new business opportunities, this plant will also manufacture chemicals for our internal consumption. We expect the new plant to deliver cost savings and profitable growth for Halliburton in 2022 and beyond. Finally, we are accelerating the deployment and integration of digital technologies with our customers. We believe digital creates technological differentiation, contributes to higher international margins, and drives internal efficiencies. In the first quarter, we introduced a new real-time data transmission system for a major customer in the North Sea. This high-fidelity, low-latency data highway is an essential building block for virtual remote operations that are performed without human intervention, and use real-time data and tailored algorithms. We also launched a new digital workflow on a private cloud for an integrated services contract in the Middle East. This workflow helps our employees make better decisions. It uses a proprietary natural-language-processing service to extract specific information from a variety of documents and locate associated data in our data lake. This is digital technology in action. Facilitating collaboration and knowledge management, while improving operational efficiencies. These digital technologies are important milestones in our journey from digital planning to virtual execution We're using our open-architecture platform to integrate real-time information from the customer, Halliburton's many digitally enabled technologies, and third-party providers across the entire asset. I believe that Halliburton's current strength and new capabilities will deliver profitable growth in the multi-year international recovery. Today, North America is staging a healthy recovery. In the current oil price environment, shale operators have a larger portfolio of economically viable projects. As a result, the average U.S. land rig count grew 27% sequentially in the first quarter, outpacing the growth in completed stages. We still expect the majority of our customers to remain committed to a disciplined capital program this year. But what we are seeing today solidifies our confidence in a steady activity cadence for the rest of the year as operators work to maintain their productive capacity. The market dynamics continue to improve. Supportive commodity prices should allow our customers to spend their announced budgets and meet their cash flow objectives. Customer mix should transition as the year unfolds. Privates led the recovery in the first half, and we expect some public companies to increase activity in the second half of the year. Halliburton serves both of these customer groups, aligning with operators that have longer-term and more efficient programs. As a result, demand for our equipment is increasing, and our calendar is filling up for the rest of the year. Last year, we used digital technology to redesign our service delivery approach and create significant differentiation in our cost structure. Adding to our cost reset in 2020, we continue to drive cost out of our North America operations. As an example, we've engaged with Vorto, a software company that designed an artificial intelligence supply chain platform to transform how we buy, move, and sell sand and trucking within our U.S. land operations. Without human intervention, Vorto's platform optimizes thousands of logistic flows per day while also identifying and addressing issues before they occur. This fits with our strategic priorities to use digital technology to drive down costs in our business and to maximize value in North America. Together with our size and scale, our sustainable operating leverage should widen our margin differential relative to our competitors in North America. We are steadily improving margins, and our first-quarter performance was another step in the right direction. As we look ahead, we see upside to our margin performance based on utilization, technology, innovation, and pricing. Utilization is the first step to better margins. With a smaller equipment base and the right customer alignment, we intend to continue optimizing utilization as market demand grows. Given our scale, the operating leverage impact from utilization increases alone should improve our cash flow generation in North America. Technological differentiation and digital innovation is the next step. Halliburton has the leading low-emission solutions in the market today, both electric and dual-fuel, and we expect they will command a premium as market demand expands. As the leader in hydraulic fracturing, Halliburton has the scale and R&D depth to deliver a proven, power-agnostic, capital-efficient solution for e-frac. Deployed in the Permian Basin, our fully integrated, all-electric frac site includes our 5,000-horsepower Zeus electric pumping unit, our new ExpressBlend blending system, eWinch electric wireline unit, and the electric tech command center. Built using our flagship Q10 pumps, Zeus delivers performance levels up to 40% higher than conventional pumps and substantially reduces emissions limited only by the grid power source. As certain components of our input cost rise, we are working with our suppliers and our customers to adjust our gross pricing in line with cost inflation we are seeing in the market. While improving U.S. economic activity and winter weather disruptions led to increases in sand, chemicals, cement additives, and raw materials costs, Halliburton's purchasing power and technology have allowed us to procure and deliver these materials in a cost-efficient manner, such that both Halliburton and our customers are more competitive. Service pricing improvement is the final step. We're not there yet, but we see positive signs of market rebalancing that should drive future pricing improvements. Total fracturing equipment capacity has limited room to grow in the current pricing environment. Continued attrition from a rising service intensity and insufficient returns for many service companies is altering the industry dynamics. Because we are an integrated provider, Halliburton participates in all key businesses in North America today and will benefit more than others when pricing moves up. We believe that Halliburton's leadership and strength in North America will allow us to take advantage of positive market dynamics and deliver on our strategic priority to maximize value in this market. Consistent with our strategy, we continue to turn every knob to manage greater capital efficiency and drive solid free cash flow generation. This takes many forms and includes important technology advancements in multiple product service lines, whether digital or equipment-related; process changes that improve the speed with which we move equipment and respond to market opportunities; and finally, actions to reduce the pace of working capital consumption required to grow our business. The first quarter was a good demonstration of this, and we will continue to build on these actions. We're also executing on our strategic priority to advance cleaner, affordable energy and to support sustainable energy advancements using innovation and technology to reduce the environmental impact of producing oil and gas. Halliburton has a three-pronged approach to achieving this objective. First, we recently released our target to achieve 40% reduction in Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 2035 from the 2018 baseline. This is consistent with our goal to reduce the carbon footprint and environmental impact of our operations and follows our commitment to set science-based targets announced last year. Second, we are innovating. We continue to develop and deploy low-carbon solutions to help oil and gas operators lower their current emissions profiles. We also use our existing technologies in renewable energy applications. For example, today, the geothermal market in Europe is growing rapidly and represents an attractive expansion opportunity for our artificial lift business. We're currently supplying electric submersible pumps specifically designed for the high-temperature, large wellbore applications on a geothermal project in Germany. We're also providing drilling and cementing services for geothermal wells in Indonesia. We developed new, high-temperature cementing formulations and directional drilling techniques to increase geothermal sites' generating capacity and improve project economics. And finally, we're excited about the progress of Halliburton Labs, our clean-energy accelerator. In the first quarter, we announced Halliburton Labs' inaugural group of participating companies. They are working on solutions for transforming organic and plastic waste to renewable power; recycling of lithium-ion batteries; and converting carbon dioxide, water, and renewable electricity into a hydrogen-rich platform chemical. We are collaborating with these companies and providing world-class industrial capabilities and expertise to help them achieve further scale and increase their valuations. This engagement in the clean energy space will inform Halliburton's future strategic decisions as the energy transition evolves. We are taking applications for the next cohort of participants as we continue bringing early stage clean-energy companies into Halliburton Labs. To sum up, we entered 2021 optimistic and focused on innovation. We believe that the early positive momentum in North America will continue and the international market recovery will accelerate in the second half of the year. Halliburton will continue to execute on our key strategic priorities to deliver industry-leading returns and solid free cash flow as the anticipated multiyear recovery unfolds. I will now turn the call over to Lance to provide more details on our financial results. Lance?Lance Loeffler -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Jeff. Let's begin this morning with an overview of our first-quarter results compared to the fourth quarter of 2020. Total company revenue for the quarter was $3.5 billion, an increase of 7%. And our operating income was $370 million, an increase of 6% compared to the adjusted operating income of $350 million in the fourth quarter of 2020. Now, let me take a moment to discuss our divisional results in a little bit more detail. In our completion and production division, revenue was $1.9 billion, or an increase of 3%, while operating income was $252 million, representing a decrease of 11%. The increase in revenue was primarily driven by higher stimulation and artificial lift activity in North America, higher cementing activity in the North Sea, as well as improved stimulation activity in Argentina and Mexico, and higher completion tool sales in Latin America. These increases were partially offset by lower cementing services in Russia, lower pressure pumping activity in the Middle East, reduced seasonal completion tool sales, and lower well intervention services in the Eastern Hemisphere. Operating income was negatively impacted primarily by decreased completion tool sales and reduced pressure pumping activity in the Eastern Hemisphere. Our drilling and evaluation revenue was $1.6 billion or an increase of 11%, while operating income was $171 million, an increase of 46%. These increases were primarily due to higher software sales globally, improved drilling-related service and wireline activity in the Western Hemisphere and Norway, and increased project management activity internationally. Partially offsetting these increases were lower drilling-related services across Asia. Moving on to our geographical results. In North America, revenue was $1.4 billion, representing an increase of 13%. These results were primarily driven by higher drilling-related services, stimulation and artificial lift activity in North America land, as well as higher wireline activity and software sales in North America land and the Gulf of Mexico. Partially offsetting these increases were reduced completion tool sales and lower cementing and fluids activity in the Gulf of Mexico. Moving to Latin America, revenue was $535 million, representing an increase of 26%, resulting primarily from increased activity in multiple product service lines in Argentina and Mexico, as well as higher fluid services in the Caribbean. Partially offsetting these improvements was reduced activity across multiple product service lines in Colombia. Turning to Europe/Africa/CIS, revenue was $634 million, a 1% decrease sequentially, resulting mainly from reduced completion tool sales and well intervention services across the region, coupled with lower activity in Russia and lower fluid services in Kazakhstan. These decreases were partially offset by higher well construction activity in the North Sea and increased software sales across the region. In Middle East/Asia, revenue was $878 million or a 6% decrease. These results were primarily driven by lower stimulation and well intervention services in the Middle East, reduced drilling-related activity in Indonesia and China, and lower completion tool sales across the region. Partially offsetting these declines were improved project management activity in Iraq and Saudi Arabia, and higher wireline activity across Asia. In the first quarter, our corporate expense totaled $53 million. Looking ahead to the second quarter, we anticipate corporate expense to be slightly higher. Net interest expense for the quarter was $125 million, and we expect this level of interest expense to drift slightly lower in the second quarter as a result of our reduced debt balance. Our effective tax rate for the first quarter was approximately 23%. As we go forward into 2021, based on the anticipated market environment and our expected geographic earnings mix, we expect our full-year effective tax rate to be approximately 25%. Turning to cash flow. We generated $203 million of cash from operations during the first quarter and $157 million of free cash flow. We also repaid $188 million in maturing debt with cash on hand in the first quarter, and we'll continue to prioritize reducing leverage in the near term. Capital expenditures during the quarter came in at $104 million. We expect capital equipment deliveries for international projects to ramp up in the second half of the year, and as a result, our full-year 2021 capex guidance remains unchanged. Finally, turning to our near-term operational outlook. Let me provide you with some comments on how we see the second quarter unfolding. In North America, we expect both completions and drilling activity momentum to continue, but sequential activity growth should moderate. In the international markets, we expect a seasonal rebound in a broad-based activity increase, the pace of which will vary across different regions. As a result, for our completion and production division, we anticipate low double-digit revenue growth sequentially, with margins expected to expand by 125 to 150 basis points as a result of our strong operating leverage across all markets. In our drilling and evaluation division, we anticipate a mid-single-digit revenue increase with margins declining 100 to 125 basis points sequentially. The moderate growth and anticipated reduction in margins are primarily attributed to the seasonal decline in our software sales globally. I'll now turn the call back over to Jeff. Jeff?Jeff Miller -- Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Lance. To sum up, I'm optimistic about how this transition year is shaping up. The demand outlook continues to improve both internationally and domestically, even as some regions still experience lockdowns. This year is headed in the right direction, and Halliburton is focused on the right things to deliver on our shareholders' objectives. We expect our strong international business to continue its profitable growth as activity increases throughout the year. In North America, our business has recovered and is demonstrating margin improvement on the back of our strong operating leverage. Digital is growing our revenue and helping us and our customers increase operational efficiency and reduce costs. Our commitment to capital efficiency is expected to support growth and solid free cash flow generation. And finally, we believe that our strategy to advance cleaner, affordable energy positions us well for the future. And now let's open it up for questions. 