
OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the SVB Financial Group Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] Thank you. I would now like to turn the conference over to Meghan O'Leary, Head of Investor Relations.Meghan O'Leary -- Head of Investor RelationsThank you, Paula and thank you everyone for joining us today. Our President and CEO, Greg Becker; and our CFO, Dan Beck are here to talk about our third quarter 2021 financial results and will be joined by other members of our management team for the Q&A. Our current earnings release, highlight slides and CEO letter have been filed with the SEC and are available on the Investor Relations section of our website.

 



We'll be making forward-looking statements during this call, and actual results may differ materially. We encourage you to review the disclaimer in our earnings release dealing with forward-looking information, which applies equally to statements made in this call. In addition, some of our discussion may include references to non-GAAP financial measures. Information about those measures including reconciliation to GAAP measures may be found in our SEC filings and in our earnings release.And now I will turn the call over to our President and CEO, Greg Becker.Greg Becker -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Meghan and thanks everyone for joining us today. It's great to be here with you to talk about another quarter of exceptional growth and profitability, marked by continued strong balance sheet growth, strong net interest income, robust fee and market related income and solid credit. Our earnings release, presentation slides and CEO letter, which we filed this afternoon are available on the Investor Relations section of our website. Before we start the Q&A, I want to call out that we raised our 2021 growth outlook for the third time this year. We also introduced our preliminary 2022 outlook, which calls for continued strong growth as well as further acceleration of key investments in our business. We believe the additional net interest income generated by our larger balance sheet will more than offset this additional investment, while the investments we're making will drive increased growth and improved operating leverage.

 



And with that, I'll ask the operator to open up the lines for questions.