  OperatorThank you for standing by, and welcome to Autodesk Q2 fiscal year 2022 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speaker presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to your host, VP of investor relations, Simon Mays-Smith.Simon Mays-Smith -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



 Operator, and good afternoon. Thank you for joining our conference call to discuss the results of our second quarter of fiscal year 2022. On the line with me are Andrew Anagnost, our CEO; and Debbie Clifford, our chief financial officer. Today's conference call is being broadcast live via webcast. In addition, a replay of the call will be available at autodesk.com/investor. You can find the earnings press release, slide presentation, and transcript of today's opening commentary on our Investor Relations website following this call. During the course of this call, we may make forward-looking statements about our outlook, future results, and related assumptions, acquisitions, products, and product capabilities and strategies. These statements reflect our best judgment based on our currently known factors.Actual events or results could differ materially. Please refer to our SEC filings, including our most recent Form 10-K, for important risk factors and other factors, including developments in the COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting impact on our business and operations that may cause our actual results to differ from those in our forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements made during the call are being made as of today. If this call is replayed or reviewed after today, the information presented during the call may not contain current or accurate information. Autodesk disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. During the call, we will quote a number of numerical growth changes as we discuss our financial performance, and unless otherwise noted, each such reference represents a year-on-year comparison. All non-GAAP numbers referenced in today's call are reconciled in our press release or Excel financials and other supplemental materials available on our investor relations website. And now I will turn the call over to Andrew. 

 



Andrew Anagnost -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Simon, and welcome, everyone, to the call. I hope you and your families remain safe and healthy. As we anticipated when we set out our guidance at the beginning of the year, unwinding uncertainty resulted in increased business confidence, investment and economic growth during our second quarter. This is reflected in strong product usage, which returned to pre-COVID levels across the globe, increasing bid activity on BuildingConnected, which reached all-time highs, and greater channel partner confidence. When combined with strong execution, a resilient subscription business model, and the continued secular shift to the cloud, our growth accelerated again in Q2 and generated further momentum. RPO and billings grew 24% and 29%, respectively, driven by strong new product subscription growth, renewal rates and revenue retention. I am proud of what the team has accomplished so far this year. And again, I thank all of our employees, their families, our partners and customers for their continued dedication, patience and commitment. I will now turn the call over to Debbie to take you through the details of our quarterly financial performance and guidance for the year. I'll then come back to provide an update on our strategic growth initiatives.

 



Debbie Clifford -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Andrew. As Andrew mentioned, second-quarter results were strong. Several factors contributed to that strength, including robust growth in new product subscriptions, accelerating digital sales and improving subscription renewal rates. In addition, Innovyze and foreign exchange rate provided a modest tailwind to the quarter. Total revenue growth in the quarter accelerated to 16% and 14% in constant currency, with subscription revenue growing by 21%. Looking at revenue by product, AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT revenue grew 12%. AEC revenue grew 21%, and manufacturing revenue grew 12%. Excluding the impact of moving our bulk product to ratable revenue recognition, manufacturing revenue grew in the mid-teens percent. M&E revenue grew 10%. Across the globe, revenue grew 14% in the Americas; 16% in EMEA; and 21% in APAC. Direct revenue increased 31% and represented 34% of our total revenue, up from 30% last year due to strength from both enterprise and e-commerce. As you'll hear more about at our Investor Day next week, about three quarters of new customers to Autodesk are now generated through our digital channels, reflecting our efforts to enable a simplified buying experience. Our product subscription renewal rates remain strong, and our net revenue retention rate remains within the 100% to 110% range. Billings accelerated 29% to $1 billion, reflecting strong underlying demand and an easier comparison versus last year. Total deferred revenue grew 15% to $3.3 billion. Total RPO of $4.14 billion and current RPO of $2.85 billion both grew 24%. current RPO growth was driven by strong new product sales during the quarter and the ongoing benefit from the record number of EBAs signed in the second half of last year. Excluding the contribution from Innovyze, current RPO grew approximately 23%. Non-GAAP gross margin remained broadly level at 92%, while operating margin increased more than 2 percentage points to 31%, reflecting strong revenue growth and ongoing cost discipline. We delivered healthy free cash flow of $186 million during the quarter, primarily driven by strong billings growth. Consistent with our capital allocation strategy, we continued to repurchase shares with excess cash to offset dilution from our equity plans. During the second quarter, we purchased 164,000 shares for $46 million at an average price of approximately $283 per share. Year to date, we have repurchased 679,000 shares at an average price of approximately $278 per share for a total spend of $189 million. Now, I'll turn to guidance. Consistent with previous quarters, we expect that an improving economic environment during the year will result in strong growth in new business over the course of fiscal '22. We expect product subscription, volume, and renewal rates to continue to be healthy, and our net revenue retention rate to remain between 100% and 110%. With our strong start to the year, we are raising the low end of our full-year revenue guidance to a range of $4.345 billion to $4.385 billion, with a midpoint growth rate of 15% year over year. We are also raising our non-GAAP operating margin outlook to approximately 31%, an almost 2-point improvement from last year. Our strong start to the year means we're also shifting more of our EBA customers from multiyear paid upfront to annual billings, which is good for them and good for Autodesk. Our EBA customers retain price certainty with a multiyear contract term, but annual billings give them a more predictable annual cash outlay. For Autodesk, we generate more predictable cash flow and remove the discounts to generate upfront cash collections. While we had already assumed this change in fiscal '23, it has a modest impact on fiscal '22 billings and free cash flow. However, we expect it to drive more predictable free cash flow growth and better price realization over time, which will make Autodesk a more valuable company. The shift of more of our EBA customers from multiyear paid upfront to annual billings and FX account for the change in our fiscal '22 billings guidance and with a one-time M&A-related tax charge, our free cash flow guidance. As we look ahead, we're anticipating revenue growth to accelerate in Q3. Strong upfront revenues in Q4 last year, and with Vault now ratable, a smaller pool of nonratable products, create a tougher comparison in Q4 this year, which will reduce revenue growth a bit when compared to the third quarter. Also, our EBA strength in the second half of last year, including two of our largest-ever deals in Q3, will impact RPO growth comparisons in the second half of our fiscal '22. The slide deck on our website has more details on modeling assumptions for the third fiscal quarter and full-year fiscal '22. As I shared last quarter, my initial focus after rejoining Autodesk was digging into our fiscal '22 budget and fiscal '23 financial goals. The strength we've seen in fiscal '22, combined with a significant cohort of multiyear product subscription contracts that we expect will renew in fiscal '23, set us up nicely to achieve our fiscal '23 revenue growth potential and free cash flow goal. This past quarter, I turned my attention to our long-range financial plan, with a particular focus on fiscal '24 and beyond. You'll hear more at our investor day next week. But to set the stage today, our long-term strategic growth drivers and our flexible subscription business model give us confidence we can achieve our goal of sustainable double-digit revenue and free cash flow growth beyond fiscal '24. Now once we've achieved our fiscal '23 goals, we'll give you more details on our financial ambitions for fiscal '24 and beyond. But on the whole, we believe we have many exciting opportunities to drive growth by further expanding our addressable market into areas like construction and infrastructure, as well as by deepening monetization of our user base. And we look forward to sharing more specifics with you at our investor day next week. Andrew, back to you.Andrew Anagnost -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Debbie. Now let me turn to our strategic growth initiatives. Sustained and purposeful innovation to enable digital transformation in the industries we serve is changing our relationships with our customers from software vendor to strategic partner. And that is enabling us to create more value through end-to-end cloud-based solutions that connect data and workflows and business model evolution. By helping our customers grow, we will grow too. In AEC, digitization trends are accelerating the need to connect all phases of design and construction with end-to-end cloud-based solutions. A great example this quarter was with an Asia Pacific semiconductor manufacturer, which is rapidly expanding its manufacturing capacity around the world and looking for help to drive more efficient collaboration across project stakeholders, as well as shorter design and delivery cycles. It invested in AEC collections to accomplish this goal and is now leveraging the power of BIM and our digital AEC workflows to achieve its expansion plan. This is a prime example of how Autodesk is positioned to help our customers as industries converge, with this customer being a longtime user of our manufacturing products and now expanding its footprint with us in AEC. In construction, we believe the Autodesk Construction Cloud is the best end-to-end offering across all phases of the construction life cycle. Starting with our industry-leading preconstruction offerings, we help our customers seamlessly convert data into a construction plan, allowing our customers to condition and coordinate models early to aiding clash detection, easily quantify the materials required for future construction, and leverage our BuildingConnected community to power the bidding process. As we turn to the field, Autodesk Build provides a single integrated solution for project management, field collaboration, quality, safety, and cost control, which is easy to deploy, adopt and use. We just launched it in February, but we're already -- we've already seen Autodesk Build in use on more than 11,000 customer projects around the world. By connecting project information and teams in one common data environment, it enables efficient collaboration while providing predictive analytics and insights that increase quality and safety while decreasing risk. As I mentioned earlier, we've transitioned to being a strategic partner to our customers. And in construction, that means evolving our business model. We provide customers more choice in how they buy. We offer both user and account-based pricing, which gives our customers the flexibility to decide how they want to engage with us on their digital journey. With our account-based pricing model, we're seeing significant benefits from driving as many users as possible to our construction platform. Once Autodesk Build has been deployed in a project, we've made it frictionless for anyone involved on the project to get access to our platform within minutes. This pattern is not unlike the evolution of Fusion 360 over the last few years. The more users we see on our platform, the more we learn, the better we make our products and the more value we add to our customers. This quarter, Messer Construction, a top ENR 400 general contractor in the United States, selected Autodesk Build for project management over competitive offerings, Pype for submittal management, and BIM Collaborate for native class detection. As Andy Burg from Messer Construction said, "Autodesk Build's comprehensive unified platform is industry-leading and, by seamlessly connecting design with construction to increase our efficiency, establishes a strong partnership foundation and further enables us to build better lives for our customers, communities and each other." Autodesk Build's momentum is growing internationally, too. Stamhuis is a leading retail shop construction and renovation company in the Netherlands, which had already used AEC collections in generative design to optimize client retail space, reduced design and construction errors by 15%, and improved its ROI by 10%. This quarter, it invested in Autodesk Build to further increase efficiency, reduce waste and add value for its clients by converging workflows from conceptual design to engineering and fabrication while seamlessly collaborating with its clients. Our relationship with Stamhuis demonstrates the value that digital construction processes can bring to customers around the world. With our significant international experience and resources, we're well-positioned to capitalize on this large growth opportunity. And we continue to invest to connect and converge adjacent industries to create value and help our customers achieve greater efficiency. During the quarter, Innovyze's Info360 cloud platform launched a beta version of Info360 Asset, a cloud-based tool for the water industry's condition and performance monitoring and risk management processes. We also launched Autodesk Tandem, our digital twin offering focused on harnessing the data from the design and construction process to create a repeatable and dynamic process, with digital handover being the natural output of the project life cycle. Turning to manufacturing. We continue to see strong momentum with our manufacturing portfolio this quarter, and we also saw the inclusion of Upchain in its first enterprise business agreement, or EBA, with one of our larger enterprise accounts. The convergence of design and make is accelerating, and we are seeing larger companies expand on our platform. For example, after using Fusion 360 and Moldflow to develop accurate digital manufacturing trends for injection-molded parts, which is typically a very iterative, time-consuming and expensive process, one of the largest American multinational medical device and pharmaceutical companies renewed and expanded its EBA with us this quarter. They were able to significantly reduce the time and rework costs because they could anticipate, predict and correct manufacturing issues before moving in production. We continue to see subscription growth for Fusion 360 with paying subscriptions now at 165,000, and the Fusion 360 extensions are helping to increase our average revenue per subscriber and capture more potential opportunity. During the quarter, a U.S.-based global leader in design, engineering and manufacturing of woven wire mesh products transitioned to Fusion 360 as their main design tool and invested in our managed extension. The combination of Fusion 360 and managed extensions has largely automated their design and change workflows and has brought a new level of organization and efficiency on product design all the way through delivery. Our presence in education continues to expand to address the critical shortage in skilled labor. For example, a growing number of large German companies are replacing competitive solutions and are training their apprentices on Fusion 360 to prepare them for the future of work. In the second quarter, Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg AG, EnBW, one of the biggest utility companies in Germany with 25,000 employees, adopted Fusion 360 to train its 600 apprentices. EnBW and its apprentices will benefit from the Fusion 360 cloud collaboration platform serving all their CAD, CAM and CAE needs while they are either on-site or remote. Education remains an important market for us, and we continue to broaden our reach with more than 43 million Tinkercad and Fusion 360 education users. We continue to make progress transitioning all of our users to named users, giving customers more visibility into their usage data and allowing us to better serve our paying customers while also making it harder for non-compliant users to access our software. The Level group is a full-cycle developer, which specializes in business class complexes. During the quarter, it increased its investment with Autodesk by consolidating all of its single and multiuser subscriptions and permanent licenses to AEC Collections with our premium plan and Autodesk Docs to enable more efficient collaboration and license management. And with the help of 24/7 technical support and single sign-on capability, Level group expects reduced design costs in the future. As our existing paying customers navigate the complexity of digital transition, we can help them manage that complexity, improve efficiency and sustainability and remain license-compliant. For example, one of the leading construction, civil, industrial, and infrastructure service contractors in Vietnam invested in AEC collections and Autodesk Build to balance project safety, efficiency, and quality while also reducing environmental impact and waste. Our license compliance team helped them identify licensing gaps and ensure installation of compliance software. We estimate that there are about 2 million non-compliant users within our paying customer base. During the quarter, we closed 11 deals over $500,000 with our license compliance initiatives, six of which were over $1 million. At the end of September, we will launch a new pay-as-you-go consumption model called Flex. It matches the customer's cost with their usage. Flex is an important new way to purchase from us as we evolve our business models to offer more choice and flexibility. It serves the long tail of customers who want an option for occasional users that do not use subscriptions every day. It also lowers the barrier to entry for existing and new users to explore new products with minimal risk and upfront costs. Now back to where I started. Sustained and purposeful innovation to digitally transform the industries we serve is also transforming our relationship with our customers from software vendor to strategic partner and enabling us to create more value for them through end-to-end cloud-based solutions, business model evolution and connected data and workflows. By helping our customers grow, we will grow, too. The pandemic has accelerated these trends, and climate change is increasing the urgency. We will continue to invest to rise to the challenges ahead and seize the opportunities they present. In the meantime, we remain on track to achieve our fiscal '23 goals. Please join us at our virtual investor day next week where we will have more time to share our strategic initiatives with you. Operator, we would now like to open the call up for questions. 