  OperatorGood day, everyone, and welcome to Verisign's fourth quarter and full year 2021 earnings call. Today's conference is being recorded. Recording of this call is not permitted, unless pre-authorized. At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Mr. David Atchley, vice president of investor relations and corporate treasurer. Please go ahead, sir.David Atchley -- Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Treasure

 



 Thank you, operator. Welcome to Verisign's fourth quarter and full year 2021 earnings call. Joining me are Jim Bidzos, executive chairman and CEO; Todd Strubbe, president and COO; and George Kilguss, executive vice president and CFO. This call and presentation are being webcast from the investor relations website, which is available under About Verisign on verisign.com. There, you will also find our earnings release. At the end of this call, the presentation will be available on that site, and within a few hours, the replay of the call will be posted. Financial results in our earnings release are unaudited, and our remarks include forward-looking statements that are subject to the risks and uncertainties that we discuss in detail on our documents filed with the SEC, specifically the most recent report on Form 10-K. Verisign does not update financial performance or guidance during the quarter, unless it is done through a public disclosure.The financial results in today's call and the matters we will be discussing today include GAAP results and two non-GAAP measures used by Verisign: adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow. GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation information is appended to the slide presentation, which can be found on the investor relations section of our website available after this call. Jim and George will provide some prepared remarks. And afterward, we will open the call for your questions. With that, I would like to turn the call over to Jim. 

 



Jim Bidzos -- Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, David. Good afternoon to everyone and thank you for joining us. I'm pleased to report another solid quarter and full year of operational and financial performance for Verisign. Throughout 2021, we delivered strong financial results while continuing to strengthen our critical Internet infrastructure. We complied with the high operational standards required by our ICANN agreements and extended our record of .com and .net DNS availability to over 24 years. I would like to thank our team for their dedicated efforts and expertise, which enabled us to realize these results. The critical infrastructure we operate provides the domain name system navigation service, which people around the world increasingly depend on for commerce, education, healthcare and person-to-person connection. For the full year 2021, we processed 44.6 million new registrations and delivered revenue of $1.328 billion, while generating free cash flow of $754 million. During the full year of 2021, we repurchased 3.3 million shares for $700 million. Effective today, the board of directors has increased the amount authorized for share repurchase of Verisign common stock by approximately $705 million to a total of $1 billion, authorized and available under the share repurchase program, which has no expiration. Our financial and liquidity position remained stable with $1.2 billion in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at the end of the quarter. We continually evaluate the overall liquidity and investing needs of the business and consider the best uses for our cash, including potential share repurchases.

 



 At the end of December, the domain name base in .com and .net totaled 173.4 million, consisting of 160 million names for .com and 13.4 million names for .net, with a year-over-year growth rate of 5%. Looking at fourth quarter operational results. We processed 10.6 million new registrations, and the domain name base increased by 1.37 million names. Although renewal rates are not fully measurable until 45 days after the end of the quarter, we believe that the renewal rate for the fourth quarter of 2021 will be approximately 74.8%. This preliminary rate compares to 73.5% achieved in the fourth quarter of 2020 and 75% in the third quarter. As we look to 2022, we expect the domain name base to grow at a rate of between 2.5% and 4.5%. As announced in today's earnings release, we have given notice of a price increase of $0.58 to the annual wholesale price for .com domain names, which raises the price from $8.39 to $8.97 effective September 1, 2022. I should point out that anyone can register a .com domain at any time before September 1 for up to 10 years and lock in that price for the full term of up to 10 years. Turning to .web. We noted last time that Afilias had filed an application for reconsideration of the May 2021 final decision, which, as a reminder, rejected their request to be awarded .web. Since we last spoke with you, the significant development in December was that Afilias' application for reconsideration was also rejected, and further, Afilias was sanctioned for filing it because the arbitration panel found that it was "frivolous". Since then, in mid-January, ICANN's board of directors directed one of its standing committees to review the panel's final decision and provide the board with its findings. With the rejection of Afilias' application and the reaffirmation of the panel's final decision, those roadblocks are now out of the way, and ICANN looks to be moving forward with making the decision on the delegation of .web, and we will be monitoring their process. As we have said before, we continue to look forward to becoming the .web registry operator and establishing yet alongside .com and .net as an additional option for businesses and individual end users worldwide. And now, I'd like to turn the call over to George.George Kilguss -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Jim, and good afternoon, everyone. For the year ended December 31, 2021, the company generated revenue of $1.328 billion, up 4.9% and delivered operating income of $867 million, up 5.2% from 2020. Operating expense totaled $461 million and was up 4.5% from the prior year. The full year 2021 operating margin was 65.3%, and free cash flow was $754 million. For the fourth quarter, revenue came to $340 million, up 6.3% from the same quarter in 2020, with operating income of $222 million, up 8.6% from $205 million in the same quarter a year ago. Operating expense totaled $118 million for the fourth quarter of 2021 compared to $113 million in the third quarter and $116 million in the fourth quarter of 2020. The sequential increase was primarily a result of increased marketing spend in the quarter. The operating margin in the quarter was 65.3% compared to 66.2% in the third quarter and 63.9% for the same quarter of 2020. Net income totaled $330 million compared to $157 million a year earlier, which produced diluted earnings per share of $2.97 in the fourth quarter of 2021 compared to $1.38 for the same quarter of 2020. As noted in our earnings release today, net income for the fourth quarter of 2021 included the recognition of a deferred income tax benefit related to a restructuring of two of our international subsidiaries, which involve the transfer of certain non-U.S. intellectual property between these subsidiaries. The recognition of this deferred income tax benefit increased net income by $165.5 million and increased diluted earnings per share by $1.49 in the quarter. Net income for the fourth quarter of 2020 included a recognition of $12.4 million of previously unrecognized tax benefits, which increased diluted earnings per share by $0.11. As we noted in the fourth quarter of 2020 earnings release, for 2022, we expect our GAAP effective tax rates to be between 21% and 24%. Operating cash flow for the fourth quarter was $206 million. Net free cash flow was $193 million compared with $195 million and $189 million, respectively, for the fourth quarter of 2020. Starting with our first quarter financial statements. We will combine our sales and marketing and general and administrative operating expense lines into one SG&A line to better align with peer company reporting. In addition, any significant fluctuations in sales and marketing will continue to be disclosed within our new SG&A section of our MD&A contained in our filings. I'll now discuss our full year 2022 guidance. Revenue is expected to be in the range of $1.420 billion to $1.440 billion. This revenue range reflects the domain name base growth expectation of between 2.5% and 4.5%, as Jim mentioned earlier, as well as the impact of the .com price increase announced today. The operating margin is expected to be between 64.5% and 65.5%. Interest expense and non-operating income net is expected to be an expense of between $70 million to $75 million. Capital expenditures are expected to be between $40 million and $50 million. As mentioned, the GAAP effective tax rate is expected to be between 21% and 24%. We expect the cash tax rate for 2022 to also be within the same guidance range. In summary, Verisign continued to demonstrate solid financial performance during the fourth quarter and for the full year 2021, and we look forward to continuing our focused execution. Now, I'll turn the call back to Jim for his closing remarks.Jim Bidzos -- Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, George. Before we open the call for your questions, I'd like to update you, as I've done in previous quarters, on some of our activities in the field of corporate citizenship under our Verisign Cares program, which aims to make a positive and lasting impact on the global Internet community and the communities in which we live and work. During the fourth quarter, we once again joined forces with food banks in the areas where we have a footprint to help alleviate seasonal and COVID-related food and security. We also renewed for a further year our partnership with Virginia Ready, the launch partner of our initiative to help those whose employment has been adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic to access retraining and other assistance to find new jobs in the growing technology sector. And finally, in Q4, we made a further contribution to the Equal Justice Initiative, recognizing that there remains much to be done in the important area of racial and social justice. And now, we'll open the call for your questions. Operator, we're ready for the first question. 