  OperatorGood day, and welcome to the Bristol-Myers Squibb 2022 first quarter results conference call. Today's conference is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Mr. Tim Power, vice president, investor relations. Please go ahead, sir.Tim Power -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Sergei, and good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining us this morning for our first quarter 2022 earnings call. Joining me this morning with prepared remarks are Giovanni Caforio, our board chair and chief executive officer; and David Elkins, our chief financial officer. Also participating in today's call are Chris Boerner, our chief commercialization officer; and Samit Hirawat, our chief medical officer and head of global drug development. As you'll note, we've posted slides to bms.com that you can follow along with for Giovanni and David's remarks. But before we get started, I'll read our forward-looking statements. During this call, we'll make statements about the company's future plans and prospects that constitute forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors, including those discussed in the company's SEC filings.These forward-looking statements represent our estimates as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any future date. We specifically disclaim any obligation to update forward-looking statements even if our estimates change. We'll also focus our comments on our non-GAAP financial measures, which are adjusted to exclude certain specified items. Reconciliations of certain non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are available on bms.com. And so I'll hand over now to Giovanni. 

 



Giovanni Caforio -- Board Chair and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Tim, and good morning, everyone. Let's start with our first quarter performance on Slide 4. This is an important year for Bristol-Myers Squibb, and I'm pleased to share that we've had a strong start to 2022. In fact, just yesterday, the FDA-approved mavacamten or Camzyos. This is a first-in-class medicine for patients living with symptomatic obstructive HCM. It's an important milestone for patients who up until now had no options to treat the underlying cause of this disease. I'm proud that we're giving hope to patients and improving their quality of life. It's also an important milestone for BMS. With U.S. approvals of Opdualag and Camzyos so far this year, we have significantly strengthened our new product portfolio. And we are on track to potentially launch three important new first-in-class medicines this year. Addition, strong commercial execution in the quarter resulted in solid year-over-year growth from our in-line products and new product portfolio.

 



 During the quarter, we saw the first entries of Revlimid generics in the U.S. and Europe. David will comment on our first quarter dynamics. But for the full year, U.S. entry expectations remain the same, while ex U.S. erosion is expected to be faster than previously anticipated. Overall, we grew revenue by 5% and delivered double-digit non-GAAP EPS growth compared to the same quarter last year. There is good momentum in our business, and our performance in Q1 validates that we are well prepared for the renewal of our portfolio with multiple catalysts across in-line products and new product portfolio to more than offset upcoming LOEs and drive growth through the decade. Our very strong financial position gives us significant flexibility as we continue to prioritize business development while paying down debt and expanding shareholder distributions. Now let me turn to our scorecard on Slide 5 and provide some context around the important achievements of the quarter. We are making good progress against our milestones, which are central to delivering on our long-term strategy and growth as a company. Starting with the milestones we show during the quarter. Opdivo was approved in the U.S. in March as the first I-O agent to treat early stage non-small cell lung cancer patients before surgery. This indication strengthens its profile in line and provides additional tailwind for growth. While disappointed with the results of the Bempeg program, we are very pleased with the significant progress of our new product portfolio overall. Breyanzi is now approved in Europe, our second CAR T cell therapy approved in the EU. As you know, we've been planning to bring three important new products to market this year. So far, two of those new products, Opdualag and Camzyos received FDA approval. Many of our new products have significant expansion opportunities. For Opdualag, we recently initiated a pivotal study in colorectal cancer. And for deucravacitinib, we delivered a successful Phase 2 proof-of-concept result in lupus. Looking to the future, the breadth of milestones ahead is exciting. One that we're looking forward to is the Milvexian Phase 2 data in secondary stroke prevention. We have decades of expertise in cardiovascular disease, and we believe this could be a medicine that treats an even broader population of patients than current oral anticoagulants. We expect to get Phase 2 data in-house around the middle of the year. And depending on the results, we plan to start Phase 3 trials later this year. Turning to our three new products on Slide 6. As I mentioned, in March, we received approval for Opdualag for the treatment of patients with unreceptible for metastatic melanoma. Opdualag is our first-in-class, fixed-dose, dual immunotherapy combination of nivolumab and the LAG-3 blocking agent antibody relatlimab. The combination of relatlimab and nivolumab demonstrated a clinically meaningful PFS and OS benefit. Opdualag marks the second approved I-O combination that we've delivered and demonstrates our continued scientific leadership in I-O. While we are still in the early days, I can say that the Opdualag launch is going very well. We believe this medicine has the opportunity to become a new standard of care for melanoma patients. In addition to melanoma, Opdualag has the potential for new indications. And we are exploring important opportunities in lung, liver and colorectal cancers.Turning now to our just FDA-approved mavacamten or Camzyos. The benefit of Camzyos for patients with symptomatic obstructive HCM were further reinforced with the exciting VALOR data presented at ACC this month. We're launching Camzyos in the U.S. and look forward to receiving EU approval and launching international with future indications to come. Finally, we continue to be excited about the opportunity for the deucravacitinib. As you know, we have an FDA PDUFA date in September for psoriasis. We believe that psoriasis patients need better oral options. And this asset has demonstrated superior efficacy compared to the oral standard of care with a favorable safety and tolerability profile. During the first quarter, we also delivered a successful Phase 2 proof-of-concept result in lupus, positioning us to start Phase 3 studies later this year in a disease with a very high unmet need. Importantly, the lupus data continues to show the consistent and differentiated safety profile of a selective TYK2 inhibitor. We plan to share comprehensive data with the scientific community at upcoming congress this year. With our upcoming FDA PDUFA date in the third quarter, Phase 3 trials already underway in psoriatic arthritis and a proof-of-concept achieved in lupus and additional phase II trials ongoing, including in IBD, our confidence in the potential of this program continues to grow. Now turning to Slide 7. Thanks to the hard work, dedication and strong execution by our employees, I am confident in our ability to deliver on our strategy and more than offset key LOEs by continuing the growth of our in-line products with $8 billion to $10 billion in incremental sales and delivering $10 billion to $13 billion of revenue expected from our new product portfolio by 2025. Our strong clinical performance further derisks our launch portfolio. And as a result, we have confidence in our ability to deliver the $25 billion plus in nonrisk-adjusted revenue in 2029. We have a strong foundation in place. And as the renewal of our portfolio gains further traction this year, I am confident in the potential of our company. Now I'll turn it over to David.David Elkins -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Giovanni, and welcome again to our first-quarter earnings call. I'm pleased to turn to Slide 9 to discuss our top-line performance. Unless otherwise stated, I will discuss sales performance on an underlying basis, which excludes the impact of foreign exchange translation. Total company revenues in the quarter exceeded $11.6 billion, growing 7% year over year. This was driven by strong double-digit sales of our in-line and new product portfolio, partially offset by our recent LOEs. Let's take a closer look at our new product portfolio performance on Slide 10. In the first quarter, the new product portfolio contributed $350 million in revenue, more than doubling revenue versus prior year. With the combination of factors, including the usual year-end buying patterns impacting sequential performance, we remain confident in the growth potential of the new product portfolio. The first-in-class approvals of Opdualag and yesterday's FDA approval of Camzyos further strengthened our confidence in the new product portfolio. We also look forward to our upcoming PDUFA date for deucravacitinib in September, which would deliver another first-in-class medicine for patients with the opportunity to deliver more than $4 billion in nonrisk-adjusted revenue in 2029. These initial approvals are just the beginning as many of these new medicines have significant expansion opportunities into additional indications. Now let's look at our expanded more diversified business by therapeutic area. Turning to our solid tumor performance on Slide 11. Opdivo and Yervoy continued their growth trajectory, growing double digits versus prior year. This is driven by continued demand for our newly launched indications and our core indications. In the U.S., Opdivo grew double-digit versus prior year, driven by demand in first-line lung, renal and gastric cancer as well as adjuvant esophageal and bladder cancers. Outside the U.S., first quarter year-over-year revenues increased double digit. This strong growth was primarily driven by expanded access in emerging markets as well as demand for new indications in developed markets as we continue to secure reimbursement. Looking forward, we expect continued growth of Opdivo from our new and expanding indications. With the launch of Opdualag in mid-March, we are pleased to be the only company with three approved I-O agents. While early days in the launch, we generated approximately $6 million in sales, half of which was demand and the other half stocking. We are encouraged by the initial feedback suggesting the potential for Opdualag to be a new standard of care for patients with metastatic melanoma, and I look forward to providing more updates as the year progresses. Now let's move to our growing cardiovascular portfolio on Slide 12. I'll start with Eliquis, which continues to grow globally, with revenues up 14% year over year. In the U.S., sales increased 12% versus prior year, driven primarily by total prescription growth of 10%. Internationally, sales were strong, up 17% versus a year ago. This strong double-digit growth was primarily driven by increased share across key markets, and the brand continues to be the No. 1 NOAC in multiple countries. Turning to our expanded portfolio. I'm really excited about the approval of mavacamten now known as Camzyos for patients with symptomatic obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy or oHCM. We plan to leverage BMS's existing CV leadership, building our strong expertise and relationship, focused initially at top HCM centers. Our field teams are excited to bring this product to patients in the U.S., and Chris can provide more details on our go-to-market strategy in the Q&A session. Now let's turn our attention over to a few of our hematology products on Slide 13, starting with Revlimid. Sales in the quarter were nearly $2.8 billion. Revenues were primarily impacted by generic entry. During Q1, we saw generics enter the U.S. later than expected entry and so far at a modest pace. As mentioned last quarter, we expect variability quarter to quarter due to the uncertainty of how generic players will enter the market, though there is no change to our outlook for the U.S. Revlimid this year and beyond, we expect favorability we saw in Q1 to reverse in Q2. And internationally, generics launch broadly across Europe in mid-February and erosion has been faster than expected. As a result, we now expect full year global sales to be approximately $9 billion to $9.5 billion. Based upon U.S. phasing and ex U.S. dynamics, we expect second quarter global revenues to be approximately $2 billion. Pomalyst global revenues grew from 9% versus prior year. Global revenues continued to be driven by volume and market share gains as patients move to earlier lines of treatment and extending duration of treatment. Now moving to Reblozyl, which generated revenues of $156 million in the quarter. Sales were up 41% versus prior year, primarily driven by continued demand in ESA refractory MDS patients. In the U.S. to date, we have robust on-label share in RS-positive patients. We're seeing encouraging trends in the reduction of time in the switch from ESA failures, which is also supported by NCCN guidelines. We have also made progress in physicians uptrading a patient's dose to ensure sustained duration and benefit. Our focus remains on patient identification and dose titration for optimal outcomes. And outside the U.S., Reblozyl continues to grow with increased share in both MDS and beta-thalassemia associated anemia. We have now launched in 6 countries outside the U.S. and expect to launch in more markets in 2022. Moving to cell therapy launches, Abecma and Breyanzi. Abecma generated revenues of $67 million in the first quarter. As expected, sales were largely similar to the fourth quarter of 2021 as demand continues to be robust, and worked hard to expand capacity. We are on track to expand capacity in the middle of this year to be able to help more patients with highly refractory multiple myeloma. As it relates to Breyanzi, sales in the quarter were $44 million. Sales were driven primarily by demand in the U.S., while physicians continue to recognize Breyanzi's best-in-class profile. We are very pleased with the recent EU approval for Breyanzi in third-line plus large B-cell lymphoma and look forward to launching in select markets in 2022. Additionally, we are preparing for the U.S. launch of Breyanzi in second-line large B cell lymphoma in June and are ramping up capacity in order to treat more patients. Moving to our immunology product summary on Slide 14. Orencia sales grew 6% versus prior year due to expanded U.S. sales, driven by increased market share in the U.S. As it relates to Zeposia, global sales in the quarter were $36 million, doubling sales compared to prior year. Sequentially in the U.S., we saw encouraging demand growth that was offset primarily by buying patterns from prior quarter and higher gross-to-net impacts related to patient access and ulcerative colitis. We are pleased with the awareness and perception of Zeposia in UC and are encouraged by the strong increase in new patient starts. We continue to work further expanding volume while strengthening access and reimbursement and expect to have increased contribution from UC in the second half of this year and expanding in 2023. Internationally, Zeposia continues to secure reimbursement in other markets for MS as well as obtain additional reimbursement for the newly approved UC indication last quarter. Lastly, as we continue to broaden our immunology portfolio, launch plans are already underway to prepare for deucravacitinib's upcoming PDUFA date in September. Now, let's turn to our first quarter P&L on Slide 15. As noted recently, we changed the presentation of our non-GAAP results. Along with other pharmaceutical companies, we no longer exclude significant research and development charges or other income resulting from upfront or contingent milestone payments in connection with asset acquisitions or licensing of third-party intellectual property rights. These charges have been included in our GAAP results, and there's no impact to the economics of our business. Going forward, we will now include these previously specified charges in both GAAP and non-GAAP results as a new line item called acquired in-process research and development as well as capture the previously specified income in our OI&E line item. In the quarter, operating expenses, excluding acquired in-process research and development increased versus prior year, primarily due to increased MS&A driven by differences in timing of spend in the prior year as well as investments in our new product portfolio. Net charges of $280 million consisting of acquired in-process R&D charges offset by licensing income are primarily driven by upfront milestone payments associated with the Immatics and Dragonfly licensing agreements. The first quarter effective tax rate was impacted by earnings mix. Even with this new financial presentation and the $0.10 impact from the inclusion of acquired in-process R&D and previously specified income, our strong performance in the quarter allowed us to grow non-GAAP EPS 13% versus last year. Excluding this, the new presentation chain of non-GAAP EPS would have grown 18%. Now moving to the balance sheet and capital allocation on Slide 16. Cash flow generation for the company remained strong. Cash flow from operations in the quarter was approximately $3.8 billion. We ended the quarter in a strong liquidity position with approximately $15 billion in cash and marketable securities. Our capital allocation priorities remain unchanged. BD continues to be a top priority, and we remain committed to continued debt reduction and returning capital to shareholders. And in the quarter, we executed a $5 billion accelerated share repurchase program. Approximately 65 million shares or 85% of the $5 billion aggregate repurchase price were delivered to the company in the quarter. The ASR will settle over the next couple of quarters, and we remain opportunistic about future share repurchases. Now turning to our 2022 non-GAAP guidance on Slide 17. As you know, we guide based upon prevailing exchange rates at the time we report the results. We're updating our top-line guidance to be in line to prior year, primarily due to movements in foreign exchange, reflecting the spot rate of the dollar today and faster erosion of Revlimid outside the U.S. Recent LOE product guidance is also being changed to reflect the updated Revlimid outlook in the range of $9 billion to $9.5 billion. So FX headwinds impact our entire portfolio. The outlook for in-line products and the new product portfolio remains unchanged. This reflects the strong performance and confidence in our future growth drivers. We now expect total operating expenses, excluding in-process R&D, to decline in the low single digits versus prior year, driven primarily by cost discipline and the impact of foreign exchange. Excluding the change in financial presentation that we've adopted for non-GAAP earnings, there is no change to our outlook for non-GAAP EPS for the year. With the impact of certain acquired in-process R&D and licensing income that are now included in non-GAAP EPS, our new range of $7.44 to $7.74. This change is driven by the previously announced $0.10 impact from the actuals in the first quarter, an additional $0.11 related to the buyout of future royalty obligations from mavacamten that occurred in April. Before we move on to Q&A, I want to thank our colleagues around the world to continue to deliver strong commercial, clinical and financial results. And I'm really excited for what lies ahead. I'll now turn it back over to Tim and Giovanni for Q&A.Tim Power -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thanks, David. Sergei, could we go to our first question, please?Samit Hirawat -- Chief Medical Officer and Head of Global Drug Development Our first question comes from Chris Schott from J.P. Morgan. Please go ahead.Chris Schott -- J.P. Morgan -- Analyst Great. Thanks so much for the questions. Two for me. First, can you maybe talk about Camzyos, if I'm pronouncing that right, and the echo monitoring requirement there? It seems like it's a fairly kind of long program. I'm just wondering how you see that impacting any uptake the drug could have? And the second question for me was on Milvexian and just the read across from the Bayer Factor XIa data we saw last month. I guess specific question would be, can you just talk about the attractiveness of Afib as a category for the Factor XIa's? And is that a focus for Bristol? Or is your focus more in markets where there currently isn't, I guess, Factor Xa usage? So any color there would be appreciated.Giovanni Caforio -- Board Chair and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Chris. I'll ask Chris to answer your question on Camzyos, and then Samit will comment on Milvexian.Chris Boerner -- Chief Commercialization Officer Thanks for the question. Since this is the first question on Camzyos, let me just say at the outset that we're incredibly excited to be launching Camzyos. This is an important new medicine for obstructive HCM patients. And for those of you who are at ACC, there's palpable excitement and anticipation of this drug. So this is a great opportunity for patients. Let me say a couple of things on just the REMS in general, and then I'll get to your question on the echo monitoring. We've been working with Simon's team and the FDA on the design of this REMS and with customers on how we would execute against it for a number of months. We view obviously the REMS as important because it ensures that patients are able to be treated safely, that they get on the right dose and that they're able to ultimately get the full benefit for Camzyos. There are two key components as you think about this REMS. There's a titration period, which is all about monitoring patients to ensure they get the right dose. This is largely again conceptually to how cardiologists manage hypertension. And then the second component is ensuring eligibility of giving background medications. As we look across both of these two key components together, we see the requirements for the REMS is manageable, generally fitting, as I referenced earlier, to the treatment approach for cardiac patients, and we don't see them as a barrier to adoption. Now with respect to the echo monitoring period specifically, we obviously consulted customers as we were working through the design of the REMS, and they don't see it as a concern for a couple of reasons. First, the requirements of this monitoring period are relatively minimal. You have to get an LVEF and an LVOT reading. That can be done with your local physicians. So for those patients who are being treated in centers of excellence, they can go back to their cardiologists, local cardiologist office to fulfill those requirements. Second, you have to remember, patients would be coming back a couple of times a year anyway for echos. And a number of patients would be coming back much more frequently for symptom management. So physician visits every three months is not seen as particularly burdensome. And the last thing I would highlight is a very important point, which is that patients are going to be highly motivated to work their way through this period. As we saw with the four study patients are highly motivated to stay on drug, they feel better on Camzyos. And so we think there's going to be strong motivation on their part to work through these requirements. So net-net, this is something we'll be obviously educating customers on, but we don't see this as a barrier to use.Samit Hirawat -- Chief Medical Officer and Head of Global Drug Development Thanks, Chris. Thanks for that. And Chris, from JPM, for your question on Milvexian. I think first of all, we are truly excited about that medicine as well. And we look forward to getting the data in-house in the middle of the year. The read-through from the Bayer presentation, I would say is that it further strengthens our confidence in the mechanism of action as well as provides a further proof-of-concept that inhibiting Factor XIa is a safe way to provide further anticoagulation or antithrombotic therapies for patients who really need it. As it comes to what indications we'll be pursuing, we'll continue to work with our partner, Janssen, to really define those once the data are in-house. And we can look at the data, the dose, the ways of administering the drug. And all in all, we'll be able to share that with you once we are ready with the data and the read-throughs. Thank you.Tim Power -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thanks, Samit. Sergei can we go to the next question, please? 