
OperatorGood day, and welcome to the Alexandria Real Estate Equities Third Quarter 2021 Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to turn the conference over to Paula Schwartz with Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Paula Schwartz -- Investor Relations

 



Thank you, and good afternoon, everyone. This conference call contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. The company's actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements is contained in the company's periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.And now I'd like to turn the call over to Joel Marcus, Executive Chairman and Founder. Please go ahead, Joel.Joel S. Marcus -- Executive Chairman and FounderThank you, Paula and welcome everyone to Alexandria's third quarter '21 Earnings Call. And our 7th consecutive quarter in the COVID-19 which for sure has forever changed our world and our lives in very fundamental ways. With me today are Jenna Foger, Peter Moglia, Steve Richardson, and Dean Shigenaga. In honor of my favorite NCAA basketball coach in his final year as head coach from Duke Men's Basketball coach Krzyzewski said, Imagination has a great deal to do with winning.

 



And I'd like to say to our extraordinary Alexandria family, thank you from the bottom of our hearts for a spectacular third quarter up and operational pace and execution tempo that really defines the terms, operational excellence, and for your great imagination as coach Krzyzewski said, in all things big and small.Moving on the keys to Alexandria's stellar third quarter performance by all metrics amid a historic demand environment. I think and importantly the best is yet to come. Continuing historic high demand for Alexandria's best-in-class lab space, the niche, which we invented and our mission critical and operationally excellent lab operations year-to-date and others will talk about this. We've leased 5.4 million square feet and looking for a great fourth quarter to end the year.Alexandria is at the vanguard in the heart of meeting this historic high an unprecedented immediate lab space demand from many of our over 750 client tenants Moderna is a prime example. And another one which Dean will talk about a big tenant and South San Francisco for a full building as well as a critical path for future growth, which is still needed. Thus, the need for our acquisitions redevelopment and development, and has been repeated time and time again, by life science tenants and their brokers if any other company is going up against Alexandria for leasing space, the tenant will almost always pick Alexandria.We are proud to partner with Moderna on their Cambridge headquarters and core R&D facility and as Dean and others will talk about, it will be the most sustainable lab building in Cambridge, with very strong economics and really great value creation.

 



We're very honored and proud that Alexandria has had very strategically significant tenant relationships and stellar brand reputation across all of our cluster markets. We're also very fortunate to continue to have to truly demonstrate and do demonstrate pricing power in each of our core cluster markets.And by the way the war for talent like other industries in the life science industry is creating an even greater space need set of space needs and demands in the core key life science clusters, and that is very good for Alexandria and we see an accelerating leasing demand even above and beyond what we see this quarter in several of our key cluster markets continuing.Rental rate growth continues strongly and excess supply is not a current threat. Alexandria's differentiated expertise and unique platform with its compelling internal and external growth drivers and outlook translates into genuine earnings power. As indicated in the press release and supplemental are visible multi-year highly leased development pipeline is expected to generate approximately $615 million in future incremental revenue and beyond that the future leasing prospects really look extraordinary as I've said.The biotech boom and historic life science demand driven by the strong industry fundamentals is evident. The 21st century is really the biological century as biology is in transition from an empirical science of trial and error to really in engineering will science with much more predictable and scalable outcomes. We're witnessing the industrial revolution and biotech as we accelerate the application of new and innovative tools, we will see an acceleration and value creation products will come to market faster for less capital and with fewer failures. The life science industry and its ecosystem and its positive impact on humanity is truly a crown jewel of the United States and a testament to the free enterprise system of innovation.I think it's important to remember politically those who seek to create a cradle-to-grave entitlement society should not use this industry as it fully could.And then finally, I want to turn to the second anniversary of our OneFifteen project in Dayton, Ohio, which this month we celebrate sad to say that overdoses have claimed a staggering 96,000 lives during the 12 months ended March of 2021, a 30% increase in the year before.OneFifteen is an innovative data-driven, nonprofit, evidence-based healthcare ecosystem dedicated to the full and sustained recovery of people with addiction. And as I said Dayton, Ohio OneFifteen is revolutionizing the way addiction is treated through its tech-enabled care platform which applies analytics to measure the effectiveness of various treatments and choices throughout the full continuum of care and continuously evolves its approach based on insights derived.Since its opening in 2015, OneFifteen has served almost 4,000 individual struggling with addiction and conducted over 9,000 telehealth visits since the start of COVID 19 pandemic. With our OneFifteen partners, we're unwavering in our commitment to help people recover from addiction, live healthier lives while revitalizing the community. We would like to see this model replicated across the country but politicians seem wholly ineffective even given the large amount of capital that came to the cities and states during COVID-19.And our goal is not only to have OneFifteen be a model for the success against opioid addiction in Dayton, Ohio. We hope to bring that model in a varied way to address the homeless crisis on the West Coast.And so with that, I'd like to turn it over to Jenna Foger, who is going to comment on some important COVID-19 matters the NIH and the FDA. Take it away Jenna. Thank you so much Joel, and good afternoon everyone. As we begin to turn and new corner on this COVID-19 pandemic, which I'll speak to in a moment, life science industry fundamentals is still highlighted, continue to be very strong and provide the industry with the unique structural integrity to weather broader market volatility and cyclicality. The confluence of these drivers and key advances in our understanding of biology and next generation modalities will continue to fuel life science demands well into the future. So we spoke about last quarter, owing to the expediency at which the industry in our tenants move to protect the country in the world. We now have the tools and the roadmap at our disposal and the pandemic, while also ushering in a historic new era for biotech and scientific innovation are none. So turning to our COVID specific updates, by the numbers, according to the World Health Organization, there has been a staggering 242 million confirmed cases of COVID-19 worldwide about 20% of these reported in the U.S. alone, including over $4.9 million cumulative deaths. In the U.S., the incidence of new COVID-19 cases has welcoming declined over 55% from its recent temper peak of over 160,000 new cases to now 70,000 new cases and we hope to see the trend and declined continued of course. Three of the most widely distributed vaccines worldwide and authorized by the FDA has been developed by [Indecipherable] tenants; Pfizer, Moderna, and Johnson & Johnson. And roughly 67% of the vaccine eligible population in our country, that's 12 and over, have been fully vaccinated. So this is just over 57% of the total U.S. population and we hope boosters and expanding the indications that the number of fully vaccinated individuals will continue to rise. As we saw last week, the FDA authorized the use of Moderna and Johnson & Johnson boosters. In addition to Pfizer's already authorized booster shot, as well as the mixing and matching of booster doses between Pfizer, Moderna, and J&J in eligible population. In light of the evolving data on the duration of immunity and COVID-19 variance concern including the common Delta variant and now the Delta Plus hitting U.S. soil, it's highly likely that COVID-19 vaccines will be required long-term. With regard to vaccine efficacy in a study evaluating the real-world effectiveness of the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines are preventing symptomatic illness. The Moderna vaccine had an efficacy rate of 96% and Pfizer at 89%. So as we've all heard breakthrough infections have occurred in a high-single digit percentage of vaccinated population but while vaccines may not entirely prevent transmission or contraction of COVID-19, they do significantly prevent severe disease and death with over 90% of all hospitalized COVID cases represented by unvaccinated individuals. With regard to vaccine safety, there have been very few vaccine-related adverse events less than 7 per million reported overall with nearly all cases resolving and without long-term side effects reported to date. Given such a strong efficacy and safety profile, the FDA granted full approval for Pfizer's mRNA-based vaccine for people 16 and older and Moderna's mRNA-based vaccine is likely to achieve full approval for its vaccine for 18 and older in the fourth quarter. With regard to pregnancy in women of childbearing age based on the safety data generated to-date and how we know vaccines work in the body. The CDC and top health officials have encouraged any American who is pregnant, planning to become pregnant, or currently breastfeeding to get vaccinated against the coronavirus as soon as possible. With regard to children, Pfizer reported that its COVID-19 vaccine for ages 5 to 11 was safe and nearly 90% effective. And on the basis of this data, the FDA is expected to authorize Pfizer's vaccine for this population in the fourth quarter. Moderna also just announced yesterday that its COVID vaccine is both safe and highly effective in children ages 6 to 11, which they were also submit to the FDA. For young children ages 6 months to 4 years, vaccine authorization will likely come in early 2022. So despite these advances in vaccine, given the COVID will likely remain on the planet for the foreseeable future, albeit as an endemic virus with seasonal and sporadic geographic peaks therapies are going to continue to be important in mitigating severity of COVID-19, and so most notably this past month Alexandria tenant Merck and collaboration with Ridgeback Biotherapeutics submitted an eWAY application to the FDA for its oral antiviral molnupiravir. This drug demonstrated a 50% reduction in hospitalization or death in patients with mild or moderate COVID-19. If authorized, molnupiravir will be the first oral antiviral therapy for COVID-19 is a big deal. It's far easier and more cost-effective to administer broadly compared to current antibody treatments in the mild and moderate COVID-19 population. So despite the COVID fatigue that we are all absolutely feel and the multitude of challenges that this pandemic has placed on our country, our society in the world, of course, the scientific advances achieved at an unprecedented speed is the ones increase of the strategic period in our history. The scientific attitude and adaptability of so many of our tenants to translate their broad platform and decades of work into safe and effective vaccine therapies and testing and really a year time is remarkable and application of these tools will forever transform the way we develop vaccines against a novel target. It will also augment future surveillance testing and our nation's pandemic preparedness overall. But the touch on another topic on the NIH and FDA leadership, the pandemic has also underscored how critical these agencies are and that strong support for these key federal agencies is paramount for national security, for ensuring that the U.S. maintains its leadership and advancing scientific and biomedical innovation and for maximizing our ability to address the current and future health challenges. So interestingly over the past several weeks, the leadership position of these two agencies have received increasing attention. On October 5th, long-tenured NIH Director, Dr. Francis Collins announced that he will be stepping down as a Director of the agency at the end of the year. Dr. Collins is the longest-serving presidentially appointed NIH Director, having served three U.S. presidents of our more than 12 years. During his tenure, the NIH feet increasing by partisan support and agency's budget grew from $30 billion in 2009 when he started to nearly $50 billion in the upcoming fiscal year. The Biden administration is undergoing a formal process to name Collins' Replacement, which is expected later this year or more likely early next and we're optimistic that his successor will continue to bolster biomedical and public health research in this country. As for the FDA, acting Commissioner Dr. Janet Woodcock has led agency since the beginning of the Biden administration, under her leadership in addition to the COVID-related emergency's authorization that I just spoke about the FDA's cedar has approved 40 new molecular entities during the third quarter. Putting the agency on pace in 2020 is near record high of 53 approval. So because Dr. Janet Woodcock term expires on November 15th, the administration now needs to select and appoint a new commissioner in the coming weeks. So similarly on October 14th, the Biden administration, announced it is likely to nominate Dr. Robert Califf as the next Commissioner of the FDA. Dr. Califf is a cardiologist by training and current Head of Clinical policy and strategy for Verily and Google Health. Dr. Califf also served as FDA Commissioner from 2016 to 2017 as of the Obama administration after being appointed Deputy Commissioner at 2015 Dr. Califf is also very well-known and dear to Alexandria as a regular participant in the Alexandria Summit for the past several years and a partner in our OneFifteen project to Duffy opioid epidemic as Joel just spoke about. Dr. Califf's nomination would be viewed very favorably by the life science industry key investors and stakeholders. Clearly, the strength of the FDA's instrumental for ensuring the continued pace and vitality of biomedical innovation in our country and I just wanted to highlight in addition to the COVID-19 related updates and we'll will likely see in the fourth quarter, the FDA will also announce a handful of major approval decision before the end of the year. Decisions that if positive, will bring critical new drugs to patients as well as billions of dollars of additional revenue to the sector. For example, Eli Lilly is expected to submit an application for accelerated approval of its Alzheimer's therapy known as donanemab and given all the controversies surrounding FDA's positive approval of Biogen's aducanumab. The same application, the approval of Lilly's drug will likely inform future approvals in the area. There is also a major decision regarding a new class of drug for severe atopic dermatitis from Pfizer and AbbVie and several other awaited approvals for growing biotech, including the approval of CAPLYTA for the treatment of bipolar disorder from long-standing Alexandria tenant investment Intra Cellular Therapies. So just to wrap up before I turn it to Steve, I wanted to share quote from former FDA Commissioner Dr. Scott Gottlieb and his new book Uncontrolled Spread: Why COVID-19 Crushed Us and How We Can Defeat the Next Pandemic. In his book Gottlieb, writes the brief history of COVID shows that innovation can always be predicted. We don't know which platform will yield answers for future threat. As part of our national preparedness will be important to stockpile countermeasure to some of the known risks but it's equally important to support the development of novel technology platform that have broad applicability of a range of potential threat. The use of mRNA to customize synthetic vaccine, so the value of having agile competencies at the ready. These are the technologies we will need to produce our nation vulnerability. So does this operating focus and unique ability and responsibility of the life science industry I continue to reaffirm why Alexandria has dedicated our business, our passion and our best to help drive this mission critical industry forward. And with that, I'll turn it over to Steve. Thank you.Stephen A. Richardson -- Co-Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Jenna. Good afternoon, everyone. Alexandria is brand power in the market is not only delivering the exceptional results today that you've seen, but also provides clarity for the potential trajectory of the company's future growth and enhanced dominant position in the life science ecosystem. Peter and I've just completed an intensive on the ground tour through a few of our cluster markets in the energy and enthusiasm for Alexandria's entirety of offerings as an integral part of the life science ecosystem was abundantly evident.The Class A plus quality and the mission-critical nature of the facilities that is so important during this time of COVID-19 coupled with the creation of true renaissance like science centers on our mega campuses provides for a set of highly desirable and sought after destinations. And the number of the team are posting bear out this leadership position. The highlights include superb leasing milestones. Year-to-date leasing is 5.4 million square feet, the highest annual leasing run rate in the company's history achieved during just these first three quarters of 2020 deployment.And as noted earlier by Joel, featuring the largest lease in the company's history to Moderna at 325 Binney Street for their 462,000 square foot state-of-the-art headquarters. It's critical to note two important aspects of this leasing activity. One, it is occurring in our core submarkets, where we have high barriers to entry, low vacancy, and a first mover advantage. And two, it is also occurring in the development and redevelopment pipeline at an accelerated rate with the 1 million square feet of leasing in this segment during Q3, reaching the second highest leasing level for development and redevelopment projects further validating Alexandria's strategic and a robust acquisition activity during 2021.Let's turn to the strategic expansion of our asset base, Q3 was a very productive quarter with completed acquisitions totaling 5.6 million square feet and a number of key aspects of this expansion of our asset base include the following 4.9 million square feet of this total were highly accretive value creation opportunities. We are also able to continue either doubling down in our core submarkets, as evidenced by 325 Binney Street or strategically expanding the boundaries of these submarkets.These critical decisions on acquisitions are informed by our unrivaled network of 750 tenants to meet their current needs and provide a path for future growth. And in total, we have now increased the total asset base from 47 million square feet to 64 million square feet during the past four quarters, a significant increase of 36%.The core is also outperforming as renewal and releasing spreads of 19.3% cash and 35% GAAP during Q3 are impressive. But I also want to underscore and highlight that our mark-to-market across the portfolio has moved up to 25% on a cash basis today, nearly doubling significantly up from 36% in Q1 of 2019. AR balance of 99% in October continues our hard work there and we really do have a dream team and the operational realm and a big shout out to the folks who make this happen every day.Occupancy is increasing. As we've noted throughout the year, we expected occupancy to increase. Excluding the recently acquired projects with vacancy and we've delivered on those goals, we were at 97.1% as of June 2020 and we're now at 98.5%.Turning to market health. On the demand side, Joel and Jenna highlighted the key components, driving demand in the life science industry. However, the seasoned executive life science management teams driving this demand are requiring high quality facilities and deeply experienced operational teams as clearly evidenced by our leasing volume and velocity. These companies are investing hundreds of millions of dollars in life changing therapies and require exceptional performance from a world-class team and technically sophisticated facilities, downtime or mistakes that may destroy experiments in years of work are unacceptable risks.Alexandria as the pioneer of this life science niche has earned a reputation as a trusted partner to provide operational excellence for these mission critical facilities.On the supply side, as I mentioned earlier, Peter and I recently toured a few of our regions firsthand to also evaluate the competitive supply on a granular level and it is clear that there is no aggregation of disruptive large-scale projects delivering during the 2022, 2023 timeframe. There are in fact a handful of one-off buildings in the market, but we have seen our qualitatively superior mega campuses compete very well against this type of offering.We are also closely monitoring the potential for projects beyond this timeframe to definitively advance its genuine life science competition but in many cases they require many quarters or even years of entitlement permitting and horizontal infrastructure work before any decision to go vertical might be made.So in conclusion, as we close toward the end of 2021, the first three quarters of this year have yielded a tremendously productive foundation to continue the company's integral and indispensable role in the life science ecosystem.With that, I'll hand it off to Peter.Peter M. Moglia -- Co-Chief Executive Officer and Co-Chief Investment OfficerThanks, Steve, and hello everybody. I'm going to update you all on our high-value creation development pipeline and construction cost trends and then I'm going to comment on our recent partial interest sale in Mission Bay and some market activity that we believe represents overzealous behavior by new entrants in the life science real estate market that should lead to challenges for such groups.As Joel mentioned in his opening historic demand for our differentiated life science campuses continued in the third quarter and we expect this to continue through at least the near-to-medium term as record levels of government, venture capital, and biopharma investment continue to disseminate into Alexandria's cluster markets to discover, develop, and manufacture new modalities, such as cell, gene, and RNA, and DNA therapies.The resulting growth of our underlying industry gives us high conviction to continue at an elevated pace of development and redevelopment and to acquire assets to backfill the pipeline, we are advancing today. This historic demand paired with our long 10-year development experience and expertise resulted in another outstanding quarter for Alexandria. We delivered 238,163 square feet spread over six assets including Arsenal on the Charles in Watertown which continues to be one of the hottest markets outside of Cambridge.3160 Porter Drive, which is now materially oversubscribed with tenants looking to tap into this unique partnership we have with Stanford and our two ground up developments in Research Triangle which are capitalizing on strong demand for research, development, and manufacturing space from therapeutic and agricultural technology companies. These deliveries will contribute $14.3 million in NOI over the next year.And as Joel and Steve noted in their comments during the quarter, we were very excited to add 325 Binney Street to our under construction pipeline. This new 463,000 square feet high performance development targeting leads Zero Energy Certification showcases Alexandria's climate resilient design solutions as well as our mission-critical efforts to catalyze positive change to benefit human health and societies.It is a 100% leased to Moderna an example of a highly disruptive and visionary company that has grown with Alexandria's and shortly after it was founded.Early on, we identified the team and the transformational potential of its mRNA platform and we have both invested and provided the company with mission-critical real estate over the past 10 years. This is truly a testament of our ability to recognize and become a trusted partner of the most impactful life science companies in the world.Including 325 Binney, we have added over 1.1 million square feet of new developments to our pipeline and net of deliveries increased assets under construction from 3.4 million square feet to 4.3 million square feet. This increase in our pipeline is warranted by the demand I mentioned previously and evidenced by the tremendous leasing activity of over 1 million square feet for the quarter. Truly a historic demand from the life science industry and tremendous execution by our leasing professionals. I'll now comment on cost trends. As reported over the past two quarters, construction costs remain elevated driven by supply and demand dynamics for materials. The two other factors have begun to exacerbate the problem; labor shortages and supply chain problems. Nine months into 2021, previous year's projects that had been put on hold due to COVID, and new 2021 projects have created a double-barrel demand for construction resources at a time when fabrication shops are struggling to procure raw materials and restart due to labor shortages. The result has been record escalation for concrete, steel, wood, aluminum, and glass.Most of these commodities are sourced from the United States, but there are still a number that come from foreign sources such as steel from Canada, Asia, Mexico, and Brazil. Glass from Thailand, and resins used for pipe and specialty products such as bench tops for labs from Asia and Europe.As we all know there have been significant supply chain disruptions around the world. Non-more apparent than the backlog of cargo ships in Southern California, which last Tuesday, reached an all-time high of over 100 ships waiting to unload thousands of containers outside the Ports of Long Beach and Los Angeles a bottleneck that is expected to continue into next year.In addition to supply disruptions, construction costs are being impacted by labor shortages, there is a lack of skilled workers to keep up with the accelerated demand caused by a number of factors including GC finding that some of the workforce laid off or furloughed during COVID are not returning because of retirement or finding other jobs. And it could get worse if OSHA adopts vaccine mandates as the construction industry. It's one of the highest unvaccinated workforce.Unfortunately, higher costs are not the only consequence of material and labor shortages. Material shortages caused longer lead times that can delay deliveries. Based on our deep experience and expertise, lead times have generally increased by 6 to 8 weeks for most common materials, even longer for materials that are comprised of metal and PVC or have a need for computer chips such as building control.Alexandria is employing a number of mitigation measures to offset these impacts and to date, we've been very successful in staying on budget and schedule at the vast majority of our projects. Increases in rents have enabled us to maintain our yields but future projects may trend slightly lower as escalations and longer lead times in fact, are underwriting. However, we are fortunate and that the demand for life science real estate investments continue to drive lower cap rates for stabilized buildings, allowing us to maintain our spread.And speaking of cap rate compression. During the quarter, we sold additional interest in our 409 and 499 Illinois and 1,500 owned assets while recapitalizing them with a new partner. And our original recapitalization done in December, 2015, we achieved a total valuation of $1,021 per square foot and a blended cap rate of 4.6%.In this transaction, we achieved a blended cap rate of 4.2% and a price per square foot of approximately $1,362, representing 33% appreciation over the whole period.To date, we've achieved a healthy unlevered IRR of 10.4% on those assets. Finally, an observation on those clamoring to position themselves to capture the growing life science real estate demand, I referenced earlier.City Office REIT sale of two parcels in Sorrento Mesa, Sterling Bay, and Harrison Street for $576 million illustrates a gold rush mentality proliferating across our markets. City REIT's announcement stated that the south portion of the site was allocated $181 million of purchase price, a rendering of the site shows a very tight 2.0 FAR density of development that would imply a purchase price of $261 per square foot of land.To give you some context, our basis in the recently acquired land is 6250 to 6460 sequence drive a far superior location in the same Sorrento Mesa submarket. We have a basis of approximately 25% of that if we were to build it so the same density. Our plans contemplate a much more inviting campus with open space and amenities so our basis will be more like 50% of theirs, that you get the point. This is a great example of why we are an incredibly -- in an incredibly advantageous position to capture any tenant requirement we want to capture. We are highly disciplined and have superior locations, superior basis, superior execution, and the superior brand.And with that I'll pass it over to Dean.Dean A. Shigenaga -- President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Peter. Dean Shigenaga here. Good afternoon, everyone.Year-to-date 2021 really has been an exceptional year financial and operating performance for Alexandria, our brand partnerships with some of the most innovative life science entities combined with operational excellence has allowed our team to generate strong results. Our internal growth has been very strong, statistics from our pipeline of development and redevelopment projects are record-breaking and provide visibility for growth into the future.Total revenues, net operating income, and adjusted EBITDA for the third quarter were very strong and were up 20%, 21%, and 22% respectively over the third quarter of 2020 all really amazing and impactful results and I should point out that these stats exclude the impact of the termination fee that was recognized in the third quarter of 2020.Now, internal growth and operating results continue to reflect the strength of our unique and differentiated business model and strength of our brand. Our Same Property performance represents one of the highest quality growth engines within the REIT industry of which we are immensely proud.We have one of the highest quality tenant rosters in the REIT industry with 53% of our annual rental revenue from investment grade or large cap publicly traded companies and an important statistic that should be noticed and occupancy has been very strong and improving this year to 98.5%, up 80 basis points from the beginning of the year, excluding the impact from vacancy in recently acquired properties.Now importantly, 1.4 million rentable square feet of vacancy from recent acquisitions represents about 4.1% of our operating rentable square footage and is a significant opportunity to increase cash flows. Additionally, 40% of this 1.4 million rentable square feet of vacancy is leased or under lease negotiations. And as Joel stated earlier, we are seeing increasing leasing demand in a number of our key -- Key Life Science close to markets.Now, Same Property, NOI growth was strong at 4.1% and 7.3% on a cash basis and headed toward the upper end of our ranges for 2021 guidance. Same property NOI growth projected for the full year of 2021 is very solid and is up 100 basis points and 70 basis points on a GAAP and cash basis respectively from our initial guidance for 2021, really highlighting the improvement in our outlook. Since the beginning of the year. And once again very proud of the strong internal growth engine we have.Leases executed in the nine months ended September 30th at over 5.4 million rentable square feet. Another company record and this leasing volume was completed with exceptional rental rate growth, up 39% and 22.3% on the cash basis.Now, let me take a moment to highlight the seasonality of operating expenses related to higher utility expenses with warm summer weather, we had higher repairs and maintenance in the summer months versus what might occur during the winter months and higher property insurance premiums with our policy renewal, which took effect June 1.Now, with 92% of our leases being triple-net, these increases are generally recoverable from our tenants and therefore have minimal impact on net operating income. However, the increase in operating expenses as a slight and only temporary negative 1% to 2% impact on operating and EBITDA margins for the quarter.Additionally, vacancy from recent acquisitions. Also slightly reduced margins, but it's important to recognize that our adjusted EBITDA margins remain one of the top within the REIT industry and we expect to favorably resolve vacancy from recently acquired properties over the next number of quarters.Now, turning to real estate, our trusted partnership with key life science and disease are brand in operational excellence among many other items is really standing out today is highlighted by strong demand for our pipeline of development and redevelopment projects.We have 7.7 million rentable square feet either under construction or construction commencing over the next 6 quarters with projects approximately 80% leased or under negotiation highlighting continuing historic demand 93% of which represents transactions with existing relationships, including a number of deals coming from our tenant base of over 750 entities.Now, the 7.7 million rentable square foot pipeline is up 731,000 rentable square feet over June 30th and some of the key highlights in the quarter included that we commenced construction on 1.2 million rentable square feet. That is on average 60% leased or under negotiation, including 3.25 Binney Street, which is 100% leased in 751 Gateway in South San Francisco, which is a 100% under negotiation. These are pretty amazing leasing statistics. And we just commenced construction and in both cases stellar existing relationships resulted in full building users. Now, we added approximately 480,000 rentable square feet of space targeted to commence construction over the next six quarters, it's about 20% of this space is under LOI negotiations today. And importantly, our team executed 1 million rentable square feet of leasing in the third quarter related to the development and redevelopment space including the 462,000 rentable square foot lease for with Moderna for 100% of 325 Binney Street.And we expect demand from our development sites and projects will provide us the opportunity to commence construction of other development and redevelopment projects.Now, turning to our venture investments. Just want to shout out a huge thank you to our science and technology team for the leadership in underwriting life science industry trends and high quality investment opportunities. Now, our venture investment cost basis only represents about 3.2% of gross assets and unrealized gains were $930 million on a cost basis of about $1 billion.In the third quarter, we realized individually significant gains from three separate transactions aggregating $52.4 million and year-to-date through September 30th, we realized individually significant gains from six separate transactions aggregating $110.1 million.Now, this represents over $100 million of capital that we did not anticipate at the beginning of the year that we were able to reinvest into our business and our team is very pleased for recognition of the overall improvement in our corporate credit profile, S&P just upgraded our rating to BBB plus with a positive outlook. Highlighting our unique and differentiated business model, strong brand and execution, high-quality cash flows, and strong credit profile among many other items. So thank you to our entire team for continued solid execution across all areas of our business, we remain on track for net debt to adjusted EBITDA at 5.2 times and fixed charges greater than 5 times by the end of the year.As we close in on the end of 2021, we are focused on ramping up several key partial interest sales in high-value, low-cap rate transactions and other dispositions. Each transaction is moving along as expected and we are targeting completion of the sales later this year, which will generate about $1.7 billion in capital. The timing of a couple of the key dispositions were subject to the lease negotiations before we were able to put the deals in front of potential investors and therefore are targeted to close in the fourth quarter.As our team continues to focus on making a positive and lasting impact on the world, they're very pleased for continued recognition of leadership in ESG. Now, MSCI just released results highlight an A rating for Alexandria representing one of the top ratings within the REIT industry. GRESB also recently released results of the 2021 assessment highlighting Alexandria is a global sector leader in a 5-star rating in the diversified sector for buildings in development and one of the top 2 in the science and technology sector for buildings and operation.And our team commence construction to 325 Binney Street, which is the ground-up development fully leased to Moderna and is designed to be the most sustainable laboratory building in Cambridge. The key items of the design include use of geothermal energy for heating and cooling and innovative building envelope and building management system and other sustainable attributes that is designed to eliminate 95% or more fossil fuels and achieved leads or energy.Now, this building has also been designed to mitigate risk associated with flood precipitation under a business as usual scenario. And we are extremely excited to be an important strategic partner to Moderna for about a decade now and super pleased that they select 13 to assist them with their strategic priorities including development of their next super innovative and sustainable lab building.Now turning to guidance, we updated our conservative guidance for 2021 including narrowing the range for EPS and FFO per share from a range of $0.08 to a range of $0.02 per share or 2021 guidance for EPS diluted is a range from $3.91 to $3.93 in FFO per share as adjusted diluted to a range of $0.04 -- excuse me $7.74 to $7.76 with no change in the midpoint of $7.75.Now, we continued strong demand for space in our asset base has increased our outlook for rental rate growth on lease renewals and releasing the space by 2% and 1% on a GAAP and cash basis respectively. And we also updated or 2021 guidance for dispositions and have four transactions in process that will generate $1.7 billion as highlighted a moment ago.We updated construction spend for an increase of about $200 million at the midpoint, primarily due to acceleration of leasing and tenant space requirements related to our development and redevelopment projects. And as a reminder, we are about five weeks away from issuance of our detailed guidance for 2022 and therefore we are unable to comment on 2022 guidance related matters.Let me end there and turn it back to Joel.Joel S. Marcus -- Executive Chairman and FounderOperator, if we could go to Q&A.