  OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Las Vegas Sands fourth quarter 2021 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers' presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker for today, Mr. Daniel Briggs. Thank you, sir. Please go ahead.Daniel Briggs -- Senior Vice President, Investor Relations

 



 Thank you. Joining me on the call today are Rob Goldstein, our chairman and chief executive officer, and Patrick Dumont, our president and chief operating officer. Also joining us on the call are Grant Chum, our chief operating officer, Sands China, and Dr. Wilfred Wong, who are about to get connected. And I apologize for starting late. Before I turn the call over to Rob, please let me remind you that today's conference call will contain forward-looking statements that we are making under the safe harbor provision of federal securities laws. The company's actual results could differ materially from the anticipated results in those forward-looking statements. In addition, we may discuss non-GAAP measures.A definition and a reconciliation of each of these measures to the most comparable GAAP measures is included in the press release. Please note that we have posted supplementary earnings slides on our earnings slides on Our investor Relations website. We may refer to those slides during the Q&A portion of the call. [Operator instructions] Please note that this presentation is being recorded. With that, let me please turn the call over to Rob. 

 



Rob Goldstein -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Dan, and good afternoon and good morning to our colleagues in Asia. A very good morning for our colleagues in Asia. Thank you for joining our call today. We'll have some brief comments, and then we'll go right to Q&A. Our results continue to reflect the pandemic's impact. Travel restrictions continue to affect visitation and our financial results in both Macao and Singapore this quarter. We did generate some positive EBITDA for the quarter in both markets. We remain confident in the eventual recovery in both Macao and Singapore. The good news in Singapore, the travel restrictions and travel carters were established with many important source markets during the quarter. Indonesia, Malaysia, South Korea, Australia, Thailand were all part of the initial rollout of the DTO program. And obviously, emergence of Omicron variant impacted the DTO program in late December. The DTO should contribute to a more robust recovery over time.

 



 Our confidence in the long-term opportunity in Singapore remains deep. And I'm pleased to announce we've embarked on a USD 1 billion renovation project at MBS that will introduce luxurious new suite product to the resort. The program will meaningfully expand our room suite offerings and significantly enhance our appeal to premium customers. In Macao, the Londoner is near completion. As the market recovers, both the Four Seasons and Londoner will provide growth opportunities -- material growth opportunities in both the premium and mass customer segments. We continue to have the largest footprint in the world's greatest market, Macao, and appreciate the opportunity to provide input in the public consultation process ongoing. We look forward to participating in the tendering process as it proceeds to fruition. Customer demand and spending in Macao have proven resilient at the premium mass level from both a gaming and retail perspective, as outlined, I think, on pages 29 and 30 in your deck. We continue to have great optimism about our ability to perform to pre-pandemic levels once visitation returns. You may know our company is divided primarily into three material areas, the most important being Asia, the portfolio in Macao and Singapore. We remain confident we'll return to strong positive cash flow in both Macao and Singapore in the future as restrictions are eased and travel and tourism recover. The sale of Las Vegas creates liquidity and optionality as we pursue additional large-scale, land-based destination resorts in the US and Asia. And we continue to build our digital presence. We're exploring multiple opportunities at this time, and we'll provide some color at the appropriate time. So let's go to your questions, and thank you for listening. 