  OperatorGood day, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Sempra first quarter earnings call. Today's conference is being recorded. At this time, I'd like to turn the conference over to Mr. Donovan. Please go ahead.Glen Donovan -- Vice President, Investor Relations Good morning, everyone, and welcome to Sempra's first quarter 2022 earnings call. A live webcast of this teleconference and slide presentation is available on our website under the investors section. We have several members of our management team with us today, including Jeff Martin, chairman and chief executive officer; Trevor Mihalik, executive vice president and chief financial officer; Lisa Alexander, senior vice president, corporate affairs, and chief sustainability officer; Justin Bird, chief executive officer of Sempra Infrastructure; Faisel Khan, senior vice president and chief financial officer of Sempra Infrastructure; Allen Nye, chief executive officer of Oncor; Kevin Sagara, executive vice president and group president; and Peter Wall, senior vice president, controller, and chief accounting officer. Before starting, I'd like to remind everyone that we'll be discussing forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results may differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement we make today. The factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially are discussed in the company's most recent 10-K and 10-Q filed with the SEC. All of the earnings per share amounts in our presentation are shown on a diluted basis, and we'll be discussing certain non-GAAP financial measures. Please refer to the presentation slides that accompany this call for a reconciliation to GAAP measures.We also encourage you to review our 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2022. I'd also like to mention that the forward-looking statements contained in this presentation speak only of today, May 5, 2022. And it's important to note that the company does not assume any obligation to update or revise any of these forward-looking statements in the future. With that, please turn to Slide 4, and let me hand the call over to Jeff. Jeff Martin -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Glen, and thank you all for joining us today. Against the backdrop of a challenging economic environment, our company remains focused on executing our T&D investment strategy in our core markets. Sempra California is preparing to submit GRC filings at both SDG&E and SoCalGas later this month, focused on providing safe, reliable and cleaner energy to its 26 million consumers. Turning to Texas, Oncor is executing on its record five-year capital plan focused on critical T&D infrastructure investments across its service territory to support strong demographic growth and plans to file its rate case later this month. And at Sempra Infrastructure, they're developing a platform that's uniquely positioned to export LNG directly from the Gulf and Pacific Coast to customers in Europe and Asia. The recent tragic events unfolding in Ukraine have highlighted the need for secure access to reliable sources of cleaner energy and Sempra Infrastructure is well positioned to be part of the solution. Our strategy of investing in T&D infrastructure to expand and modernize North America's energy systems across each of our three growth platforms is continuing to drive our record $36 billion five-year capital plan and has helped us deliver another quarter of strong financial results. Also in April, we completed $250 million of share repurchases under our existing board authorization. In the last six months, we've returned $750 million of capital to our shareholders in the form of share repurchases, which taken together with our dividend program, demonstrates our commitment to returning value to our owners while remaining focused on investing in and growing our businesses as part of the disciplined capital allocation strategy. Shifting to our quarter results. Earlier this morning, we reported first quarter 2022 adjusted earnings per share of $2.91. We're also affirming our full year adjusted EPS guidance range for 2022 and our EPS guidance range for 2023. Please turn to the next slide. I'd now like to briefly highlight some of the key strategic advantages of our T&D portfolio. Sempra's three growth platforms are strategically positioned in highly attractive and contiguous markets in North America and serve one of the largest utility consumer bases in the United States. Our strong position helps create momentum for critical investments in advancing safety, reliability and cleaner energy as the global energy market continues to evolve. We also believe our platforms will play an important role in building the energy systems of the future. Please turn to the next slide where I'll turn the call over to Lisa to provide an update on our sustainable business practices.Lisa Alexander -- Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs, and Chief Sustainability Officer Thanks, Jeff. I'm pleased to share that we recently issued our annual Corporate Sustainability Report for the 14th consecutive year. Sustainability is central to our strategy, capital allocation and sustained performance. Throughout our report, you'll see examples of our sustainable business practices, including how we've aligned our portfolio with long-term macroeconomic market and policy trends. Among other factors, our corporate strategy is focused on enhancing safety, climate resilience and affordability and capturing new investments in infrastructure that support increasingly diversified and cleaner forms of energy. One of the key improvements to the report is our enhanced ESG reporting to address the evolving needs of our stakeholders in light of a constantly changing environment. We appreciate the collaboration and continue to align our reporting to track and deliver on key ESG metrics. A couple of other highlights from the report are reflected on this slide. Recently, SDG&E issued its decarbonization road map for California, the path to net zero, which demonstrates our position as a leader in helping the state reach its goal of carbon neutrality by 2045. It's also important to note that safety is foundational to our business. We're continuing the essential work of helping ensure employee and contractor safety and operational excellence. For example, ECA LNG recently surpassed one million hours worked without a lost time injury. Additionally, customer affordability is another top priority, and we're investing in the necessary infrastructure to help mitigate operating risks and enable a just energy transition. This approach of investing in our business while striving to maintain affordability underscores our values of doing the right thing, championing people and our unwavering commitment to safety across our operations. Finally, we have a demonstrated history of sound corporate governance and oversight by our Board of Directors. The report highlights our Board's skills and experience and, among other areas, cybersecurity, energy transition and operational excellence. Our strength in sustainable business practices has been recognized by experts in the sector, including the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index. And we've been named to the list for four consecutive years. Notably, we are the only North American utility company to be so recognized. I'm very proud of the collective effort from each of our businesses and our shared work with all our stakeholders. With sustainability at the heart of our corporate strategy, it provides a clear sense of purpose for our 20,000 employees. Please turn to the next slide, where I'll hand the call over to Trevor to provide business and financial updates.Trevor Mihalik -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Lisa. We made solid progress in the first quarter with a number of positive developments at each of our operating companies. Beginning with California, we're excited about SDG&E's completion of the Cleveland National Forest Fire Hardening and Safety Project, which is an example of SDG&E's commitment to making its electric system safer and more reliable. Next, I'd like to remind you of an important decision issued by the CPUC in February, establishing a statewide renewable natural gas procurement standard with procurement targets for California's investor-owned gas utilities in 2025 and 2030. This decision reaffirms the role of renewable natural gas in the state, and we view it as a significant step toward the future of cleaner fuels in California. Against that backdrop, SoCalGas continues to execute on its own goal of 20% renewable natural gas delivery to its core customers by 2030. In April, both SDG&E and SoCalGas filed their cost of capital applications to update each of their authorized rates of return, which would be effective for 2023 through 2025. We expect a decision by year-end. Regarding SDG&E's off-cycle cost of capital application for 2022, we expect a decision later this year. For more information on the cost of capital filings, please refer to the appendix. Additionally, both utilities plan to file their general rate cases with the CPUC in the coming weeks to update their authorized revenue requirements for 2024 through 2027. Among other considerations, our filings will focus on safety and reliability investments, while also looking to advance the state's clean energy goals. We look forward to working with the commission and all of our stakeholders on these important regulatory proceedings. Shifting to Texas. It's important to note that in 2021, it was a record year for Oncor in terms of the new and active requests for transmission interconnections, highlighting the rapid economic growth in its service territory. This growth has continued in the first quarter of 2022, with a 78% increase in new interconnection requests compared to the first quarter of 2021. Oncor's service territory continues to experience strong new commercial development and population increases as demonstrated by Oncor connecting approximately 16,000 new premises in the first quarter. Additionally, last month, Oncor's board of directors approved an update to its 2022 capital plan from $2.8 billion to $3 billion. While Oncor's board typically approves the annual capital plan in October, this off-cycle approval is another example of the robust economic growth in Texas, driving investments to support transmission and distribution expansion. Also in March, Oncor received approval of its transmission cost of service filing for the recovery of its 2021 capital investments. Oncor also plans to file its rate case with the Public Utilities Commission of Texas later this month. Now let's shift to Sempra Infrastructure, which is focused on making critical new investments that support the energy transition. As part of this strategy, Sempra Infrastructure is working to export LNG directly from the Gulf and Pacific Coasts to customers in Europe and Asia. Furthermore, our U.S.-Mexico cross-border infrastructure business supports the growing integration of North American energy markets. As part of our effort to develop Cameron LNG Phase II, we've successfully reached a number of important commercial and permitting milestones and are now progressing toward the engineering stage of the project. As a reminder, in January, we filed our amendment with the FERC to transition from gas turbines to electric drives. If approved, this would result in a more capital-efficient single train with an estimated 44% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions compared to the previous design. Also, last month, we signed project development agreements and an HOA with Cameron LNG partners to advance Phase 2 of the project. These arrangements provide the commercial framework for the development of a fourth train as well as increased production capacity through debottlenecking activities from the existing three trains. Sempra Infrastructure contemplates taking its share of the offtake and selling it under long-term sale and purchase agreements to third parties. In summary, under the proposed arrangement, Cameron LNG Phase 2 would be fully contracted prior to reaching a final investment decision. In addition, we selected two FEED contractors to run a competitive process, which is intended to culminate in a fixed-price turnkey EPC contract. The FEED process is expected to conclude in the summer of 2023, which would allow us to evaluate taking FID thereafter. We believe we have a strong plan of execution, and this detailed and rigorous FEED process will result in better scope, definition, cost and schedule for the project. Next, as we continue to advance our dual market strategy, we broadened our alliance with TotalEnergies to advance the Vista Pacifico LNG project and to explore renewable opportunities in North America. The MOU to develop Vista Pacifico LNG contemplates that TotalEnergies would receive a third of the project offtake and potentially participate in the project equity. Given the increasing demand for LNG projects, we're continuing to have active discussions with market participants around Port Arthur LNG. As a reminder, the proposed facility at Port Arthur has advanced permitting and design work and is targeted to have total capacity of approximately 13.5 Mtpa. Lastly, at Sempra Infrastructure, we continue to expect the sale of a 10% interest to ADIA for approximately $1.8 billion to close in the second quarter, subject to customary closing adjustments and conditions. Please turn to the next slide. Earlier this morning, we reported first quarter 2022 GAAP earnings of $612 million or $1.93 per share. This compares to first quarter 2021 GAAP earnings of $874 million or $2.87 per share. On an adjusted basis, first quarter 2022 earnings were $924 million or $2.91 per share. This compares to our first quarter 2021 adjusted earnings of $900 million or $2.95 per share. Please turn to the next slide. The variance in the first quarter 2022 adjusted earnings compared to the same period last year can be explained by the following key items: $42 million of lower earnings at Sempra Infrastructure attributable to higher noncontrolling interest, consisting of: $24 million increase as a result of the decrease in our ownership interest of Sempra Infrastructure Partners, net of an increase in our ownership interest in IEnova, and $18 million, primarily due to an increase in Sempra Infrastructure Partners' subsidiaries net income. This was offset by $27 million of higher equity earnings at Sempra Texas Utilities, primarily due to the increased revenues from the rate updates to reflect increases in invested capital, higher customer consumption and customer growth; $25 million of higher transportation and terminal earnings at Sempra Infrastructure; and $22 million of higher CPUC base operating margin, net of operating expenses at SDG&E. Please turn to the next slide. To summarize. We've continued to invest in our record capital plan to help build the energy networks of the future. We're pleased about the strength of our financial performance this quarter, and we'll remain highly focused on executing our strategy and capital program throughout the remainder of the year. With that, this concludes our prepared remarks. We'll now stop and take your questions. 