
OperatorGood day, and welcome to the Duke Energy Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded. At this time, I'd like to turn the conference over to Mr. Jack Sullivan, Vice President, Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.Jack Sullivan -- Vice President of Investor RelationsThank you, Cody. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to Duke Energy's Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Review and Business Update. Leading our call today is Lynn Good, Chair, President and Chief Executive Officer; along with Steve Young, Executive Vice President and CFO. Today's discussion will include the use of non-GAAP financial measures and forward looking information within the meaning of the securities laws. Actual results could differ materially from such forward looking statements, and those factors are outlined herein and disclosed in Duke Energy's SEC filings. A reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures can be found in today's materials and on dukeenergy.com. Please note the appendix for today's presentation includes supplemental information and additional disclosures. So with that, let's turn the call over to Lynn.

 



Lynn J. Good -- Chairman, President and Chief Executive OfficerJack, thank you, and good morning, everyone. It's great to be with you for our second quarter 2021 earnings call. Today, we announced strong results for the quarter, with adjusted earnings per share of $1.15. These results, driven in part by economic recovery, also demonstrate the continued strength of our clean energy strategy. We are leading the transition to cleaner energy by adding significant amounts of renewables to our portfolio, hardening the grid through investments in our transmission and distribution assets and collaborating with stakeholders and policymakers to advance supportive energy policy. We have positive momentum going into the second half of the year and are reaffirming our 2021 adjusted EPS guidance range of $5 to $5.30. We're also reaffirming our long-term EPS growth rate of 5% to 7% through 2025, based on $5.15 midpoint for 2021. And we remain fully committed to creating value for shareholders by recently increasing our quarterly cash dividend for the 15th consecutive year. Looking ahead, we have a number of strategic milestones that we're working toward the, we're working toward in the second half of the year. We anticipate the closing of the minority sale of Duke Energy Indiana to GIC announced earlier this year at an attractive premium to our public equity valuation. This transaction satisfies our equity needs for the next five years. We received CFIUS approval in June. FERC approval is the only remaining closing requirement, and we anticipate receiving approval at any time during the third quarter. We continue engaging with stakeholders on important work in the Carolinas on our 2020 IRPs and energy legislation and in Indiana on our 2021 IRP. I will speak further about those in just a moment. And operationally, we have four remaining months of hurricane season, and our team is ready to respond on behalf of our customers. In July, Elsa was our first official storm of the 2021 season.While we had minimal impact in our Florida and Carolinas service territories, we were prepared and restored power quickly to our customers. I'm very proud of our accomplishments to date and we're poised for a strong finish to 2021. Turning to slide five. We continue to advance our clean energy transformation powered by our five year $59 billion growth capital plan. These investments are delivering value for our customers and communities and driving strong growth for our investors. I want to highlight a couple of recent accomplishments. Renewables are playing a major role in our path to net zero. We continue construction on approximately 250 megawatts of new solar projects in North Carolina and Florida that we expect to bring online by the end of this year. And in recent weeks, we commissioned the 144 megawatt Pflugerville solar and 182 megawatt Maryneal wind projects in Texas. With the completion of these two projects, we hit a significant milestone, surpassing 10,000 megawatts of solar and wind resources. This is a testament to the hard work and dedication of our employees and strong support we receive from the communities where we operate. In addition to carbon reduction and the benefits of creating a diverse energy infrastructure, solar and wind investments foster economic development, tax revenue and job creation in the areas we serve.This milestone reflects our leadership in clean energy, and we are on track to pass 16,000 megawatts of renewables by 2025 and approximately 24,000 megawatts by 2030. By 2050, renewables will represent 40% or more of our energy mix. Nuclear is also a foundational component of our strategy, providing the largest source of reliable carbon-free energy we have in our system. In June, we submitted our application to renew Oconee Nuclear Station's operating licenses for an additional 20 years, which was accepted by the NRC for review. This is our first subsequent license renewal application among our six nuclear sites in the Carolinas, and the review process will move forward over the next 18 months. Oconee is our largest nuclear station, with three generating units that produce more than 2,500 megawatts of carbon free base flow generation, enough to power more than 1.9 million homes. Our nuclear fleet provided 83% of the company's carbon free generation in 2020 and avoided the release of nearly 50 million tons of carbon dioxide. We'll pursue similar extensions for each of our remaining reactors as they approach the end of their respective licensing periods. Our ambitious climate strategy also puts us in a strong position to help other sectors, such as transportation, meet their emission reduction goals.

 



We continue to build out electric vehicle infrastructure in our service territories and one of our subsidiaries, eTrans Energy, was recently named a preferred provider by GM to help its fleet customers transition to electric vehicles. Electrifying vehicles is a win-win approach to reducing carbon emissions from both the electric and the transportation sectors. Turning to slide six. We're actively engaging policymakers and stakeholders across our jurisdictions and at the federal level. In North Carolina, the House of Representatives recently passed House Bill 951. This legislation directs an orderly clean energy transition for North Carolina, including mandates to retire 12 coal units at five locations and replace them with cleaner forms of generation, renewed solar programs and modern ratemaking tools to better align clean energy investments with customer needs. We support House Bill 951 and will continue to monitor its progress through the legislative process. North Carolina has a long history of constructive energy policy that was developed by finding common ground, which has helped position the state as a leader in clean energy and in economic development. Advancing this clean energy transition continues to be a priority for the state and its leaders. We also continue to work with the commissions in both North and South Carolina to advance our integrated resource plans. Regulators have been complementary of the extensive stakeholder feedback process and comprehensive data incorporated into the IRPs. In South Carolina, we received an order from the commission requesting additional analysis and modeling, which will be filed later this month.And in North Carolina, the commission plans to hold additional proceedings and will be providing guidance on next steps. This is the first time we've presented multiple generation scenarios in the IRPs, and we welcome the opportunity to provide our regulators with more input. In Florida, we received the final order from the commission in June, approving the new multiyear rate plan settlement. The significant agreement includes the continued expansion of utility scale solar, energy storage, new electric vehicle charging station programs and provides rate certainty to benefit customers. Among other things, our investments include 10 new solar power plants across the state that will deliver 750 megawatts of cost-effective renewable energy to customers. This multi-year rate plan is an addition to our Storm Protection Plan, which entails $6.2 billion in grid investments through 2029 to harden and strengthen the grid, protecting it against significant weather events and improving reliability for customers. In Indiana, the commission approves Step two from our 2019 rate case, which updates rate base through year end 2020 and trues up carrying costs back to January 1, 2021. As we prepare to submit our Indiana IRP in November, we continue to engage business customers, consumer advocates and environmental groups to solicit input on transitioning to cleaner generation sources while keeping a sharp focus on reliability and affordability for customers.We took an important step in our last rate case by reducing the depreciable lives for our coal capacity and look to the IRP to continue this progress. We'll collaborate with stakeholders and policymakers to find the best path forward for the state's clean energy transition. Shifting to the LDCs. We've filed rate cases in two jurisdictions this year. Across our gas segment, we've worked to keep O&M costs relatively flat during a period of strong customer growth and capital additions. Our Piedmont Natural Gas rate request continues to move through the regulatory process in North Carolina. This request includes construction costs related to our new natural gas storage facility in Robeson County. A hearing is scheduled for September. And if approved, rates would be effective by year end.In Kentucky, we've made strategic investments to improve the reliability and integrity of our natural gas delivery system and filed a request with the Public Service Commission to recover those costs. We've invested nearly $190 million in a variety of capital projects across Northern Kentucky since we last sought a natural gas base rate increase in 2018. We will present our case to the commission in October. And finally, let me comment on the work in D.C. We're engaged with Congress and the administration on a wide range of issues, including infrastructure, tax and climate policy. The bipartisan infrastructure framework is the subject of much discussion and could serve as a powerful catalyst to modernize our nation's infrastructure. It includes funding for large scale expansion of charging infrastructure to prepare for and further drive adoption of electric vehicles. And as charging infrastructure grows, so will the need for grid investments. Innovation will also be a critical part of the journey to net zero because with our existing technologies, we can make important progress, but cannot close the gap. We're pleased to see the framework includes funding to accelerate the development of next-generation clean energy technologies such as hydrogen, carbon capture and advanced nuclear. Robust and sustained government support is vital to ensure the commercialization of these advanced technologies. It's critical for us to tackle this issue today so the technologies are scalable when we need them. In closing, our continued growth and strong second quarter results were driven by solid execution across all our jurisdictions as we lead the largest clean energy transition in our industry. I'm confident we will continue to build on this momentum to deliver sustainable value and grow earnings 5% to 7% over the next five years. With that, let me turn it over to Steve.

 



Steven Keith Young -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Lynn, and good morning, everyone. I'll start with a brief discussion on our quarterly results, highlighting a few of the key variances to the prior year. For more detailed information on variance drivers and a reconciliation of reported to adjusted results, please refer to the supporting materials that accompany today's press release and presentation. As shown on slide seven, our second quarter reported earnings per share was $0.96 and our adjusted earnings per share was $1.15. This is compared to a reported loss of $1.13 and an adjusted earnings per share gain of $1.08 last year. The difference between second quarter reported and adjusted earnings per share is due to the onetime impacts of the initiative to redefine workspace usage in light of what we have learned from COVID. This effort involves consolidation of corporate office space and accommodating a hybrid work environment, resulting in a 60% reduction in square footage and annual savings of approximately $25 million to $30 million. The adjusted earnings-per-share growth in the quarter continues to be strong, led by Electric Utilities and Infrastructure, which was up $0.24 compared to the prior year. Results were favorable due to benefits from base rate increases, favorable volumes, riders and weather. Partially offsetting these items were higher O&M costs due to COVID-19 mitigation efforts in 2020. Shifting to Gas Utilities and Infrastructure, results were down $0.03, primarily due to the cancellation of ACP last year. In our Commercial Renewables segment, results were down $0.06 for the quarter, driven by lower investments in new renewables projects compared to prior year.This is consistent with our guidance in February, and we expect full year 2021 earnings to be within our $200 million to $250 million range. Other was unfavorable $0.04 for the quarter, principally due to less favorable market returns on certain benefit plans and higher income tax expense, partially offset by lower financing costs. Finally, segment results are impacted by $0.04 of share dilution related to the $2.5 billion equity issuance that closed in December 2020. Overall, we had strong results compared to last year, supported by our continued execution and the rebounding economy. We remain confident in our ability to consistently grow our adjusted EPS at 5% to 7% throughout the five year period off the 2021 base year. Turning to slide eight. Let me provide an overview of electric volumes and economic trends. Our results for the second quarter were up approximately 6.5% year over year. Keep in mind, we are comparing sales data to Q2 of last year, which experienced the largest impact from COVID-19. Residential volumes were down 6%. However, given stay at home orders during the same period last year, the modest decrease indicates many people continue to work from home on at least a part time basis. In fact, this quarter's results are more than 4% above the second quarter of 2019, highlighting the continued strength of the residential class which is supported by customer growth across our service territories. As reported on our first quarter earnings call, nearly all large commercial and industrial customers have resumed operations in the sector and the sector is showing signs of optimism. The commercial class has rebounded considerably from prior year with an increase of 11.7%. Retail, dining and recreation were all driving the positive year over year comparison as most COVID restrictions have been lifted. Similarly, industrial volumes have increased 11.8% for the quarter, whereas volumes had declined 15% last year. We expect improvement in the commercial and industrial classes as employment recovers and supply chain bottlenecks are resolved. As we progress through the back half of the year, we are monitoring the pace of economic recovery and potential impacts of the delta variant. At the same time, we are encouraged by the sales trends so far this year, along with strong customer growth across our service territories.With Q2 overall retail volumes returning to Q2 2019 levels, we remain confident in our full year expectation of 1% to 2% load growth for 2021 and are trending toward the top half of that range. On slide nine, I'd like to share an update on where we are with our financing plan and dividend growth. We remain on track with the financing plan we outlined on the fourth quarter call. The proceeds from the GIC minority interest sale, along with our overall financing plan, allow us to maintain a strong credit profile without the need for common equity issuances throughout our five year plan. We are on track to complete the North Carolina storm securitization this fall and we recently issued $3 billion of holding company debt at low attractive rates. Finally, we understand the value of our dividend to our investors. This year marks the 95th consecutive year of paying a quarterly cash dividend and the 15th consecutive annual increase. Moving to slide 10. I want to provide some perspective on timing considerations for the second half of the year and an update on our cost management efforts. We expect volumes will continue to recover over the balance of the year. But as we saw in the second quarter, we expect O&M to be unfavorable in the third quarter when compared to 2020. This is due to the actions we took to significantly reduce O&M during the pandemic, such as deferred outages at are generating stations. Overall, we reduced O&M $320 million in 2020, equivalent to more than 6% of our non rider recoverable O&M. On our February call, we shared that we plan to sustain 65% or $200 million of those savings and carry them forward into 2021.We are on track to achieve those savings. This is consistent with our cost management track record since 2016. On a consolidated basis, over the past five years, our net regulated electric and gas O&M has declined approximately 1% per year, and we expect this trend to continue. Before we open it up for questions, let me close with slide 11. We remain confident in our 2021 adjusted earnings per share guidance of $5 to $5.30 with a midpoint of $5.15. Our year to date results position us well to achieve full year results within this range as we continue to invest in important energy infrastructure to benefit our customers and communities. Our attractive dividend yield, coupled with our long-term earnings growth profile of 5% to 7%, provide a compelling risk adjusted return for our shareholders. As Lynn discussed, we continue to advance our clean energy strategy, adding new renewable generation and taking steps to extend the lives of our carbon free nuclear fleet. We continue to engage with state and federal leaders as they work to pave the way for a clean energy future. We're executing our capital plan to support those efforts by investing in our energy grid, all while employing financing solutions that save customers money and add value for shareholders. Duke Energy is well positioned to lead as the pace of change in our industry accelerates, delivering sustainable value to our customers and investors. With that, we'll open the line for your questions.