  OperatorGood afternoon, and welcome to the MGM Resorts International first-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. Joining the call from the company today are Bill Hornbuckle, chief executive officer and president; Corey Sanders, chief operating officer; Jonathan Halkyard, chief financial officer; Hubert Wang, president and chief operating officer of MGM China; and Jim Freeman, senior vice president of capital markets and strategy. [Operator instructions] Please note, this conference is being recorded. Now I would like to turn the call over to Jim Freeman. Please go ahead.Jim Freeman -- Senior Vice President of Capital Markets and Strategy

 



 Good afternoon, and welcome to the MGM Resorts International first-quarter 2021 earnings call. This call is being broadcast live on the Internet at investors.mgmresorts.com, and we have furnished our press release on Form 8-K to the SEC. On this call, we will make forward-looking statements under the safe harbor provisions of the federal securities laws. Actual results may differ materially from those contemplated in these statements. Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ from these forward-looking statements is contained in today's press release and in our periodic filings with the SEC. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update these statements as a result of new information or otherwise. And during the call, we will also discuss non-GAAP financial measures in talking about our performance. You can find the reconciliation to GAAP financial measures in our press release and investor presentation, which are available on our website.Finally, this presentation is being recorded, and I will now turn it over to Bill Hornbuckle. Bill Hornbuckle -- Chief Executive Officer and President

 



 Thank you, Jim, and thank you all for joining us this afternoon. We're excited to be speaking to you given the significant progress that we have observed in COVID trends, vaccination, consumer sentiment, and state-by-state operating restrictions throughout the quarter. Since we last spoke in mid-February, our domestic business has improved significantly, and the work we have done has allowed us to maximize the pace of our recovery while positioning us for long-term sustainable growth. As business trends improved, we remain focused on our long-term vision to be the premier gaming entertainment company in the world. Our strategy for achieving this vision centers on four strategic focus areas. First, investing in people and planet, providing fun and inspiring experiences for our guests, delivering operational excellence at every level, and allocating our capital to drive the highest return for our shareholders. I thought it might be helpful to provide an update on each of these focus areas before turning to the details of our first-quarter performance and our outlook for the rest of the year. Our people and planet strategy is part of everything this company does. At the pinnacle of this strategy is the investment in our amazing people, reflecting on the past year to say it has been tough would simply be an understatement. But throughout the year, our employees have been the one consistent bright spot across the organization. I am humbled and in awe of their dedication, their hard work, and resilience in the face of unprecedented uncertainty. That is why I'm so passionate about the investment in them. We got to this because of their consistent commitment to this company and ultimately, our guests. As we continue to bring employees back across the U.S. to meet heightened levels of demand, we, of course, prioritize their health and safety. To that end, we've dedicated significant resources to getting our people vaccinated.

 



 We recently opened our on-site vaccination clinics here in Las Vegas as well as our regional properties for not only our employees but also their families as well as our entertainment and partners who work at our properties. As the largest private employer in Nevada, these efforts are far-reaching in the local community, and I believe we are doing more than our part to help combat the virus with the ultimate goal of getting our city back open 100% by June 1. I'm also proud to share what our team has been able to accomplish to solidify MGM Resorts as a leader in environmental sustainability. In just a few short months, we will flip the switch on MGM Resorts' Mega Solar Array. This 100-megawatt solar array at full production will provide up to 90% of total daytime electricity needs for all of our Las Vegas Strip properties, representing over 65 million square feet of buildings. Our second focus area is all about providing fun and inspiring experiences for our guests. To date, we have opened 8 shows across our portfolio, adhering to current health and safety restrictions. We continue to work with our local leaders to safely bring large-scale events back, both in Las Vegas and our regional properties, starting in early summer. In July, T-Mobile Arena is set to host the McGregor fight -- McGregor UFC Fight and you can't get tickets for this event. We sold 20,000 tickets in 22 minutes. This is just one of the many examples of the clear demand for entertainment, and we're excited to see a path to delivering these differentiating offerings to our customers. It's important to note, however, that we've not just focused on what experiences we provide, we've also focused on how to provide them, delivering the highest quality guest service through a culture of yes is an attribute that remains deeply embedded in our values. We continue to empower our employees to do what they do best, providing world-class service to all of our guests. Turning to operational excellence. We refined our operating model in late 2019, increasing spans of control and simplifying organizational layers to accelerate decision-making, bringing us closer to the guest and ultimately, reducing costs. Driven in part by these efforts, our first-quarter domestic margins grew significantly over the fourth quarter. And we are confident that these sustained changes will enable us to deliver a full target of $450 million of cost savings when business demands return to 2019 levels. And finally, we are disciplined allocators of capital, always driven by the goal of creating value for our shareholders. Our targeted growth opportunities align with our long-term vision. We, along with our partners, Entain, continue to invest in BetMGM as it grows its leadership position in U.S. sports betting and iGaming. I hope you all listened in on our Investor Day last week. We're investing in our digital journey to drive deeper customer loyalty and engagement over time. And with recent developments in New York, we look forward to working with the legislature on a potential path for a full-scale casino license at Empire City. With that, I'll now provide some high-level comments on our results and future business outlook and then let Jonathan -- and then Jonathan will discuss the first quarter in more detail. In Las Vegas and across our regional properties, our initial recovery has been strong. It's been great to see Las Vegas come alive again to the vibrant destination that we've all come to know and enjoy. Our gross bookings in March were one of the best months in the company's history, clearly backed by pent-up leisure and casino demand. And our operating performance naturally followed the broader demand trend lines, and adjusted property EBITDAR was heavily driven by the back half of the quarter. Booking trends are bound to normalize over time as we continue to fill out the resorts in future periods. But the good news is we've built up a large enough base to start strategically yielding our business, especially now on the weekends. As we look ahead, we expect robust leisure demand throughout the spring and summer months with hotel occupancies in the 90% range on the weekends. Weekdays will increasingly be driven by meetings and conventions, and our group business remains solid in the back half of this year. With more clarity around Nevada's gathering guidelines, we're actively working to secure more in-the-year, for-the-year business and to partially offset the anticipated levels of wash in attendance per group. Our differentiated Convene with Confidence program, designed to safely accommodate events large and small, has received great feedback from our clients. With the larger groups expected to return at scale in '22, our business in '22 and '23 is on pace with pre-COVID levels. While our high-end international casino business will still depend on travel restrictions, our domestic casino demand, which we've successfully levered through the crisis, remains extremely healthy. We're also proactively engaging more with our fly in and 50-plus age demographic, and we've seen increased receptivity to travel from that group. Our regional properties delivered strong results in the first quarter despite some inclement weather aided by easing statewide restrictions. It's been encouraging to see, again, our rated 50-plus and higher-value players begin to return as well with the strength particularly in slots, and in March, we did see -- our 50- to 64-age segment was close to that of 2019 levels, and we saw a noticeable improvement in our 65-plus age segment as well. These trends are also continuing now into April. I'm especially pleased with our regional team's persistent ability to drive operational efficiencies, resulting in our first quarter regional adjusted property EBITDAR surpassing that of 2019 despite lower revenues. In fact, our regional EBITDAR and margins this quarter were both all-time first-quarter records. As statewide restrictions ease further and entertainment alternatives begin to expand consumer options, we will monitor the broader top-line environment. But assuming COVID trends remain stable, we are confident, through our cost discipline efforts and resulting structural margin gains, we can sustain full EBITDA recovery this year. I'd like to share some thoughts now on Macau. While marketwide GGR in the first quarter improved sequentially compared to the fourth quarter, Macau's business volumes remain well below pre-COVID levels. MGM China once again outperformed the market pace of recovery. Our quarter GGR recovered approximately 40% of pre-pandemic fourth quarter 2019 levels compared to the market's overall recovery of 33%. It is evident that our strength in premium mass is positioning us well as the market gradually turns the corner. The rate of Macau's recovery, we believe, will remain heavily dependent on broader sentiment as well as the pace of vaccination rollouts throughout the region, which would ultimately lead to the easing of travel restrictions. Nucleic acid testing requirements and other bottlenecks currently impact this marketplace. The opening of the Macau-Hong Kong border is also another important variable in Macau's recovery. I am, however, confident Macau's longer-term growth prospects and believe our investment will ultimately bear much fruit. We expect construction of the additional suites in the South Tower of MGM Cotai to be complete in the third quarter of this year. We are also remodeling our MGM Macau villas and the gaming space on Level 35. And at both properties, we are adding food and beverage options focusing on our gaming floors. We're also organizing theme property attractions to drive visitation. And over time, we have the ability to build out another hotel tower at MGM Cotai, along with meaningful entertainment assets, to help diversify our overall offerings in the destination. And finally, last week, at the Investor Day, BetMGM executive team provided extensive color on its business, and we are incredibly excited about its trajectory in the sports betting and iGaming markets. Today, we see this space as a three-horse race where BetMGM offers unique and unparalleled online and off-line experiences. Given the positive momentum to date, that MGM now expects its revenues from operations to reach over $1 billion in 2022. It also is now targeting its long-term U.S. market share to be between 20% and 25% range and long-term EBITDA margins in the 30% to 35% range. One of BetMGM's key competitive advantages is its ability to lever MGM's destinations, our broad-based offerings, and our M life loyalty program as efficient and affect customer acquisition and retention tools. MGM also benefited from its relationship not only our new customers being introduced to M life, but through BetMGM, we're also reigniting relationships with customers that had gone dormant. In the first quarter, 10% of BetMGM's new players came from MGM, and 44% of the new M Life sign-ups have come from BetMGM. Putting this together, we see significant value in this opportunity over time, and that's why both partners remain committed to ensuing and ensuring BetMGM's leadership in this space. With that, I'll turn it over to Jonathan to discuss our first quarter in more detail. Jonathan?Jonathan Halkyard -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks a lot, Bill. Let's first discuss the first-quarter results. Our consolidated first quarter 2021 revenues were $1.6 billion, better than our fourth quarter's $1.5 billion, and our net loss attributable to MGM Resorts was $332 million. Our first-quarter adjusted EBITDAR improved sequentially to $218 million, heavily driven by our domestic operations. Our Las Vegas Strip net revenues in the first quarter were $545 million, a 14% increase from the fourth quarter. Adjusted property EBITDAR was $108 million, double that of the fourth quarter, and our margins sequentially improved 860 basis points to 20%, driven by the significant pickup in leisure and casino demand, coupled with cost control and the operating leverage inherent in our business. Hold had a fairly insignificant impact this quarter. Our first-quarter Strip occupancy was 46%, compared to 38% in the fourth quarter. With each month improving through the quarter, we exited the first quarter with March occupancy at 62%. Weekends were at 85% and weekdays were at 52% due to the lack of group business midweek. Occupancy has continued to grow in April. Our Las Vegas Strip occupancy through last weekend was approximately 73%. Our first-quarter regional net revenues increased 19% sequentially to $711 million from the fourth quarter. Adjusted property EBITDAR increased 53% over the fourth quarter as well to $242 million. Our first quarter regional margins grew sequentially by of 738 basis points to about 34%. Our domestic margin growth is a testament to all of the great work that our teams have put into maximizing the effectiveness of our operating model and rethink how we run our business. This ranges from marketing reinvestment to procurement, from energy utilization to labor management. And the breadth of our efforts gives me confidence that we'll deliver on the $450 million of domestic cost savings which we previously identified. Our sports betting and iGaming venture, BetMGM, raises the bar every quarter. BetMGM delivered strong results in the first quarter, driven by market share gains in existing markets as well as successful entries into new ones, including Iowa, Michigan, and Virginia. In February, BetMGM's market share was 22% in its active markets. It is the clear No. 1 U.S. iGaming operator. Its leadership in New Jersey strengthened last month as BetMGM had its best iGaming month ever in the Garden State with over 30% market share. It has also solidified its position as a top 3 operator in U.S. online sports betting. We estimate, based on February results, that BetMGM has overtaken the No. 2 position in overall U.S. sports betting and iGaming. This growth led to $163 million of net revenues associated with BetMGM operations in the first quarter. These are remarkable results considering the $178 million of net revenues from operations it delivered in all of 2020. Given the strong momentum in the early stage of development in a number of their key markets, we expect BetMGM to require $450 million of capital this year, half of which would be funded by MGM Resorts. In the first quarter, our share of BetMGM's losses amounted to $59 million, which is reported as part of the unconsolidated affiliates line of our adjusted EBITDAR calculation. MGM China's first-quarter revenues were $296 million, down 3% sequentially from the fourth quarter. Adjusted property EBITDAR of $5 million was also down sequentially from $41 million in the fourth quarter. Much of this decline was driven by the $23 million bonus accrual reversal last quarter, a benefit to earnings, which we discussed during our call back in February. In addition, our first quarter mass table games hold was lower than that of the fourth quarter, which had a negative impact on our margins. Still, due to the largely exogenous reasons Bill described earlier in the call, the demand environment remains challenging in Macau. Our first-quarter corporate expense, excluding share-based compensation, was $67 million, a 26% decrease year over year and a 14% decrease sequentially from the fourth quarter. Now we expect that our quarterly net corporate expense will run higher going forward as our business volumes continue to improve and we ramp our investments in IT, our digital offerings, and our IR efforts in Japan. I'll conclude with a few thoughts on liquidity and capital allocation. Throughout the last year, our liquidity position served as a stable foundation from which to navigate the crisis. March was a bit of an inflection point for our company as our domestic operations were roughly cash flow neutral during the month. Now with an improving backdrop in our core domestic business and a solid path to sustain positive free cash flow, we have progressively begun to shift our posture from capital preservation to capital allocation. This quarter, we resumed our program of capital returns to shareholders. In the first quarter, MGM repurchased 3.15 million shares for $119 million and we've purchased an additional 1.41 million shares for $55 million in the second quarter through yesterday. We will take a disciplined and programmatic approach to share purchases for the balance of the year. Bill described our vision to be the world's premier gaming and entertainment company. And we allocate capital and further into that vision in ways that are remunerative to shareholders. This quarter, we caused MGP to redeem 37.1 million of our MGP OP units for aggregate cash proceeds of approximately $1.2 billion, thus, reducing our ownership stake in MGP to 42% and releasing capital for growth investments or return to shareholders. Our long-term approach to allocating our capital will be as follows: First, we'll maintain a strong balance sheet with adequate liquidity. We did this in 2020, and it served our shareholders well. Second, we'll return cash to shareholders, which we've already begun to do in the first quarter and this quarter through share repurchases. And third, when assessing potential growth opportunities, we'll invest where we have clear advantages and we'll exercise prudence in measuring prospective returns for our shareholders. To close, I see meaningful upside in our current equity value as we innovate and pursue accretive investments over time. BetMGM is one element of this, but there are others. We will build the value of our brands, improve the quality of our customer interactions and invest in more sophisticated marketing interventions, all toward creating a more valuable offering for our guests, which will translate into market growth for MGM. Much of this customer value will be delivered digitally and in so doing, will require new pools of talent for the company and investment in technologies. These are resourced in our current plan, and I look forward to sharing details with you on future calls regarding the payoffs from these investments. And with that, I'll turn it back to Bill for his closing remarks.Bill Hornbuckle -- Chief Executive Officer and President Thanks, Jonathan. Obviously, we're very pleased with the improving operating environment domestically and remain diligent in aggressively managing our operating model and our cost structure. I'm optimistic about the long-term recovery of all of our markets, and I believe that MGM Resorts is well-positioned to then gain share. I'm also excited about BetMGM's positioning in the rapidly growing U.S. sports betting and iGaming market. And as Jonathan mentioned, we remain laser-focused on pursuing our long-term vision. I'd like to end my comments where we started by acknowledging and thanking our employees across the world for the continued dedication to this company and they're enduring efforts to provide the best experience for our guests. Our people are simply the best, and to them, I say thank you. With that, I'll open this up for questioning. 