  OperatorWelcome to the second-quarter 2021 Arista Networks financial results earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded and will be available for replay from the Investor Relations section at the Arista website following this call. I will now turn the call over to Mr. Charles Yager, director of product and investor advocacy. Sir, you may begin.Charles Yager -- Director of Product and Investor Advocacy

 



 Thank you, operator. Good afternoon, everyone and thank you for joining us. With me on today's call are Jayshree Ullal, Arista Networks president and chief executive officer; and Ita Brennan, Arista's chief financial officer. This afternoon, Arista Networks issued a press release announcing the results for its fiscal second quarter ending June 30, 2021. If you'd like a copy of the release, you can access it online at our website. During the course of this conference call, Arista Network's management will make forward-looking statements, including those relating to our financial outlook for the third quarter of the 2021 fiscal year, longer-term financial outlooks for 2021 and beyond, our total addressable market, and strategy for addressing these market opportunities, the potential impact of COVID-19 on our business, product innovation, and the benefits of the acquisition, which are subject to the risks and uncertainties that we discuss in detail in our documents filed with the SEC, specifically in our most recent Form 10-Q and Form 10-K, and which could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these statements. These forward-looking statements apply as of today and you should not rely on them as representing our views in the future. We undertake no obligation to update these statements after this call.Also, please note that certain financial measures we use on this call are expressed on a non-GAAP basis and have been adjusted to exclude certain charges. We have provided reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures in our earnings press release. With that, I will turn the call over to Jayshree. Jayshree Ullal -- President and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thank you, Charles. Thank you everyone for joining us this afternoon for our second-quarter 2021 earnings call. I hope you're all being safe and vaccinated in these post-pandemic times, especially with the resurgence of the Delta variant. I would also like to take this opportunity to warmly welcome Liz Stein, our new director of investor relations advocacy, working closely with Charles. Liz is a longtime Artisan with deep networking expertise and most recently ran our South Central Region as the systems engineering manager. Welcome, Liz. Back to Q2 2021 specifics. We delivered revenues of 707.3 million for the quarter with a record non-GAAP Earnings per Share of $2.72, 8-K services and software renewals contributed approximately 22% of revenue. Our non-GAAP Gross margin of 55.2% was influenced by the enterprise momentum and software and services contribution. We are pleased with the healthy customer attraction, including new customer logos and record million-dollar customers in the mainstream enterprises.In Q2 2021, Cloud Titans were our largest vertical. The enterprise was a close second, followed by financial and specialty cloud providers tied to third place and service providers at fourth place. The international contribution was strong at 27%, with the Americas at 73% for the quarter. We saw a path accumulative of 50 million cloud networking porch shipments this quarter. And we consider this to be a key golden milestone. In light of the industrywide supply chain shortages and escalating cost of components rate and expedite logistics, I would like to invite John McCool, our senior vice president and chief platform officer, to shed some more light on our manufacturing execution. Welcome, John.

 



John McCool -- Senior Vice President and Chief Platform Officer Thanks, Jayshree. The continued industrywide impact of COVID on global supply chain output, combined with an increase in demand for electronics across all segments, is expected to remain for the foreseeable future. Component lead times are the highest we've seen and have roughly doubled from pre-pandemic norms. Most notable are semiconductor lead times, which have extended in the range of 40-60 weeks. Factories are operating near full capacity, limiting flexibility for changes in demand. Therefore, we expect extended lead times and escalating product costs due to expedites and elevated component increases in 2021 and 2022. To mitigate these headwinds, we've taken a number of steps in Arista manufacturing. First, we improved manufacturing procedures to maximize capacity and material utilization. We are increasing our purchase commitments for 2022 forecasts to adjust for increased components lead times. We placed additional emphasis on inventory for our new products to offset supply constraints. Finally, we are working closely with our strategic suppliers to plan for capacity expansion programs. Clearly, we're redoubling our efforts and execution in this challenging macro environment. And look forward to supplying chain improvements in the second half of 2022 and beyond. Back to you, Jayshree.Jayshree Ullal -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, John. We really appreciate the diligent and disciplined work that you and the entire manufacturing team have stepped up to. We welcome Susan Hayes, your newest Vice-President in manufacturing as a strong addition. We also thank our customers for their patience and understanding during our lead time constraints and will strive to keep doing better as we recover in the second half of 2022. Our enterprise customer momentum has never been stronger. Continuing on our theme of enterprise wins, I would like to share with you three examples of strength and success. The first win was in the retail sector for both the data center and campus. We began with the data center win with risks of hallmark EOS, for DANS or data analysis switching and routing. We expanded in 2021, the cognitive campus for both powers over Ethernet wired switches and our wireless, providing a natural expansion into these use cases. Retail markets cannot tolerate downtime with the magnitude of IoT proliferation they have. Arista was able to perform real-time upgrades without downtime across 100 plus stores and warehouses. In the absence of retail, remote staff enhances, we drove automation across all these stores with open APIs and CloudVision. Our second win was a major U.S. financial for both data center and routing. Arista continues to expand its enterprise routing use cases, not just supporting a data center with Arista EOS features, but also a more software-led, simplified, automated deployment of core routing in the spine using standard-based routing protocols with VXLAN, EVPN, and Multicast. Our customer was able to rapidly migrate from Legacy to Arista within a few months, enabling billions of transactions. An international media and entertainment campus then included a customer who wanted an extension of their data center in the campus with a simple operating system, easy to scale, common spine deployment using CloudVision. This customer took a build-as-you-go approach for flexibility and visibility. This also included device access for back-to-work applications with our cognitive Wi-Fi. In all of these three examples, enterprise customers often prefer an alternative, and Arista was chosen as the disruptor with superior product capability and a cohesive client-to-cloud strategy to unify SILO datasets consistently. Arista's innovations combined with high quality and support are becoming the gold standard for customers to build cognitive cloud networking. According to industry experts, Arista continues to gain switching market share across large enterprises and providers. We're proud to be the No. 1 market leader in 100 Gigabit Ethernet ports for the fifth consecutive year. We see 2021 as the first year of inflection for higher speeds, ranging from 100 to 200 to 400 gigabit after 18 months of trials. We have now shipped more than 2.5 million ports of high-performance port in the first half of 2021, according to analysts; placing us also at No. 1 leadership in the combined 100 gig, 200 gig, and 400 gig of an ethernet high-performance cloud switching. In summary, Arista is well-positioned for the next phase of our growth in cloud and data-driven networking.We do this with proactive platforms, predictive operations, and a prescriptive experience. And we believe we are poised to achieve increased market share with greater business diversification. And while the part forward is paid with supply chain obstacles, volatile customer demand, and your normal typical competitive tactics, I believe Arista, which means to be great in Greek, will live up to its name, and with our A-game, our A customers, and our A-team. With this, I'll pass it over to Ita, our chief financial officer, for financial specifics.Ita Brennan -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Jayshree. And good afternoon. This analysis of our Q2 results and our guidance for Q3 is based on non-GAAP and includes all non-cash stock-based compensation impacts, certain acquisition-related charges, and other non-recurring items. A full reconciliation of our selected GAAP to non-GAAP results is provided in our earnings release. Total revenues in Q2 were 707.3 million up 30.8% year over year and well above the upper end of our guidance of 675 to 695 million. Shipments remain constrained in the period as we continue to carefully navigate industrywide supply chain shortages and COVID-related disruptions. Services and subscription software contributed approximately 22.3% of revenue in the second quarter, up from 21.4% in Q1. International revenues for the quarter came in at 193.2 million, or 27% of revenue, up from 25% in the first quarter. This shift in the geographical mix on a quarter-over-quarter basis reflected strong international deployments by our Cloud Titan and specialty Cloud customers combined with a healthy performance from our in-region businesses. Overall gross margin in Q2 was 65.2%, above the upper end of our guidance range of approximately 63% to 65%. While we recognized some incremental supply chain costs in the period, these were more than offset by a healthy mix of enterprise and software revenue for the quarter. Operating expenses for the quarter were 189.8 million or 26.8% of revenue, up from last quarter at 180.9 million. R&D spending came in at 119.6 million or 16.9% of revenue, up from last quarter at 110 million. This reflected increased employee-related costs and higher new product introduction spending in the period. Sales and marketing expense was 57.9 million or 8.2% of revenue, down from 59.5 million last quarter with lower demo-related expenses in the period. As a reminder, we continue to benefit from lower COVID-related travel and marketing expenses. Our G&A costs came in at 12.3 million or 1.7% of revenue, consistent with last quarter. Our operating income for the quarter was 271.7 million or 38.4% of revenue. Other income and expenses for the quarter were a favorable 1.7 million and our effective tax rate was approximately 20.7%, reflecting an improved geographical mix. Other income and expenses for the quarter included approximately 2 million of interest income offset by some unfavorable FX amounts. This resulted in net income for the quarter of 216.8 million or 30.6% of revenue. Our diluted share number was 79.71 million shares. Results of the diluted earnings-per-share number for the quarter of $2.72 up approximately 29% from the prior year. Now, turning to the balance sheet, cash, cash equivalents, and investments ended the quarter at approximately 3.3 billion. We did not repurchase shares of our common stock during the second quarter. As a recap, we have now repurchased $763 million or 3.6 million shares against our board authorization to repurchase $1 billion worth of shares over three years, commencing in Q2 '19. We will continue to execute opportunistically against the remaining mandate. Turning to operational cash performance for the second quarter. We generated 263 million of cash from operations in the period reflecting solid Net Income performance and continued investments in Inventory and supply chain. DSOs came in at 47 days, down from 51 days in Q1, affecting the linearity of billings in the period. Inventory returns were 1.7 times, down slightly from last quarter at 1.8. Inventory increased to 543.2 million in the quarter, up from 483.2 million in the prior period, as we continue to buffer certain components and products. Our total deferred revenue balance was 746 million, up from 720 million in Q1. The majority of the deferred revenue balance is services related and is directly linked to the timing and term service renewals, which can vary on a quarter-over-quarter basis. Approximately, 90 million of the balance, up from 70 million last quarter, represents product deferred revenue, largely related to acceptance clauses for new products across various customers and sectors. As a reminder, we expect 2021 to be a year of significant new product introductions, combined with the healthy new customer acquisition rate, and expanded use cases with existing customers. These trends in conjunction with reduced levels of upfront and price and testing may result in increased customer-specific acceptance clauses and increased volatility in our product deferred revenue amounts. Counts payable days were 53.7 days, up from 52.3 days in Q1, addressing the timing of inventory receipts and payments. Cabin expenditures for the quarter were 4.5 million. Now, turning to the outlook for the third quarter and beyond. We reported strong year-over-year revenue growth of approximately 29% for the first half of 2021, reflecting healthy demand across all our market sectors combined with favorable comparisons from the first half of 2020. While we expect continued strength in demand as we move through the second half, we will likely see some deceleration in year-over-year revenue growth, given the top-line recovery experienced in the back half of 2020. Turning to Gross margin. Industry supply constraints continue to pressure component costs. Some of these incremental costs will initially be recorded as Inventory and only be recognized in the Income statement when the products are sold in future periods. With this as context, we will continue to reiterate our Gross margin outlook of 63% to 65%, with customer mix remaining the key driver of volatility on a quarter-by-quarter basis. Turning to spend and investments, we remain committed to growing our investments in R&D to support innovation across the business, and sales and marketing to support our go-to-market expansion. With regards to cash flow, we expect to fund approximately 40 million of capex in the third quarter for the purchase of land to build a data center and engineering location in Santa Clara. We will provide more details of this project over the coming quarters. Finally, our outlook discussion discussed above, and our guidance for Q3 reflects our current understanding of COVID-19 and its impact on our business and supply chain. This remains an inherently uncertain situation and we will need to continue to monitor and attempt to mitigate new challenges as the situation unfolds. With all of this as a backdrop, our guidance for the third quarter to base on non-GAAP results and excludes any non-cash stock-based compensation impacts and other nonrecurring items is as follows. Revenues of approximately 725 million to 745 million, gross margin of 63% to 65%, operating margin at approximately 37%. Our effective tax rate is expected to be approximately 21.5% with diluted shares of approximately 80 million shares. I will now turn the call back to Charles. Charles.Charles Yager -- Director of Product and Investor Advocacy Thank you, Ita. We're now going to move to the Q&A portion of the Arista earnings call. Due to time constraints, I'd like to request that everyone please limit themselves to a single question. Thank you for your understanding. Operator, take it away. 