  OperatorGood afternoon, and welcome to the Hologic 2Q '22 earnings conference call. My name is Lauren, and I am your operator for today's call. Today's conference is being recorded. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to introduce Ryan Simon, vice president, investor relations, to begin the call.Ryan Simon -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you, Lauren. Good afternoon, and thank you for joining Hologic's second quarter fiscal 2022 earnings call. With me today are Steve MacMillan, the company's chairman, president, and chief executive officer; and Karleen Oberton, our chief financial officer. Our second quarter press release is available now on the investors' section of our website, along with an updated corporate presentation.

 



 We will also post our prepared remarks to our website shortly after we deliver them. And a replay of this call will be available through May 27th. Before we begin, we would like to inform you that certain statements we make today will be forward-looking. These statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied.Such factors include those referenced in the safe harbor statement included in our earnings release and SEC filings. Also during this call, we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation to GAAP can be found in our earnings release. Two of these non-GAAP measures are: one, organic revenue, which we define as constant currency revenue, excluding the divested blood screening business and revenue from acquired businesses owned by Hologic for less than one year; and two, organic revenue, excluding COVID-19, which excludes COVID-19 assay revenue, revenue related to COVID-19, and discontinued product sales in Diagnostics. Finally, any percentage changes we discuss will be on a year-over-year basis, and revenue growth rates will be in constant currency unless otherwise noted. Now I'd like to turn the call over to Steve MacMillan, Hologic's CEO. Steve MacMillan -- Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thank you, Ryan, and good afternoon, everyone. We are pleased to discuss our financial results for the second quarter of fiscal 2022. We posted solid results overall and continued our excellent performance. Total revenue was $1.44 billion, and non-GAAP earnings per share were $2.07, exceeding the midpoint of our guidance by over 12% on the top line and over 33% on the bottom. As we stated last quarter, we continue to deliver in an uncertain business environment. For example, in January, we saw COVID cases spike once again, putting pressure on healthcare utilization, and certain elective procedures. Through February and March, the ripple effect of the war in Ukraine added additional uncertainty to a world already facing headwinds from COVID, rising inflation and interest rates as well as ongoing global supply chain disruptions. In these challenging times, we continue to deliver. Our performance is a direct result of the planning and investments we made throughout the pandemic to strategically strengthen our business. We are a stronger Hologic through portfolio diversification, the addition of multiple growth drivers into our franchises, and continued growth in our international businesses. Today, we'd like to provide additional color in three areas: first, we'll discuss Q2 growth in light of the macro environment, including updates on the Breast Health chip shortage we spoke to in Q1; second, provide progress on acquisitions turning organic in our third quarter; and third, highlight our additional efforts to lean into ESG and how our purpose, passion, and promise are elevating women's health around the world. In our second quarter, both our diagnostics and surgical divisions delivered organic growth, excluding COVID, while as expected, our breast and skeletal Health division declined. In Breast, as we discussed in our last call, the semiconductor chip shortage was the primary driver of the division's temporary decline. Encouragingly, underlying demand remains strong as measured by healthy orders and a growing backlog. As we've seen during the last two years, as COVID testing rises, elective annual exams, screenings, and [Inaudible] surgical procedures are often postponed. And as COVID testing declines, we see the opposite, and our base business returns.

 



 We believe what the latest rebound also makes clear is that demand for our products remains strong despite the unpredictability of COVID surges. We are confident in our business confident in our people and excited about our positioning heading into the third quarter. For example, in diagnostics, we placed an additional 123 Panthers in the second quarter, surpassing first quarter placements of 119, only halfway through the year we have again exceeded our pre-pandemic average of roughly 225 Panther placements per year. This is a phenomenal result given the rapid global expansion of our Panther installed base during the pandemic. Our Panther installed base is now over 3,100 instruments worldwide with over 45% placed internationally. Also in diagnostics, our vaginitis panel, BV CVTV continues its growth trajectory. In our Q2 of 2021, this assay generated about $7 million for the quarter. One year later, the panel contributed almost $14 million in worldwide sales. nearly double the year before. And BV CVTV is now on pace to become a top-three women's health assay in our molecular diagnostics portfolio. Now let's provide an update on-chip supply and Breast Health. Our supply chain service and commercial organizations have been working hard to gain greater visibility and mitigate the impact of the shortage. In Q2, the impact is slightly less than estimated driven by favorable availability and precise management of chips and circulation within our service inventory. While our teams continue to do a great job navigating the unpredictable supply challenges on chips, the ongoing volatility of supply makes it possible that up to $50 million an additional headwind could surface in the back half of the year. Despite this, we are still materially increasing guidance for the full company, which Karleen will speak to later on. To finish the chip discussion on an upbeat note, we recently received notice of an increased allocation of chips for late in fiscal 2022. While this is very encouraging, given production and delivery timing, the benefit from this increase is unlikely to help revenue until early 2023. Said another way, we are optimistic the back half of our fiscal '22 will prove to be the low watermark in terms of available gantries. Moving on to an update on acquisitions, turning organic. In our fiscal third quarter, contributions from both Biotheranostics and Diagenode will be included in the organic growth of our diagnostics division. We will provide an update on both today. First, Biotheranostics. As a reminder, we completed this acquisition in February of 2021. The goal of this acquisition was to enter the high-growth lab-based oncology market. an adjacent longtime area of interest and bring our resources and expertise to create an even stronger business. Based on Breast Cancer Index' earlier than anticipated inclusion in NCCN guidelines in January of 2021, the deal is off to a great start. Last year in its first full quarter post acquisition, Biotheranostics posted $13 million of revenue, which was more than 30% higher than their best quarter prior to the pandemic. Fast forward to our most recent quarter. Biotheranostics generated $16.4 million in revenue. This early success comes as a result of outstanding engagement in a successful cross-functional cross-enterprise integration. As planned, we deployed Hologic resources and expertise and paired this with legacy Biotheranostics capabilities, to refine operational efficiency and, most importantly, set a solid foundation for scalable growth. To accelerate Biotheranostics already strong growth, as an example, we are streamlining the businesses ordering process, which we believe will simplify things for the customer. We expect this enhancement will greatly improve the customer experience and ultimately result in more orders. We are also excited to share that we are in the process of transferring Biotheranostics operations to our diagnostics headquarters in San Diego. While maintaining required division between CLIA and IVD activities, we believe the move will lead to an even more unified culture, stronger relationships between counterparts and more collaborative efforts. Finally, and even more encouraging, just last week, the Biotheranostics BCI test was included in the American Society of Clinical Oncology guidelines. Another major step toward increasing utilization and recognition of BCI as the standard of care. BCI is now the only genomic test in both NCCN and ASCO guidelines, for predicting benefit of extended endocrine therapy. Moving on. Shortly after we closed the Biotheranostics transaction, we acquired Diagenode based in Belgium. The goal of the acquisition was to accelerate PCR-based assay development for our Panther Fusion and leverage additional R&D capabilities in Europe. So far, we have checked both boxes. Since the close of the acquisition, as planned, we have integrated the Diagenode organization to optimize the speed and efficiency of our global R&D organization, enabling more effective and more efficient cross-border innovation. To date, teams from San Diego and Belgium have worked together closely to improve processes and clearly define a robust product development pipeline. The team is already making meaningful progress toward approval of two viral load assays, which will expand our urology portfolio in the transplant testing space. Overall, for both Biotheranostics and Diagenode, we are pleased with the integration and progress of these two businesses. As we look forward, we are excited by the opportunity to unlock more synergies from both and, in turn, create more value for our shareholders. Shifting gears, I'd like to close by highlighting two very meaningful and opportunistic marketing efforts from our second quarter. The first being our Super Bowl commercial, which also ran during the Winter Olympics. And the second, our title sponsorship of the Women's Tennis Association tour. As many of you may have seen, our television commercial titled, Her Health is Her Wealth, featured Mary J. Blige. The commercial highlighted that despite her busy life, she makes time in her schedule for her annual health exams. The campaign came at a critical time as an alarming number of women, missed annual breast and cervical cancer screenings during the COVID-19 pandemic. In January, the inaugural results of our Hologic Global Women's Health Index found that nearly 50% of women ages 16 to 54 had not seen a medical professional in the prior year. The purpose of our message was to encourage women to schedule their annual exams and prioritize their health. Detecting cancer early is critical and can often make the difference between a curable and noncurable prognosis. After two years of the pandemic, with too many women not being screened, and our unique relationship with Mary J. Blige, there was no better time and no better stage for us to encourage more win to see their doctors. Our second effort is our landmark title sponsorship of the WTA Tour announced in early March. This alliance was forced to make significant progress on our shared vision of greater wellness and equality for win. The partnership has global reach and will emphasize the importance of preventive care through well-woman visits. We are proud to stand with the WTA as we work together to jointly raise the profile of women and share the importance of early detection and treatment. Before turning the call over to Karleen, let me conclude by saying that the results of this quarter demonstrate our business is both durable and resilient, and the demand for our products is exceptionally strong. Despite multiple macro headwinds, we continue to deliver strong results. We are both excited and confident in our business and see great opportunity to be even stronger in the years ahead. With that, let me turn the call over to Karleen.Karleen Oberton -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Steve, and good afternoon, everyone. We are very pleased to share second quarter results that significantly exceeded our guidance for both revenue and EPS. Our second quarter performance once again highlights the strength of our diverse business. While the omicron variant negatively impacted our base businesses early in the quarter, our COVID testing upside more than offset this headwind. It's also important to understand that our balance sheet is stronger than ever, providing key strategic flexibility in this uncertain macro environment. Further, we continue to generate very healthy free cash flow, funding our capital deployment priorities. In the second quarter, we generated significant operating cash flow and executed $200 million of share repurchases, both of which I'll touch on in more detail shortly. Before we do that, we will provide color on our consolidated and divisional results for the second quarter. As a reminder, revenue in our fiscal second quarter is typically seasonally lower compared to our first quarter, which benefits from increased patient activity before calendar year-end. In the quarter, total revenue of over $1.4 billion was very strong and came in more than $150 million higher than the midpoint of our previous guidance. In addition, EPS of $2.07 in the second quarter far exceeded our guidance range of $1.50 to $1.60. Turning to our divisional results. In diagnostics, global revenue of $987.1 million declined 5.6% compared to the prior year. However, excluding COVID, worldwide organic diagnostics revenue increased 4%. As discussed, the division's results early in Q2 were negatively impacted by the omicron COVID-19 variant. Our base diagnostics business is inversely correlated to spikes in the pandemic. as women tend to postpone office visits when COVID cases surge. However, we were encouraged by improving trends throughout March as COVID cases declined. This gives us great confidence in the underlying health of our base diagnostics franchise. Moving specifically to our molecular diagnostics business, we will again exclude the impact of COVID. Making these adjustments, base molecular revenue grew about 7% organically in the second quarter. This growth was driven by strong uptake in newer assays such as our vaginitis panel and menu within our virology product line. As it relates to our COVID results, we generated $584 million of COVID assay revenue, far exceeding our guidance of $400 million. We shipped about 28.5 million tests to customers as ASPs held steady around $20 per test globally. The United States represented about 60% of total COVID assay revenue. However, testing demand was strong in international markets as well. Rounding out diagnostics, our cytology and perinatal businesses were essentially flat compared to the prior year as these segments were also impacted by COVID-19's influence on women's wellness visits. In Breast Health, global revenue of $310.4 million was down approximately 7% as expected, primarily driven by the chip shortages that we have discussed. In our interventional business, incremental supply chain pressure of a few million dollars surfaced during the quarter, specific to our disposable biopsy needles. As a result, our interventional business was down slightly less than 1% in the period. While supply chain challenges persist, demand for our best-in-class Breast Health products remain strong. And as Steve commented, we expect to see improvement in 2023. In surgical, second quarter revenue of $117.3 million grew 3.5%. As we foreshadowed during our first quarter call, the omicron variant caused a pullback in elective procedures in the first half of the quarter. But this trend improved later in the period as COVID cases declined. Furthermore, we saw a nice resilience from several of our newer products such as the Fluent fluid management system, and solid contributions from Bolder's cool sale devices. Lastly, our skeletal business, revenue of $20.9 million decreased 6% compared to the prior-year period. Now let's move on to the rest of the non-GAAP P&L for the second quarter. Gross margin of 71% was well ahead of our forecast, driven by higher-than-expected COVID-19 testing volumes in the period. Total operating expenses of $338.2 million increased 22% in the second quarter. As we have done throughout the pandemic, given the benefit from COVID-19 profitability, we took the opportunity to reinvest in our base businesses. We also allocated spend to key marketing initiatives to help drive awareness for women's health. For example, second quarter operating expenses included our Super Bowl and Olympic commercials as well as expenses associated with our WTA partnership. The combined total of these initiatives contribute slightly more than $25 million to operating expenses in the quarter. In addition, within operating expenses, recent acquisitions added slightly less than $35 million in the quarter, about $25 million higher than the prior-year period. Finally, our tax rate in Q2 was 20.5%, marginally lower than our expectations given the higher COVID-19 revenue outside the United States. Putting these pieces together, operating margin for Q2 came in well above our forecast at 47.4% and net margin was very strong at 36.5%. Non-GAAP net income finished at $524.2 million and non-GAAP earnings per share was $2.07, nearly 35% above the midpoint of our prior guidance. Moving on to the P&L. Cash flow from operations was $1.06 billion in the second quarter, inclusive of tax refunds totaling approximately $418 million. related to the sale of our previously held Medical Aesthetics business in 2020. When normalizing for these refunds, cash generation for the quarter was still exceptional. These robust cash flows continue to provide tremendous financial and strategic flexibility. For example, as referred to earlier, we repurchased $2.9 million shares of our stock for $200 million in the quarter. We continue to view our ongoing share repurchase program as a lever to drive value for our shareholders. Further, we continue to diligently pursue M&A opportunities in each one of our divisions. Based on our strong operational performance, we had $2.3 billion of cash on our balance sheet at the end of the second quarter, and our leverage ratio was 0.3 times. Our capital structure is fortified. And while we ended the quarter with an elevated cash balance, we continue to be thorough in exercise discipline as we evaluate opportunities. Given the macro environment, we have comfort with our elevated cash balance in the ability to be patient as we identify high-quality opportunities. Now let's move on to our updated guidance for the third quarter and full year fiscal 2022. In the third quarter, we expect to continue our track record of delivering strong financial results with total revenue in the range of $875 million to $915 million. For the full year fiscal 2022, we expect total revenue in the range of $4.6 billion to $4.7 billion, significantly exceeding our prior full year guidance by $175 million at the midpoint. We are raising guidance once again in the face of an uncertain macro backdrop, highlighting our confidence in our business. Given the continued strength of the U.S. dollar and to aid with constant currency modeling, we are assuming foreign exchange headwinds of approximately $20 million in the third quarter of 2022 and $65 million for the full year. This FX unfavorability to revenue is higher than our guidance from last quarter. In diagnostics, we expect molecular to continue to drive growth based on our Panther installed base of over 3,100 instruments globally, over 80% larger than the start of the pandemic. We are also seeing encouraging uptake of our newer assays like our vaginitis panel, virals, and Amgen as well as the tremendous international expansion opportunities. In terms of COVID sales, we expect COVID assay sales to be at least $100 million in the third quarter of 2022 and approximately $1.25 billion for the full year. COVID related items, inclusive of a small amount of discontinued product revenue are expected to be approximately $35 million in the third quarter and $215 million for the full year. In Breast Health, our organic and inorganic investments continue to perform well and highlight the diversity of the division's revenue streams. For example, Brevera had another great result, growing mid-teens in the last quarter. In addition, recurring service revenue represented more than 40% of total sales in Q2. In terms of the Breast Health chip shortage announced last quarter, given significant uncertainties still exist in the chip market the possibility of an incremental $50 million headwind in the back half of 2022 exists, and we have incorporated this into our guidance. While we are seeing early signs of improvement in chip supply, we are forecasting conservatively. To reemphasize this headwind is purely a supply issue and not one of underlying demand, which remains strong. Finally, in surgical, we feel great about the trajectory of our business as COVID trends improve. MyoSure and related organic products such as Fluent continue to drive near-term growth. and we expect meaningful contribution from both Acessa and Bolder over the next several years. As a reminder, our organic guidance backs out of revenue from acquisitions until the first full quarter after a deal annualizes as well as revenue from our divested blood screening business. In terms of the deal, Biotheranostics and Diagenode will become part of our organic revenue in Q3 '22. Therefore, the organic revenue adjustments for Q3 include Mobidiag and Bolder. And for Q4 Boulder only. Moving down the P&L. For the full year, we forecast our non-GAAP gross margin percentage to be in the mid-to-high 60s and our non-GAAP operating margin percentage to be in the high 30s. Both estimates are higher than our guidance last quarter. Further, our second half guidance incorporates the margin impact from our Breast Health supply chain revenue shortfall. As a reminder, gantry's gross margin is accretive to the consolidated averages, and we have maintained operating spend in order to be in a position to move quickly once we receive chips. In addition, we have again incorporated inflationary supply chain costs into our guidance as it relates to electronics, plastics and logistics. Despite these headwinds, for the full year, we expect both gross and operating margins to be above pre-pandemic levels. In terms of operating expenses, we expect spending to be up compared to 2021, but be lower in the second half of 2022 compared to the first half. As we have continued to highlight, in quarters with higher COVID testing revenue, we will take the opportunity to invest for future growth. Below operating income, we expect other expenses net to be a little less than $25 million a quarter for the remainder of the year. Our guidance is based on effective tax rate of 21% and diluted shares outstanding of around $255 million for the full year. All this net add to expected EPS of $0.67 to $0.72 in the third quarter and $5.45 to $5.65 for the full year, 10% above our prior guidance at the midpoint. As you update your forecast, let me remind you that macro uncertainty due to the pandemic-related supply chain challenges and geopolitical conflicts remain high. We would therefore encourage you to model at the middle of our ranges, which incorporates both potential upsides and downsides. Let me wrap up by saying that Hologic posted very strong second quarter results that far exceeded expectations and guidance. We are also raising our financial guidance for the year. Even as we are increasing anticipated supply chain headwinds, highlighting the multiple growth drivers we have added to each of our franchises, and benefits from COVID testing. With a strong balance sheet and best-in-class cash flow generation, we are well-positioned. With that, we ask the operator to open the call for questions. 