  OperatorGood day, and welcome to the Dollar Tree, Inc. fourth quarter 2021 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Randy Guiler. Please go ahead, sir.Randy Guiler -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Ashley. Good morning, and welcome to our call to discuss results for Dollar Tree's fourth quarter and full year 2021. With me on today's call are Mike Witynski and Kevin Wampler. Before we begin, I would like to remind everyone that various remarks that we will make about our expectations, plans, and prospects for the company constitute forward-looking statements for the purposes of the safe harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, and our actual results may differ materially from those indicated in these forward-looking statements. For information on the risks and uncertainties that could affect our actual results, please see the Risk Factors, Business and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations sections in our annual report on Form 10-K filed March 16, 2021, our Form 10-Q for the most recently ended fiscal quarter and our most recent press release and Form 8-K and other filings we make from time to time with the SEC. We caution against reliance on these forward-looking statements made today, and we disclaim any obligation to update or revise these statements except as may be required by law. Following our prepared remarks, we will open the call to your questions.[Operator instructions] I'll now turn the call over to Mike Witynski, Dollar Tree's president and chief executive officer. Mike Witynski -- President and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thank you, Randy. Good morning and thank you for joining us on today's call. I'm extremely proud of the team's strong performance during our transformative fourth quarter. We delivered comparable sales increases at Dollar Tree and Family Dollar, both representing improvements from the prior quarter on a two-year stack basis. Our EPS of $2.01 exceeded our $1.69 to $1.79 guidance range. Importantly, we recently completed a successful conversion to $1.25 price point across all Dollar Tree stores in the United States, more than two months ahead of schedule, which significantly enhances our ability to provide a meaningful assortment at extreme values to our shoppers. We continue to have terrific performance on other key strategic initiatives, including the expansion of our $3 and $5-plus assortments to another 1,500 Dollar Tree stores as well as our Combo Stores and H2 renovations at Family Dollar. The Dollar Tree segment delivered a comp sales increase of 3.1%, cycling a 2.4% increase from the prior year's quarter. A 5.5% two-year stack quarterly comp was our best of the year and represented a sequential improvement of 90 basis points from Q3. Discretionary continues to perform extremely well at a 5.4% comp. We are continuing to experience record sell-throughs of our seasonal and holiday merchandise. The strongest performing categories included candy, Christmas seasonal, party celebrations, crafts, and stationery. For the quarter, discretionary represented more than 57% of our sales, up 130 basis points from the prior year's quarter. For the Dollar Tree banner, December was the strongest comp month of the quarter as we were cycling a slight negative from the prior year. November was a low single-digit positive comp, and January was our lowest comp month as we cycled the strongest comp month of the prior year's quarter. Family Dollar delivered a positive 1.7% comp against the 8.1% increase a year ago.

 



 This represented the fourth consecutive quarter that Family Dollar two-year comp stack exceeded 9%. The consumable side of the business comped just below a positive 3%, while the discretionary was a low single-digit negative as we are cycling stimulus dollars from the prior year. The Family Dollar business continues to gain share. The strongest-performing categories include pet, candy and snack and beverage. For the quarter, consumables represented just over 73% of sales. At Family Dollar, November was our strongest comp month of the quarter, closely followed by December. Both periods were above the quarterly comp of 1.7%. January was a negative comp as we cycled a double-digit comp from the prior year related to the release of stimulus dollars. Additionally, retail in January was impacted by omicron variant, much colder and stormier weather than the prior year, and the lapsing of the monthly child tax credit advanced payments. The comps at both banners were again driven by an increase in average ticket, partially offset by a decline in transaction count. Last week, we completed the rollout of our $1.25 price point initiative to every Dollar Tree store across the U.S., more than 7,800-plus stores. This milestone completed more than two months ahead of our targeted date is a testament to the commitment and teamwork between our support teams, our merchandising organizations, and our field leadership teams, demonstrating our ability to execute. This strategic endeavor will enable Dollar Tree to ultimately drive store traffic and productivity, customer loyalty, and operating performance while enhancing our ability to navigate the business through higher periods of higher cost. We have been considering this move for some time. In recent years, we have lost many items that are customer favorites and key traffic-driving consumable products from our assortment due to the constraints of the $1 price point. Additionally, we have been operating through a higher cost environment as it relates to inflation, tariffs, supply chain, and labor costs. The new $1.25 price point enhances our ability to materially expand our assortments, introduce new products and sizes and provide families with more of their daily essentials at a great value. In preparation for this move, our merchandising teams have taken on the Herculean task of reviewing thousands of product SKU by SKU or item by item to reassess the value through comp shops of our competitors. Many of our products, especially on the seasonal and discretionary side, are still considered to be an extreme value at the new $1.25 price point. For those products that are considered new or to be reinvested in with the larger quantities or package sizes, we have a clear -- a very clear and focused and urgent plan to bring that product into our stores. These assortment changes will be taking place throughout the year, but we do expect 50% of the categories, new and revested in products, to be in the store by midyear. Example of the products already in the stores are carbonated beverages and salty snacks, all at the $1.25 price point. I could not be more proud of our team's smooth execution of the transition to the $1.25 price point. Initially, we rolled out the program to a diverse segment of more than 100 stores across the U.S. Then we expanded to nearly 200 stores across three metropolitan markets. And starting in December, we embarked on seven waves of multistate introductions. The signage, training, and talking points equipped our field leadership teams to execute the store's checklist to complete the transitions. The teams embraced the project, rolled up their sleeves, and got it done. Feedback from our shoppers has indicated they clearly understood the change in pricing. Stores were easy to shop, and the signage was very clear. The key has always been and always will be enabling us to deliver extreme value to our customers. We are focused on exceeding shopper expectations for the value at $1.25, just like we have been at the $1 price point for more than 30 years. We have been closely tracking the performance of converted stores on a daily basis item by item, category by category. We have seen relatively consistent reaction in performance across various demographics, geographies, and store sizes. Among our findings are the following. Our new and reinvested SKUs are driving improved performance in their categories, including in the food, snack, and beverage, which are all very important traffic-driving categories. Our seasonal and discretionary continue to outperform consumable, but we believe this can balance out as we continue to modify the assortment on the consumables and deliver greater value for our customers. As you would expect, we are seeing comp lift sales to the stores that have transitioned to the $1.25, partially offset by a decline in unit sales in the teens. As we go through the year, we expect to see a greater lift to the gross margin in the first half of the year as we sell through the current inventory. And importantly, as I have stated before, we have confidence we can get back to our historic 35% to 36% annual gross margin range this year even with the continuation of elevated freight costs. And as we reinvest in the key categories to deliver extreme value, we expect to see improved traffic and productivity as we move throughout the year. I've shared much about the $1.25 price point as it is where many investors are focused, and it is transforming our company. But I want to be clear that we are very pleased with the continued progress we are seeing across each of our strategic initiatives. Regarding Dollar Tree Plus, we finished the year with a multi-price product in approximately 660 stores, well beyond our original target of 500 stores. At Dollar Tree, our $3 and $5-plus assortment will be expanded to another 1,500 stores in fiscal '22. Customers are responding very well to holiday, seasonal, and discretionary categories, and we will continue to grow and improve this initiative. At Family Dollar, our Combo Stores are working. Customers love shopping the best of Family Dollar and Dollar Tree in one easy-to-shop local store in their community. The stores are driving a material comp sales lift, increased productivity, higher gross margins, and improved operating performance. We ended the year with more than 240 Combo Stores and are planning to add another 400 Combo Stores this year. We ended the year with 3,815 Family Dollar stores in the H2 format. We are planning for another 800 H2 store reservations in fiscal 2022, which we believe will bring our store fleet current and will enable us to reallocate time, effort, resources, and capital from the renovation program to other value-creating initiatives as we move forward. I will now hand the call over to Kevin to provide details on Q4 performance and our outlook for fiscal 2022.Kevin Wampler -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Mike, and good morning. For the quarter, consolidated net sales increased 4.6% to $7.08 billion, comprised of $3.92 billion at Dollar Tree and $3.16 billion at Family Dollar. Enterprise same-store sales increased 2.5% as we cycled a 4.9% increase from a year ago, representing a 70-basis-point improvement from Q3 to 7.4% on a two-year stacked basis. Comps for the Dollar Tree segment increased 3.1%. Family Dollar same-store sales increased 1.7%, cycling a strong 8.1% increase from last year. On a two-year stacked basis, Dollar Tree comps increased 5.5%, which was a 90-basis-point improvement from Q3. And Family Dollar increased 9.8%, which was a 70-basis-point improvement from Q3. Dollar Tree's comp was comprised of a 6% increase in average ticket, partially offset by a 2.8% decline in traffic. Family Dollar experienced a 4.6% increase in average ticket, partially offset by a 2.7% decline in traffic. Gross profit was $2.14 billion for the quarter. Gross margin was 30.2%, compared to 31.8% in the prior year's quarter. Gross profit margin for the Dollar Tree segment declined 50 basis points to 35.6% when compared to the prior year's quarter. Factors impacting the segment's gross margin performance included merchandise costs, including freight, increased 110 basis points driven by higher freight costs, partially offset by increased initial mark-on, and increased sales of higher-margin discretionary merchandise. This increase was partially offset by shrink that improved 30 basis points related to favorable inventory results and a decrease in the shrink accrual rate. Distribution costs improved approximately 20 basis points, resulting primarily from lower COVID-19-related expenses and sales leverage, partially offset by higher hourly wages. And occupancy costs decreased approximately 10 basis points as a result of the leverage from the comp sales increase in the quarter. Gross profit margin for the Family Dollar segment declined 320 basis points to 23.4% in the fourth quarter. The year-over-year delta included the following: merchandise costs, including freight, increased 220 basis points related to higher freight costs and an unfavorable sales mix, partially offset by higher initial mark-on. Markdowns increased 90 basis points, primarily related to our recent product recall in our Arkansas distribution center in 404 Family Dollar stores. Consolidated selling, general and administrative expenses increased 40 basis points to 22.1% of total revenue, compared to 21.7% in Q4 last year. For the fourth quarter, the SG&A rate for the Dollar Tree segment as a percentage of total revenue increased 50 basis points to 20.6% when compared to the prior year's quarter. Other SG&A increased approximately 50 basis points, resulting from higher card transaction fees and operating taxes, along with marketing and store supply costs associated with the transition to the $1.25 price point. Payroll costs increased 10 basis points, resulting primarily from higher store hourly payroll costs due to minimum wage increases and higher healthcare costs, partially offset by lower incentive compensation. And depreciation cost decreased 15 basis points primarily due to lower store impairment write-offs and leverage due to the increase in comp store sales. For Family Dollar, the fourth quarter SG&A rate as a percentage of total revenue increased 10 basis points to 20.7%, compared to 20.6% in the prior year's quarter. Other SG&A expense increased 25 basis points primarily due to lower miscellaneous income, an increase in card transaction fees, and an increase in insurance costs related to general liability claims. Depreciation and amortization expense increased 15 basis points due to higher store asset impairment charges and expenditures associated with the store renovation program. Store facility costs increased five basis points primarily due to higher repairs and maintenance expenses, including snow removal, partially offset by lower telecommunication expenses. And payroll expenses improved 35 basis points, primarily due to lower incentive compensation and field management vacancies, partially offset by higher store hourly payroll, resulting from higher labor rates. Corporate support and other expenses as a percentage of total revenue were flat when, compared to the prior year's quarter at 1.4%. Operating income was $578.8 million or 8.2% of total revenue in the fourth quarter. Nonoperating expenses totaled $79.6 million, comprised primarily of net interest expense, including debt extinguishment costs of $46.5 million associated with our debt refinancing in the quarter. The effective tax rate was 9%, compared to 22.3% in the prior year's fourth quarter, resulting primarily from a deferred tax benefit related to state entity restructuring. Company had net income of $454.2 million or $2.01 per diluted share. This compared to net earnings of $502.8 million or $2.13 per diluted share in the prior year's quarter. Combined cash and cash equivalents at year-end totaled $984.9 million, compared to $1.42 billion at the end of fiscal 2020. Outstanding debt as of January 29 was $3.45 billion. For the year, the company repurchased $950 million in shares at an average price of $103.75. The company did not repurchase shares during the fourth quarter as our board has engaged in discussions with Mantle Ridge. We currently have $2.5 billion remaining on our share repurchase authorization. Compared to the prior year, inventory levels increased 39% at Dollar Tree and 17% at Family Dollar. The higher levels of inventory are comprised of significant increases in goods on the water year over year as we rebuild inventory levels as well as increased capitalized freight costs based on much higher rates during the year. We do not anticipate any additional material inventory markdowns related to the recent Family Dollar voluntary product recall. Capital expenditures were $271.6 million in the fourth quarter versus $191.8 million in Q4 last year. For fiscal 2022, we expect that consolidated capex will be approximately $1.3 billion, which will be focused on 590 new stores, consisting of 400 Family Dollar and 190 Dollar Tree stores; 1,500 Dollar Tree Plus additions and 800 Family Dollar H2 renovations; the addition or replacement of frozen or refrigerated capability to select Dollar Tree and Family Dollar stores; supply chain construction and upgrades and information technology system projects. Depreciation amortization totaled $188.7 million for Q4, compared to $182.9 million in the fourth quarter last year. For fiscal 2022, we expect consolidated depreciation and amortization to be approximately $750 million. Our initial outlook for fiscal 2022 includes the following assumptions. For same-store sales for the enterprise, we are forecasting low to mid-single-digit positive comps for the year. Considerations for 2022 include the following: the company incurred approximately $33.5 million in COVID-19-related costs in fiscal 2021. We expect these costs to be minimal in fiscal 2022. We will be cycling the third round of stimulus check that totaled an estimated $386 billion in March of 2021. And later in the year, we will be cycling the monthly advanced child tax credit payments that began in July of 2021. We expect continued pressure on store and DC payroll based on competitive markets, states increasing minimum wages, unemployment levels, and completing the company's many initiatives. We expect to incur more than $165 million in store minimum wage changes and market adjustments. In addition, we are investing more than $30 million in DC hourly wages. We continue to partially offset these average hourly rate increases through productivity and efficiency initiatives. Import and domestic freight will present cost pressures due to the annualization of fiscal 2021 rates in the first half of 2022. In addition, diesel fuel prices are expected to be significantly higher in 2022. We cannot predict future currency fluctuations, so we've not adjusted our outlook for the currency rate changes. Net interest expense is expected to be approximately $33 million for Q1 and approximately $129 million for fiscal 2022. We estimate consolidated net sales for the first quarter will range from $6.63 billion to $6.78 billion based on a low single-digit increase in same-store sales for the combined enterprise. Diluted earnings per share are estimated to be in the range of $1.95 to $2.10. Consolidated net sales for full fiscal 2022 are expected to range from $27.22 billion to $27.85 billion. The company estimates diluted earnings per share will range from $7.60 to $8, which at the high end implies a consolidated operating income margin of 9%. Our outlook assumes a tax rate of 24.3% for the first quarter and 24.1% for fiscal 2022. Our weighted average diluted share counts are assumed to be 226.5 million shares for Q1 and 226.7 million shares for the full year. Our outlook does not include any share repurchases. And as previously mentioned, we currently have $2.5 billion remaining on our existing share repurchase authorization. I'll turn the call back over to Mike.Mike Witynski -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Kevin. I am more encouraged and enthusiastic about our business and the opportunity than ever before. After a few years of Dollar Tree delivering operating margins lower than we like, I believe we are poised to benefit from our initiatives to deliver materially improved operating performance. Because of our team's dedication, focus and execution, we have one of the most important milestones behind us: converting more than 7,800 stores to the new pricing strategy, providing value to our customers and a meaningful assortment is at the forefront. And as we reinvest in and market the extreme value assortment at Dollar Tree, we are confident store traffic and productivity will improve throughout the year, which will contribute to shopper loyalty. Value and convenience is more important than ever to our customer in today's environment. We are dedicated, aligned, and focused. The ability to execute our key initiatives is paying off and setting a solid foundation for improved operating performance. We delivered an EPS of $5.80 in fiscal 2021, and the high end of our guidance range this year is $8, representing a 38% increase. I believe we are at an inflection point to exhibit our earnings power in the years ahead. This year, we are laser-focused on meeting our customer needs while driving our initiatives that are delivering the best returns. These initiatives, combined with our robust balance sheet, will position us to deliver long-term value for our stakeholders, customers, associates, suppliers, and our shareholders. I would like to once again thank every one of our more than 200,000 associates for all they have accomplished over the past two years through the unprecedented challenges presented with COVID-19 supply chain issues and labor shortages. Our teams are there every day to serve millions of shoppers across the U.S. and Canada. We have accomplished quite a lot in the last 18 months but, in many ways, I feel that we are just getting started. But the future is bright for Dollar Tree and Family Dollar. Before we take your questions, I'd like to provide a brief update on our ongoing engagement with Mantle Ridge. We continue to have constructive dialogue with Mantle Ridge and our shareholders. And indeed, we have been meeting weekly with Paul Hilal of Mantle Ridge and Rick Dreiling. Accordingly, we will not be addressing any Mantle Ridge-related questions during the Q&A portion of our earnings call. Operator, we are now ready to take questions. 