  OperatorHello, and welcome to the Expedia Group Q2 2021 earnings call. My name is Emma, and I will be the operator for today's call. [Operator instructions] I'll now hand over to SVP and CFO, Retail, Patrick Thompson. Please go ahead.Patrick Thompson -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Retail Good afternoon, and welcome to Expedia Group's financial-results conference call for the second quarter ended June 30, 2021. I'm pleased to be joined on the call today by our CEO, Peter Kern; and our CFO, Eric Hart. The following discussion, including responses to your questions, reflects management's views as of today, August 5, 2021 only. We do not undertake any obligation to update or revise this information. As always, some of the statements made on today's call are forward-looking, typically preceded by words such as we plan, we expect, we believe, we anticipate, we are optimistic or confident that or similar statements. Please refer to today's earnings release and the company's filings with the SEC for information about factors which could cause our actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements. You will find reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures discussed today in our earnings release, which is posted on the company's investor relations website at ir.expediagroup.com. And I encourage you to periodically visit our IR website for other important content.Unless otherwise stated, all references to cost of revenue, selling and marketing expense, general and administrative expense and technology and content expense exclude stock-based compensation. And all comparisons on this call will be against our results for the comparable period of 2019. And with that, let me turn the call over to Peter. Peter Kern -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Pat. Good afternoon, everybody, and thank you for joining us today for our Q2 earnings call. I'll be relatively brief. And then Eric will take over, and we'll take some questions. I'll open with saying that, in general, Q2 was quite strong and a major improvement on Q1, and we were pleased with the progress we made with particular strength in North America and the U.S. As I've said before, the market has been driven by a lot of COVID-related changes in patterns. Domestic travel has been stronger; VR, stronger; whereas international travel, corporate travel, even big city travel has been relatively muted comparatively. The good news in that is that we find ourselves in a relatively stronger position in the U.S., our largest market and the largest travel market. But in places like APAC where we have a largely international business, that obviously has not responded as quickly. So as we look across our performance, there's all those moving parts in the mix. And together, what that delivered in the second quarter was general improvement in the April, May time period and another step up and a significant step up in June, not unlike what we saw in the first quarter with a step up in March. July has been impacted somewhat by Delta -- the Delta variant, and we've seen some backwards movement in July, but in general, still relatively stronger performance compared to earlier parts of COVID. As it pertains to travel patterns, I think it's important to keep in mind that, obviously, we don't know where Delta is going. Places like Australia have had shutdowns. Whereas other parts of the world, including parts for EMEA, things are opening up somewhat more. But there's a lot of unknowns, including in the U.S., and we're starting to see some of that percolate through cancellation rates and more volatility in the numbers. I think it's also important to keep in mind that as we move into the fourth quarter, where traditional trends would have had leisure coming off and corporate coming up, etc., there remain a bunch of unknowns across the globe in terms of back to school, back to work and how people will travel in this portion of our COVID times. That being said, as we focused on marketing, Q2 was obviously a time of relative strength, and we aggressively pushed into marketing. We saw the opportunity to get in front of the building momentum in travel. And as we've talked about before, we have a long-term goal of building more brand recognition and pushing more into brand marketing, creating longer-term relationships with customers. Performance marketing, on the other hand, remained considerably volatile, especially as we've seen cancellation rates more recently growing slightly. So we were relatively leaned in, in Q2. We expect to be leaned in, in Q3, but with a bias toward brand building for the long-term relationships with customers. And we do believe whenever COVID subsides in a way that gives people real comfort, there's so much pent-up demand that travel will outstrip anything we've really ever seen before around the globe. And as we move [Audio gap] building, I just want to emphasize that this is an area where we felt there was opportunity to be stronger. Jon Gieselman joined us in middle of the quarter. Jon is a great talent, coming to us from Apple. He is a terrific brand builder. And brand and performance marketing work together. We have to really define and build our brands and I've talked extensively in the past about rationalizing the brands, making them work together and allocating capital appropriately. And we have great confidence in what Jon will bring and has already brought to the organization. Likewise, on the tech side, we brought in a new CTO, Rathi Murthy from Verizon Media. This again, is an emphasis, I've spoken about this several times, but we have to be a technology-first company. And to do that, we need great technology leadership. Rathi brings a world of experience to us. And as we move from our multi-stack, multi-domain enterprise that we've had historically into one platform that can service all our brands and all our business partners, it was really important to have great technical leadership across the organization. So I won't belabor every technical gain, but we are making real progress. We have plenty of work still to do, but we are feeling quite optimistic about Rathi and the changes that she is bringing. So in general, as we watch COVID play out, we're focusing really on investing in our technology and people, organizing our brands and out getting capital appropriately among them, simplifying our business and of course, maintaining the rigor we've had around driving margin improvement. And more broadly, we believe that as vaccines continue to roll out across the globe, that will bring greater security, greater comfort and greater willingness to travel, but the road may still be bumpy for a while as we watch all the variants play out and various government responses to them. I'll just close by saying we launched today something very important to us that our employees are passionate about, which is a partnership with UNICEF wherein we will drive for every app transaction we have in the company, we will donate to UNICEF to drive vaccination into the developing world. It's clear that not everyone has the access that the Western world has to vaccines, and it's our view that until the world is more fully vaccinated, we really can't expect travel broadly to be back to normal. So we believe in the movement, we believe in the equitable distribution of vaccines, we want to drive that for all the obvious societal benefits and ultimately because it's good for our long-term business goals. So with that, I will turn it over to Eric. Thank you.Eric Hart -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Peter. In early 2020, I outlined multiple areas of focus, and I wanted to provide updates on them. This is around driving margin expansion through better unit economics. And since that time, we've made significant progress reshaping our cost structure through the fixed and variable cost initiatives we've outlined in detail on previous calls. Another major focus has and will continue to be on simplifying our business to help enable the company do it faster and also ensure we're focusing on the most attractive opportunities for future growth and profitability. This has included selling or shutting down businesses we viewed as noncore to the business going forward. To put this into perspective, since the beginning of 2020, we have either shut down or sold eight businesses, and these simplification efforts have continued with the sale of ALICE last month, which I would point out will have an immaterial impact to our financials. In addition, in early May, we announced the binding offer from Amex GBT to acquire our Egencia business. Since then, we have been diligently working through different aspects of the offer, and this week, we officially accepted GBT's offer. Based on where things currently stand, including all relevant regulatory authorities have cleared the transaction and all relevant employee consultations have been completed, we now anticipate closing the transaction during this year 2021. As a reminder, the deal includes two major pieces we outlined last quarter, and remain very excited about. First, we will have a minority position -- ownership position in the combined business. And second, we will also enter into a 10-year lodging supply agreement between Amex GBT and EPS. Finally, this deal further illustrates the continued progress on simplifying our business. Now shifting to the P&L. On revenue, total revenue was down approximately 33% versus Q2 2019, which was a meaningful improvement from last quarter with revenue down approximately 52%. We saw continued strength from Vrbo and improving trends within our hotel business, while ADRs were effectively up across the board from last quarter. From a geography perspective, on a revenue basis, the U.S. showed meaningful sequential improvement Q2. EMEA revenue also improved and LatAm and APAC revenue remained roughly flat versus Q1. On our cost basis and overhead, we have significantly improved our cost basis versus prepandemic levels, which is reflective on the considerable progress we've made on the cost initiatives outlined in detail over the past 18 months or so. While we won't see full benefit in the financials until we return to more normalized business levels, we remain confident in realizing largely all of the fixed and variable cost savings targets by the end of this year. Overhead costs totaled approximately $544 million in Q2, an increase of approximately $40 million versus last quarter, which was in line with our expectations. The increase sequentially was largely a result of the shift in compensation structure from bonus to salary, which took effect April 1, and we outlined on previous calls. As it relates to sales and marketing, we increased our spend in Q2 driven by signs of a recovery, although total marketing spend was still well below prepandemic levels. For Q3, we are balancing investing into the recovery to build our brands with recent softening trends and bookings that we've observed in July that Peter mentioned. The net of all of this is we anticipate that we will further close the gap versus prepandemic spend, although it will still be well below Q3 of 2019. In total, adjusted EBITDA was $201 million and included a negative contribution from Egencia, which showed some improvement but continued to lag our retail business. We attribute the approximately $260 million of sequential improvement in adjusted EBITDA to typical seasonality, as well as the improving trends we've mentioned throughout the call. On the free cash flow, which totaled approximately $2.3 billion in Q2 on a reported basis, excluding the change in restricted cash, which is primarily driven by the change of Vrbo's deferred merchant bookings, free cash flow was approximately $1.8 billion. Moving on to the capital structure. In terms of the balance sheet, we continue to be investment-grade rated today and would point out that Moody's recently changed our outlook to stable from negative. There is also no change in our financial strategy going forward. We remain committed to delevering back to more historical levels as the recovery continues to progress, while also continuing to look for ways to reduce our cost of capital, with the underlying goal to be in a strong enough position to restart our capital return program to shareholders. In May, given the positive trends we were witnessing combined with the confidence in our liquidity position, we paid down 50% of the preferred stock that we issued in 2020. We have the right to pay off the remaining balance at any time, and we're closely monitoring and intend to pay off when it's prudent to do so. So that's again something that we'll continue to watch over the course of the year and going forward. That said, I remain confident in our liquidity position, which includes approximately $5.5 billion in unrestricted cash, as well as $2 billion untapped revolver. In closing, we're pleased with the further stabilization of our business in Q2 and remain optimistic about the future of travel, and that it will come back, as Peter mentioned earlier, and will be like something that we haven't quite seen before. And with that, Emma, we're ready to take our first question. Emma are you there? 