
OperatorGood day, everyone. Welcome to the Corteva Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. Today's conference is being recorded. [Operator Instructions]And now I would like to turn the conference over to Jeff Rudolph with Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Jeff Rudolph -- Executive of Investor Relations

 



Good morning, and welcome to Corteva's Second Quarter and First Half 2021 Earnings Conference Call. Our prepared remarks today will be led by Jim Collins, Chief Executive Officer; and Dave Anderson, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.Additionally, Tim Glenn, Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer; and Rajan Gajaria, Executive Vice President of Business Platforms will join the Q&A session. We prepared presentation slides to supplement our remarks during this call, which are posted on the Investor Relations section of the Corteva website and through the link to our webcast.During this call, we will make forward-looking statements, which are our expectations for or statements about the future. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to various risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could materially differ from these statements due to these risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, those discussed on this call and in the Risk Factors section of our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement.On our Investor Relations website, you can find our earnings press release and related schedules, along with our supplemental financial summary slide deck, which is intended to supplement our prepared remarks for today's call. These items provide a reconciliation of differences between reported GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures and should not be considered a substitute for the measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP.

 



It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Jim.James C. Collins, Jr. -- Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Jeff, and welcome to the participants joining the call today.Starting on Slide four. We launched Corteva with a strategy grounded in building and delivering value to shareholders through new product innovation that drives organic growth and margin improvement, organizational efficiency and rigor and disciplined capital allocation.

 



As I speak to you today, I'm happy to say this strategy is working. Now that's a testament to the extraordinary efforts by our more than 20,000 colleagues worldwide over the last five years, beginning with the announcement of the intent to create Corteva. At its core, this team is focused on one thing, delivery. Time after time, they have demonstrated tremendous resilience and adaptability by pushing forward to bring our purpose to life, advance our strategy, and deliver our near-term business results no matter the circumstances. So to them, I say thank you, as I could not be prouder of their relentless focus. Our first half performance is yet another solid proof point of our progress, with 6% organic growth and 17% operating EBITDA improvement compared to the prior year.In Crop Protection, we continue to build on our new product momentum and now expect we will deliver $400 million in sales growth for this part of the portfolio for the year, up from our prior estimate of $300 million. A direct result of successfully advancing our pipeline. In fact, through June of this year, we've received nearly 90 additional new product registrations for our Crop protection portfolio.Market fundamentals remain positive as growers look to best-in-class solutions to drive productivity and capitalize on what likely will be a record year for income levels in key markets such as the U.S. and Brazil. This helped to drive pricing in Seed, specifically 3% increases in corn globally as well as further penetration of the Enlist soybean system for 2021, now estimated to be on approximately 35% of U.S. soybean acres, and that's up from prior estimates of 30%. Execution is sound, and we are carrying substantial momentum.As a result, we are raising our guidance for full year. We now expect to deliver between $2.5 billion and $2.6 billion in operating EBITDA for the full year 2021, representing a 22% growth over the prior year at the midpoint. Importantly, we also expect to maintain the operating leverage we delivered through the first half, with an impressive 200 basis point increase in margins for the full year on the organization's continued agility in the face of ongoing supply chain volatility and cost inflation, which brings us back to value creation.In addition to strong earnings growth, we are also advancing our commitments on returning cash to shareholders. Specifically, Corteva returned approximately $750 million in cash to shareholders via dividends and share repurchases through the first half. And we recently announced a dividend increase of 7.7% and a new $1.5 billion share repurchase program. In total, we expect to return more than $1.2 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases by the end of 2021. The bottom line, we are executing on what we said we would do. We are delivering operating leverage. And we are intently focused on advancing our strategy to deliver value for all of our shareholders.So looking at Slide five, which has our financial results for the quarter and the first half. So quickly touching on the quarter. We delivered 6% organic growth on gains in both segments, led by North America and Latin America. This translated into earnings growth of 18% and margin improvement of more than 200 basis points, another solid quarter of continued growth and margin improvement. Now focusing on the half. Sales gains were led by execution of our new product pipeline, where new Crop Protection products delivered $260 million in sales growth over the prior year.Additionally, seed sales improved on increased planted area in U.S. soybeans and strong demand for corn in Latin America. We continued to deliver on our price-for-value strategy as global corn prices improved 3% for the half. Now Dave is going to provide you much more detail on the earnings growth drivers for the half, but it's important to note the impressive level of margin improvement that we have delivered so far this year. Through the half, we drove nearly 200 basis points of margin improvement compared to the prior year on price and volume gains across the portfolio, despite continued challenges on cost inflation that we and many others across various industries continue to face. Again, this first half performance is yet another important proof point that our value creation strategy is working, further reinforcing our updated guidance for the full year.So shifting to the market backdrop on Slide six. Fundamentals remain strong despite volatility in the commodity markets. We believe global demand will ultimately drive growth into 2022 and beyond as local economies recover from the pandemic-related shutdowns. We're monitoring the impacts of the pandemic globally. And we'll remain agile to ensure we continue to support our employees, our customers and our local communities. Now while the U.S. market remains attractive as we look to the near-term outlook, we see strong demand for best-in-class technologies in markets outside of the U.S. Take Brazil, for example, where demand for grain is leading to increased planted area and rising commodity prices.With our market-leading position for corn and one of the best new crop protection lineups, we are in a strong position to capitalize on above-market growth. While commodity prices will continue to react to short-term events in the industry, it's important to remember that the global diversity of our business is what provides an attractive outlook for growth. Together with sustained growth in global ag markets, led by robust global demand, we are pleased with the acceleration and opportunities to deliver value to our customers in these local markets through our best-in-class products and advantaged routes to market.Turning to Slide seven. I'll provide more detail on the balance and the diversity of our sales growth across the globe and provide further proof points for the half. In North America, organic sales were up 4% for the half. Seed sales benefited from increased planted area for both corn and soybeans, coupled with continued penetration of the Enlist E3 soybeans. As I mentioned, we now expect Enlist to represent about 35% of the U.S. soybean market in 2021, and that's up from our previous expectation of 30%. On seed pricing for the first half, competitive pressures in the soybean market was aligned with our prior expectations, with pricing down 2%.Corn price in the Pioneer brand was up about one point compared to the prior year. North America Crop Protection had a strong first half with 10% organic growth, on continued demand for new technologies, including Enlist herbicide and solid pricing execution in response to rising raw material, freight and logistics costs. Fungicide growth was also a highlight, up double-digits, as growers look to take preventative measures to maximize yields.In Europe, Middle East and Africa, organic sales grew 5% on strong pricing execution and record sunflower seed volumes. This growth was muted by an approximate $80 million to $100 million sales impact from corn supply shortages. In Crop Protection, our portfolio of new and differentiated products remain in high demand, including technologies such as Arylex herbicide and Zorvec fungicide, which enabled us to drive price and volume gains and gain market share in Europe despite the impact of product phaseouts.In Latin America, we delivered 23% organic sales growth on strong volumes and execution on our price-for-value strategy. In seed, volumes grew 20% on share gains in the Brazil safrinha and earlier shipments for the Brazil summer season. In Crop Protection, volumes grew 9% on significant demand for new and differentiated technologies such as Isoclast and Jemvelva insecticides. Pricing actions reflected strong product demand and helped to more than offset unfavorable currency impacts from Brazilian real.In Asia Pacific, we realized 3% organic sales growth compared to the prior year on both volume and price improvements. Seed volumes were down, largely due to COVID-related demand impacts, primarily in Southeast Asia and India. Crop Protection organic growth of 11% was led by further penetration of our new products, including Rinskor herbicide and Pyraxalt insecticide. So Dave will now provide more detail on our first half performance and our upgraded expectations for the rest of the year. Dave?Dave Anderson -- Executive Vice President & Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Jim, and welcome everyone to the call.Let's move to Slide eight for a detailed review of our operating EBITDA performance for the year -- or for the first half. You'll see that for the first half 2021, operating EBITDA grew $335 million versus the prior year, nearly $2.4 billion, a clear indication of how well we've executed in the first half and a reflection of our ability to capitalize on robust demand for our products. Driving the increased operating EBITDA were strong price and volume, with combined benefits of approximately $340 million. This came from focused commercial execution and penetration of new and differentiated products across all regions.To illustrate this, sales of new Crop Protection products grew over $260 million versus the prior year. And at the same time, we delivered nearly 30% of organic seed growth in Latin America, driven by strong corn sales in Brazil. And finally, we continue to extract value for our yield-advantaged technology. And as Jim said, global corn pricing up 3% during the half. Costs were about a $60 million net headwind to operating EBITDA for the half.This includes delivery of approximately $175 million from productivity initiatives, including the ongoing benefit from asset footprint rationalization and other cost improvements. This helped to partially offset $240 million of cost headwinds in the half, which are primarily market-driven. And we continue to operate in an environment marked with challenged supply chains and cost inflation.In the first half, we experienced higher freight and logistics cost as global trade markets saw shipping demand outpace supply. Additionally, prices of certain active ingredients and intermediates continue to rise compared to the same period last year, including glyphosate. Now we continue to take action to mitigate these impacts where possible, including passing through certain inflationary costs for our seed and Crop Protection products and delivering against our productivity initiatives. As evidence of our disciplined focused execution, we delivered more than 190 basis points of margin expansion in the half. It's notable in terms of the agile operations team delivering strong performance.Let's go now to Slide nine to cover a few highlights from the Crop Protection segment for the half, where organic sales grew 10%, which included a 4% headwind from the strategic decision to phase out certain low-margin products, primarily in insecticides. Again, strong demand for our new technology led to sales gains, including an increase of more than $260 million in new product sales when compared to the same period last year. Herbicides were up 13% compared to the first half of 2020, led by continued penetration of Arylex and Enlist. Fungicides grew 26%, driven by strong demand for Zorvec and Inatreq, primarily in Europe, Middle East and Africa.And lastly, insecticides grew 3% in the half, which included a 16% negative impact from discontinued products. Growth was largely driven by our differentiated Spinosyns technology, including Jemvelva and Qalcova actives, which were up 14% in the half. Favorable product mix and strategic price increases drove pricing gains in all regions for the half, led by a 9% improvement in Latin America and a 3% price improvement in North America. Operating EBITDA for Crop Protection grew 26% from the prior year, driven by strong demand for new products and pricing execution. We did experience cost headwinds of approximately $130 million for this segment during the period.Overall, the headwinds more than offset our productivity actions. In most cases, we see these higher costs representing a new baseline, which will continue to work to mitigate by taking pricing actions where possible and delivering ongoing productivity. Now despite these challenges, we drove over 220 basis points of operating EBITDA margin improvement in Crop Protection in the half. Very impressive performance.Let's go to then Slide 10 and talk about the Seed highlights. You can see on Slide 10, organic sales for Seed were up 4%, driven by solid pricing, coupled with market share gains in Brazil safrinha, demand-driven earlier shipments for Brazil summer season and also volume growth in North America on increased planted area aligned with USDA estimates.On pricing, we maintained our track record in extracting value for our yield-advantaged technology, with corn prices up 3% compared to prior year, led by double-digit price improvement in Latin America. Soybean volumes were up 7% for the half, led by an approximately 5% increase in U.S. planted area. Soybean pricing was down 2%, consistent with our expectations, as we continue to see competitive pressure in the U.S. market.Other oilseeds were up 21% versus the first half of 2020, reflecting record sunflower volumes in Europe and also higher canola volumes in Canada. Operating EBITDA for this segment improved 13% on strong price execution globally, ongoing cost and productivity actions, lower royalties and bad debt and a favorable impact from currency. And while we experienced higher input costs, the teams continue to manage through these headwinds, and we're able to deliver operating EBITDA margin improvement of over 200 basis points for the segment for the half.So now let's go to Slide 11 and talk about our full year 2021 guidance. You can see there that for the remainder of the year and our updated expectations for the full year, and with the backdrop of the strong performance for the first half, we're raising our reported net sales guidance to be in the range of $15.2 billion to $15.4 billion, representing 8% growth at the midpoint, which includes an approximately 2% tailwind from currency. We're also raising our operating EBITDA guide, and now expect to be in the range of $2.5 billion to $2.6 billion, representing 22% growth at the midpoint.This increase reflects continued strong demand for our new products globally in both Crop Protection and Seed, coupled with strong price execution in key regions on technology and also improved currency. Specific to the second half, we expect price to largely offset cost headwinds, which are notably Seed-driven.And as a result, volume, primarily in Latin America Crop Protection, is driving second half earnings growth. Now the volatility of exchange rates will continue to be a key variable we're watching, notably the Brazilian real, where we assumed a rate of 5.25 for the back half of the year. In Crop Protection, we anticipate $400 million of year-over-year improvement in sales from our new products, $100 million more than we originally estimated.The additional growth is a testament to strong demand that we're seeing globally for our best-in-class technology. As we think about costs, the current inflationary environment is expected to continue through at least the end of the year. As a result, we now expect a net cost headwind of approximately $125 million for the full year 2021. This represents about $75 million in additional cost inflation from our previous estimate. It's driven by higher input costs as well as freight and logistics. Now we're actively monitoring supply chain pressures in the market, and the operational teams remain agile in meeting customer demand.As it relates to SG&A, the organization continues to maintain disciplined spending. And we anticipate that as a percent of revenue, SG&A is expected to improve by approximately 50 basis points for the year despite higher commissions and also variable compensation. Taken together, it's an impressive improvement and impressive outlook and really highlights the strong focus by the full organization to execute on our strategy.Let's go now to Slide 12 with a few comments on cash flow. I'll give you a view on our 2021 cash flow expectations. We now believe cash from operations will be in the range of $1.2 billion to $1.6 billion for the year. It reflects both increased earnings, but also the investment we're making in working capital to support growth. The organization continues to focus on cash cycle time. It's working.As a result, we're targeting improvement in net working capital turns for the full year. We're increasing our capex spending target from $550 million to between $600 million and $650 million for 2021. The increase allows us to fund projects with high return on investment to support growth. And it follows a complete midyear review that we completed of all of our capital programs. We've experienced an improvement in the funded status of the U.S. pension plan year-to-date, driven by both asset returns and discount rate.The improvement provides increased probability, there will be no required contributions to the plan in '21 or 2022. Finally, as Jim stated, we're committed to the return of cash to shareholders as evidenced by more than $1.2 billion we expect to return via dividends and share repurchases by the end of the year, which includes expected progress on the new $1.5 billion program that we recently announced.Now if you move to Slide 13, I just want to give you some early insights on our planning process and thinking as we start to frame out 2022. Importantly, carrying forward our momentum from 2021, we expect to see organic growth globally. This will largely be driven by execution and further penetration of new and differentiated products across all regions, reflecting the strength of our portfolio and our pipeline, which are expected to drive increases in both volume and price in 2022.For example, we continue to remain excited about the growth opportunities for Spinosyns, which we believe will approach sales of $1 billion in 2022. We expect Seed pricing to be additive to earnings when netted with the impact of higher cost of goods sold as a result of higher commodity costs.And with our transition to Enlist, we expect royalty improvement for 2022 as part of our journey toward royalty neutrality by the end of the decade. Royalty reduction is anticipated to be more significant in '23 and '24, but next year will be an important next step on continuing net royalty improvement.And lastly, we remain focused on delivering against productivity as input costs continue to evolve with the current market environment. So to manage this pressure, we're going to continue to drive execution on productivity initiatives, which are expected to partially offset any increase costs. And this is just our preliminary take on the setup for next year. We're going to share more details later this year. But certainly, we view 2022 as a solid opportunity for earnings and margin growth as we execute our strategy and we leverage our global footprint and our diversified portfolio.So before turning it back to Jim, let me just do a quick summary, focus on both our 2021 delivery and the setup for 2022. This year is characterized by first half operating EBITDA margin improvement of nearly 200 basis points and full year margin expectations also improved by approximately 200 basis points. And that setup for 2022 is positive. We're driving growth in all regions, across a strengthening portfolio and delivering solid operating leverage.And with that, let me turn it back to Jim.James C. Collins, Jr. -- Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Dave, and that's a great summary.Before we get to your questions, I'd like to share a few final comments. Through our heads down focused execution by an incredible global team, we've gotten through one of the toughest periods in the history of our industry. We emerged on the other side even better positioned to serve farmers and ensure the security of the global food supply and to deliver value for our shareholders. With our distinct competitive advantages, Corteva is positioned for long-term sustainable growth in a rapidly changing global agriculture marketplace. Now when I say sustainable, I refer to both Corteva's long-term growth and the way we will deliver it.As consumer preferences and environmental challenges change, farmers will need to adapt. And Corteva will be at the center of that relationship, deploying our knowledge, market presence and industry-leading capabilities to assure the sustainable future of global agriculture by helping growers deliver more while using fewer resources. Our knowledge of farmers' needs comes from the relationship that we have built over decades through our advantaged route to market, which helps drive our grower focused innovation.Now this is clearly showing up in our new product sales quarter after quarter and will continue to be one of our top priorities moving forward. And importantly, we have a number of exciting products that continue to progress through our pipeline in both segments. So finally, our first half performance and updated guidance for the year clearly demonstrates that all of the elements of our strategy that we built are working. Our team is advancing our purpose, driving a culture focused on our customers, delivering on our commitments through focused execution, building momentum on long-term value creation, and most importantly, growing progress for all of our stakeholders for years to come.So with that, I'll turn it back to Jeff.Jeff Rudolph -- Executive of Investor RelationsThank you, Jim. Now let's move on to your questions. I would like to remind you that our cautions on forward-looking statements and non-GAAP measures apply to both our prepared remarks and the following Q&A.Operator, please provide the Q&A instructions.