
OperatorGreetings. Welcome to the Leidos First Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.I will now turn the call over to Peter Berl of Investor Relations. Peter, you may begin.Peter Berl -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations

 



Thank you, Rob, and good morning, everyone. I'd like to welcome you to our first quarter 2021 earnings conference call. Joining me today are Roger Krone, our Chairman and CEO; Jim Reagan, our Chief Financial Officer and other members of the Leidos management team.Today, we will discuss our results for the quarter ending April 2, 2021. Roger will lead off the call with notable highlights from the quarter, as well as comments on the market environment and our Company's strategy. Jim will follow with a discussion of our financial performance and our guidance expectations. After these remarks from Roger and Jim, we'll open the call for your questions. Today's discussion contains forward-looking statements based on the environment as we currently see it, and as such does include risks and uncertainties. Please refer to our press release for more information on the specific Risk Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially. Finally, during the call, we will discuss GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation between the two is included in the press release that we issued this morning and is also available in the presentation slides. The press release and presentation, as well as a supplementary financial information file are provided on the Investor Relations section of our website at ir.leidos.com.With that, I'll turn the call over to Roger Krone.Roger Krone -- Chairman & Chief Executive Officer

 



Thank you Peter, and thank you all, for joining us this morning for our first quarter 2021 earnings conference call. As we communicated in our press release this morning, I'm pleased to announce that Chris Cage will be Leidos' next chief financial officer later this year. Chris will succeed Jim Reagan who has chosen to retire following a long and distinguished career, in particular, the last six years as my good friend and business partner. I will have a few remarks on this transition before I hand the call over to Jim, but first let's jump into the quarter.First quarter results reflect the perseverance, focus, and tremendous execution of our employees and business partners. New quarterly record levels of revenue, non-GAAP EPS and backlog were achieved, and significant organic growth was delivered across all business segments. This early momentum favorably positions Leidos to deliver on our full-year financial commitments. Revenues for the quarter were $3.3 billion, up 14.7% from the prior year, and up 9% organically, underscoring our accelerated recovery from last year's pandemic headwinds and the early ramp of new business wins. Adjusted EBITDA margin of 11.7%, up 240 basis points compared to the prior year period reflects strong program performance and the resolution of the long-standing MSA legal matter, which together delivered 45% growth on non-GAAP EPS of $1.73 for the quarter.Net bookings of $3.8 billion resulted in a book-to-bill of 1.2 times and 1.3 times on a trailing 12-month basis. This increase, driven by success in both our Solutions and Health segments established a record backlog of $32.6 billion for a 13th consecutive quarter, providing greater clarity and confidence in near-term revenue growth expectations.I will now touch on a few of the major wins we received in the quarter that underpin our growth and backlog. In the Health segment the company was awarded a new prime contract to provide nonmedical counseling to military service members and their families through the Military & Family Life Counseling program known as MFLC. This important work will be conducted at approximately 100 U.S. military installations or nearby civilian communities.

 



We currently estimate revenues will be approximately $1 billion over the potential seven-year life of the program. This new award is especially timely with May being mental health awareness month. Military members and their families experience unique stresses. These include fears for the safety of the service member and feeling anxious or overwhelmed by deployment related challenges and responsibilities. Nearly one in four active-duty service members show signs of a mental health condition. Children of service members are especially vulnerable. One third of children with a deployed parent have psychological challenges, such as depression, anxiety, and behavior disorders. Through our work on the MFLC program we provide confidential counseling to alleviate stresses and enhance military members and their families ability to cope with these challenges. Counselors aim to prevent the escalation of stress into harmful conditions. About a quarter of our employees are veterans, so this program is meaningful to us on many levels.Next, in the Civil segment, the company was awarded a prime contract by U.S. customs and border protection to provide multi-energy portal systems for nonintrusive inspection of commercial vehicles at land and sea ports of entry. Under the contract Leidos will integrate, deploy and train CBP staff to use its VACIS MEP with low-energy backscatter and high-energy transmission cargo inspection system. The multiple award IDIQ contract has a total value of $480 million and a five-year base period of performance and options up to 10 years if exercise. And in the Defense Solutions segment, the company was awarded a prime contract by the Naval Undersea Warfare Center to provide engineering, technical, and management services for the Naval Array Technical Support Center. Leidos will be responsible for production engineering, technical and logistics support of the U.S. Navy and foreign governments towed array [Phonetic] assets. This single award IDIQ contract has a total estimated value of $149 million.Finally, the company was awarded contracts valued at $822 million if all options are exercised by U.S. National Security and Intelligence clients. Though the specific nature of many of these contracts is classified, they all encompass mission-critical services that help to counter global threats and strengthen national security.Turning now to several notable accomplishments and events that took place in the quarter. We closed the 1901 Group acquisition in January and as anticipated the business is being levered across all of our business segments in both the performance of backlog programs and new program bids. The inclusion of 1901 Group's cloud based solutions and fully integrated service delivery platform will enhance performance on our customers important missions and continue to differentiate Leidos' value proposition across our defense, intelligence, civil and health markets we serve. Furthermore, as we shared with you on the February call, the Gibbs & Cox acquisition is nearing completion with yesterday's expiration of the HSR waiting period. With that gate cleared, we now expect the deal to close later in this month.Also, I want to take a moment to highlight the ongoing significant progress with the DoD Healthcare Management Systems Modernization program, otherwise known as DHMSM. The MHS GENESIS electronic health record system is now 30% deployed and is currently live and operational at more than 42 military treatment facility commands across the country with nearly 41,000 active users. Notably, during this unprecedented global healthcare crisis, this system has provided advanced capabilities to support clinicians and advice and providers including 24 x 7 access to medical and dental records and effectively tracking COVID-19 cases and mass vaccinations. Since its initial award, the program has been expanded to include the United States Coast Guard and the National Guard and Reserve. We remain on schedule to deliver MHS GENESIS by the end of calendar year 2023.Shifting to the macro environment, while we are still awaiting the release of the President's 2022 Detailed Budget Request and subsequent multiyear defense projections, we are encouraged by last month's release of the high level budget request. While the recommended defense funding level was in line with our expectations, our innovative technology and strategic investments remained squarely aligned with the administration's prioritization of certain critical need areas, such as digital modernization, cybersecurity, autonomy, and hypersonics. Additionally, we are very pleased with the proposed 16% increase in nondefense discretionary funding. This proposed growth supports the value proposition of our diverse business portfolio, which extends beyond defense and intelligence into the federal health and civil markets, including ports, borders and airport security.And while a continuing resolution in the fall is feeling like a near certainty, the typical annual disruptions may be muted given the no growth request for defense and the reality that under a CR, agencies generally continue to receive stopgap funding in line with prior years appropriation levels. With nearly $6 trillion of congressionally approved relief and stimulus funding since the start of the pandemic and a pending $2 trillion infrastructure request, we believe there could be additional opportunities for Leidos, particularly in our Civil segment.Areas of interest include airport and FAA upgrades, as well as civil agency research and development. However, we will need to see the final details when they become available to better understand what is truly addressable over the multiyear infrastructure plan. With regard to the administration's decision to withdraw all troops from Afghanistan by early September, Leidos has been directed to leave the region within the same time line. We currently estimate the revenue impact to be less than 1% of our defense solutions segments current year revenue. While program level customer discussions are still evolving, our best estimates have been incorporated into the guidance that Jim will cover later in the call.As we recently marked the one year milestone of this devastating pandemic at the end of Q1, I want to provide you with another update on our Leidos Relief Foundation and how it has been assisting Leidos employees who have been impacted by the virus. Since March 2020, the fund has raised and distributed over $1.7 million through generous personal donations from employees, members of the executive team, and the Board of Directors, including company matched contributions. With those funds, over 500 Leidos families who have suffered a COVID-19 hardship or loss of a loved one have received financial assistance. The ongoing generosity of our colleagues is inspiring and a constant reminder of our share values no matter the challenge.Finally, as I noted at the top of the call, I will close my prepared remarks with a few comments on the upcoming CFO transition here at Leidos. On behalf of our Board of Directors and management team, I want to thank Jim for his countless contributions to this company and wish him all the best in his planned retirement. Jim joined us six years ago and has been my steadfast advisor and business partner. Jim and his team has grown the business over 160%, built an investment grade balance sheet and delivered significant total shareholder return. While Jim's contributions were critical in strategic planning and M&A deal structuring for key transactions, value creation takes place in successful business transformations and building and nurturing culture and talent, and that is where Jim made the biggest impact for our employees, our customers, and our shareholders. Thank you, Jim. However, I will save my goodbye since you'll be continuing to be an advisor through year-end.Meanwhile, I'm pleased to share that our Board of Directors has elected Chris Cage as our next Chief Financial Officer effective July 5 of this year, the beginning of our third quarter. Chris is a great example of the talent development and succession planning process here at Leidos. Chris joined the company in 1999 and many of you have had a chance to interact with him over the last several years as he has held a series of financial leadership roles with increasing responsibility, most recently as our Chief Accounting Officer. His financial experience and deep understanding of our business has prepared him and therefore our company for continued success. Since it is May 4, before I turn the call over to Jim, I just wanted to say May 4th be with you.I will now turn the call over to Jim Reagan for more details on our first quarter results and guidance.James Reagan -- Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Roger for those kind words and thanks to everyone for joining us on the call today. Upon reflection, I've had a very fulfilling career and these past six years here at Leidos have been truly special on account of all of the passionate and brilliant people who work here. I deeply value the relationships that we've built and the accomplishments that we have achieved together. I have great confidence in Chris's ability to lead the finance organization and I look forward to working with him on a seamless transition.With that, I'll start by providing an overview of our first quarter 2021 results, followed by an update to the 2021 guidance. We are pleased with our strong start and growth momentum through the first quarter of 2021. First quarter revenue grew 14.7% over the prior year quarter and 8.9% organically. The increase in revenue was driven by the Dynetics SD&A and 1901 Group acquisitions, growing on our existing -- growth on our existing programs and increased contribution from new programs. This solid start to the year aligns with our fourth quarter messaging and showcases our resilient program execution fundamentals with all segments delivering double-digit top line growth.Adjusted EBITDA margins of 11.7% grew 240 basis points over the prior year quarter. The increase was driven by program performance, mix and continued indirect cost management, as well as the benefit from the successful settlement of the MSA legal matter. Excluding the positive impact of this $26 million legal reserve adjustment, adjusted EBITDA margins would have been approximately 11%. First quarter non-GAAP diluted EPS of $1.73 grew $0.54 over the prior year quarter, driven by strong execution, and organic growth, as well as the settlement of the MSA legal matter. Without the settlement, non-GAAP diluted EPS would have been $1.59 reflecting 34% growth year-over-year.Operating cash flows for the quarter were $239 million. Excluding the net proceeds from the accounts receivable monetization facility, operating cash flows would have been approximately $145 million. The decision to utilize the facility enabled us to buy back approximately $100 million of Leidos stock on the open market during the quarter, which aligns with our long-term balanced capital allocation strategy, which consists of being appropriately levered and maintaining our investment grade rating, and returning a quarterly dividend to our shareholders, reinvesting for growth, both organically and inorganically and returning excess cash to shareholders in a tax efficient manner. Additionally, first quarter operating cash flow does not reflect any net cash benefit from the MSA settlement, which is expected to be realized in the second quarter. Bookings of $3.8 billion were strong across all segments, resulting in a 1.2 times consolidated book-to-bill and record ending backlog of $32.6 billion. This represents 15% growth in backlog from the first quarter of 2020.Now for an overview of our segment results. Defense Solutions revenue increased 14.8% year-over-year and 9.2% organically. Driving the strong growth was the Dynetics acquisition, the diligent execution of new programs, such as the CBP Traveler Processing and Vetting Software system and growth on existing programs. As a reminder, consistent with our policy, Dynetics revenue will now be included in our organic revenue calculation since we owned the business for a full year effective February 2021. Defense Solutions non-GAAP operating margins of 9.2% increased 240 basis points from the prior year period, reflecting strong program growth on certain contracts, reduced indirect expenditures and the recovery of a previously reserved international receivable. Defense Solutions booked nearly $2 billion in net awards for the quarter, resulting in a book-to-bill of 1.0x and 1.3x on a trailing 12-month basis.In our Civil segment, revenues grew 17.1% from the prior year quarter and 6.1% organically. This growth was driven by the SD&A acquisition and volume growth on our existing programs. Non-GAAP operating margins in the Civil segment grew 110 basis points year-over-year, driven by the net benefit from the MSA legal reserve adjustment, partially offset by lower margins on certain programs. Civil recorded approximately $700 million in net bookings for the quarter, resulting in a 0.9 times book-to-bill and 1.1 times on a trailing 12-month basis.And finally, turning to our Health segment. Health segment revenues increased 11.5% over the prior year quarter on both a gross and organic basis. This growth was driven by increased volumes on existing programs, including the continued backlog burn down in our medical exam business and timing of wave deployments on the DHMSM contract.Health segment non-GAAP operating margins were strong at 18.6%, an increase of 310 basis points over the prior year quarter, reflecting increased volume and growth on programs with our VA and DoD customers, and reduced business investments only a commercial IT venture. We expect elevated levels of non-GAAP operating margin to continue through the first half of 2021 and return to normalized segment levels starting in the third quarter. The Health segment booked over $1.2 billion net awards driven by the successful win of the Military & Family Life Counseling contract, which resulted in a book-to-bill of 2.1 times for the quarter and 1.6 on a trailing 12-month basis.Before I turn to guidance, I want to give you a quick update on the $7.7 billion Navy Engine program. Transition and onboarding are going well, but due to the late fourth quarter resolution in the courts, the pace of the ramp was lighter than the first quarter. We expect the ramp to pick up considerably over the next two quarters, giving us confidence in the organic contribution in both this year and next, as outlined in last quarter's earnings call.Moving now to the remainder of the year. We are increasing our guidance for adjusted EBITDA margin, non-GAAP EPS, and operating cash flow to account for two distinct items, the settlement of the MSA legal matter, and reduced share count resulting from our share repurchase during the quarter. Our guidance does not reflect the announced acquisition of Gibbs & Cox. As we've done in the past, we will provide an update in our next quarterly earnings call after the deal has closed.Our guidance range for revenue remains unchanged. We expect to deliver between $13.7 billion and $14.1 billion revenue for the year. We expect adjusted EBITDA margins for the year between 10.5% and 10.7%, a 20 basis point increase at the midpoint, from the previous guidance, reflecting the benefit from the MSA legal matter. As a result of the $100 million share repurchase executed in the first quarter and the net gain from the MSA legal matter, we are increasing our non-GAAP EPS guidance by $0.20 to a range of $6.35 to $6.65 on the basis of 143 million shares outstanding.And finally, to account for the expected net proceeds from the MSA legal matter, we are increasing our operating cash flow guidance by $25 million to at or above $875 million for the year. This updated guidance assumes no full year contribution from the accounts receivable monetization facility.And with that, I'll turn the call over to Rob so we can take some questions. Thank you.