  OperatorGreetings and welcome to First Republic Bank's first-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. Today's conference is being recorded. During today's call, the lines will be in a listen-only mode. Following the presentation, the conference will be open for questions. [Operator instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mike Ioanilli, vice president and director of investor relations. Please go ahead, sir.Mike Ioanilli -- Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, and welcome to First Republic Bank's first-quarter 2021 conference call. Speaking today will be Jim Herbert, the bank's founder, chairman, and CEO; Gaye Erkan, president and board member; and Mike Roffler, chief financial officer. Before I hand the call over to Jim, please note that we may make forward-looking statements during today's call that are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. For a more complete discussion of the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking statements, please see the bank's FDIC filings, including the Form 8-K filed today, all available on the bank's website. And now, I would like to turn the call over to Jim Herbert.Jim Herbert -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Mike. Good morning, everyone. We're off to a very strong start in 2021 with terrific growth in loans, deposits, and wealth management assets. First Republic's differentiated business model continues to perform very well.

 



 In addition to strong earnings, we're quite pleased today to announce a 10% increase in our quarterly dividend to $0.22 per common share per quarter. This is our 10th consecutive year of quarterly dividend increases. Since 1985, First Republic's success and durability have been grounded in a culture of taking care of each client one at a time, while continuing to operate in a very safe and sound manner. Our long-term steady approach has led to consistent success through a wide variety of environments including this unprecedented pandemic. We are extraordinarily proud of our team's dedication, hard work, and commitment to client service and to each other throughout this period. It's been absolutely amazing. A key part of our success is to take great care of our people who in turn take great care of their clients. We're pleased to have recently increased our companywide minimum wage to $30 per hour, up from $25 which we instituted in 2018. The unwavering dedication of our clients is also the reason for our latest client satisfaction level as reflected in a very strong 2020 Net Promoter Score. The strong score once again validates our client service model. Our Net Promoter Score actually improved during the year and remains more than twice in the U.S. banking industry average. Client satisfaction among those who identify as is our lead bank is nearly 2.5 times the industry average. This satisfaction level leads to long-term deep relationships and more referrals, which are the ultimate drivers of our growth. Let me summarize briefly the first-quarter results. Total loans outstanding were up 24% year over year.

 



 Total deposits grew 37% year over year. Wealth management assets were up 59% year over year, and they now exceed $200 billion. This growth across the enterprise drove a very strong financial performance. Total revenue your rear has grown 24%. Net interest income is up 25%. And importantly, tangible book value per share increased 14.5% year over year. Our strength safety and soundness continue to be reflected in strong capital liquidity and credit quality. During the first quarter, for instance, we raised an additional $914 million of Tier 1 capital. Our total equity increased 25% year over year, supporting our strong growth. We don't engage in share buybacks. Strong credit has been, for almost 36 years, the core pillar of the First Republic and is a key to our strong results and stability. Net charge-offs for this quarter were only $487,000, a fraction of 1 basis point. Non-performing assets at quarter-end were only 11 basis points of total assets. During the first quarter, we did reduce our reserve for credit losses. This is the result of seasonal guidelines leading us to a much improved economic outlook. The process of financial resumption of loan payments among our COVID-modified loans. Mike will discuss this more in a moment. Looking through the rest of the year, we are very optimistic. Our clients continue to be very liquid and quite active. Our markets are on a solid path to returning to normal, it would appear. And fiscal and monetary stimulus, as we all know, are very considerable. Overall, it's a great start to 2021 and we are extremely pleased. Now, let me turn the call over to Gaye Erkan, president.Gaye Erkan -- President Thank you, Jim. It was a terrific quarter that benefited from continued organic growth across the franchise leading to strong net interest income and wealth management revenues. As Jim mentioned, this is the direct outcome of the exceptional service provided by our caring colleagues and the resulting satisfied and loyal -- loyal clients. Over the past year, while working mostly remotely, our high cloud service model has been further strengthened by our continued focus on technology and process improvements. For example, we implemented new digital features that further empower our clients including the ability to connect with their personal banker directly and securely through our mobile app. This digital to human service delivery provides greater convenience by allowing our clients to bank in a way that is customized to their needs. Today, more than three-quarters of our clients are using our mobile app. Importantly, our clients know that there is always a trusted human at the heart of their relationship with us even in the case of our digital experience. We are a people-first organization and have always believed that our exceptional service starts with our colleagues. With that in mind, we continually do more to support and empower our colleagues so that they can be their best. As Jim mentioned, we recently increased our companywide minimum wage to $30 per hour. We also expanded our health and well-being benefits to support colleagues through this pandemic. And we enhanced our employee home loan program, there's more than 30% of our colleagues currently participating. By taking great care of our colleagues, we are empowering them to deliver unparalleled service to clients. This in turn leads to repeat business and more client referrals. Let me now provide some additional comments about the quarter. Loan origination volume was $15.7 billion. Our best core -- best first quarter ever. I would note that the average loan to value ratio for all real estate loans that originated during the first quarter remains conservative at 55%. Single-family residential volume was $6.9 billion. Refinance accounted for 65% of single-family residential volume during the first quarter. The majority of the refinance activity continues to come from clients who formerly had loans at other institutions. Turning to business banking, business loans and line commitments were up 27% year over year excluding PPP loans. The growth in outstanding balances was driven by a utilization rate of 38.5% as well as new commitments. During the quarter, we participated in round two of the paycheck protection program helping our small business and nonprofit clients obtain an additional 4,500 PPP loans. Our efforts have provided a much-needed lifeline for many during a difficult time. Since the program started, we have helped to support over 100,000 jobs. In terms of funding, it was an exceptional quarter. Total deposits were up 37% from a year ago. We continued to maintain a diversified deposit funding base. Checking deposits increased by $9.5 billion in the first quarter and now represent over 67% of total deposits. Business deposits represented 59% of total deposits, up slightly from the prior quarter. The average rate paid on all deposits for the quarter was just 9 basis points, leading to total funding costs of 24 basis points. Turning to wealth management, assets under management increased to $219 billion. Since January 1, 2020, assets under management are up 45%, of which fully 60% was net client inflow. During the quarter, we welcome three new wealth management teams from the First Republic. The strength of our integrated model continues to attract a very high-quality team. Our first-quarter results demonstrate the power of our service culture and the creativity, care, and dedication of our colleagues. Now, I would like to turn the call over to Mike Roffler, chief financial officer.Mike Roffler -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Gaye. As Jim mentioned, we run the bank with strong credit capital and liquidity at all times. In the first quarter, we're pleased to have raised $914 million net new Tier 1 capital including both preferred and common stock. We issued the Series F of our preferred stock and redeem the Series G during the first quarter. Following these two actions, we expect our quarterly dividend on preferred stock to be approximately $24 million going forward. We also raised $331 million of common equity during the quarter. And as a result, we expect our diluted share count to be approximately $179 million in the second quarter. We are very pleased with the progress of our COVID loan modifications. At March 31st, COVID modifications were down more than 75% from their peak and now represent less than 1% of the bank's total loan portfolio. Let me touch on this quarter's provision for credit losses. Historically, the bank increased its loan loss reserve by approximately $20 million to $30 million per quarter as a result of loan growth. This quarter, however, we reduced our reserves by $15 million as the loan growth-related provision was more than offset by two positive factors. First was the substantially improved economic outlook since year-end, which largely offset any necessary provision for loan growth. Second was the resumption of regular, consistent loan payments following the end of the COVID modification period. For some perspective, since we adopted CECL on January 1, 2020, we have recorded $142 million of net provisions over five quarters while only recognizing $3 million of net charge-offs. Net interest income was up a very strong 5% from the fourth quarter and 25% year over year. This reflects our robust growth in earning assets. Our net interest margin for the first quarter was 2.67%. This is down from the fourth quarter due to the elevated cash position resulting from our exceptionally strong deposit growth. We continue to expect our net interest margin for the full-year 2021 to be in the range of 2.65% to 2.75%. Our efficiency ratio for the first quarter was 63.5%. We're very pleased, given the extraordinary revenue growth in the quarter and over the past year, that our expenses have remained in line with said revenue growth. We continue to expect our efficiency ratio for the full-year 2021 to be in the range of 62% to 64%. Our effective tax rate for the first quarter was 21.9%. Under current tax law, we continue to expect our tax rate for the full-year 2021 to be in the range of 20% to 21%. Overall, this was a great quarter and a very strong start to the year. And thank you. Now, I'll turn the call back over to Jim.Jim Herbert -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Gaye and Mike. First Republic's time-tested straightforward business model remains very focused on delivering extraordinary client service while operating quite safely. The model continues to perform very well. We'd be delighted to take any questions. Thank you. 