  OperatorGood day and welcome to the ONEOK third quarter 2021 earnings call. Today's conference is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Andrew Ziola. Please go ahead sir.Andrew Ziola -- Vice President,Investor Relations and Corporate Affairs Thank you, Todd, and welcome to ONEOK third quarter 2021 earnings call. We issued our earnings release and presentation after the markets closed yesterday, and those materials are on our website. After our prepared remarks, we'll be available to take your questions. Statements made during this call that might include ONEOK's expectations or predictions should be considered forward-looking statements and are covered by the safe harbor provision of the Securities Acts of 1933 and 1934. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. For a discussion of factors that could cause actual results to differ, please refer to our SEC filings. [Operator instructions] With that, I'll turn the call over to Pierce Norton, president and chief executive officer. Pierce?Pierce Norton -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Andrew, and good morning, everyone. We appreciate your interest and investment in ONEOK and thank you for taking your time to join us today. With me on today's call is Walt Hulse, chief financial officer and executive vice president, strategy and corporate affairs; and Kevin Burdick, executive vice president and chief operating officer. Also available to answer your questions are Sheridan Swords, senior vice president, natural gas liquids; and Chuck Kelly, senior vice president, natural gas. Yesterday, we announced strong third quarter earnings results and increased our 2021 financial guidance expectations. Our third quarter results were driven by NGL and natural gas volume growth on our system, the result of increasing producer activity and improving market demand. As world economics continue to recover from the pandemic, we're seeing demand continue to recover for natural gas and NGLs, and we're focused really on helping to meet that increasing demand for these critical energy products, particularly as we head into the winter months. As we look forward, we continue to coordinate with our customers on future growth expectations and are focused on innovation throughout the company. In September, we announced a greenhouse gas emissions reduction target, marking another major environmental milestone for our company. Our goal is to achieve an absolute 30% reduction or 2.2 million metric tons of our combined Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 2030 compared with 2019 levels. We will undertake a number of strategic emission reduction measures to meet this target, including the further electrification of certain natural gas compression assets, implementing additional methane mitigation through best management practices, system optimizations and then collaborating with our utility providers to increase the use of low carbon energy for our operations, just to name a few. As we continue to evaluate low carbon opportunities, we remain focused on those that will complement our operations and capabilities while providing long-term stakeholder value. As we have additional detail on specific projects or the future emission reduction activities, we will share that information and our progress toward our 2030 target. I will turn the call over to Walt Hulse to discuss our financial performance.Walt Hulse -- Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, Strategy and Corporate Affairs Thank you, Pierce. With yesterday's earnings announcement, we once again increased our 2021 financial guidance expectations and narrowed our ranges. We now expect net income of $1.43 billion to $1.55 billion and adjusted EBITDA of $3.325 billion to $3.425 billion with a midpoint of $3.375 billion. This represents a 10% increase in our net income and EPS guidance midpoints and a 5% increase in our adjusted EBITDA midpoint compared with our previous guidance. Our higher expectations are driven by continued volume strength in the Rocky Mountain region and Permian Basin, increased demand for natural gas storage and transportation, and higher commodity prices. Our 2021 capital expenditures are expected to be closer to the higher-end of our guidance range of about $525 million to $675 million as a result of increased producer activity and project timing. We continually work with our customers to evaluate their future capacity needs and supply expectations, and we'll align our projects and capital investment with those needs. Our outlook for growth in 2022 continues to also strengthen, driven by the increasing producer activity and rising gas to oil ratio in the Williston Basin, along with the recent completion of our Bear Creek plant expansion. Additionally, new ethane demand from new and expanding petrochemical facilities is expected to come online before the end of the year. Kevin now will provide more detail on each of these shortly. Now for a brief overview of our third quarter performance. ONEOK's third quarter 2021 net income totaled $392 million or $0.88 per share, a 26% increase compared with the third quarter 2020 and a 15% increase compared with the prior quarter. Third quarter adjusted EBITDA totaled $865 million, a 16% increase year over year and an 8% increase compared with the second quarter 2021. Our September 30 net debt to EBITDA on an annualized run-rate basis was 4.0 times, and we have this line of sight in sub-4 times in the near future. We ended the third quarter with no borrowings outstanding on our $2.5 billion credit facility and nearly $225 million of cash on the balance sheet. We continue to proactively manage our balance sheet and upcoming debt maturities. And earlier this week, we redeemed the remaining $536 million of senior notes due February 2022. Our next debt maturity is not until October of 2022. In October, the board of directors declared a dividend of about $0.935 or $3.74 per share on an annualized basis, unchanged from the previous quarter. I will now turn the call over to Kevin for an operational update.Kevin Burdick -- Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Thank you, Walt. In our Natural Gas Liquids segment, total NGL raw feed throughput volumes increased 5% compared with the second quarter of 2021 and 10% year over year, averaging nearly 1.3 million barrels per day. Our highest NGL volume to-date. Third quarter raw feed throughput from the Rocky Mountain region increased 5% with the second -- compared within second quarter 2021, and nearly 50% compared with the third quarter 2020. Volume growth was driven by increased producer activity in the region, ethane recovery, and increasing volumes from recently connected third-party plants, and including the 250 million cubic feet per day third-party plant that came online in July. Roughly throughput volumes from the mid-continent and the Permian Basin also increased. Permian volumes increased 12% compared with the second quarter 2021, driven by higher ethane recovery and producer activity levels. We have also connected additional third-party plants in the basin during the quarter. The segment was also able to utilize our integrated assets to capture the benefit of location and commodity price differentials during the third quarter, providing additional earnings on top of our primarily fee-based results. Petrochemical demand continues to strengthen as facilities have returned to normal operations following Hurricane Ida and as the pandemic recovery continues. Two new petrochemical plants coming online before the end of this year could provide more than 160,000 barrels per day of additional ethane demand once fully operational. This additional capacity combined with strong ethane exports, should support a wider ethane to natural gas differential in 2022. Ethane volumes on our system in the Rocky Mountain region increased compared with the second quarter 2021 as we incented additional ethane recovery during the third quarter. Recovery continued in October and is also expected throughout November, given our current regional natural gas and ethane prices. In other regions, we continue to forecast partial ethane recovery in the mid-continent and near full recovery in the Permian for the remainder of the year. So all of these assumptions are included in our increased financial guidance for 2021. Any additional ethane recovered would provide upside to our 2021 expectations. Discretionary ethane on our system is now more than 225,000 barrels per day. Of that total opportunity, more than 125,000 barrels per day are available in the Rocky Mountain region and 100,000 barrels per day in the mid-continent. As our NGL volumes continue to grow across the systems, so does the discretionary ethane. Moving on to the Natural Gas Gathering and Processing segment. In the Rocky Mountain region, third quarter processed volumes averaged nearly 1.3 billion cubic feet per day, a 2% increase compared with the second quarter of 2021 and a nearly 25% increase year over year. Scheduled plant maintenance at four of our processing facilities, which we have since come back online, decreased third quarter volumes by approximately 30 million cubic feet per day for the quarter. We estimate that approximately 14 to 15 rigs, which can drill approximately 300 wells per year, is enough to maintain 1.4 billion cubic feet per day of production behind our system. Any of the additional rigs, combined with the rising gas-to-oil ratios of wells already connected to our system, would provide additional volume growth. Conversations with our producers in the region continue to point to higher activity levels through the end of the year and into year 2022. There are currently 32 rigs and 10 completion crews operating in the basin with 17 rigs and five completion crews on our dedicated acreage. This is more than enough activity to grow gas production on our acreage. In addition to our rigs that's currently operating in the basin, there remains a large inventory of drilled but uncompleted wells with more than 520 basinwide and approximately 300 on our dedicated acreage, compared with about 400 ducks on our dedicated acreage at this time last year. In the third quarter, we connected 72 wells in the Rocky Mountain region. And in October, we connected more than 30 additional wells. Based on the most recent producer completion schedules, we still expect to connect more than 300 wells this year. With our Bear Creek plant expansion and related compressor stations now complete and in-service, we should see a significant number of well completions in the fourth quarter in Dunn County as producers had timed their completions with the start-up of our well expansion to avoid flaring. The new plant will accommodate increasing volumes as it ramps to full capacity over the next two to three years. With Bear Creek 2's completion, we now have approximately 1.7 billion cubic feet per day of processing capacity in the basin. We also continue to see that -- increased activity in the Mid-Continent region with two rigs now operating on our acreage and 10 wells connected during the third quarter. Sustained higher natural gas and NGL prices can drive a continued increase in our activity next year. During the third quarter, the gathering and processing segments fee rate averaged a $1.02 per MMBtu, compared with $0.94 per MMBtu in the third quarter of 2020. Changes in our average fee rates continued to be driven by our volume and contract mix each quarter. We still expect the fee rate for 2021 to average between $1 and $1.05 per MMBtu. Onto the natural gas pipeline segment. This segment result is stable. Fee-based earnings continue to drive solid results with adjusted EBITDA increasing 8% compared with the prior quarter. As we entered the winter heating season, we continue to see this increased interest from our customers for additional long-term transportation and storage capacity on our system, following the extreme winter weather event earlier this year. The segment's market connected pipelines and more than the 52 billion cubic feet of natural gas storage provide critical services to our customers all year around but especially during the winter. As always, we're working with our customers to understand their needs and to help meet increasing demand in the coming months. Pierce, that concludes my remarks.Pierce Norton -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Kevin. The strong results for this quarter underscore the quality of our assets and the hard work and dedication of our more than 2,800 employees. I'm very proud of the fact that our employees maintain discipline and focus on this importance of safety, reliability, and the responsible operations of our assets. The first nine months of this year has set up well for the end of the next year, the companywide earnings growth in year 2021, and have laid the foundation for continued growth next year. With that, operator, we're now ready for questions. 