
OperatorGood day, and welcome to the Pool Corporation Third Quarter 2021 Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to Melanie Hart, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.Melanie M. Hart -- Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerWelcome to our third quarter 2021 earnings call. I would like to remind our listeners that our discussion, comments and responses to questions today may include forward-looking statements, including management's outlook for the remainder of the year and future periods. Actual results may differ materially from those discussed today. Information regarding the factors and variables that could cause actual results to differ materially from projected results is discussed in our 10-K. In addition, we may make references to non-GAAP financial measures in our comments. A description and reconciliation of our non-GAAP financial measures is included in our press release and posted to our corporate website in our Investor Relations section. We will begin our call today with opening comments from our President and CEO, Peter Arvan. Pete?

 



Peter D. Arvan -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Melanie, and good morning to everyone on the call. This morning, following exceptional first half results and up against a very difficult comparison from the third quarter of 2020, the POOLCORP team once again raised the bar to record heights. We proudly posted net sales for the third quarter of 2021 of $1.4 billion, which is a 24% increase over the prior year quarter. Our base business grew 19% in the quarter with acquisitions contributing 5%. Our diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $4.54, which is a 55% increase over the very strong third quarter of 2020. The earnings per share were $4.44, a 64% improvement when excluding the ASU benefit from both periods -- or from the period in both '20 and '21. People's desire to spend more time outside in the comfort and safety of their backyard pool or outdoor living space remains strong. Our builders and remodelers are reporting very solid backlogs going into 2022 and in some cases, through the 2022 season. Our retailers are reporting elevated demand and our service professionals are working long hours just to keep up with service requests. From a supply perspective, lead times for our products are still above normal and, in some cases, well above normal. Component shortages, a tight labor market and the global logistics crisis made keeping up with the elevated demand of the industry a challenge for most of our vendors. Our talented teams have leveraged the unmatched scale of our network and the powerful balance sheet to mitigate supply interruptions by providing more products and options for our customers than is typically available everywhere else. Our teams have worked tirelessly in the most challenging environment of our times to make sure we can provide unparalleled service to our customers. Our network is strong, our people are skilled and creative with a tenacious work ethic.And this combination has allowed us to once again prove we are the best in the business as we continue to take share from our competitors. In accordance with our strategic plan, we have opened 10 new locations and completed two strategic acquisitions during the year as we relentlessly pursue service excellence and capacity creation. Now let me share the specific results from our four largest markets. Florida and Texas continued to benefit from favorable demographic trends with base business growth of 26% and 25%, respectively. California grew 17% while Arizona grew 18%, a further proof that the industry is seeing strength in all major markets. In total, year-round markets had base business growth of 22% in the quarter, which was slightly better than the 20% growth that we reported for the third quarter of 2020. Seasonal base business markets grew 16%, but this compares to a very strong third quarter of the previous year, where we recorded 33% growth for the same quarter. For context here, weather conditions were generally favorable in most markets for the quarter. Looking at end markets and excluding the impact of acquisitions, I am happy to report that commercial pool product demand has come back to greater than prepandemic levels. For the quarter, commercial product sales increased 25%, bringing the total year-to-date growth rate to 24%. We saw more pools reopen with elevated usage, driving maintenance and repair spend and construction projects are starting to flow again. This is a very encouraging sign as this market was impacted the most during the COVID travel and public gathering restrictions. Retail product sales were encouraging with demand up 16%, which compares to the 28% growth that we reported in this end market for the same quarter of 2020. Chemical shortages have impacted this part of the business more severely than others as it is a key product for a retail-focused customer. From a product perspective, equipment sales growth was strong, posting gains of 23% for the period. This category includes pumps, heaters, lights, filters and automation.Chemical sales were up 10% for the quarter as the industry grappled with shortages and managed rolling stockouts on key products. As mentioned previously, the reduction in industry capacity after a major fire at the BioLab Plant last year left the industry in a net short position on trichlor and drove significant inflation on available product. Fortunately, there are several ways to sanitize a pool, and the industry has adapted and improvised to keep pools clean and safe. This tightness in chemical supply is likely to continue into next season as BioLab rebuilds its plant. In the meantime, capacity expansion from the remaining players, product substitutions and imports should mitigate the effects albeit at elevated price levels. Lastly, building material demand remains strong in all markets. Sales for this product line grew 24% in the quarter, and this is on top of the 29% growth that we posted in the third quarter of 2020. On a year-to-date basis, we are up 30%, which is driven by a very robust construction and remodel market. Turning to Europe, sales grew 5% in the quarter. But bear in mind, we had a very difficult comp here as last year for the same period, our European sales grew 45%. Like North America, demand remained strong, but cooler and wetter weather and supply shortages had a significant impact on the team in the third quarter. Horizon continues to accelerate, posting overall revenue growth of 25% in the quarter, bringing the year-to-date sales growth to 28%. Base business sales growth was 20% and 22%, respectively, for the quarter-to-date and year-to-date results. We are very pleased with how this business is performing, and we continue to invest in this platform. Like the blue business, supply shortages and extended lead times continue to be a challenge for our team, but their grit, determination and focus on the customer have driven solid share gains in the industry.

 



Now let me turn to gross margins. For the quarter, our overall gross margin was 31.3%, which is a 240 basis point improvement over 2020. On a year-to-date basis, we are up 170 basis points. Like last year and last quarter, this improvement is driven by supply chain execution, certain volume-related incentives, inflation benefits and product mix. In addition, we have been focused on more strategic and disciplined pricing, which is helping us in the current environment and will continue to help us going forward. Our ability to strategically leverage our balance sheet has been a key factor in our success in both the 2020 and 2021 season. This is a key differentiator for POOLCORP, and it has allowed us to provide industry-leading customer service while capturing greater value and positioning us for a great start to the 2022 season. From an expense perspective, the team again delivered incredible results. Our operating expenses for the quarter were up 13%, which is outstanding given our 24% revenue growth for the quarter. Yet again, the team's focus on execution, hard work and capacity creation initiatives allowed us to achieve record levels of operating leverage. POOL360 continues to be a cornerstone of our business, comprising 12% of our revenue and growing 47% in the quarter. We are excited to announce that beginning in the fourth quarter, we will be rolling out the next generation of this strategic platform that we think will further drive adoption and help our customers be more efficient. Wrapping up the income statement, I could not be more pleased to report that our operating income increased 60% in the quarter to $237.3 million, by any measure a masterful performance and a true reflection of the incredible team and unmatched capabilities at POOLCORP. Finally, with three full quarters behind us and a very favorable outlook for the balance of the year, we are updating our earnings guidance for the full year of 2021 to $14.85 per share to $15.35 per share. Excluding the ASU benefit, the range is $14.46 to $14.96 per share.Before turning the call over to Melanie, let me offer some closing thoughts. Beginning with the onset of the pandemic in 2020, we saw a change in consumer behavior that created a significant increase in demand for our products as people with pools use them more and those without a pool or outdoor living area began looking for someone to build them their own backyard retreat. We believe that this trend will endure as the flexible work-from-home arrangements continue and people recognize the many benefits of an enjoyable outdoor living lifestyle. When you add this to a healthy housing market where equity levels have increased nicely in the last couple of years and with pools now regarded as a highly desirable feature, according to the National Association of REALTORS, it simply furthers our confidence in the long-term growth prospects for the industry. We believe people will continue to move away from urban and higher cost of living areas to more affordable suburban housing in pool-friendly markets, furthering their desire to invest in the outdoor living lifestyle. We feel that the southern migration will continue for the foreseeable future, giving those people a year-round environment to enjoy pools, patios, hot tubs and outdoor kitchens. Further, we have been encouraged to see industry capacity start to expand as our customers seek to expand their businesses albeit in a very challenging labor environment. From a supply perspective, manufacturers are also adding capacity, which should allow them to capture more of the elevated industry demand. Inflation this year will likely be in the 6% to 7% range, up from our previous estimate of 5% to 6%. And it looks like that will repeat again for next year given the global supply chain issues. To date, this has done little to temper demand, and in time, this inflation passes through the supply chain. All in all, we are positioned incredibly well to continue our tremendous performance. Demand is strong. The team is focused. And by working very closely with our vendors and customers, we bring outdoor living to life. Thank you. I will now turn the call over to Melanie Hart, our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, for her commentary.Melanie M. Hart -- Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Pete, and good morning, everyone. I am thrilled to provide some additional commentary on our exceptional third quarter financial results. We have continued to see positive growth trends in the third quarter related to both our net sales growth and gross margin. Net sales benefited approximately 7% from inflation and 5% from acquisitions in the quarter. We once again realized higher-than-normal increases in gross margins. Gross margin saw an increase of 240 basis points during the quarter, with base business gross margins up 250 basis points. Consistent with our discussion on our second quarter earnings call to address the anticipated supply chain constraints, we took the opportunity to purchase ahead in product areas where we forecasted continued high demand. Our strong inventory position has allowed us to gain share and to continue to provide exceptional service in a high demand and tight supply chain environment. As we have seen product cost increases come more frequently than in the past, we have established systematic pricing updates to ensure we quickly adjust to the more rapidly changing environment. Additionally, we have an ongoing process in place to focus on a judicious evaluation of all customer pricing, taking into consideration the cost to serve each specific customer. Having the capital strength to be able to confidently move forward with increasing the amount of materials in the supply chain is a strength for POOLCORP that sets us apart from many of our competitors. Our higher purchasing levels resulted in higher volume-driven vendor incentives, which also benefited gross margins for the quarter. Given the better-than-expected third quarter results, we now anticipate gross margin improvements of more than 170 basis points for the full year 2021 compared to 2020, versus the 100 basis point improvement we were expecting at the end of the second quarter. Record sales growth and improving gross margins only tell a portion of the story of our results for the quarter.

 



We have also reduced our quarter-to-date consolidated operating expenses as a percentage of net sales by 130 basis points. These expenses, excluding the note recovery, were up 14%, while consolidated net sales grew 24% in the quarter. Base business operating expenses were down 160 basis points at 14.2% of net sales for the quarter on sales growth of 19%. We have seen inflationary cost increases in the areas of compensation, healthcare, freight and rent. Our continued effort on capacity creation in our existing locations has generated strong operating expense leverage. Our gross margin expansion and strong operating expense management has allowed our operating margin to grow by 380 basis points, coming in at 16.8% of net sales for the third quarter compared to 13% in third quarter of prior year. Interest expense of $2.3 million is up slightly compared to $1.9 million in prior year. Third quarter 2021 average debt was $354.3 million compared to $331.5 million for 2020. Our trailing 12-month leverage ratio was right around 0.5 at quarter end. During the third quarter, we amended our revolving credit agreement to increase the total borrowing capacity from $750 million to $1 billion. The renewal allows for lower available interest rates and favorable terms and covenants and also provides us substantial capacity and liquidity to maintain our strong balance sheet and efficiently manage our capital structure going forward. Our annual tax rate, excluding the ASU benefit, is expected to be around 25% on pre-tax earnings for the full year, coming in slightly lower for the third quarter at 23.2%. Our ASU tax benefit in the third quarter was $4.2 million or $0.10 per share. This was less than the $8.5 million or $0.21 realized in the same quarter of last year. As these benefits result from employee stock option exercises that occurred during the quarter, the timing is difficult to forecast and, therefore, not included in our guidance range until realized.We do have an additional $1.4 million of ASU benefit related to stock options that should be recognized between fourth quarter of 2021 and first quarter 2022 based on expiration dates and calculated at the current stock price. Next, I'll discuss our balance sheet and cash flows. Increases in our total net receivables of 30% reflects our sales growth in the quarter. Our day sales outstanding at the end of the quarter was 25.7, down from 27.6 days in 2020. Looking at inventory compared to 2020 reflects an increase of 70%, or 63% on a base business comparison as we invested in inventory to efficiently serve our customers and better manage supply chain disruptions. We have also added inventory to support our 10 new locations opened since last year. Inventory levels at September of 2020 were less than we would have liked and virtually flat with 2019 coming off of the strong selling season. Our third quarter 2-year sales growth was 57%. Our deliberate purchasing actions have us well positioned to support ongoing sales growth into 2022. We saw our inventory turn days improved from 97.5 in 2020 to 94.7 in 2021. Cash from operating activities is $359 million on a year-to-date basis driven by strong earnings contribution and also reflecting the investments made into inventory. Our return on invested capital of 50.9% is up from the prior year of 36.4% and highlights our sound deployment of capital. Operating cash flows for the quarter benefited from deferred income tax payments as we took advantage of the IRS release for those impacted by Hurricane Ida. We are able to defer payments that would typically be made in third and fourth quarters of 2021 until January of 2022. In the ordinary course, we would have made our third quarter estimated federal tax payments of $56 million.I want to pause to thank all of our teams that were in the areas impacted by Ida. Certain of our sales centers were operating on generator power to get products to our customers so they could begin repairs as quickly as possible. Many of our support teams relocated out of the area to continue to serve our field. Overall, our disaster recovery plans operated flawlessly and without major disruptions to our customers. In support of our employer of choice initiatives, we have established during the quarter the POOLCORP Employees 1st Fund to support any employees that are impacted by natural disasters. So far in 2021, we have executed on 132 million of our authorized share buybacks, leaving 495 million available under our repurchase authorization. Share buyback so far in 2021 exceed the amounts repurchased in 2019 and 2020 combined and continue to be an area of value add to the shareholders as part of our overall strategic plan. We have repurchased 343,000 shares year-to-date at an average price of $386 per share. Acquisitions added 5% to our sales growth for the third quarter and 7% for the year-to-date results. However, as we move into the fourth quarter, we began to lap several of the larger acquisitions completed in 2020. So the impact of acquisitions on the results for the remainder of the year will not have as significant of an impact. We would expect acquisitions to add only about 1% to our sales growth in the fourth quarter. As we look at how we think we expect to close out the year, sales growth momentum from the third quarter has shown that demand continues to be strong. For 2021, we have one less selling day than we did in the fourth quarter of 2020. We expect sales growth of over 30% for the full year. This considers our projected fourth quarter sales growth rate to moderate with one less selling day. Normal weather assumptions for the fourth quarter this year compared to the favorable weather last year and net results from our Jet Line acquisition are included in both comparable periods. Fourth quarter prior year sales growth was 39% for base business. Gross margins should remain with a positive outlook as a result of our inventory investments, with improvements in the range of what we were able to achieve in both second quarter and third quarter of this year.Purposeful expense management will allow for a full year operating margin improvement of 350 basis points. This improvement is well in excess of our historical results. And while it may have been bolstered by exceptional top line and gross margin growth, the principles underlying our ability to improve over time remain strong. We have increased the range for the full year 2021 to consider earnings results for the third quarter, including an additional $0.10 from ASU, expected positive demand trends and have provided updated guidance of $14.85 to $15.35 per diluted share. I will now turn the call back over to our operator for a question-and-answer session.