
OperatorWelcome to the Second Quarter 2021 Phillips 66 Earnings Conference Call. My name is Hillary, and I will be your operator for today's call. [Operator Instructions]I will now turn the call over to Jeff Dietert, Vice President, Investor Relations. Jeff, you may begin.Jeff Dietert -- Vice President, Investor RelationsGood afternoon, and welcome to Phillips 66 Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call. Participants on today's call will include Greg Garland, Chairman and CEO; Mark Lashier, President and COO; Kevin Mitchell, EVP and CFO; Bob Herman, EVP, Refining; Brian Mandell, EVP, Marketing and Commercial; and Tim Roberts, EVP Midstream. Today's presentation material can be found on the Investor Relations section of the Phillips 66 website, along with supplemental financial and operating information.Slide two contains our safe harbor statement. We will be making forward-looking statements during today's presentation and our Q&A session. Actual results may differ materially from today's comments. Factors that could cause actual results to differ are included here as well as in our SEC filings.With that, I'll turn the call over to Greg.Greg C. Garland -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Jeff. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. In the second quarter, we had adjusted earnings of $329 million. We generated operating cash flow of $1.7 billion. Excluding working capital, operating cash flow was $910 million. With the benefit of our diversified portfolio, we generated cash flow in excess of capital spending and dividends during the quarter. We returned $394 million to shareholders through dividends in the quarter. Since we formed as a company, we've returned over $28 billion to shareholders.A secure competitive dividend will continue to be a top priority for our company. We anticipate a return to dividend growth as cash flow recovers. We're committed to disciplined capital allocation, focusing on debt repayment in the near term to support a conservative balance sheet, and maintain our strong investment-grade credit ratings. In July, the Phillips 66 Board of Directors appointed Denise Cade and Doug Terreson to serve as independent directors.We continue to work on Board refreshment, recognizing the value, diversity in terms of gender, age, race, ethnicity, tenure, professional experiences and perspectives. We'd like to highlight our recent 2021 sustainability report that can be accessed on our website. We think it's one of our best points yet. Our commitment to sustainability is based on operating excellence, environmental stewardship, social responsibility and financial performance led by strong corporate governance.We expanded our commitment to environmental responsibility, setting goal for all of our refineries to achieve top third energy efficiency by 2030. We modified our compensation program to add additional environmental goals. As previously communicated, we will establish meaningful and achievable greenhouse gas emission reduction targets later this year.So with that, I'll turn the call over to Mark to provide some additional comments.Mark Lashier -- President and Chief Operating OfficerThanks, Greg. Good afternoon, and thanks to everyone on the call for joining us today. Continued improved demand across CPChem's product lines and resilient operating recovery from the first quarter winter storms contributed record quarterly earnings in our Chemicals segment. Marketing and Specialties reported strong results as demand increased in many of our key domestic regions. Our Midstream segment recovered well from the first quarter winter storms to report solid results.Headwinds continued in our Refining segment as RIN adjusted refined product crack only improved modestly and historically low market capture contributed to continued losses. As more people across the globe are vaccinated, we expect continued economic recovery and further improvement in global refined product demand. In addition, permanent refinery closure announcements have increased to over 3.7 million barrels per day globally with additional closure announcements expected.In Midstream, Phillips 66 Partners continued construction of the C2G Pipeline. The project is backed by long-term commitments and is expected to be operational in the fourth quarter of this year. At the Sweeny Hub, we recently resumed construction of Frac four, which will add 150,000 barrels per day of capacity. Upon completion, which is expected in the fourth quarter of 2022, total Sweeny Hub fractionation capacity will increase to 550,000 barrels per day. The fracs are all supported by long-term commitments.CPChem continues to develop two world-scale petrochemical facilities on the U.S. Gulf Coast and in Ras Laffan, Qatar. We expect the final investment decision for the U.S. Gulf Coast project next year. The Ras Laffan petrochemical project is progressing with front-end engineering and design as planned. Both projects are in partnership with Qatar Petroleum. In addition, CPChem began construction of its second world scale unit to produce one-hexene, utilizing CPChem's proprietary technology. one-hexene is used for high-performance polyethylene manufacturing and is common in a variety of everyday products, including packaging for food, consumer products and pharmaceuticals.The unit located in Old Ocean, Texas will have a capacity of 266,000 metric tons per year and is expected to start up in 2023. In May, CPChem was recognized by the Plastic Industry Association for being among the top 2021 industry innovators in sustainability. The award recognizes CPChem's launch of Marlex, a new circular polyethylene, which uses advanced recycling technology to convert plastic waste into high-quality raw materials. We continue to advance our Rodeo Renewed project at the San Francisco refinery.In July, we reached full production rates of 8,000 barrels per day of renewable diesel from the hydrotreater conversion. Subject to permitting and approvals, full conversion of the facility is expected in early 2024. Upon completion, Rodeo will have over 50,000 barrels per day of renewable fuel production capacity. The conversion will reduce emissions from the facility and produce lower carbon transportation fuels. Rodeo, combined with our portfolio of other renewable fuels projects has the potential to supply one billion gallons of renewable fuels per year.In Marketing, we're converting 600 branded retail sites in California to sell renewable diesel produced by the Rodeo facility. In Switzerland, our Coop retail joint venture continues to add hydrogen fueling stations. Through our joint venture, we're exploring hydrogen as a fuel option for heavy-duty vehicles to support European low-carbon goals and growing demand for sustainable fuels. We're moving forward and preparing for the future, while maintaining our focus on safe, reliable operations and attractive shareholder returns.Now I'll turn the call over to Kevin to review the financial results.Kevin J. Mitchell -- Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Mark. Hello, everyone. Starting with an overview on Slide four, we summarize our second quarter results. We reported earnings of $296 million. Excluding special items, we had adjusted earnings of $329 million or $0.74 per share. We generated operating cash flow of $1.7 billion, including a working capital benefit of $833 million and cash distributions from equity affiliates of $612 million. Capital spending for the quarter was $380 million, including $179 million for growth projects. We paid $394 million in dividends.Moving to Slide five. This slide shows the change in adjusted results from the first quarter to the second quarter, an increase of $838 million. Pretax income improved across all segments, with the largest contribution from Chemicals. Our adjusted effective income tax rate was 19%.Slide six shows our Midstream results. Second quarter adjusted pre-tax income was $316 million, an increase of $40 million from the previous quarter. Transportation contributed adjusted pre-tax income of $224 million, up $18 million from the previous quarter. The increase was due to improved volumes from higher refinery utilization, partially offset by higher costs due to the timing of maintenance and asset integrity work. NGL and other adjusted pre-tax income was $83 million.The $47 million increase from the prior quarter was mainly due to lower operating costs and higher volumes, reflecting recovery from the winter storms. The Sweeny fractionation complex averaged 380,000 barrels per day and the Freeport LPG export facility loaded a record 42 cargoes in the second quarter. DCP Midstream adjusted pre-tax income of $9 million, was down $25 million from the previous quarter, mainly due to lower mark-to-market hedging results from higher natural gas and NGL prices.Turning to Chemicals on Slide seven. Second quarter adjusted pre-tax income was $657 million, up $473 million from the first quarter. This is the highest quarterly earnings for Chemicals since the joint venture was formed in 2000. Olefins and Polyolefins adjusted pre-tax income was $593 million. The $419 million increase from the previous quarter was driven by strong demand, tight supplies and recovery from the winter storms that contributed to higher margins and lower utility costs.The industry chain margin increased over $0.17 per pound to a record $0.62 per pound. Global O&P utilization was 102% for the quarter. Adjusted pre-tax income for SA&S increased $55 million. The increase primarily reflects improved margins due to tight industry supplies following the winter storms as well as lower turnaround costs. During the second quarter, we received $322 million in cash distributions from CPChem.Turning to Refining on Slide eight. Refining second quarter adjusted pre-tax loss was $706 million, an improvement of $320 million from the first quarter. The improvement was driven by lower utility and turnaround costs and higher volumes. This was partially offset by lower realized margins. Improved market crack spreads were more than offset by higher RIN costs, lower electricity sales in the Texas market, decreased secondary product margins, lower clean product differentials and inventory impacts.Pretax turnaround costs were $118 million, down from $192 million in the prior quarter. Crude utilization was 88% compared with 74% last quarter. The second quarter clean product yield was 82%. Slide nine covers market capture. The 3:2:1 market crack for the second quarter was $17.76 per barrel compared to $13.23 per barrel in the first quarter. Realized margin was $3.92 per barrel and resulted in an overall market capture of 22%. Market capture in the previous quarter was 33%. Market capture is impacted by the configuration of our refineries. Our refineries are more heavily weighted toward distillate production than the market indicator.During the quarter, the gasoline crack improved $5.68 per barrel, while the distillate crack increased $2.20 per barrel. Losses from secondary products of $2.38 per barrel were $1.09 per barrel higher than the previous quarter as crude prices strengthened. These stock costs improved $0.36 per barrel compared to the prior quarter. The other category reduced realized margins by $7.84 per barrel. This category includes RINs, freight costs, new product realizations and inventory impacts.Moving to Marketing and Specialties on Slide 10. Adjusted second quarter pre-tax income was $479 million compared with $290 million in the prior quarter. Marketing and other increased $181 million due to higher domestic margins and volumes, reflecting strong demand in key markets. Refined product exports in the second quarter were 216,000 barrels per day. Specialties generated second quarter adjusted pre-tax income of $87 million, up from $79 million in the prior quarter.Slide 11 shows the change in cash for the quarter. We started the quarter with a $1.4 billion cash balance. Cash from operations was $1.7 billion. This included a working capital benefit of $833 million. In June, we received a $1.1 billion U.S. federal income tax refund, which is reflected in working capital. Cash from operations, excluding working capital, was $910 million, which more than covered $380 million of capital spend and $394 million for the dividend. The other category includes a $90 million loan to our WRB joint venture. Our ending cash balance was $2.2 billion.This concludes my review of the financial and operating results. Next, I'll cover a few outlook items. In Chemicals, we expect the third quarter global O&P utilization rate to be in the mid-90s. In Refining, crude utilization will be adjusted according to market conditions. In July, utilization averaged around 98%. We expect third quarter pre-tax turnaround expenses to be between $120 million and $150 million. We anticipate third quarter Corporate and Other costs to come in between $240 million and $250 million pre-tax.Now we will open the line for questions.