  OperatorGood afternoon. My name is Christina, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I'd like to welcome everyone to the Electronic Arts Q1 fiscal 2022 earnings conference call. Mr. Chris Evenden, VP of investor relations, you may begin your conference.Chris Evenden -- Vice President of Investor Relations Thanks, Christina. Welcome to EA's first-quarter fiscal 2022 earnings call. With me today from their homes are Andrew Wilson, our CEO; and Blake Jorgensen, our CFO and COO. Please note that our SEC filings and our earnings release are available at ir.ea.com. In addition, we have posted detailed earnings slides to accompany our prepared remarks. Lastly, after the call, we'll post our prepared remarks, an audio replay of this call, our financial model, and a transcript. With regards to our calendar: our Q2 fiscal 2022 earnings call is scheduled for Wednesday, November 3. And as a reminder, we posted schedule of our entire fiscal year of upcoming earnings calls on our IR website.This presentation includes -- and our comments include forward-looking statements regarding future events and the future financial performance of the company. Actual events and results may differ materially from our expectations. We refer you to our most recent Form 10-K for a discussion of risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed today. And Electronic Arts makes these statements as of today, August 4, 2021, and disclaims any duty to update them. During this call, the financial metrics, with the exception of free cash flow, will be presented on a GAAP basis. All comparisons made in the course of this call are against the same period in the prior year than is otherwise stated. Now I'll turn the call over to Andrew. Andrew Wilson -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Chris. I hope all of you are continuing to stay healthy. I want to start out today by thanking all of our amazing teams across Electronic Arts, who continue to create and deliver so many great experiences for our players during this unprecedented period. It's been an exciting few months since our last call. We've unveiled Battlefield 2042. We've launched F1 2021. We've showed what is coming with our next Madden NFL and FIFA titles. We had a fantastic EA Play Live event with great fan response, and we've announced the acquisition of Playdemic, which is another step in our strategy of continued leadership in sports and growing in mobile. Integration efforts with the teams at Codemasters, Glu Mobile, and Metalhead are going well, and we're pleased to be building a lot of anticipation through the summer for our upcoming games and content. Looking at our first quarter of fiscal 2022, we delivered very strong results. Even as the world took steps toward opening back up, we deepened engagement and connections for players in and around our games. And we see this trend going well into the future. Our talented teams are delivering experiences that hundreds of millions of players want to play, and our new launches, leading games, and live services all performed very well during the quarter. Execution against our long-term strategy continues to power growth in our business. Revenue, net bookings, and EPS were all above our guidance for Q1. We are raising our full-year net revenue, net bookings, and EPS guidance today, and we are also forecasting our biggest second quarter ever. Our long-term strategy is focused on four key opportunities: the continued creation of great games and content with a focus on mobile, tools for the community to drive deeper engagement with our content; the aggregation and distribution of content and services to more platforms, business models and geographies, and harnessing the power of the social ecosystems in and around our games. As part of this, in FY '22, we continue to execute against three key growth drivers: building on our leadership in sports; growing our blockbuster franchises; and expanding live services across our portfolio, including mobile. EA SPORTS continues to extend its leadership position through the global strength of our franchises and growing portfolio. More than 140 million players have engaged with our EA SPORTS games over the last 12 months. At the center of this, our FIFA franchise is growing around the world. Over 31 million players have joined FIFA 21 on console and PC since launch, and FIFA Ultimate Team continues to engage more soccer fans, with FUT Matches up 48% year over year in Q1. In China, FIFA Online 4 set all-time records for monthly, weekly, and peak daily active players, driving new records for our business there. On a global basis, FIFA is growing as part of the social fabric of soccer, and we are connecting players through our games and live services on more platforms and more geographies than ever. We've also launched F1 2021, the first F1 experience to be part of our EA SPORTS portfolio in nearly 20 years. With an incredibly high-quality game that has won praise from fans and critics, F1 2021 is bringing fans into the excitement of the sport during one of the most memorable seasons in recent history. Sales were up significantly year over year, and total active players have grown by nearly 10% since launch over last year's game, demonstrating the power that comes from the amazing team at Codemasters, a great game, and our EA distribution and marketing strength. Momentum continues to build for F1, which like soccer is one of the few truly global sports, and we see a major opportunity to continue growing the franchise to reach a larger audience of players and viewers. Later this summer, we will begin launching our strong next-gen slate for EA SPORTS, that includes Madden NFL 22 with new experiences in franchise mode and The Yard; FIFA 22, which is already showing very strong demand metrics as our new HyperMotion technology powers innovation throughout the game; NHL coming to next-gen consoles for the first time; and EA SPORTS PGA TOUR, the only game where you can exclusively play all four of golf's major tournaments, The Masters at Augusta National, The Open Championship, the U.S. Open Championship, and The PGA Championship. We're also thrilled to be back in the baseball business with Super Mega Baseball and MLB Tap Sports on mobile, and we look forward to sharing more from those teams in the future. With the strength of our industry-leading EA SPORTS teams, the addition of talent and expertise from Glu, Codemasters, Metalhead, and soon Playdemic, as well as partnerships with international developers, we have exciting plans to create more EA SPORTS experiences for fans around the world to play, watch and connect. Our second growth driver is building blockbuster entertainment properties around our IP. This year, this is led by Apex Legends and Battlefield, two of the leading franchises in their category. Apex Legends continues to accelerate as one of the top titles in the industry. During Season 9, we've averaged more than 13 million weekly active players. We've set a new record for peak daily players across all seasons, and the three latest in-game events have driven the highest player counts for events to date. In every season and event, the Respawn team is constantly innovating, trying new things, and gathering feedback to evolve the live service. And as a result, player engagement and investment continues to grow. Respawn is now expanding the game beyond Battle Royale with new experiences like Arenas, which has brought new and lapsed players into the game and opens the door for deeper esports opportunities. With so much excitement in the community for the future of Apex Legends, we see outstanding growth ahead for this powerful global franchise. During Q1, we revealed Battlefield 2042, and the energy and excitement from fans around the world has been incredible. Since the reveal on June 9, our Battlefield trailers and content have cumulatively generated more than 210 million views to date across all channels. These record viewership levels contributed to Battlefield 2042 being the most talked-about title in the industry during a busy month of June and created a record-high sentiment among the Battlefield fan community. More recently, we introduced Battlefield Portal, a new community-driven experience in Battlefield 2042. This new pillar of the game puts the power in the hands of players to seamlessly create their own experiences from all the things they love in Battlefield, easily mixing and matching eras, maps, weapons, and unique gameplay scenarios that can then be shared with the community. It's an entirely new level of freedom in Battlefield, and fans have been very energized with the possibilities to create, discover and share things that are completely new and unexpected. We are poised to deliver a truly next-gen Battlefield this holiday with unprecedented innovation, massive scale, and amazing gameplay, and we have more to share about the game through the summer. There is enduring power to the franchisees and IP that we are building. The launch of Mass Effect Legendary Edition, the remaster of the first three Mass Effect games, reignited the passion of fans around the world, driving sales performance well above our expectations. Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order coming to the Xbox Series X and PlayStation 5 was also a moment for new and returning players to jump into that amazing game. We're continuing to invest in both of these franchises, as well as more of our amazing IP. Our third growth driver is live services, a core strength and continuing growth opportunity for us, and mobile is now a significant part of this. With the addition of Glu, our portfolio now spans more than 15 top mobile live services, and we will add the top sports mobile title in the industry with Golf Clash when Playdemic joins EA. The breadth and diversity of our mobile live services now spans multiple major genres, including casual, sports, RPG, lifestyle, and racing. Over the past year, we've expanded our mobile-native talent. And with their leadership, we are now growing these titles to reach new and broader audiences on a global scale. We're also delivering our blockbuster franchises to mobile players, including Apex Legends and Battlefield experiences rolling out for mobile later this year. With the ability to bring new teams together with EA's powerful IP, we are building mobile into a growth center for Electronic Arts with long-running live services at the core of our strategy. Underpinning these growth drivers are the fact that games and particularly our portfolio experiences at Electronic Arts are creating social connection for more and more people around the world. More than 0.5 billion players are coming together through the social networks formed in and around our games, and we see this continuing to grow. With some of the most talented teams in the industry, a deep pipeline of innovative experience in established and new IP, new content partnerships, and more ways to connect and experience play, we are positioning our business for continued growth and leadership this year and beyond. Now I'll turn the call over to Blake.Blake Jorgensen -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Andrew. We delivered a big beat this quarter, primarily driven by outperformance from two high-quality new games, our Mass Effect Legendary Edition and It Takes Two, the second title from our partnership with Hazelight Studios. It Takes Two launched at the very end of the prior quarter and showed considerable strength through Q1. Live services also performed better than expected, led by continued growth in Apex Legends. As a result, we delivered net revenue of $1.55 billion and net bookings of $1.34 billion. Given the extraordinary engagement driven by the blockbuster -- by the lockdown a year ago and the fact that last year's quarter had 14 weeks compared to this year's 13, to deliver results within 5% of last year's record sales is an incredible testament to the strength of our game teams and our ability to deliver games and extra content from our ongoing live services. The extra week last year Q1 alone is worth more than the year-on-year difference. Notably, even against the unique circumstances of a year ago, Apex Legends grew strongly in the quarter and remains on track to grow organically more than 20% this year with the mobile launch as an upside. Because of the impact of the pandemic on year on year over comparisons, it's helpful to compare this quarter with the pre-COVID Q1 fiscal 2020 to better understand underlying growth. On that basis, FIFA Ultimate Team is up 47%; Madden Ultimate Team, up 115%; equivalent to CAGRs of 21% and 47%, respectively. Similarly, sales, including Codemasters from our broad portfolio of catalog titles, are up 55%, a CAGR of 25%. Mobile, excluding our Glu acquisition, is also up 16% organically over the same period two years ago. We have also made considerable progress on our strategic goals as we started to integrate Codemasters, completed the acquisitions of Glu Mobile and Metalhead, and announced our agreement to acquire Playdemic. These acquisitions substantially increase our sports and mobile footprint and offer the opportunity to bring new sports to formats pioneered by MLB Tap Sports Baseball, Super Mega Baseball, and Golf Clash. We only launched F1 2021 a few weeks ago, but we're already seeing sell-through up more than 20% over last year's addition, thanks to another great game from the Codemasters team, leveraged by our global commercial operation. We have created a historically strong strategic position for the company with a strong and growing core of live service supplemented by additional growth opportunities in sports opened up by the acquisition plus blockbuster releases, as demonstrated by the community reaction to our upcoming Battlefield 2042. Digital represents 58% of our full game units sold through on a trailing 12-month basis, up 6 percentage points from last year. Operating expenses, which include recent M&A costs, came in slightly below our expectations. Now turning to guidance. We now expect fiscal 2022 GAAP revenue to be $6.85 billion; cost of revenue to be $1.921 billion; and earnings per share of $1.58, up from $1.34. Our guidance does not include any estimate for Playdemic, given that that acquisition has not yet closed. And remember, this EPS calculation does not factor in future buybacks under our two-year $2.6 billion share repurchase program. We're raising our net booking guidance for the year by $100 million to $7.4 billion based on performance from full game sales this quarter, supported by ongoing confidence in our live services. It's very rare that we raise guidance this early in the year. And I would note that despite the clear strength of player interest so far, it is too soon to raise our unit expectations for Battlefield 2042. As a result, the stronger product mix we are now anticipating for this year, we are raising our expectations for underlying profitability and more specifics are in the downloadable model that we post on our website. Underlying the strength of our strategic position, I would briefly note that even with the strength we expect for fiscal 2022, we expect growth in the mid- to high-single digits in fiscal 2023. We've also raised our guidance for operating cash flow by $100 million to $1.85 billion. With capital expenditures remaining around $250 million, that would deliver free cash flow of about $1.6 billion. See our earnings slides and press release for further cash flow information. For the second quarter, we expect GAAP net revenue of $1.775 billion, cost of revenue to be $518 million and operating expenses of $1.030 billion. This results in an earnings per share of $0.36 for the second quarter. We expect Q2 fiscal 2012 net bookings to be $1.725 billion, which would make it our largest Q2 ever, driven by the launch of FIFA, continued growth of Apex Legends, plus Mobile, F1, Madden, and The Sims. This is up 90% on a year-ago quarter. With another great quarter under our belts, we're looking forward to the launches of our sports titles this quarter and Battlefield 2042 in time for the holidays. And our strategic position has never been stronger, with growth drivers in place for this year, next year, and beyond. I'd like to announce one thing, and that is our chief accounting officer, Ken Barker, has decided to retire from EA. Many of you know Ken. He has interacted with investors and the buy side and sell side for years. Ken has done an amazing job as a chief accounting officer over the last 18 years, as well as supporting three CEOs and the management team, during his time at the company. In addition, he has been a fantastic business partner for me over the last nine years. He has developed an amazing team of people that support our business and exceptional leaders that will be able to carry on his strong support of the company. Ken's groomed a very strong person to take over the chief accounting officer role, Eric Kelly, who I think many of you also know. Eric also has been with EA for 18 years in all of our key markets around the world, Europe, Asia, and North America. And he has all the skills and strengths to fill the very large shoes that Ken has worn for years. We're lucky that Ken has agreed to assist in the transition over the next nine months. So he'd be with us until after we close our fiscal year. And I thank Ken for his amazing commitment to EA and his fantastic partnership So with that, I'll turn it back to Andrew. We lost Andrew.Andrew Wilson -- Chief Executive Officer Sorry. Minor glitch. Thank you, Blake. I'd like to echo your thoughts and sentiments and say thank you, Ken, for all of your outstanding contributions to Electronic Arts. We'll miss you. As I started this call, I again want to thank our teams for everything they continue to do in service of our players around the world. Thanks to their efforts, we're bringing hundreds of millions of players together through our games and live services like Apex Legends. We're delivering great new experiences like F1 2021 and Mass Effect Legendary Edition, and we have even more amazing content to come. lIt's been a strong start to our fiscal year. Our growth drivers, leadership in sports, building blockbuster franchises, and growing live services, including mobile, are accelerating our business, and we're well-positioned for continued growth this year and beyond. Now Blake and I are here for your questions. 