  OperatorGood afternoon. My name is Anne and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Expedia Group first-quarter 2021 conference call. [Operator instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Patrick Thompson, senior vice president and CFO of Retail. Thank you. Please go ahead.Patrick Thompson -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Retail

 



 Good afternoon, and welcome to Expedia Group's financial results conference call for the first quarter ended March 31, 2021. I'm pleased to be joined on the call today by our CEO, Peter Kern; and our CFO, Eric Hart. The following discussion, including responses to your questions, reflects management's views as of today, May 6, 2021 only. We do not undertake any obligation to update or revise this information. As always, some of the statements made on today's call are forward-looking, typically preceded by words such as we plan, we expect, we believe, we anticipate, we are optimistic or confident that or similar statements. Please refer to today's earnings release and the company's filings with the SEC for information about factors which could cause our actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements. You will find reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures discussed today in our earnings release, which is posted on the company's investor relations website at ir.expediagroup.com. And I encourage you to periodically visit our IR website for other important content.Unless otherwise stated, all references to cost of revenue, selling and marketing expense, general and administrative expense and technology and content expense exclude stock-based compensation. And all comparisons on this call will be against our results for the comparable period of 2019. And with that, let me turn over the call to Peter. Peter Kern -- Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thank you, Pat. Good afternoon, everybody and thank you for joining our call. We have some brief remarks and then we'll take questions. I'll start by talking about the Egencia deal, which we announced a few days ago. That proposed deal is extremely exciting to us. And in a few minutes, Eric will share the details. But I'll just say, it really highlights three core things we're trying to do. One is find the best opportunity for all our businesses. And in this case, we felt that putting Egencia together with Amex GBT created a great new combined corporate enterprise that could focus entirely on the corporate customer and really provide a best-in-class suite of services to serve those customers. And our ownership in that company, we're very excited to have. Secondly, we signed a long-term lodging supply and tech agreement with the company. And you'll recall, we have a big B2B business, Expedia partner services. It is core to our strategy long term and driving and powering the industry broadly is an important move for us. So this deal enhances significantly and just gives us more throughput to continue to innovate, both on the supply and technology side to provide great services to the entire travel ecosystem. And finally, as we've talked about endlessly in the past year, we are trying to simplify our company so we can focus on the most important and largest opportunities. And with Egencia in a great new home, should this deal proceed, we will be in a great position to focus on our B2C and B2B businesses and our core technology platform, and that's really a great chance for us to get simpler and get agility and speed in the rest of our core business.

 



 Moving on to recent trends. I would say, as I've said, travel remains a study in contrasts for different geographies. Some are still shut down, some like the U.S. are quite open now. And equally, a study in differences between vacation rentals, domestic travel versus international travel. Business travel is more challenged. Conventional lodging, particularly in big cities, is more challenged. So it's really a study in contrasts. It depends where you're strongest. We have benefited greatly in our vacation rental business and our domestic U.S. business, but other parts of the business still remain challenged. I would say and many have reported already, but the summer looks strong, particularly in the U.S. and in other markets where vaccinations are well along the way. We are already seeing booking trends well above 2019 levels for leisure destinations, beach, mountains, etc. And that goes for not only vacation rentals, but also for conventional lodging. To give a little more color on bookings themselves, we said on our last call that we were down somewhere in the high 40% in the gross bookings, net of cancellations, in the January period. That has moderated to down around 20% in March and has improved on that in April. So the trends remain strong, again, driven largely by the strongest markets, but still the trends are very good, and we're excited about that. I would just keep in mind, while summer looks great and we are ambitious and feeling good about the overall recovery, that the calendar is still a question mark. We don't know what seasonality will look like as long as COVID is here. And the usual trends that might come in the fall and winter are still unknown. So while we're extremely excited about summer, it's a little too early to predict how those trends, like work-from-home, whether school is in session, etc., will change travel behavior going into the following quarters. On the Vrbo front and vacation rentals in general, we continue to lean into that business. We have grown share in all our strongest markets and invested heavily in marketing and in acquiring hosts. And we feel like that continues to be a great opportunity for us, not just in this moment, but in the future as we capitalize on landing the brand and getting more people to experience Vrbo and staying in vacation rentals. We are seeing some compression in summer. People ask about that frequently. And I'll just say, so far, we have seen replacement as a pretty good solution. Most people look for something. If they can't find it, they'll find something nearby. And increasingly, as more people are vaccinated, they are willing and happy to stay in resorts and in conventional lodging. And I would say, some portion of them would actually prefer it that way and we're seeing in those leisure destinations for the summer very strong conventional lodging numbers. On the marketing side, I've mentioned in past quarters that we have taken a relatively conservative bias on how we've approached marketing, rather leave a little money on the table than get too far out over our skis. But in the course of the first quarter, we have sort of changed that bias and moved more, particularly in the back half of the quarter, toward investing and getting in front of the wave of demand we think is coming. That's taken the form of a number of brand marketing rollouts, including a brand-new Expedia brand marketing campaign that started at the Academy Awards. We've relaunched our Orbitz brand with a focus on LGBTQIA+. And that's sort of, again, a push as we try to differentiate brands and really focus each brand on who their market is. And later this month, we have a great new summer ad campaign coming from Vrbo that we think will be really impactful. So that investment in brand building is really important to us. We've talked before about going up funnel, creating that brand love, pushing for direct interactions, direct consumption. But keep in mind, it's not a quick twitch tool like performance marketing, so we have to invest over time to build that. But we think it does have returns ultimately for performance marketing as the brands become more well-loved and more highly thought of. We are starting to see wins. I've talked at some length in the past about combining our performance marketing teams. They've been doing yeoman's work and a terrific job. We've actually put in a new leader who came from the outside and is a great new addition to the team. But I just wanted to, I've said that before, I wanted to give one stat to give you a sense of the acceleration we're finally starting to get, which is that 75% of our SEM spend is now on a new consolidated technical and data platform. And just for a point of reference, at the end of last year, that was at 15%. So it is starting to accelerate. We're starting to get the wins we hoped to get as we combine these platforms. And as we invest more and get more aggressive and we're getting these wins, we're seeing our click share go back to historic levels or higher in our main products and our key markets. We continue to refine our marketing spend in general, and we will continue to test and learn, and there will be balancing as we learn. But I will say, we mentioned last time on our last call that we went off the Google meta product for vacation rentals. And actually, over this last quarter, we have pulled back from other vacation rental meta players. And so far, the results have been excellent and as good or better than we could have hoped for in terms of the returns we have seen in getting more direct traffic and traffic other ways more efficiently. So that has been a great move, and we will continue to focus on that. But again, we will be up-funnel more. We will be focused and leaning into the wave ahead. But it could be bumpy and we may be a little early, but we believe now is the time to lean in, and we will be leaning in accordingly. On the platform and technical side, I made a promise that I'm not going to get into the business of telling 100 great stories about our technical platform. We are making great strides every day in it. It is definitely where we are putting the most energy, time and money. But I just wanted to point out one area of wins because it really goes to how this is going to affect not just us as a business but the customers. And that's in our AI and data products. We recently launched a reinforcement learning algorithm, which allows us to power different shopping journeys on a given page for different customers. And we are using it now, not universally because, again, all of the tech is coming along, and it will be launched as it can be in more places, but we're using it to adapt and improve the customer experience to the specific customer journey, opportunity for conversion and improving the business. But most of all, it's a great opportunity to improve the experience for the customer and make it easier for them to find what they want. And in a related point, we're also using AI and telemetry data to track customer experience, to track friction points and again focus on taking that friction out of the customer experience and making it great. So these are first-tier technologies that the best e-commerce companies in the world use, and we are now using it to make our consumer experiences better. And that's really exciting, right, for the business, but in many ways even more exciting that we can drive customer love and a better customer experience. And so finally, I'd just say, we are clearly benefiting from our relative strength in some of the best markets, VR, the U.S., etc. But it's a bumpy ride and we're hoping for reopenings. I would say the announcement about New York City. You'll remember, we're very strong in big cities and in international travel, neither of which have been doing well, but the announcement about New York opening up, hopefully, some international travel between EMEA and the U.S. this summer will start to open even more as we go forward. And I'd just like to say, it's nice to report that we're making progress, but we are mindful of our friends and colleagues and everybody really in India. We have a big operation in India. We've got many sick colleagues and family members, and our thoughts are with them every day. And whatever the world can do to help, we are doing everything we can to help, but we all should do more. And I would finally say, that's a reminder that this is an unpredictable time. We still don't know what's happening in many markets. Anything could happen. Things could get worse before they get better, but we are optimistic. We are seeing a lot of improvement across the globe and we are feeling good about the work we're doing at the company. So with that, I'll just say, hopefully, vaccines continue to roll out. Hopefully, you all have your vaccines and tell everybody you know to get a vaccine. And we have little doubt that as that continues, the world will open up and travel will come roaring back. So with that, I will pass it off to Eric. Thank you.Eric Hart -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Peter. I'd like to start by providing more details on the binding offer we received from Amex GBT to acquire Egencia. I echo Peter's earlier comments. We are very excited about the deal, and I'm optimistic about the success we would see from the combined company. Now on the offer which includes two major pieces. First, we have approximately 14% ownership in the combined business, presuming close, which we currently estimate is valued at approximately $750 million. Second, we would also enter into a 10-year lodging supply agreement between Amex GBT and EPS, as Peter mentioned earlier. And then to put this commercial deal into perspective, the supply agreement would have generated in excess of $60 million in EBITDA at 2019 volumes. We anticipate the proposed deal would close in nine to 12 months. Next, I wanted to provide an update on our cost-saving initiatives. In 2020, we made considerable progress on rightsizing our cost base, and these efforts continued in Q1. We still expect to be toward the higher end of our $700 million to $750 million range for fixed cost savings relative to our 2019 exit rate, and we have now achieved approximately $700 million on a run rate basis. We remain confident we will realize largely all of those target cost savings by the end of 2021. As we have spoken about previously, when looking forward, we will have annual increases in the remaining cost basis from items like annual comp increases and we expect to invest in areas of the business where we see attractive opportunities. On variable cost of revenue, we remain on track for over $200 million in annual savings based on 2019 volume levels. As a reminder, the three key drivers are improved economics through our payments platform, expansion of our conversations platform to reduce customer service costs and lower variable cloud costs. Similar to the fixed initiatives, we still expect to realize largely all of these variable cost savings by the end of 2021. Although given the costs are volume-based, the savings will not be fully evident until we reach more normalized business levels. We've also spoken in the past about driving marketing efficiencies. And we've continued to make improvements in Q1, but I want to be very clear, we are spending into the recovery, as Peter mentioned. As it relates to Q1, we increased our investments, particularly in the back half of the quarter, and that continued as well. And we also expect a further increase in Q2 as we look to further capitalize on the pace of travel recovery, particularly within the U.S. As a reminder, we incur the marketing expense in the quarter it occurs, but we don't realize any associated lodging revenue until the stay actually happens. In terms of the balance sheet, we are investment-grade rated today. And as the recovery continues to unfold, we remain committed to delevering back to more historical leverage levels, while also continuing to reduce our cost of capital. Our ultimate goal of being in a strong position -- to be in a strong position to restart our capital return program to shareholders, as we talked about at the early part of last year. To that end, we recently took advantage of compelling market conditions and raised $1 billion in 10-year unsecured notes, which have a coupon of 2.95% and $1 billion in 0 coupon five-year convertible debt with a 72.5% conversion premium. Together, we used the proceeds of the new debt issuances to redeem $1.7 billion of debt due in 2025 at coupons of 7% and 6.25%. This will yield approximately $80 million in annual interest rate savings. From a liquidity standpoint, we have $4.3 billion in unrestricted cash and short-term investments, which is about $1 billion higher than we ended Q4, with the increase primarily due to positive free cash flow. We also have essentially $2 billion in untapped revolver capacity. As it relates to deferred merchant bookings, it has improved in each quarter since the height of the pandemic and with a total of $6 billion at the end of Q1. We have witnessed positive recent trends and are cautiously optimistic about the pace and shape of the recovery. We are also confident in our liquidity position. And therefore, we have elected to pay down 50% of the preferred stock issued in 2020 later this month. And as a reminder, regarding the preferred stock, we also have the ability to pay off that balance at any time we choose to do so and is something that we'll be watching over the coming months. Now shifting to the P&L. Total revenue was down 52% versus first quarter of '19, which was a notable improvement from last quarter, with revenue down approximately 62% year on year. And that's normalized for the insurance contra revenue impact that occurred in Q4 of 2020 that we spoke about last quarter. Overhead expenses totaled approximately $500 million in Q1 and came in slightly better than anticipated due to some timing benefits. As a reminder, we define overhead as G&A, tech and content, indirect sales and marketing, while excluding stock-based compensation. Moving on, we made a change during Q1 in managing our software licensing and maintenance costs, which led to a modest reclassification to prior results. We have moved from a decentralized approach, which we've talked about previously, where each individual team manages their own spend, which resulted in increased costs and duplicative tools, to a much more centralized approach across EG. In 2020, the change resulted in approximately $60 million in costs being reallocated to tech and content, with the majority coming from cost of sales and the remainder from sales and marketing and G&A. There was no change to total costs or EBITDA from this reclassification. In total, adjusted EBITDA was negative $58 million for the quarter, which was slightly better than our expectations. On an absolute basis, adjusted EBITDA was down approximately $235 million versus Q1 2019, while revenue was down approximately $1.4 billion over the same time period. On the free cash flow, which totaled $2 billion in Q1 on a reported basis. If you exclude the change in restricted cash, which is primarily driven by Vrbo's deferred merchant bookings, free cash flow was approximately $800 million. Looking forward, we mentioned it last quarter, we do expect our overhead cost to step up by approximately $50 million sequentially from Q1 to Q2 of this year relative to the bonus payments and other issues we talked about last quarter. In closing, continue to be very encouraged by the recent trends within the business, have increasing confidence in our liquidity position given the change that we just made, especially in paying down the preferred, but we remain cautiously optimistic about further improvements in travel recovery as we head throughout the rest of the year. Operator, we are ready for our first question. 