  OperatorGreetings, and welcome to the Atmos Energy second quarter earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen only mode. A question-and-answer session will follow the presentation. [Operator instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded. I will now turn the conference over to our host, Dan Meziere, vice president of Investor Relations and treasurer. Thank you. You may begin.Dan Meziere -- Vice President of Investor Relations and Treasurer Thank you, Diego. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining our fiscal 2022 second quarter earnings call. With me today are Kevin Akers, president and chief executive officer; and Chris Forsythe, senior vice president and chief financial officer. Our earnings release and conference call slide presentation, which we will reference in our prepared remarks, are available at atmosenergy.com under the Investor Relations tab. As we review these financial results and discuss future expectations, please keep in mind that some of our discussion might contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Securities Exchange Act. Our forward-looking statements and projections could differ materially from actual results. The factors that could cause such material differences are outlined on Slide 33 and are more fully described in our SEC filings. With that, I will turn the call over to Chris Forsythe, our senior VP and CFO.Chris? Chris Forsythe -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Dan, and good morning, everyone. We appreciate you joining us and your interest in Atmos Energy. Last night, we reported fiscal '22 second quarter net income of $325 million, or $2.37 per diluted share compared to $297 million, or $2.30 per diluted share in the prior year quarter. Year-to-date, earnings were $574 million or $4.24 per diluted share, compared with earnings of $540 million, or $4.01 per diluted share in the prior year period. Consolidated operating income decreased to $661 million for the six months ended March 31st. As a reminder, beginning in the second quarter of fiscal '21 including end of last fiscal year, we've reached agreement with regulators in various states to begin refunding excess deferred tax liabilities, generally over a 3 to 5 year period. These refunds reduced revenues throughout the fiscal year when those revenues are billed. The corresponding reduction in our -- interim annual effective income tax rate was recognized in the prior year when those agreements were completed. In fiscal '22, the corresponding reduction in the effective tax rate was recognized at the beginning of the fiscal year. Therefore, 3/3 changes in revenues and income tax expense may not offset within in periods. However, they will substantially offset by the end of the fiscal year. Excluding the impact of these refunds, operating income for the six months ended March 31st increased $62 million, or 9% to $743 million. Slides 4 and 5 summarize the key performance drivers for each of our operating segments, the three and six months ended March 31st. I will focus on some of the key drivers underlying a year-to-date performance. Rate increases in both of our operating segments, driven by increased safety reliability capital spending, totaled $120 million, with approximately 77% coming from our distribution segment. Continued robust customer growth in our distribution segment, increased operating income by an additional $11 million. These increases were partially offset by $70 Million decrease in consumption. Most of this decrease occurred in the second quarter, where we observed that residential consumption on a per heating degree day basis was approximately 6% lower than the prior year quarter. We attribute this decrease primarily to customer conservation in response to the current inflationary environment, including the increased cost of natural gas included in customer bills. As a reminder, our weather normalization mechanism substantially offset changes in weather as measured -- on a heating degree day basis. However, they do not adjust for changes in customer behavior. Additionally, we experience a $27 million increase in consolidated O&M expense. $20 million of this increase occurred during the first fiscal quarter as we performed more pipeline based activities in this year's first fiscal quarter compared to prior year. Consolidated capital spending increased 41%, or $344 million to $1.2 billion, that's 87% dedicated to improving the safety reliability of our system while reducing methane emissions. This increase primarily reflects increased system modernization, system integrity, and system expansion spending to meet the growing natural gas demand in our service territories. Remain on track to spend $2.4 billion to $2.5 billion in capital expenditures this fiscal year. We are also on track with our regulatory filings. Today, we have completed $74 million in annualized regulatory outcomes, excluding refunds of excess deferred tax liabilities. And we currently have about $270 million in progress. Slides 20 to 32 summarize those outcomes, and Slide 17 outlines are planned balance remainder of the fiscal year. During the second quarter, we completed our plan financing activities for fiscal '22. In January, we issued $200 million in long-term debt through a tap of our existing ten year 2.65% notes due September 2029. The net proceeds were used to pay off our [Inaudible] term loan that was scheduled to mature in April. Additionally, we fully priced remaining equity needs for fiscal '22 and the significant portion of our fiscal '23 equity needs. During the second quarter, we executed forward sales agreements and or ATM program for approximately $4.7 million shares for $500 million. And we sold forward agreements on $3.5 million shares for approximately -- $320 million in net proceeds. As of March 31st, we have approximately $450 million in net proceeds available under existing forward sales agreements. Our second quarter activities exhausted our $1 billion ATM program we established in June of 2021, and we establish a new $1 billion ATM program at the end of March. We finished the second quarter with an equity capitalization ratio of 61%, excluding the $2.2 billion of -- winter storm financing and total liquidity of approximately $3.5 billion. Additional details for financing activities, including our equity forward arrangements, as well as our financial profile, can be found on Slide 8 to 11. During the second quarter, we continued to make progress in securitization. In March, the Kansas Corporation Commission approved the gas and other related costs incurred during winter storm Uri with no disallowances. We'll plan to file our application for a financing order during our third fiscal quarter. And in Texas, the Texas Public Financing Authority continues its work on the Statewide Securitization Program, and we still anticipate the securitization transaction will be completed by the end of our fiscal year. I'll close my portion of our prepared remarks with a few comments on our fiscal '22 earnings per share guidance, which we tightened to a range of $5.50 to $5.60 per diluted share. Earnings for the first half of the fiscal year were in line with our expectations, with approximately 70% of our distribution revenues earned for the fiscal year, and the fact we're heading into the summer months, we believe any potential change in customer behavior in the second half of the fiscal year will not have a material impact on revenue. Additionally, customer growth, the first six months of fiscal year was stronger than we had planned and we expect that trend to continue into the second half the fiscal year. In our pipeline storage segment, our straight fixed variable rate design for substantially all of the segments revenues strikes clarity into the second half of the fiscal year. Additionally, we are seeing spreads widen, which is expected to provide a modest increase in APTs through system revenue. Finally, we have completed our fiscal '22 financial -- financing program, including pricing all of our equity needs for the remainder of the fiscal year, which removes one more variable. Slides 13 to 14 provide additional details around our guidance. Thank you for your time today. I will now turn the call over to Kevin Akers for his update and some closing remarks. Kevin?Kevin Akers -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Chris, and good morning, everyone. As you heard, the first six months of the fiscal year were in line with our expectations, which leaves us well-positioned for another successful fiscal year. This performance reflects a commitment, dedication, focus, and effort of all 4,700 Atmos Energy employees. As we continue to successfully modernize our natural gas distribution, transmission, and storage systems while safely providing reliable natural gas service to our 3.4 million customers across 1,400 communities in eight states. During the first half of the fiscal year, we continue to experience strong customer growth. As you just heard from Chris. For example, for the 12 months ended March 31, 2022, we added over 57,000 new customers, which represents a 1.8% increase. We added nearly 1,800 commercial customers during the first six months of this fiscal year, and we added 15 new industrial customers that we anticipate using nearly five Bcf of natural gas annually, when at full capacity. On a volumetric basis, that five Bcf of annual industrial customer usage is equivalent to adding nearly 85,000 residential customers to our system. We're very proud of our efforts for these new customers coming on our system. As Chris mentioned, our capital spending has increased about 344 million over the prior year period, and we remain on track to achieve our capital spending target of $2.4 billion to $2.5 billion. Through our system modernization efforts, we're on track to replace 800 to 1,000 miles of pipe and 20,000 to 30,000 steel service lines. All of which supports our [Audio gap] reducing methane emissions, 50% by 2035 from 2017 levels for EPA reported distribution mainly services. That also includes APTs integrity work on projects like our line X Phase 2 replacement, which is under construction and includes 63 miles of 36-inch pipeline anticipated to be completed later this calendar year. As a reminder, we placed Phase 1 into service in Q1 of this fiscal year. That phase replaced 64 miles of 36-inch pipeline. Additionally, construction has begun on Phase 2 of our line S2 replacement project. This 18-mile, 36-inch project is expected to be completed late this calendar year. Again, as a reminder, we place the 22 miles of 36 inches completed in Phase 1 into service in Q1 of this fiscal year. This modernization work is a significant component of our comprehensive environmental strategy, it focuses on reducing our scope one, two and three emissions and environmental impact from operations in the five key areas of operations, fleet facilities, gas supply, and customers. During the second quarter, we added another RNG facility that will provide renewable natural gas for transportation across our system. That facility has the potential to flow up to a half a Bcf a year. As you know, we are currently transporting approximately eight Bcf a year, and we are evaluating nearly 30 opportunities that could further expand these transportation opportunities. As I mentioned on previous calls, we completed our first zero net energy home in partnership with the Greeley-Weld Habitat for Humanity in Evans, Colorado. Zero net energy homes use high efficiency, natural gas appliances, rooftop solar panels and insulation to produce more energy than it consumes at a very affordable cost. Approximately $50 per month for the combined gas and electric bill for the Evans, Colorado, home. We are now partnering with local Habitat for Humanity organizations in each of our eight states to construct additional zero net energy homes. Currently, our home in Dallas is under construction and on April 27th, we have the dedication for our zero net energy home in Tyler, Texas. Additionally, in Jackson, Mississippi, on April 28th, Atmos Energy and Habitat for Humanity Capital Area held a groundbreaking ceremony for Mississippi's first zero net energy home. And in Lubbock, three homes are scheduled to begin construction in early September of this year. These zero net energy homes demonstrate the value and vital role natural gas plays in helping customers reduce their carbon footprint in an affordable manner. Providing these families with a natural gas home that is environmentally friendly and cost efficient is just one way Atmos Energy feels safe and thriving communities. Our Customer Support Organization and technology support team continue to innovate and look for ways to improve our customer service, and offer convenient channels for our customers to communicate with us as well as to make payments. For example, over 31% of our customers are enrolled in recurring auto draft, which is about 8% higher than industry average. We also see continuous growth in our electronic bill delivery channels, with nearly 50% of our customers enrolled in e-bill. We continue our outreach to customers to make them aware of our flexible payment plans, as well as provide contact information for local, state, and Federal Energy Assistance programs. For the first six months of this fiscal year, our customers forward associates, our energy assistance specialist and coordinator through our customer advocacy team helped nearly 44,000 customers receive $15 million in energy assistance. It is through heartfelt caring efforts like that and exceptional customer service, that provide the satisfaction ratings for these employees that exceed 97%. These activities and initiatives reflect how we are focused on the long-term sustainability of Atmos Energy as we serve a very vital role in every community by delivering reliable, efficient, and abundant natural gas to homes, businesses, and industries to fill our energy needs now and into the future. We believe our focus on long-term sustainability, combined with executing our proven investment, regulatory and financial strategies, continues to support our ability to grow earnings per share and dividends 6% to 8% annually through fiscal 2026. We appreciate your time and interest in Atmos Energy this morning. And we'll now open the call for questions. 