  OperatorGood morning, everyone, and welcome to the Delta Air Lines March quarter 2021 financial results conference call. My name is Travis, and I will be your coordinator. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, today's call is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to Julie Stewart, vice president of investor relations. Please go ahead, ma'am.Julie Stewart -- Vice President of Investor Relations Thank you, Travis. Good morning, everyone, and thanks for joining us for our March quarter 2021 earnings call. Joining us from Atlanta today are our CEO, Ed Bastian; our president, Glen Hauenstein; and our interim co-CFO, Gary Chase. Ed will open the call with an overview of Delta's performance and strategy. Glen will provide an update on the revenue environment; and Gary will discuss costs, fleet and our balance sheet. Similar to last quarter's call, we've scheduled today's call for 90 minutes to make sure we have plenty of time for questions. [Operator instructions] Today's discussion contains forward-looking statements that represent our beliefs or expectations about future events. All forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements.Some of the factors that may cause such differences are described in Delta's SEC filings. We'll also discuss non-GAAP financial measures, and all results exclude special items unless otherwise noted. You can find a reconciliation of our non-GAAP measures on the Investor Relations page at ir.delta.com. And with that, I'll turn the call over to Ed. Ed Bastian -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Julie. Good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining us today. It's been a little over a year since the onset of the pandemic, and our customers are gaining confidence in air travel and beginning to reclaim their lives. Reflecting on what it's been in a year like no other, I'm tremendously proud of the progress that we've made and the agility that we've demonstrated. I've developed an even deeper appreciation for Delta's strength and firmly believe that the pandemic has served as a catalyst for us to find new and better ways to serve our customers and our communities. Thanks to the incredible dedication and sacrifices of our people, Delta has weathered the storm with our culture, our brand and our values stronger than ever before. And I want to thank every member of the Delta family for your incredible efforts over the past year. Collectively, you've carried us through and shown that unique spirit that we call the Delta difference. I also want to thank the administration and Congress for continued payroll support, which has protected thousands of airline jobs throughout the industry and will help speed the U.S. economy in the recovery. Thanks to that support, we've been able to return our people to full work schedules despite running an operation that will be at 65% to 70% of 2019 levels in the June quarter. The first quarter had two distinct periods, with the first half feeling very much like an extension of 2020 as demand was slower than expected. But as case counts decline and vaccinations accelerated, demand picked up meaningfully later in the quarter, allowing us to achieve $4 million of daily positive cash generation in the month of March, the first positive cash generation since the onset of COVID-19. This marks a critical milestone in the path to restoring our financials. It is truly a great accomplishment, especially considering that our middle seat block limited the inventory that we're selling, and business and international travel remain muted. It's also important to note that this metric takes into account all expenses that we're incurring as we rebuild our business. To have turned a true net positive cash flow position within a year of the biggest crisis ever seen in the history of this industry is a real testament to the resilience of the company that we have built. Consumer confidence in air travel continues to increase with the pace of vaccinations in the U.S. rapidly accelerating and predictions of herd immunity as soon as this summer. We said throughout the pandemic that one of the most important objectives was to restore confidence in air travel. We are now seeing more normal booking behavior as customers make plans for spring and summer travel. In fact, our daily net cash sales in March were twice what they were in January. As volumes grow, keeping our employees and customers safe and healthy will always be our top priority. We've taken a science-based approach to cleanliness and are being guided by our own Chief Health Officer Dr. Henry Ting, as well as by medical experts at the Mayo Clinic and Emory. And earlier this month, the CDC confirmed that it is safe to travel within the U.S. for those who have been fully vaccinated, an important step forward for the recovery of our industry. We are aligning with the recommendations of health professionals and government officials who continue to ensure the safe and effective distribution of vaccines, and listening to our customers. Based on our survey work, 75% of our customers expect to be vaccinated by Memorial Day. With the improving demand in vaccine trends, we announced that we'll start selling middle seats May 1, providing a powerful tool for improving our financial performance. We also launched other customer experience and loyalty enhancements to increase confidence in travel and maintain the trust and loyalty that we've built over the last 12 months. Looking ahead and assuming that these recovery trends hold, we expect to cut our pre-tax loss by more than half in the June quarter to between $1 billion and $1.5 billion, and we see a path to returning to profitability in the September quarter. Delta's resilience has helped us navigate the worst days of the pandemic, driven by the competitive advantages that are core to our DNA. Those advantages: our people; our brand and loyalty program; our reliable operations; our network and our balance sheet will be even more important as we accelerate through the phases of recovery. These moats were tested like never before, and I'm proud of the resilience that they've demonstrated. Our people and our culture of service remain our most strategic asset. Loyalty to the Delta brand has never been stronger, thanks to the outstanding service that our people provide. They are truly the best professionals in the business. This is evident in our domestic customer Net Promoter Scores, which have been in the low 70s throughout the pandemic, a full 20-point increase over 2019. We've also seen our customers continue to invest in the Delta brand using their American Express co-brand cards, demonstrating the resiliency of this unique revenue stream. Despite a large reduction in T&E categories, March co-brand spend on the card, overall, was up relative to March 2019 levels. Our operational performance remained strong. During the quarter, we led the industry in all on-time metrics, including A0, D0 and completion factor, which was more than 99%. And our network rebuild leverages the strength of our core hub structure in our international partner gateways. At the same time, we are renewing and simplifying our fleet, improving the customer experience, driving efficiency and reducing emissions as we push toward our carbon-neutral goals. And finally, the strength of our balance sheet enabled us to manage through the worst crisis in our history with no dilution to our shareholders other than warrants related to the payroll support program, is something that continues to set us apart in the industry. We've begun our journey of delevering. And by the end of the June quarter, we will have reduced financial obligations by nearly $10 billion through a combination of paying down debt and accelerating pension funding since last fall. This reflects an unprecedented turnaround in the health of our pensions over the last decade, securing the future of our retirees. Later this year, we expect to make one final contribution to the plan of up to $1 billion, which should enable our pension to reach fully funded PPA status by the end of this year, largely mitigating the need for any additional cash contributions going forward. And finally, as we look toward the future, it's important to acknowledge that the commitment we made last year to achieving carbon neutrality is as strong as ever. The only future for Delta and our industry is a sustainable future. This is why we're accelerating our fleet renewal and balancing near-term needs for verifiable offsets with long-term investments in sustainable aviation fuels, carbon sequestration advancements and clean propulsion technology. And because we can't do this alone, we are collaborating with corporate customers, as well as large energy producers in order to address aviation emissions together and work to scale up sustainable aviation fuels. We're excited about the progress that we're making to combat climate change and enable a cleaner, more sustainable world. These steps are vital to Delta's long-term future and we owe it to the next generation of customers and employees to continue down this path. The time for acting, not talk, is now, and I'm proud of the steps our team is taking. As the recovery takes hold, glimmers of hope are now optimism for the future. Demand for air travel is accelerating in a meaningful way and we are well-positioned to build a stronger Delta as demand recovers to pre-pandemic levels in the next few years. With our competitive advantages having been fully tested, we have built a platform to extend Delta's leadership position in the years to come. More than ever, I am confident in the future of Delta and our people. Over the last year, we've taken meaningful actions to become a better, more sustainable, more inclusive company, driven by our mission to connect the world. And with that, I'll turn it over to Glen.Glen Hauenstein -- President Thanks, Ed, and good morning, everyone. As Ed mentioned, the pace of demand recovery accelerated over the course of the quarter. With growing confidence, customers are now buying tickets for travel further out, speeding our cash recovery. In the month of March, daily new bookings improved 50% from the January and February average, well ahead of its normal seasonality. As customers are now buying tickets for travel further out, our booking curve has extended and our air traffic liability has grown for the first time in three quarters, up more than $800 million from December. On our January call, I outlined three distinct phases to the year and our levers for each. To progress to the second phase, we need to see higher vaccination rates, easing travel advisories and growing consumer confidence, all of which are now evident in the United States today. Approximately 50% of the adult population in the U.S. have now received at least one dose of the vaccine and by May, all states will have lifted mandatory domestic quarantine restrictions. Pent-up demand is also evident, with domestic leisure bookings 85% recovered to 2019 levels and leisure markets more than fully restored. Beyond our own bookings, we see encouraging data points in the broader economy. This includes accumulated savings, restaurant dining, credit card spend, hotel occupancy rates, web search data on travel and corporations announcing more concrete office reopening plans. In response to these developments and the reduction of COVID-19 cases, as well as accelerated vaccination rates, we will sunset our middle seat block as of May 1. That provides us with a very powerful lever to add capacity in a cost-efficient way and generate meaningful margin tailwind. Removing our middle seat block results in our sellable capacity increasing from 46% of 2019 levels for the month of April to 67% of 2019 levels for the month of June. And with this increase, coinciding with strong customer demand for our product, we expect our passenger unit revenue to improve by 20 to 25 points over that period. With this added capacity and a continuation of the leisure recovery heading into peak season, we expect our June quarter revenues to improve by approximately $2 billion from the March quarter. The corporate travel recovery has been slow but steady. Corporate volumes in March were nearly 20% recovered, up from 15% at the end of 2020. Small and medium enterprises continued to outperform other corporates by about five points. And given our investments in the customer experience, we've been able to grow our domestic corporate share lead, which is now significantly higher than pre-pandemic levels. To progress to the next leg of the recovery, we need corporate travel to return in earnest. While we expect continued improvements to business travel through the summer, we anticipate the significant increases will occur after Labor Day as we enter the more traditional business travel season. That will happen as vaccinations become even more widespread and offices continue to reopen. We continue to expect operational and sales-related travel to lead, with travel to large conferences and internal meetings likely the last to recover. Our views on corporate demand recovery are consistent with what we've heard in our most recent quarterly corporate survey, where one-third of our accounts expect to increase travel volume in the June quarter and a majority of our corporate customers expect to return to office in the second half of the year. Vaccine distribution and lifting of government travel restrictions remain the top two drivers of corporate willingness to travel. International travel remains muted with long-haul international booking volumes at only 15% to 25% recovered. We're seeing some early signs of life in Europe, with Iceland opening to travel to vaccinated U.S. citizens and increased demand for Israel and leisure destinations this fall. That said, Europe lags the U.S. and Pacific is expected to be the last region to recover. We do not anticipate meaningful international demand improvement until later in the year when borders reopen. Once the recovery of those segments are under way, we'll expect they also prove to be a powerful cash and profitability lever for our business. Considering our operating leverage improvements in those segments will be cost-effective and highly margin-accretive, a dynamic that is very similar to what we expect from lifting our middle seat blocks and one that I'm very enthusiastic about. In the meantime, we'll continue to benefit from the strengthening demand environment in the domestic and short-haul Latin regions and from our non-ticket revenue streams, which have proven more resilient. Our cargo revenues in the March quarter improved 5% sequentially and were up 12% versus the March quarter of 2019. The performance of our loyalty is indicative of Delta's strong brand affinity and our customer aspirations to return to travel. As Ed mentioned, co-brand spend in the month of March was higher than 2019 levels. This was a result of solid growth in non-T&E spend and continued momentum in T&A, which is now down 35% in March from down approximately 55% in November -- in December, I'm sorry. Card acquisitions are also rebounding nicely, and our attrition rates are below pre-pandemic levels. For the month of March, co-brand acquisitions were over 60% recovered with less than half of our customer base line. Our long-term partnership with American Express combines two strong consumer brands, enhancing customer loyalty while also providing a higher-margin revenue stream that has proven its resiliency. We have driven stronger engagement through our digital channels, resulting in more direct relationships with our customers and record-high digital satisfaction scores. Over the last year, we've created a more flexible and enhanced experience for our direct channels, increasing self-service and making it easier for our customers to do business with Delta. Digital adoption is on the rise, and direct channels like delta.com and the Fly Delta app account for 66% of our sales in the March quarter, up 15 points from 2019. While we expect that will normalize, especially as corporate travel recovers, direct channels will continue to be preferred, particularly among medallions and young customers. As we restore our business, we're rebuilding our industry-leading network with a simpler, younger and more fuel-efficient fleet. At the same time, we have preserved optionality with levers to flex our capacity restoration in either direction, depending on the shape of the recovery. We are also capitalizing on the industry's best domestic hub structure with the highest return profile. The combination of our strong core hubs and coastal positions provides us with a unique opportunity to leverage cost-efficient gauge with large narrow-body aircraft, providing meaningful efficiency and scale advantages. In addition, we now see the opportunity to significantly improve our international returns from pre-pandemic levels, driven by an improved competitive position, a stronger cargo business, the acceleration of our fleet renewal, stronger partnerships and an improved product offering. Reflecting on what has been the most difficult 12 months in the company's history, I could not be prouder of what our teams have accomplished. So I want to thank them for their commitment and continue to put the customer in the center of what we do every day. Looking forward, I'm optimistic about Delta's bright future. We have a powerful brand, loyalty program that's proven their resiliency. We continue to improve our customer experience, both in the air and on the ground as we've accelerated our robust array of airport projects. Our focus on health and flexibility has won the confidence of our travelers and we're being well served by our younger, more eco-friendly fleet and leaner cost structure. With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Gary.Gary Chase -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Glen, and good morning, everyone. I'm excited to see our recovery begin to take root and our focus shift from stabilizing the company's financials to creating value by returning to profitability, generating cash and restoring our financial position to its pre-COVID strength. Let me start with some highlights from the quarter, then I'll address the upcoming quarter, our fleet strategy and the beginnings of our deleveraging journey. Our first-quarter pre-tax loss of $1.5 billion includes a $1.2 billion benefit related to the payroll support program. Net of this benefit, restructuring items and extinguishment charges associated with the prepayment of debt, we reported an adjusted loss of $2.9 billion. Our people out in the operation, along with the commercial and finance teams, came together nicely to produce great cost performance. Adjusted operating costs of $6.3 billion were 33% lower than 2019, slightly higher than we anticipated at the outset of the quarter with half due to higher fuel expense and the other half due to recovery and COVID-related items. Nonfuel CASM was up sequentially as expected on 10% higher capacity, as we restored our employees to full work hours and incurred costs to prepare for the recovery. Adjusted fuel price of $1.91 per gallon was 33% higher than 4Q, driven by market prices and losses at the refinery, which drove a $0.23 per gallon headwind in the quarter. On the consumption side, we realized a 12% fuel efficiency gain compared to 2019, with nearly half of that a direct result of our fleet renewal. Daily cash burn averaged $11 million in the quarter, improving from $12 million in the December quarter despite stepped-up expenses. Improved receipts in March drove $4 million of daily and positive cash generation. We ended the quarter with $16.6 billion of liquidity and adjusted net debt of $19.1 billion, roughly flat with the December quarter, though above where we expected to be due to aircraft financing decisions. Let's now look forward into the June quarter. We expect a nearly $2 billion improvement in our pre-tax result. If the recovery progresses in line with our expectations and fuel remains at current levels, we expect to narrow our pre-tax loss to between $1 billion and $1.5 billion, with progressive improvement through the quarter to breakeven in the month of June. A key driver of improvement will be the sunset of our middle seat block, increasing our inventory available for sale at minimal cost. We also expect continued strong performance on our nonfuel cost and still target levels below 2019 by the fourth quarter. In 2020, the teams delivered strong cost performance by baselining aggressively. In '21, we are focused on driving cost leverage as we rebuild the network and revenue returns. We are seeing that leverage materialize in the June quarter, with a small increase in costs on a 20% increase in capacity, driving a 12% to 15% improvement in nonfuel costs sequentially. Compared to the same period in 2019, nonfuel CASM is expected to be 6% to 9% higher, including three to four points from rebuild items. Adjusted fuel price is expected at $1.85 to $1.95 per gallon, and fuel efficiency for the quarter is expected to remain better than 2019 by more than 10%. Bringing these items together at the midpoint of our guidance, June quarter total operating expense is expected to be down approximately 35% from June quarter 2019. We expect daily cash generation in the June quarter as demand further improves. Now let me comment on our fleet strategy, a key enabler of our cost performance. Our accelerated fleet transformation drives more than $400 million in annualized cost benefit relative to 2019, driven by fuel efficiency, simplification and gauge. These benefits have enabled excellent cost performance and will support further inflection in our financials as the demand recovery accelerates. Since the pandemic began, Delta has taken a measured approach in matching supply with demand. That discipline, combined with the great work of our fleet and tech ops teams, have positioned us to capture fleet efficiencies while preserving optionality on upside capacity levels for the future that will utilize flex fleet if demand warrants additional capacity. As Glen said, we have the ability to flex capacity in either direction based on the demand. The teams have plotted a path to invest in our fleet with maintenance that will either support higher flying levels if warranted or largely offset costs we'd otherwise incur in the future. Let me now move to the balance sheet. With our cash flow and earnings close to inflection, we've begun to reduce our debt levels and chip away at our $4 million daily interest burden. In the March quarter, we set in motion our first phase of debt reduction. Using $3 billion of our liquidity, we are paying down debt, funding our pension and acquiring aircraft in the June quarter with cash. Combined, these initiatives drive $240 million of annualized savings and free up $2 billion of lending capacity. On April 1, we contributed $1 billion to the pension. This accelerated contribution, along with strong returns produced by our pension team, position the funds to be more than 95% funded by year-end under the Pension Protection Act that determines cash funding obligations. On a GAAP basis, we expect to be more than 85% funded by year-end. We are now assessing an additional contribution of up to $1 billion to achieve fully funded PPA status by year-end. It is really exciting to see our long-term pension vision crystallize. The combination of contributions and strong returns over time now position us where we expect no material contributions to the plan beyond 2021, freeing up an average of more than $1 billion annually of our cash flow. Adjusted net debt is expected to be $19 billion to $19.5 billion in the June quarter as we draw down liquidity to fund the pension plans and pay cash for aircraft deliveries in the June quarter. We expect normal amortization of debt, including the $600 million unsecured maturity in April, to be approximately $850 million in the June quarter. We're also working on a longer-term vision to restore and improve upon the strong financial position we enjoyed pre-COVID. Our financial foundation has greatly helped us to weather this crisis while investing in our future and avoiding dilution for our owners. In closing, I am proud of what the Delta team has accomplished over the last year. The Delta difference that Ed mentioned has never been more important nor has it been more pronounced, thanks to all 75,000 of you for protecting each other, our customers and our future. We have exciting opportunities ahead. And with that, I'll turn the call back over to Julie to begin the Q&A.Julie Stewart -- Vice President of Investor Relations Thanks, Gary. Travis, we are ready for the analyst questions, if you could give the instructions on how to get into the queue. 