
OperatorGood afternoon and welcome to the Chipotle First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.I would now like to turn the conference over to Ashish Kohli, Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Ashish Kohli -- Investor Relations

 



Hello, everyone, and welcome to our first quarter fiscal 2021 earnings call. By now you should have access to our earnings press release. If not, it may be found on our Investor Relations website at ir.chipotle.com. I will begin by reminding you that certain statements and projections made in this presentation about our future business and financial results constitute forward-looking statements. These statements are management -- are based on management's current business and market expectations and our actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.Please see the risk factors contained in our annual report on Form 10-K and in our Form 10-Qs for a discussion of risks that may cause our actual results to vary from these forward-looking statements. Our discussion today will include non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation to GAAP measures can be found via the link included on the presentation page within the Investor Relations section of our website. We will start today's call with prepared remarks from Brian Niccol, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Jack Hartung, Chief Financial Officer, after which we will take your questions. Our entire executive leadership team is available during the Q&A session.And with that, I'd like to turn the call over to Brian.Brian Niccol -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

 



Thank, Ashish, and good afternoon, everyone. Chipotle is off to a promising start in 2021, which gives me optimism for the rest of the year. There is still uncertainty related to COVID but as more people become vaccinated, including many Chipotle employees, I'm hopeful we're getting closer to brighter days ahead. In fact, all but about 20 of our restaurants are now open, with 92% of them offering in-restaurant dining with capacity limitations. For the quarter we reported sales of $1.7 billion representing 23.4% year-over-year growth which was fueled by 17.2% comparable restaurant sales growth including about a 1.5% headwind from winter weather in February.Restaurant level margins of 22.3% which is 470 basis points higher than last year, earnings per share adjusted for unusual items of $5.36 representing an increase of 74% year-over-year, digital sales growth of 133.9% year-over-year, representing 50.1% of sales and opened 40 new restaurants including 26 with the Chipotlane. Not surprisingly comparable restaurant sales were the highest during the month of March as we lapped easier comparisons, and I'm pleased to report that April is off to a good start. These results highlight that our key strategies continue to resonate with guests and position us to win today while we create the future.Let me now provide a brief update on each of these strategies which I believe will help fulfill our long-term vision of more than 6,000 restaurants, AUV's above $2.5 million and restaurant level margins above 25%. These are one, making the brand visible, relevant and loved. Two, utilizing a disciplined approach to creativity and innovation. Three, leveraging digital capabilities to drive productivity and expand access, convenience and engagement. Four, engaging with customers through our loyalty program. And five, running successful restaurants with a strong culture that provides delicious food with integrity, while delivering exceptional in-restaurant and digital experiences. Let me start with our marketing efforts where the team is doing a great job being agile and remaining relevant to a consumer mindset that continues to evolve.Internally we encourage curiosity and experimentation, which takes advantage of our digital and social capabilities in conjunction with TV advertising to consistently reinforce our messaging. For example, we leveraged the return of sports to showcase our brand and purpose. Our first-ever Super Bowl commercial titled Can a Burrito Change the World was very successful at highlighting Chipotle's dedication to cultivating a better world through real food, sustainable sourcing and a commitment to the farming industry. We also connected and engaged with our guests during March Madness with the mouth-watering commercial showcasing real ingredients, real cooking and real people, in order to support the launch of our hand-crafted quesadillas.

 



Not to be outdone, our digital communication strategy involved supercharging the super fans, who are our true advocates. Content on social platforms is a key way we interact with our guests. The end goal for all of our creative initiatives is to drive culture, drive a difference and ultimately, drive a purchase. Helping these marketing efforts were a handful of new menu innovations which provide wonderful examples of the stage-gate process and our team's ability to execute new food experiences. Cauliflower rice, which we launched in early January and will continue through mid-May, is continuing to bring in new guests. In addition, we launched quesadillas across the U.S. and Canada as a digital exclusive offering on March 11.This is our first new customizable entree in 17 years and was the most-requested item by guests not on our existing menu. We made sure we took the proper time to develop an excellent product that consumers love and also works well operationally. The end result is a quesadilla that is perfectly crispy on the outside with delicious, melted cheese on the inside. My personal favorite is the barbacoa quesadilla. The benefits of a digital-only offering are that it leverages our digital scale while removing operational friction by utilizing our digital kitchen. Although it's only been out for about a month, we're encouraged by its performance thus far with an incidence mix of approximately 10% and expect it to remain a guest favorite moving forward.Last but certainly not least, we also had carne asada for the majority of the quarter, and we're pleased to say that it had an incidence mix similar to what we saw last year. And our talented culinary team is not done innovating. We have several market tests of new items scheduled later this year that have shown promise in early stage consumer testing. We are gaining valuable feedback and will update you on their progress as they move through our stage-gate process. Also, it's likely that we will put another marketing push behind some 2020 initiatives like Tractor Beverages later this year to optimize their performance once COVID normalizes. Let me now talk about the next strategic driver, our digital platform.Our investments in new digital features and innovations helped Q1 digital sales grow 134% year-over-year to $870 million and represent 50% of sales. Momentum continued to build within the quarter, with March setting a new record for digital transactions, supported by our best-ever digital order ahead month, over 800,000 app downloads and the most new digital customers since May of 2020. With the overall digital mix remaining relatively stable for the last three quarters, we're delighted to see that our highest-margin transaction, digital pickup orders, were slightly more than half of digital sales during Q1. Within the delivery channel, about 40% were initiated through the Chipotle app or website while the remainder were through a handful of partners.Our digital sales are a sticky, frictionless and convenient experience as evidenced by our April digital sales mix holding around 50%. Aided by the quesadilla launch, our digital sales are now slightly above the COVID peak from last year, while we've recovered roughly 60% of in-restaurant sales as dining rooms have reopened. We also continue to see outsized digital performance in Chipotlanes which have revolutionized the drive-thru experience toward order ahead for pickup transactions, which is our most profitable channel. As our digital ecosystem has evolved from a commerce system to a platform of engagement, we continue to look for ways to enhance convenience and access including Chipotlanes, alternate store formats, digital-only menu offerings and Chipotle Rewards.We are regularly making enhancements to our app, website, delivery and group offerings to support the current and expected future growth within this channel. We'll also continue to make important tech investments to create a path for the future. One such example is our recent investment in Nuro, an early stage leader in autonomous delivery. Nuro uses robotics in their fleet of on road, occupantless and autonomous vehicles to deliver everyday consumer goods and we believe has the potential to take the delivery experience to the next level. Speaking of our loyalty program, we have more than 21 million passionate members that receive targeted and personalized messages. We are leveraging the CRM platform for purpose-driven messaging, as well as tempting fans with our latest promotions.Communications to our customers are individually tailored so that specific customer activities prompt targeted responses. Each digital message can vary along the customer buying journey such as the latest promotional offer on a new menu item or a more targeted offer to entice a customer that has not visited our restaurant for a certain period of time. For example, customers received communication about the quesadilla launch featuring their favorite protein based on their ordering history. Our loyalty program has been very successful in driving additional transactions across our light, medium and heavy consumer segments, but we continue to increase the level of sophistication and experience in our information and targeting, which should bode well for the future of Chipotle Rewards.We're also investing in talent and infrastructure for Rewards and have several enhancements to the program planned for later this year that consumers have indicated would increase their engagement and purchases. Let me end by talking about the foundational ingredient of our success, and that's our restaurant operations, where the team has done a great job staying focused on safety, reliability and excellent culinary. Running great restaurants requires great people and Chipotle is privileged to have amazing employees. Our continued investment in our team members to ensure they have the resources to develop and thrive in their career, including the recently announced expansion of debt-free degrees in agriculture, culinary, hospitality and supply chain, is paying off.Turnover continues to be relatively stable, and we are seeing great applicants for open positions to staff our expected growth in AUV and new restaurant openings. After visiting a number of our restaurants recently I'm encouraged to see more guests enjoying their food in our dining rooms. As a result, we've been reiterating the importance of executing great throughput by teaching, training and validating the five pillars of throughput every day, during every shift. After all, guests need to feel safe, and deserve a great and fast in-restaurant experience. Chipotle is a unique brand committed to fostering the culture that values and champions our diversity while leveraging the individual talents of all team members to grow our business and cultivate a better world.To show how passionate we are about inspiring real change in people, food and the environment, we have tied 10% of officers' annual incentive bonus to the company achieving certain ESG goals. Our updated sustainability report which was published last week showcases our desire for transparency and being a leader in sustainability. I also want to take this opportunity to welcome our two new independent Directors, Matt Carey and Mauricio Gutierrez. Both bring excellent experience to our board, and will be valuable assets for Chipotle.Finally, I want to thank our employees for their incredible level of collaboration and tireless dedication, which were critical in helping demonstrate the brand's resiliency. While the past year has been full of ups and downs and the volatility related to COVID may not be fully behind us, I believe Chipotle is stronger today and is well-positioned for growth. As a result, I'm excited about our future as we remain a premier, fast casual brand focusing on all stakeholders, a leader in culinary, a leader in food within integrity, and an innovator providing convenient access inside our restaurants as well as through our expanding digital ecosystem.With that, here is Jack to walk you through the financials.John R. Hartung -- Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Brian and good afternoon, everyone. We're proud of our performance during the first quarter with sales growing 23.4% year-over-year to $1.7 billion as comp sales grew 17.2%. Restaurant level margin of 22.3% was 470 basis points higher than last year and earnings per share adjusted for unusual items was $5.36, representing a 74% year-over-year increase. This included benefit from lower taxes related to option exercises and share vesting, which is more than offset by higher G&A related to performance-based catch-up adjustments and taxes on equity, exercises and investment and I'll discuss these factors in greater detail shortly.The first quarter had unusual expenses related to our 2018 performance share modification to account for the unplanned effect of COVID, restaurant asset impairment and closure costs as well as transformation costs which negatively impact our earnings per share by $0.91 leading to a GAAP earnings per share of $4.45. Though impact from COVID appears to be lessening, we're not quite out of the woods yet as seen by the recent spikes in key regions as well as a pause in administering certain vaccines and therefore, it's still difficult to provide comp guidance for full year 2021. But we're encouraged by the strong start and we're optimistic about our full-year performance in 2021.The geometric two-year stack for Q1 comp is about 21% due to dining rooms reopening, our cauliflower rice launch, effective marketing, continued digital performance and the introduction of quesadillas, which all helped drive the strong finish to the quarter. For Q2 we expect our comp to be in the range of the high 20s to 30% with quesadilla incidents normalizing and a lower marketing investment. Food costs were 30% in Q1, a decrease of 280 basis points from last year. This is due primarily to menu price increase, a mix shift toward higher-margin protein and lower waste, which are partially offset by costs associated with cauliflower rice, and fewer sales of high-margin beverages.In Q2 we expect food costs to be in the mid-to-high 30% range as the benefit from our delivery menu price increase will be more than offset by seasonally higher avocado prices. Labor costs for the quarter were 24.9%, a decrease of 300 basis points from last year. This decrease was driven primarily by sales leverage and efficiencies related to digital orders, partially offset by labor inflation. We expect labor costs to be in the low 24% range during Q2 due to the benefit of our delivery menu price increase as well as seasonally higher sales. Other operating costs for the quarter were 16.9%, an increase of 200 basis points from last year, due to higher delivery fees which are partially offset by sales leverage and one-time insurance credit.Delivery expenses remain elevated year-over-year given the significant growth in delivery, and as you may have seen we increased our delivery menu prices by 4% earlier this month to help cover the higher cost of this premium access point and will continue to evaluate and fine-tune our delivery strategy in this dynamic market. Marketing promo costs for the quarter were 3.5%, a decrease of 20 basis points from last year given the significantly lower level of delivery promotions this year. While we invested more marketing dollars in order to support quesadilla and cauliflower rice, as also our first-ever Super Bowl ad.We expect marketing expenses to be in the mid 2% range in Q2 as the time period tends to be less responsive to the mass advertising channel. Similar to the past two years, full year 2021 marketing expense is expected to be around 3% of sales. Due to lower marketing spend in Q2, other operating costs are expected to be around 16% for the quarter. And Q1 restaurant level margin was 22.3%, while our trailing 12-month average unit volumes excluding the delivery menu price increase were roughly $2.27 million. Normalizing for the higher marketing spend, our underlying restaurant level margin was essentially in-line with the theoretical margin of 22.7% expected at the sales volume.We're pleased with this progress and we remain confident that we have taken and will continue to take the necessary actions to ensure the margin stays on the algorithm as our AUV's rise throughout the year. In fact, we expect our trailing 12-month average unit volumes to pass $2.4 million in Q2 and we expect our margin algorithm to keep pace. G&A for the quarter was $155 million on a GAAP basis or $129 million on a non-GAAP basis excluding $24.4 million for the previously mentioned modification to our 2018 performance shares and about $1.6 million related to transformation expenses. G&A also includes $89 million in underlying G&A, $30 million related to noncash stock compensation, which includes $7.7 million increase related to our strong performance in Q1, and $10 million related to higher bonus accrual and payroll taxes and equity vesting and stock option exercises.Looking to Q2, we expect our underlying G&A to be around $94 million as we continue to make investments including in technology to support our future growth. We anticipate stock comp will likely be around $25 million in each of the remaining quarters in 2021 to reflect the new run rate, although this amount could move up or down based on our actual performance. We also expect to recognize around $5 million in each quarter related to performance-based bonus expenses and employer taxes associated with shares divested during each quarter, as well as $1 million related to our upcoming virtual Field Leadership Conference in Q2. Our effective tax rate for Q1 was 20.2% on a GAAP basis and 18.5% on a non-GAAP basis.Our effective tax rate benefited from option exercises and share vesting at elevated stock prices, and as I'm sure you know, we receive a tax deduction for the value our employees receive upon option exercise or share vesting, and when that value exceeds the accounting charge of those shares, we benefit from a higher tax deduction. For fiscal 2021, we continue to estimate our underlying effective tax rate will be in the 25% to 27% range, though it may vary based on discrete items such as the occupancy impact I just mentioned. Turning now to the balance sheet, we ended Q1 with $1.2 billion in cash, restricted cash and investments with no debt, along with a recently refinanced $500 million untapped revolver with a five-year term and more favorable terms than our previous facility.We also restarted our buyback program in late February when our stock price softened, and we repurchased $61 million of our stock at an average price of $1,425 during the quarter. We had nearly $154 million remaining on our share authorization as of March 31 and we expect to continue to opportunistically use excess free cash flow to repurchase our stock. That being said, the best use for our cash remains investing in more Chipotles which continue to deliver outstanding returns. We opened 40 new restaurants in the first quarter, more than double the number open in Q1 last year, with 26 of these including a Chipotlane. While only 65% of the new units had a Chipotlane in Q1 for the full year, we still anticipate opening around 200 new restaurants with more than 70% including a Chipotlane.As of March 31 we had a total of 196 Chipotlanes including five conversions. Customers love the Chipotlane experience as it is the access channel that excels at providing convenience, speed and great value, all at the same time. Performance continues to be stellar. The trailing 12-months Chipotlane restaurants continue to drive 17% higher overall digital sales compared to non-Chipotlane. And order ahead, our highest margin transaction, is nearly 80% higher in non-Chipotlanes, but delivery, our lowest margin transaction, is about 30% lower in our non-Chipotlane restaurants. New Chipotlanes are opening with about 15% higher sales, and the comp restaurant at the six -- or the comp at the 69 Chipotlane restaurants that have been open more than a year continues to outperform the non-Chipotlane restaurants from the same open period.Beyond the significant growth opportunity in the U.S. we're excited to accelerate new restaurant openings in Canada, which are additionally validated by our stage-gate process. We're building a healthy new restaurant pipeline and expect to open a handful of restaurants over the next 12-months including our first Chipotlane in late summer. We'll continue to experiment with different location formats and restaurant designs throughout the country to gauge consumer preferences. Ultimately we believe we can open at least a few hundred restaurants in Canada, especially with their unit economics now approaching those of the U.S.The recent Surrey, British Columbia opening, which is our first new Canadian location in three years, opened very strong and gives us even greater confidence about our growth strategy. Let me close by thanking all of our team members who've proven their agility to operate through uncertainty while also staying focused on our long-term purpose. Their commitment to constant improvement of the customer dining experience while strengthening our branded business is what helps drive our strategic growth initiatives. The combination of investing in our people, delivering relevant and compelling marketing, leveraging our digital system to enhance convenient access and great execution in our restaurants is leading to a better guest experience, which ultimately allows us to further strengthen our powerful economic model.With that, we're happy to take your questions.