  OperatorThank you for standing by and welcome to the Paycom Software second-quarter 2021 quarterly results conference call. [Operator instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to Mr. James Samford. Thank you. Please go ahead.James Samford -- Head of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, and welcome to Paycom's second-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. Certain statements made on this call that are not historical fact including those related to our future plans, objectives and expected performance are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements represent our outlook only as of the date of this conference call. While we believe any forward-looking statements made on this call are reasonable, actual results may differ materially because the statements are based on our current expectations and subject to risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties are discussed in our filings with the SEC including our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and our most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q. You should refer to and consider these factors when relying on such forward-looking information. Any forward-looking statement made speaks only as of the date on which it is made. And we do not undertake and expressly disclaim any obligation to update or alter our forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by applicable law.Also, during today's call, we will refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures including adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income, adjusted gross profit, adjusted gross margin and certain adjusted expenses. We use these non-GAAP financial measures to review and assess our performance and for planning purposes. A reconciliation schedule showing GAAP versus non-GAAP results is included in the press release that we issued after the close of the market today and is available on our website at investors.paycom.com. I will now turn the call over to Chad Richison, Paycom's president and chief executive officer. Chad. 

 



Chad Richison -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, James. And thank you to everyone joining our call. Today I'll spend a few minutes on the highlights of our second-quarter 2021 results and the opportunities we are pursuing as we look ahead. Following that, Craig will review our financials and our guidance and then we will take questions. We delivered very strong second-quarter 2021 results with revenue $242 million. That grew 33.3% our fastest quarterly growth rate compared to the prior-year period since Q4 of 2016, and well above the top end of our guidance range. The upside from the quarter was primarily a result of broad-based demand strength from new client ads and consistent cross selling to existing clients. Our second-quarter adjusted EBITDA was $87 million representing an increase of 42% over the prior-year period. With these strong results, we are once again raising our full-year guidance which Craig will discuss in more detail. The investments we make in our products generate tremendous value for our clients and driver differentiated employee strategy. Our newest employee innovation is BETI, the industry's first self-service payroll technology, allowing employees to do their own payroll which we officially rolled out to the market in early July. BETI, which stands for better employee transaction interface, is an employee driven payroll experience and represents one of the most important advances we've made today.

 



 With BETI, employees do their own payroll which allows our clients to benefit from increased payroll accuracy, while employees gain full insight to their paycheck including advanced knowledge of take home pay and how it's calculated. Employees have a direct connection to their paycheck to resolve errors well before payday, so they don't have to wait on or contact anyone for assistance. The additional clarity on how their pay changes and is calculated combined with automatic alerts when items require their action gives employees and clients confidence in the accuracy of their payroll. I'm very pleased with the launch so far. We are receiving tremendous feedback including a VP of HR who said BETI is the most revolutionary payroll product I've ever seen. Another comment from the Chief HR Officer noted that BETI is giving ownership of payroll to employees and managers which is great because they know better than anyone what their paycheck should be. As we said during our Q1 earnings call, we're planning to have 100 pilot clients on BETI in the second quarter and we easily achieved that goal. On July 6, we opened up BETI to all clients. And through the end of July, we've already sold BETI to over 1000 new and existing clients. I continue to expect that all Paycom clients will eventually deploy BETI, it's the only way payroll should be done. Our marketing plan continues to deliver strong demo leads and we intend to spend aggressively in the coming quarters to fuel future revenue growth and further expand our market share in a large and expanding HCM camp. Our messaging continues to resonate with prospects as we contrast the shortcomings of disparate HCM systems, with the value proposition of Paycom's single database solution and self-service capabilities that are stronger than ever. Employees expect their HR software to be efficient and easy to use. And once again, we had record high employee usage rates in Q2, as measured by direct data exchange or DDX. We continue to enjoy increasing traction with both smaller and larger companies. As a reminder, we added multiple inside sales teams as we've continued to have success below our target range. Due to the technological advances, we've made and the demand that's building around our Employee Self Service initiatives, we've continued to be pulled further upmarket as well. As a result, we are pleased to announce that we are expanding our proactive outside sales efforts from targeting firms with 50 to 5,000 employees to targeting firms with 50 to 10,000 employees. We've had success selling organizations above our historic range driven by larger company demand. This change we are announcing today empowers our sales representatives to proactively target in this expanded segment. And we're excited by this incremental opportunity. We have clients in the segment already, so we're confident that our solution will compete and serve these clients effectively. On the Paycom branding front, we recently signed a 15-year naming rights partnership with the Oklahoma City Thunder that will transfer their downtown home into the Paycom Center. Oklahoma City is home to 1000s of our employees and I'm happy that the Paycom Center will be home of the Thunder. We have now lapped the tough pre pandemic year over year comparison and Q2, it is more reflective of our historical growth profile, record new client additions over this past year driving our growth. While we saw a very small headcount improvement in our pre pandemic client revenue base, our guidance and future growth initiatives are not reliant on any employment improvement. In summary, Q2 is a very strong quarter that reflects the strength of our execution throughout the pandemic and the investments we've made to further distance ourselves from the competition. Innovation, customer service and new client growth represent the foundation of our long-term revenue growth strategy. And with only approximately 5% market share of a growing TAM, we continue to have a long runway ahead of us. I want to thank all of our hard working and dedicated employees for their resilience and commitment to winning. With that, I'll turn the call over to Craig for review of our financials and guidance. Craig?Craig Boelte -- Chief Financial Officer Before I review our second-quarter 2021 results in our outlook for the third quarter and full-year 2021, I would like to remind everyone that my comments related to certain financial measures will be on a non-GAAP basis. We're very pleased with our second-quarter results with total revenues of $242.1 million representing growth of 33.3% over the comparable prior-year period driven primarily by broad-based strength with new client wins and consistent cross selling to existing clients. Within total revenues, recurring revenue was $237.6 million for the second quarter of 2021, representing 98% of total revenues for the quarter and growing 33.5% from the comparable prior-year period. Total adjusted gross profit for the second quarter was $206.9 million, representing an adjusted gross margin of 85.4%. For 2021, we remain on target for adjusted gross margin to be in the range of 85% to 86%. Adjusted total administrative expenses were $136 million for the second quarter, as compared to $106 million in the second quarter of 2020. Adjusted sales and marketing expense for the second quarter of 2021 was $64.3 million or 26.6% of revenues. Our marketing strategy continues to generate strong demo leads both within and outside our historical target market range of 50 to 5,000 employees. We plan to continue to invest in marketing throughout the remainder of 2021. And as Chad mentioned, we have increased our target market range to 50 to 10,000, thus empowering our outside sales representatives to proactively target larger companies. Adjusted R&D expense was $26.2 million in the second quarter of 2021 or 10.8% of total revenues. Adjusted total R&D cost including the capitalized portion were $38 million in the second quarter of 2021 compared to $27.7 million in the prior-year period. We continue to be very pleased with the high-quality innovation we're seeing from our investments in R&D and we'll continue to aggressively recruit talent in R&D to drive our future growth. Adjusted EBITDA was $87 million in the second quarter of 2021 or 35.9% of total revenues, compared to $61.2 million in the second quarter of 2020 or 33.7% of total revenues. Our GAAP net income for the second quarter was $52.3 million or $0.90 per diluted share, versus $28.6 million or $0.49 per diluted share in the prior-year period based on approximately 58 million shares in both periods. Non-GAAP net income for the second quarter of 2021 was $56.5 million or $0.97 cents per diluted share, versus $35.9 million or $0.62 per diluted share in the prior-year period. We expect non cash stock based compensation for the third quarter of 2021 to be approximately $25 million to $26 million. For the full year we anticipate non cash stock-based compensation will be approximately $95 million to $100 million. For 2021, we anticipate our full-year effective income tax rate to be 24% to 25% on a GAAP basis. On a non-GAAP basis, we anticipate our full-year effective income tax rate to be 26% to 27%. Turning to the balance sheet. We ended the second quarter of 2021 with cash and cash equivalents of $202.4 million and total debt of $30 million related to construction at our corporate headquarters. Cash from operations was $57 million for the second quarter reflecting our strong revenue performance and the profitability of our business model. The average daily balance of funds held on behalf of clients was approximately $1.6 billion in the second quarter of 2021. During the second quarter of 2021, we repurchased approximately 94,000 shares for a total of roughly $32 million. For June 30, 2021 Paycom has repurchased over 4.2 million shares since 2016, for a total of approximately $455 million, while we currently have roughly $300 million remaining in our buyback program. Shifting to guidance. We are pleased to provide strong third-quarter guidance that reflects the robust performance we achieved in the first half of 2021. And we are raising our full-year 2021 outlook as a result. Our Q3 and full-year guidance are as follows. For the third quarter of 2021, we expect total revenues in the range of $249 million to $251 million, representing a growth rate over the comparable prior-year period of approximately 27% at the midpoint of the range. We expect adjusted EBITDA for the third quarter in the range of $87 million to $89 million, representing an adjusted EBITDA margin of approximately 35.2% at the midpoint of the range. For fiscal 2021, we are raising our expected revenue range to $1.036 billion to $1.038 billion up from $1.017 billion to $1.019 billion or approximately 23.2% year over year growth at the midpoint of the range. We expect full-year adjusted EBITDA in the range of $410 million to $412 million, representing an adjusted EBITDA margin of approximately 39.6% at the midpoint of the range. When combined, we now expect revenue growth and adjusted EBITDA margin to easily exceed the rule of 60 this year. To conclude, we are very pleased with the performance in the quarter which gives us increasing confidence in our outlook for the remainder of the year. With the launch of BETI and expanded target market and a deep product development pipeline, we have a long runway ahead of us to continue to deliver rapid growth for years to come. With that, we will open the line for questions. Operator? 