
OperatorGood afternoon. Thank you for joining Atlassian's Earnings Conference Call for the Fourth Quarter of Fiscal Year 2021. As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded and will be available for replay from the Investor Relations section of Atlassian's website following this call.I will now hand the call over to Martin Lam, Atlassian' s Head of Investor Relations. Sir, please go ahead.Martin Lam -- Head-Investor Relations

 



Good afternoon, and welcome to Atlassian's fourth quarter of fiscal year 2021 earnings call. Thank you for joining us today. On the call today, we have Atlassian's Co-Founder and Co-CEO, Mike Cannon-Brookes; and our Chief Financial Officer, James Beer.Earlier today, we issued a shareholder letter and press release with our financial results and commentary for our fourth quarter and full fiscal year 2021. The shareholder letter is available on Atlassian's work life blog and the Investor Relations section of our website, where you'll also find other earnings-related materials, including the earnings press release and supplemental investor data sheet. During the call today, we'll make brief opening remarks and then spend the remainder of time on Q&A.This call will include forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Forward-looking statements represent our management's beliefs and assumptions only as of the date such statements are made, and we assume no obligation to update or revise such statements should they change or cease to be current. Further information on these and other factors that could affect the Company's financial results is included in filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time-to-time, including the section titled Risk Factors in our most recent Form 20-F and quarterly Form 6-K.During today's call, we will also discuss non-IFRS financial measures. These non-IFRS financial measures are in addition to and are not a substitute for or superior to measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with IFRS. The reconciliation between IFRS and non-IFRS financial measures is available in our shareholder letter, earnings release and investor data sheet on the IR website.

 



During Q&A, please ask your full question upfront so that we can be fair and easily move through to the next speaker.With that, I'll turn the call over to Mike for opening remarks.Mike Cannon-Brookes -- Co-Founder and Co-Chief Executive OfficerThanks for joining the call today everyone from wherever you are in the world. Scott's out on holiday. So it'll be just James and I taking your questions today. We're in lockdown here in Australia. So, you and your loved ones are safe wherever you are.

 



As you've already read in our shareholder letter, our Q4 was a ripper of a quarter, as we say. We added over 23,000 net new customers. We generated revenue of $560 million, up 30% year-over-year. Importantly, we grew subscription revenue 50% year-over-year with cloud revenue up 47% year-over-year. And that cloud migration momentum continues to build.Our strong Q4 caps off another year that we're incredibly proud of. We entered FY 2021 staring down headwinds, and we exited stronger than ever before. I'm proud of our resilience, and our ability to execute during a difficult year. We've continued to deliver innovation to technical and non-technical teams, building new products and new capabilities on top of our world class cloud platform.We surge pass 200,000 customers, and $2 billion in revenue. We followed through on what we said that we would do. We played offense. We've added more than 1,500 Atlassian's to our team, and we'll continue to play offense into FY 2022 and beyond. We still have a lot of work to do. But the opportunities in front of Atlassian have never been greater. And we came to seize those opportunities.Before we move to Q&A, I want to take a moment to thank the 1000s of Atlassian around the world whose resilience, passion and commitment drive the innovation that we continue to deliver to our customers every day, every month and every quarter.With that, I'll pass for the operator to your questions.