  OperatorGood day, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Honeywell's fourth quarter earnings release and 2022 outlook call. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference, Sean Meakim, vice president of investor relations. Sean, please go ahead.Sean Meakim -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you, Ari. Good morning and welcome to Honeywell's fourth quarter 2021 earnings and 2022 outlook conference call. On the call with me today are chairman and CEO, Darius Adamczyk; and senior vice president and chief financial officer, Greg Lewis. Also joining us are senior vice president and general counsel, Anne Madden; and senior vice president and chief supply chain officer, Torsten Pilz.

 



 This call and webcast, including any non-GAAP reconciliations, are available on our website at www.honeywell.com/investor. Honeywell also uses our website as a means of disclosing information, which may be of interest or material to our investors and for complying with disclosures under -- obligations under Regulation FD. Accordingly, investors should monitor our investor relations website in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings, public conference calls, webcasts and social media. Note that elements of this presentation contain forward-looking statements that are based on our best view of the world and of our businesses as we see them today.Those elements can change based on many factors, including changing economic and business conditions and we ask you that you interpret them in that light. We identify the principal risks and uncertainties that may affect our performance in our annual report on Form 10-K and other SEC filings. This morning, we'll review our financial results for the fourth quarter and full year '21, discuss our 2022 outlook and share our guidance for the first quarter of 2022 and full year '22. As always, we'll leave time for your questions at the end. With that, I'll turn the call over to chairman and CEO, Darius Adamczyk. Darius Adamczyk -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thank you, Sean and good morning, everyone. Let's begin on Slide 2. We delivered a strong fourth quarter despite a challenging backdrop that included an accelerated inflationary environment, ongoing supply chain constraints and persistent COVID-19 variants. I'm pleased for our disciplined execution as we navigate these challenges, capitalize on the ongoing recovery in our end markets. We delivered on our fourth quarter commitments for sales, segment margin and adjusted earnings per share despite these headwinds, with fourth quarter adjusted earnings per share of $2.09, up 1% year over year and just above the midpoint of our guidance. Organic sales were down 2% year over year and that was heavily impacted by the COVID mass declines and fewer days in the fiscal quarter, which Greg will touch on later. Our focus on differentiated solutions drove double-digit fourth quarter organic sales growth in the commercial aerospace aftermarket, productivity solutions and services, advanced sensing technologies and recurring connected software businesses. Segment margin expanded 30 basis points year over year, led by strong pricing actions that we took again this quarter to address the headwinds we faced from inflationary pressures and supply chain disruptions. These swift pricing actions allow us to stay ahead of the inflation curve, driving a 5% increase year over year on top line and yielding approximately 50 basis points of margin expansions net of inflation. We generated $2.6 billion of free cash flow in the quarter, 4% above the 4Q 2020, achieving 178% adjusted conversion. In terms of capital deployment, we put $2.1 billion of cash to work in the fourth quarter. Looking at the entire year, orders across Honeywell grew double digits organically and backlog increased 7% to $27.7 billion driven by strength in many of our segments as we entered 2022. We finished 2021 with 4% organic sales growth, 60 basis points of margin expansion and $8.06 of adjusted earnings per share, up 14% year over year. We generated $5.7 billion of free cash flow in the year, resulting in adjusted conversion of 102% or 17% of revenue, a very strong result. Our earnings per share and our free cash flow performance was above our initial guidance range shared at the start of 2021, demonstrating our ability to deliver on our commitments despite unforeseen challenges and shifting economic conditions. In the appendix of this presentation is a slide highlighting our guidance progression throughout 2021 as well as our performance against these guides.

 



 On our capital deployment strategy, we have maintained a balanced approach over the past several years, consistently deploying more than 100% of operating cash flow to fund share repurchases, dividends, M&A and capital expenditures. This past year was no exception. In fact, 2021 marks the highest level of capital deployment in the last six years. Despite the challenges we faced in 2021, we deployed $8.5 billion of capital, demonstrating our commitment to investing in high-return opportunities in any environment. We invested $1.6 billion in M&A, adding strategic assets to our portfolio that enhance our technology offerings, innovation and ultimately, our long-term growth potential. Specifically, we completed four transactions, including Sparta Systems, Fiplex, Performix and the $270 million we contribute to Quantinuum combination, which I'll talk about -- more about in a moment. We spent $900 million on capital expenditures to continue to build technologies to make our world safer, more efficient and more sustaining. We deployed $3.4 billion to repurchase shares, reducing our weighted average share count by 1.5%. And finally, we maintained a strong dividend policy, paying out $2.6 billion and raising our dividend again for the 12th time in 11 years. Looking forward, I continue to be encouraged by the strength we are seeing in many areas of our portfolio as we continue to execute on our rigorous and proven value creation framework, underpinned by our accelerator operating system that drives outstanding shareholder value. Next, let's turn to Slide 3 to discuss some exciting wins in our sustainable technology solutions business. We continue to make substantial gains for our sustainability business. In the fourth quarter, we announced the commercialization of our UpCycle Process Technology, a revolutionary new process that expands the types of plastics that can be recycled. This process can produce feedstocks used to make recycled plastics with a much lower carbon footprint and has the potential to increase the amount of global plastic waste that can be recycled to 90%. In addition, just last week, we announced our intent to form a joint venture with Avangard Innovative, America's largest plastics recycler, to build an advanced recycling plant in Texas. The facility will use our UpCycle Process Technology and is expected to have the capacity to transform 30,000 metric tons of mixed waste plastics into Honeywell recycled polymer feedstocks per year. We also recently announced that we've entered into an agreement with FREYR Battery, the intent to provide smart energy storage solutions to address the needs of a wide range of commercial and industrial customers alike. FREYR will leverage Honeywell's leading technology offerings, including integrated automation, field instrumentation and security integration solutions on manufacturing processes. In turn, Honeywell will purchase 38 gigawatt hours of battery cells produced by FREYR from multiple energy storage system applications. Battery energy storage systems technology development is vital to the continued decarbonization of global power system as it will enable the transition to renewable energy sources. In the fourth quarter, we announced an agreement with the University of Texas at Austin that will enable the lower cost capture of carbon dioxide emissions from power plants and heavy industry. We have committed to achieve carbon neutrality in our own operations and facilities by 2035. We are committed to helping our customers use their carbon footprint as well. We'll leverage UT Austin's proprietary advanced solvent technology to help power, steel, cement and other industrial plants lower their emissions and meet their sustainability goals. Finally, we saw tremendous traction in our green fuels business, which uses UOP's Ecofining technology to produce high-quality drop-in fuels from sustainable sources. Over the last few months, we recorded six important wins, including two large multinational companies. In addition, Diamond Green Diesel is using Ecofining technology to produce renewable diesel. They plan on having the capacity to produce over 1 billion gallons per year by the second half of 2022. These are just four select examples from our vast portfolio of sustainable offerings. We will continue to innovate, demonstrating that Honeywell will be a key player of the oncoming energy transition. Now, let's turn to the next slide to take a look at some of the big commercial developments and how we are aggressively investing in growth. If you've been following our press releases over the past quarters, including the examples highlighted on the previous slide, you are well aware of the successes we are having with new innovations and partnerships. We have many growth opportunities across the portfolio with new products, businesses or entirely new markets. These areas present high return opportunities to deploy our capex and opex spend to create value for the future. To highlight a few examples, in 2022, we are increasing capex investment to expand our solstice production capacity, commercialize our advanced plastics recycling technology and build additional generations of both commercial and development quantum computers. To fund key investment priorities in '22, we plan to spend $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion in capex, up $200 million versus 2021, up 25% versus the prior three years. Our 2022 research and development priorities will be continued innovation in sustainable technologies, developing our next-generation flight deck and investment in new engine development, to name a few. R&D for '22 will be up approximately $200 million or 15% year over year and up 10% versus the prior three years. Our internal spending on capital projects in the R&D has consistently been the highest return deployment of our capital. We'll continue to make these investments to drive our future growth. Also, Honeywell Digital, one of the three main transformation initiatives, has fundamentally changed the way we work and resulted in $1 billion of cumulative sales, productivity and working capital benefits since 2018. We'll continue to invest in our digitization efforts to drive efficiencies and produce valuable data-driven insights. While this may be a modest drag on our cash generation in '22, these investments are crucial to accelerating our growth and drive transformation across our portfolio. Let's turn to Slide 5 to take a closer look at Quantinuum, which is one of the major breakthrough initiatives for Honeywell. In the fourth quarter, we completed our previously announced business combination of Honeywell quantum solutions and Cambridge Quantum to form a new company, Quantinuum. As mentioned in our investor communications throughout 2021, this combination marries the leading quantum computing hardware, the leading quantum computing software to form the largest and most advanced integrated stand-alone quantum computing company in the world. Quantinuum technology will help solve some of the world's most pressing challenges, including breakthroughs in drug discovery and delivery, material science and industrial optimization, to just name a few. Quantinuum cybersecurity offering launched in December. Quantum Origin is the world's first commercial product built upon quantum computers that delivers outcomes that classical computers could not achieve. This revolutionary new product will be crucial to companies and governments, who need to ensure protection of sensitive information against adversaries and criminals. With the introduction of Quantum Origin, which is already serving Fortune 500 customers today, we expect Quantinuum to reach approximately $2 billion of sales by 2026, one year earlier than the estimate we provided in our leadership webcast back in November. Upon the completion of the combination, Honeywell invested $270 million into Quantinuum and Honeywell currently owns a majority stake. We expect a slight margin headwind of 30 basis points to Honeywell in 2022 due to increased R&D spend associated with Quantinuum, as shown on the previous slide. Overall, we expect Quantinuum to be $150 million headwind to EBITDA. However, this R&D investment will yield great returns as we accelerate the commercialization of this revolutionary technology. The appendix of this presentation contains a slide explaining the 2022 financial impact to Honeywell in more detail. We believe this unique opportunity for investors to gain exposure to an early stage growth technology company at an industrial multiple. Quantinuum is the best positioned company to lead quantum computing and has all the building blocks to be the frontrunner in what is projected to be a $1 trillion industry. Now, I will turn the call over to Greg to discuss our fourth quarter results and 2022 outlook in more detail.Greg Lewis -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Darius and good morning, everyone. Let's turn to Slide 6. As Darius highlighted, we delivered on our financial commitments despite a very difficult operating environment. Fourth quarter sales declined 2% organically as supply chain constraints continued in the quarter, predominantly in aero, HBT and SPS. The quarter also had difficult year-over-year comps with lower COVID-related mass demand impacting growth by 2 percentage points and six fewer days than fiscal 4Q 2020, which is worth approximately 3 percentage points. Turning to the segments. aerospace fourth quarter sales were down 3% organically compared to the fourth quarter of 2020 as we continue to manage through the supply chain constraints we're facing. Continued flight hour improvement led to over 20% year-over-year growth in air transport aftermarket sales and over 10% growth in business and general aviation aftermarket sales. Business and general aviation original equipment sales also grew double digits in the quarter. Defense and space was down 18% year over year in the fourth quarter with softness in U.S. defense, partially offset by international defense, which grew sequentially and year over year. Segment margins expanded 140 basis points to 29% as a result of value capture, improved business mix with higher aftermarket sales and productivity partially offset by higher cost of materials. Building technologies sales declined 1% organically year over year due to continuing supply chain constraints across the business, partially offset by pricing, though orders were up 4% in the quarter. Backlog in Building Solutions was up double digits year over year with growth in both projects and services, positioning HBT for strong performance in 2022. Our healthy buildings portfolio finished the year strong with over $200 million of orders in the quarter, bringing the total orders for 2021 to well over $400 million. Segment margins in HBT continue to be strong at 21.1% in the quarter, though it was down 30 basis points year over year, driven by lower volume leverage and cost inflation, mostly offset by favorable pricing. In performance materials and technologies, sales were up 2% organically, led by 7% growth in UOP and 5% growth in advanced materials. UOP sales growth was driven by higher petrochemical catalyst and gas processing shipments while advanced materials benefited from continued double-digit sales growth in life sciences and protective and industrial solutions. Process solutions sales were down 3% organically with slower recovery in projects and supply availability constraining smart energy production. However, orders growth across the HPS portfolio, including double-digit orders growth in the projects businesses, provides confidence in the longer-term outlook for the business. Orders in UOP were up 25% year over year, including triple digits in sustainable technology solutions, another signal for strong 2022 growth. PMT segment margins expanded 430 basis points to 23% in the fourth quarter, driven by favorable pricing and productivity, net of inflation. Turning to safety and productivity solutions, where sales were down 6% organically, mainly due to a 12-point impact from COVID-related masks. Intelligrated was flat year over year and down sequentially, as expected, as the level of delivery and installation came down from its 2Q peak. Productivity solutions and services continues to be a star in the portfolio, along with the sensing business, both of which had double-digit sales growth in the quarter. SPS backlog remains above $4 billion as declines in the mask business were mostly offset by triple-digit growth in advanced sensing and technologies and over 90% growth in productivity solutions and services, giving us confidence in the future growth. SPS segment margins contracted 450 basis points to 10.8%, driven by lower volume leverage and inefficiencies caused by ongoing supply chain challenges in Intelligrated, which we highlighted in our previous earnings call and I'll touch on again in a moment. So for overall Honeywell, we delivered 30 basis points of segment margin improvement with margin expansion in PMT and aero, ending the quarter with segment margins of 21.4%, a 20-basis-point sequential improvement versus the third quarter. We drove targeted pricing again in the quarter across the portfolio to combat the accelerated impacts of inflation. On EPS, we delivered fourth quarter GAAP earnings per share of $2.05 and adjusted earnings per share of $2.09, which was up $0.02 year over year. A bridge for our adjusted earnings per share from 4Q '20 to 4Q '21 can be found in the appendix of this presentation. Segment profit was a $0.03 headwind, driven primarily by lower volume due to fewer days, mask volumes and supply chain constraints, offset by price and cost actions. Higher effective tax rate, 19.7% this year versus 18.9% last year, drove a $0.02 headwind. Share count reduction drove a $0.04 year-over-year tailwind to earnings per share and we saw a $0.03 benefit from below-the-line items due to higher pension income that was partially offset by increased repositioning and other. Repositioning and other specifically was approximately $160 million, just below the midpoint of our 4Q guidance of $140 million to $215 million and included a $105 million charge in the fourth quarter due to incremental long-term contract labor cost overages in Intelligrated caused by severe supply chain disruptions from COVID-19. The accelerating challenges of supply chain disruptions and labor shortages in the second half of '21, coupled with the hyper growth of the business and the link between material supply and installation efficiency in the Intelligrated model, drove specific identifiable nonrecurring costs, which were recorded in repositioning and other. This charge is forward-looking and accounts for projects which are yet to be completed. In 2022, we expect roughly $30 million to $50 million of carryover costs, the impact of which is incorporated into our 2022 repositioning and other guidance. Other inefficiencies were reflected in the Intelligrated and SPS P&L, as I mentioned earlier in the discussion of the SPS margins. Moving on to cash. We generated $2.6 billion of free cash flow in the quarter, up 4% year over year. This increase was driven by lower working capital, including strong collections and world-class payables, offset by higher inventory as we continue to work through the constrained supply chain environment and extended lead times. We also had a $211 million accelerated cash receipt in the quarter from Garrett per our contractual claims under the plan of reorganization signed last year. As a reminder, we include cash receipts from Garrett within free cash flow in order to be comparable to prior periods, where the cash proceeds from the indemnification and reimbursement agreement were recognized. Finally, as Darius mentioned earlier, we deployed $2.1 billion toward high-return opportunities for our shareholders. We paid $680 million in dividends, repurchased $880 million in shares, over delivering on our commitment of a minimum 1% share count in '21 and we deployed approximately $280 million in capex and invested $270 million in Quantinuum. So overall, we managed successfully through another challenging quarter and closed out 2021 on a strong note. Now, let's turn to Slide 7 to talk about our markets and segment outlook for 2022. We continue to see promising signs of the recovery unfolds as well as encouraging wins in our key markets. The backdrop for 2022 does have a number of uncertainties in it, the ongoing global pandemic, continued supply chain constraints, accelerated inflation and labor market challenges. And at each turn, our rigorous operating principles have enabled us to demonstrate our agility and resiliency battling these situations. Across our end markets, the macro setup continues to be strong. Increased COVID-19 vaccination rates and higher immunity should lessen infection rates, pointing to signs of the pandemic subsiding and leading to continued improvement in global flight hours and returns to buildings. Investments will continue to flow toward transitioning global energy production to a low-carbon future and Honeywell will continue to lead that evolution as we invest in our strategically differentiated and sustainable technologies. We expect supply chain impacts to remain as challenging in the first half of the year as they were in the third and fourth quarter and they'll start to abate as the aero supply base ramps up and capacity for electronic components comes online in the third quarter. Inflation will continue to be a significant headwind. However, our agile pricing actions will dampen the impacts to margin throughout the year. Corporate tax legislation continues to be a watch area for both earnings and cash, which I'll talk about a little bit later. As for the segments, in '22, we expect aerospace to continue to benefit from the recovery in flight hours, leading to robust growth in commercial aftermarket sales. Commercial build rates will continue to improve, especially in air transport, providing growth in original equipment sales, but creating some mix headwinds on margins. Defense and space sales will experience progressively improved performance as supply chain challenges abate, returning the business to growth in the second half and ending the year roughly flat. In total, we expect aerospace sales to be up high single digits for the year. Despite some mix pressure and the ramp-up in R&D expenses for the long-term programs, margins will expand as Honeywell quantum solutions business investment moves out of aero and into corporate costs. HBT will see continued strong demand in '22 as the world continues to reopen and sustainable solutions see increased use. We expect end markets to gradually recover throughout the year, including government, education and office buildings. Increased government funding for infrastructure, both in the U.S. and Europe, provide further opportunities across the portfolio. Pressure from supply chain constraints, particularly semiconductors, will impact the business, especially in the first half, but we'll continue to execute on our mitigation actions and expect the business to grow high single digits for the year. We expect our margins to expand, driven by higher sales on our streamlined cost base. Performance materials and technologies has one of the most favorable macro setups in our portfolio and we will see growth accelerate throughout the year. We expect process solutions sales to sequentially improve. process solutions product orders will continue to grow at a healthy rate following the double-digit orders growth we saw in the fourth quarter of '21 as traditional energy projects begin to gradually recover and we see strength across new verticals like life sciences and sustainable energy storage that are driving increased demand. The increase in UOP engineering and licensing orders over the past few months gives us confidence in the follow-on process solutions projects growth over the medium term. UOP catalyst shipments will remain strong as demand shifts from petrochemicals to refining, where we expect a reload cycle to emerge in the energy space. Advanced materials demand remains robust and we expect sales to increase throughout the year, especially as we complete production capacity expansion projects such as our planned increase in our solstice line of ultra-low global warming potential solutions. In addition to solstice, our other sustainable offerings in renewable fuels, carbon capture, energy storage and plastics recycling will benefit from the increased customer focus on environmental responsibility and efficiency. In total, we expect PMT sales to be up mid to high single digits for the year. We expect PMT margins to expand as well as a result of continued pricing and productivity actions as well as increased volume leverage. In safety and productivity solutions, demand for productivity solutions and services, advanced sensing technologies and gas detection all remain strong and their increased backlogs create strong runway for '22 growth. Lower COVID-related mass demand will affect the first quarter most heavily, driving a 9% drag on SPS in Q1 and then will abate throughout the year. In Intelligrated, after ending 2021 with approximately 50% year-over-year hyper growth, we expect sales to be flattish year over year in '22 as we adjust our portfolio toward a better balance of growth and near-term profitability. We're targeting substantial margin expansion in Intelligrated in 2022 and expect sequential improvement throughout the year, with the second half revenue being higher than the first, the opposite dynamic versus what we saw in 2021. So overall, we expect SPS sales to be flattish year over year, with sales growth higher in the second half versus the first half and margins expanding materially as business mix and supply chain challenges subside. So overall, for Honeywell, we see improvement across most of our end markets throughout '22 and we have confidence in our continued operational execution. We'll manage through another challenging operational environment with accelerating growth as the year progresses. Now, let's move to Slide 8 to discuss how these dynamics come together for our 2022 financial guidance. In total, for '22, we expect sales of $35.4 billion to $36.4 billion, which represents overall organic sales growth in the range of 4% to 7%. We'll continue to drive pricing actions to combat this inflationary environment and we expect approximately 4% of our sales growth to come through price. Excluding the impact of the lower COVID mask demand, which will approximately be a one point headwind, we expect organic growth of 5% to 8%. The first half will be slower and, as additional supplier capacity comes online, we'll see significant sequential improvement and stronger growth in the back half of the year. Segment margins are expanded -- are expected to expand 10 to 50 basis points, despite a robust investment year, supported by higher sales volumes, price cost management and our continued rigor on fixed costs. Excluding the 30-basis-point headwind from Quantinuum opex that Darius mentioned earlier, we expect margins to expand 40 to 80 basis points. We are excited about the trajectory of Quantinuum and the value creation that this investment will bring. We expect margin expansion across all of our businesses in '22, with SPS leading the pack as we prioritize profitability versus growth. For the year, we expect earnings per share of $8.40 to $8.70, up 4% to 8% adjusted. We see free cash flow in the range of $4.7 billion to $5.1 billion in '22 or $4.9 billion to $5.3 billion, excluding Quantinuum, which I'll walk through in a couple of minutes. For now let's turn to Slide 9 and talk through our 2022 EPS bridge. On EPS, segment profit is expected to be a key driver of our earnings growth, contributing $0.58 per share at the midpoint of our guidance or about 7% growth. Next, below the line, which is the difference between segment profit and income before tax, is expected to be in the range of negative $100 million to positive $50 million, which reserves capacity for $300 million to $425 million of repositioning and other. This includes between $30 million and $50 million related to the carryover cost from supply chain disruptions in Intelligrated. On the pension front, we expect approximately $1 billion and $50 million of pension and OPEB income in '22, down approximately $100 million from 2021, as we have adjusted our plans for higher discount rates due to interest rate movements and the adjustment of our expected returns. Our diligent management and strong returns have been an important value driver for the company, putting us in a position where our pension-funded status continues to be robust, ending the year at approximately 120%. With these inputs, below the line and other items are expected to be down $0.15 per share year over year at the midpoint, mainly driven by the lower pension income. Quantinuum will result in a headwind of approximately $0.03 per share as the net P&L investment is partially offset with noncontrolling interest. For taxes, we expect an effective rate of 22% and our base case is that our minimum 1% share count reduction program will result in a benefit of $0.09 per share, reducing our weighted average shares from 700 million to at least 693 million. So in total, we expect '22 earnings per share to be in the range of $8.40 to $8.70, up 48% year-over-year adjusted. However, excluding the impact from Quantum and below the line and other items, we would see year-over-year earnings-per-share growth of 8% at the midpoint. Now, let's turn to Slide 10 and discuss the drivers of our free cash flow guidance for '22. As we outlined on this bridge, 2022 cash flow will be the tale of three dynamics: healthy net income growth, two meaningful non-operational adjustments and an increase in investment in exciting growth vectors. The two main detractors are lower Garrett cash receipts due to an elevated payment of $375 million in 2021 and higher cash taxes between $400 million and $600 million, as current R&D -- capitalization, tax legislation and other law changes may result in meaningful year-over-year headwinds. While there is still a possibility that legislation will be enacted that defers the requirement to capitalize R&D, we are including higher cash taxes in our current outlook as we'll be required to make these payments unless existing law is amended by legislation before the end of March. As you would expect from Honeywell, we'll continue investing in our long-term growth with between $200 million and $300 million incremental capital expenditures in '22 to build solutions that will help us solve challenging problems for our customers and address critical global sustainability issues. In addition, as Darius highlighted, we're investing an incremental $100 million in cutting-edge technology like Quantinuum. These strategically important investments are building on the momentum we have with the recent wins, both in sustainable solutions and more broadly across Honeywell, creating value for our shareholders. This outlook could of course get better if tax law changes play out differently and our capex this year should be a bit of a peak. So I'm very confident that we'll continue to be a strong cash generator prospectively. Now, let's turn to Slide 11 for a preview of the first quarter. We're entering 1Q with a very strong backlog and a number of challenges persisting in this operating environment and some evolving economic and geopolitical uncertainties. We expect organic growth in the first quarter in the range of down 2% to up 1%, driven by the ongoing supply constraints, current COVID dynamics which have dampened travel somewhat versus 4Q and evolving geopolitical uncertainties. We'll continue to deploy pricing actions to combat rising costs and we expect price increases to drive approximately 4% of sales growth in the quarter. This quarter will be our toughest comp for the year as the first quarter of 2021 was near the peak of our COVID-related mask demand. Excluding the 2 percentage point impact of lower masks, we would be -- we would expect organic growth in the range of flat to up 3%. We expect segment margins in the range of 20.6% to 21% in the first quarter, down 40 basis points to flat year over year. Excluding the impact of Quantinuum, we expect segment margins to be down 10 to up 30 basis points as our price cost actions and cost management mostly offset the volume leverage challenges we're facing in the supply constrained environment. The net below-the-line impact is expected to be between $30 million to $75 million expense, with a range of repositioning between $120 million and $160 million in the quarter as we continue to provide capacity to fund ongoing restructuring. We expect the effective tax rate to be in the range of 22% and average share count to be approximately 697 million shares. As a result, we expect first quarter EPS between $1.80 and $1.90, down 6% to down 1% year over year. And lastly, first quarter is historically our lowest from a cash perspective. And with the supply chain impacts that we have been facing, those will continue to drive higher inventory levels, dampening our cash generation in the short term. Now, let's take a moment to walk through our expectations by segment. In aero, we expect flight hours to remain relatively flat to the fourth quarter, though COVID may dampen it some. It will be up significantly year over year, leading to another quarter of strong growth in both air transport and business and general aviation. Air transport original equipment should return to growth as build rates begin to improve. And in defense and space, International Defense will continue to grow and stable U.S. defense spending will lead to volumes that are relatively flat to the fourth quarter, though down slightly year on year. In building technologies, we expect business conditions to remain similar to fourth quarter with strong demand but continued supply constraints. Demand for our Healthy Building Solutions should remain strong as the world continues to combat COVID-19 and the Omicron variant. The business should see sequential and year-over-year growth as we execute on our robust backlog in Building Solutions and see continued demand for fire and security products. In PMT, we expect continued year-over-year sales growth in the first quarter. Strong demand for thermal solutions will drive growth in process solutions, while the projects business begins to move past its pre-COVID decline comps. Increased catalyst shipments and process technologies licensing will support growth in UOP, though they'll be partially offset by lower equipment volumes due to project life-cycle timing. Advanced materials sales will continue to increase in the quarter due to sustained high demand across the product lines as well as pricing actions implemented to offset commodity inflation. Finally, in SPS, Q1 will be its most difficult quarter. We expect sales to be down year over year due to the nine point impact of mask demand and Intelligrated sales that will be near the second half exit rate as opposed to the very strong start in Q1 of last year. We'll see strong double-digit growth in the first quarter from productivity solutions and services, advanced sensing technologies and gas detection as they execute on the robust backlog. productivity solutions and services has been a star in the portfolio and we expect this business to continue to gain market share. So overall, the road ahead remains challenging, but we're confident in our ability to navigate through this operating environment in the first quarter and we're extremely optimistic about our prospects for the future. So with that, I'll turn the call back over to Darius.Darius Adamczyk -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Greg. Let's turn to Slide 12 and talk about our corporate governance at Honeywell. Integrity and ethics, inclusion and diversity and workplace respect are foundational principles that are core to our strategy at Honeywell. Our focus on these principles is evident in our corporate governance efforts throughout the entire organization from top to bottom. We have a diverse and independent board of directors overseeing the business and an executive team that is committed to fostering a culture built on these foundational principles. Through our annual training to all of our employees, we educate on our code of business conduct and promote honest business practices, compliance to all laws and regulations and respect in the workplace. We recently launched Honeywell Accelerator, a revitalized operating system that provides a centralized source of training programs designed to further develop our employees, enhance the way we manage, govern and operate the business. Accelerator allows us to educate and standardize around our best practices and will empower our employees with the knowledge and tools needed to perform their roles. In January, we announced a new addition to our board of directors. Rose Lee was elected to join the board as an independent director. Rose is currently president and chief executive officer of Cornerstone Building Brands, a leading manufacturer of exterior building products in North America. Rose has a unique blend of leadership skills, deep knowledge of operations and technology and a passion for environmental, social and governance expertise. Prior to joining Cornerstone Building Brands, Rose served as president of the DuPont water and protection business, focusing on improving sustainability through the company's water, shelter and safety solutions. She's also spearheaded initiatives to advance minorities, women's and veterans. Rose's perspective will be a valuable addition to our board as we further advance Honeywell's transformation. Now, let's turn to Slide 13 for some closing thoughts before we move into Q&A. In the first year of recovery was not without its challenges. However, we effectively managed through these macroeconomic difficulties and over delivered our financial commitments. We didn't stay on the sidelines, but instead, we took action to grow the business, including increasing our capital deployment. Our balance sheet remains strong and we'll continue to invest for the future of Honeywell. While several COVID-related headwinds will drag into early part of 2022, the macro setup is trending favorably for most of our end markets and we're optimistic about our future. Our recent innovations, including new safety and sustainability offerings, will drive long-term growth and allow us to meet some of the world's most pressing needs. One last item before we move to Q&A. I'm pleased to announce that our 2022 investor day will be held on March 3 at our corporate headquarters in Charlotte. At this investor day, I, along with members of the senior management team, will discuss Honeywell's business strategy, exciting new growth opportunities and an updated long-term growth algorithm. We look forward to sharing more with you about Honeywell's future at that time. With that, Sean, let's move to Q&A.Sean Meakim -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you, Darius. Darius, Greg, Anne and Torsten are now available to answer your questions. We ask you, please be mindful of others in the queue by only asking one question. Ari, please open the line for Q&A. 