
OperatorGood morning and welcome to the Verizon Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host, Mr. Brady Connor, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations.Brady Connor -- Senior Vice President, Investor Relations

 



Thanks, Brad. Good morning and welcome to our second quarter earnings conference call. This is Brady Connor, and I'm here with our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Hans Vestberg and Matt Ellis our Chief Financial Officer.As a reminder, our earnings release, financial and operating information and the presentation slides are available on our Investor Relations website. A replay and transcript of this call will also be made available on our website.Before we get started, I'd like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement on Slide 2. Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties. Discussions of factors that may affect future results is contained in Verizon's filings with the SEC, which are available on our website.This presentation contains certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included in the financial materials posted on our website.

 



Now let's take a look at consolidated earnings for the second quarter. In the second quarter, we reported earnings of $1.40 per share on a GAAP basis. Reported second-quarter earnings include a net pre-tax gain from special items of $182 million consisting of a pre-tax gain of approximately $1.3 billion related to a pension remeasurement credit, as well as a pre-tax loss of $1.1 billion from early debt redemption costs. Excluding the effects of these special items, adjusted earnings per share was $1.37 in the second quarter.In May, we announced an agreement to sell Verizon Media to Apollo Funds with an expected close date in the second half of 2021. Upon the announcement, certain assets of the Verizon Media business were classified as an Asset Held for Sale. As a result, we no longer depreciate or amortize these assets, which resulted in a partial quarter benefit of $0.03 per share in the second quarter and this benefit will continue until the deal closes.With that, I'll now turn the call over to Hans to take us through a recap of the second quarter.Hans Vestberg -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

 



Thank you, Brady. And thank you for joining our second quarter earnings call. It is remarkable, the difference a year can make. We are quickly resuming pre-pandemic norms and at Verizon, our network and in-store traffic is almost back to pre-pandemic volumes and our office employees are gradually coming back to office. Of course, some behaviors are changed permanently; the mass shift toward online activity, speed up the timeline for work-from-home, distant learning, banking, entertainment, telemedicine, etc. All of these societal and behavioral shifts have had an impact on the business and they reaffirm our Network-as-a-Service strategy and our focus on delivering on our five vectors of growth.Finally, after a year of virtual meetings, I've been spending time in the field with customers and partners and, importantly, with our frontline workers who have done such heroic work throughout the past year serving our customers. All in all, we had a very enthusiastic and cautiously optimistic stakeholder base.As we conclude the first half of 2021, I have to say I'm extremely proud of the achievements we have made to strengthen Verizon in all aspects. Let me mention a couple of the milestones. We strengthened our strategic focus with our divest in the Verizon Media Group, which we believe will close around the end of the quarter. We invested in the best portion of the C-Band in order to accelerate and amplify our multipurpose Network-as-a-Service model. We have also improved our 2.0 organization structure and we brought in a diverse slate of top leaders. Our finance and treasury team did an outstanding job of strengthening our balance sheet with low cost of borrowing and maturity for our debt. We also laid out a long-term financial goal with focus on growth.All these focus on strategic execution and to deliver profitable growth by our teams have paved the way for a continued great financial performance. And in the second quarter, we not only generated our strongest earnings on record, we also produced good growth and profitability in all our units and segments.We demonstrated continued strength in our wireless service revenue growth. And combined with our scale and operational efficiency, we produced 5.6% adjusted EBITDA growth. Given the strength on our first half results, we are raising our full year guide and Matt will provide details later in the call.When it comes to our operations, our recent investments in our customers through the biggest 5G upgrade promotion and innovative trading, coupled with a Mix and Match for both wireless and Fios customers have led to strong performance across both our offerings.On the network side, we just continue to offer our customer the industry's best network experience. For the 16th consecutive time, RootMetrics awarded Verizon the best overall network performance and for the 27th consecutive time, JD Power named us the number one network quality. Our C-Band build, we are on track to build 7,000 to 8,000 sites by year-end and we are on plan to launch the first 46 markets. And we are also strengthening our network by expanding our fixed wireless access reach.If we look to the traffic in the network, the customer activity is near pre-COVID levels. And as mobility traffic comes back, we have seen millimeter wave usage increase 290%, June, year-to-date. And as we continue to deploy millimeter wave sites and we get more device penetration, we expect these numbers to continue to increase fast, and track toward 5% to 10% of traffic in most dense urban areas by year-end.We are making progress in executing across all our five vectors of growth. On the 5G adoption, approximately 20% of our wireless phone base are now on 5G devices with the majority of them C-Band capable. In the second quarter, the step-up rates were very, very healthy. And this reflects value and differentiated experience for our customers. We also had a record high new accounts that opted for premium unlimited plan.The next generation Verizon application, we launched the first commercial available private 5G network solution in the U.S. It's an on-site private 5G that brings on-premise 5G capabilities to large enterprises and public sector customers. The team in Verizon Business Group continue to make very important partnership and one of them in the quarter was with Mastercard, where we will work together with Mastercard on 5G Mobile Edge Compute, transforming the contactless payment for consumer, as well as small and medium-sized businesses.The customer differentiation that we continue to develop further strengthened in the quarter with new content and experience to our Mix and Match platform with a broken device trade-in, the biggest upgrade ever promotion and we also added, through partnership, content with Apple Arcade and Google Play Pass.Expansion into new markets. We have been focusing and continue to have broadband nationwide and we expanded our 5G Home Services, which is now available across 47 markets. On the 4G Home, we expanded to more suburban and urban areas and is now available in parts of all 50 states. At the same time, we launched a new home router which is compatible with the C-Band. Finally, we have recently expanded our 5G Business Internet also to parts of 42 cities.In summary, our strategy is working and is more relevant than ever, driving value for our investors and to our customers and society as they embrace new ways of living and working. We have great momentum on all five vectors of growth, delivering on profit growth with alignment for our long-term growth targets.With that, I'll now turn it over to Matt to discuss the financial results.Matthew D. Ellis -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Hans. And good morning, everyone. Second quarter results were exceptional, both financially and operationally. We continue to execute on our strategy, driving contributions from all five growth vectors. We attracted new customers and accounts, and delivered low churn amid strong upgrade activity, all of which serves to accelerate 5G adoption in advance of our C-Band deployment later this year.Accelerating volumes contributed to another quarter of strong sequential wireless service revenue growth building off of our industry-leading performance in recent quarters. At the same time, our disciplined approach is driving profitability and strong earnings results.Let's go through the details, beginning on Slide 6. In the second quarter, consolidated operating revenue was $33.8 billion, up 10.9% year-over-year. Service and other revenue rose 5.7%, driven by strength in wireless, Fios and media. Equipment revenue rose 47.6% year-over-year, given COVID-impacted sales a year ago, and was up more than 17% from second quarter 2019 levels, driven by healthy upgrade activity. Total wireless service revenues were up 5.9% year-over-year and 4% compared to second quarter 2019. The results represent sequential growth of $139 million, nearly double our industry-leading sequential growth reported in the first quarter.Total Fios revenues were up 5.4% year-over-year, driven by continued broadband subscriber growth. Adjusted EBITDA of $12.2 billion grew 5.6% over the prior year, in line with our service and other revenue growth despite absorbing approximately $60 million of incremental tower lease costs related to the updated agreements to accelerate the deployment of our C-Band spectrum. As Brady and Hans highlighted, adjusted EPS for the second quarter was $1.37, the best on record. The execution of our strategy is translating to record earnings results and we are well-positioned to continue the momentum into the second half of the year.Now let's review our operating segment results, starting with Consumer on Slide 7. Momentum built throughout the quarter and we timed our promotions to take full advantage of the economic recovery and increased customer activity. The result was one of our strongest net new wireless account quarters. With stores fully open and consumer behavior closer to pre-pandemic levels, we delivered 1.7 million postpaid phone gross adds in the quarter, up from 1.2 million in second quarter 2020 and almost identical to 2019 levels. Phone churn of 0.65% remained favorable throughout the quarter and benefited from new offers in the marketplace. This result was a record low for a non-COVID impacted quarter. As a result, the phone net adds of 197,000 were our best second quarter for Consumer.The response to our differentiated customer proposition, including the broken device trade-in and the biggest upgrade ever promotion was terrific. Device upgrades, which was significantly higher compared to both second quarter 2020 and 2019, drove 5G adoption step-ups to premium unlimited plans; a strong indicator that our strategy is working. We exited the second quarter with approximately 20% of our phone base using 5G capable devices with the vast majority supporting C-Band. In addition, step-up rates were historically high and nearly 60% of new accounts opted for a premium unlimited plan; a record high. At quarter-end approximately 69% of our account base was on unlimited plans with nearly 27% of our account base on premium unlimited plans.The quality and reliability of our Fios service, combined with the simplicity of our Mix and Match offerings, continues to drive strong demand for broadband. Fios Internet net adds totaled 92,000 in the quarter, supported by strong customer retention and our Fios Internet customer base is more than 7% higher than a year ago. Our trailing 12-month total Fios Internet net add performance is the highest since 2015.Now let's move to Slide 8 to discuss the Consumer financial performance. The improved customer activity translated to impressive top-line trends. Total revenue for the quarter grew 11.2% year-over-year and was also 6.7% higher versus second quarter 2019. Equipment revenue was the biggest driver, rebounding above pre-COVID levels from higher activations, aided by our customer value proposition. Wireless service revenue momentum translated to 5.4% year-over-year growth and 2.5% growth compared to second quarter 2019. Service revenue was driven by customer growth, step-ups, products such as content, as well as reseller and prepaid. This growth comes despite minimal contributions from international roaming, which we expect should provide a further uptick to growth in future quarters.Momentum in Fios continues with revenues of $2.9 billion, surpassing pre-COVID levels, driven by the continued uptake of gigabit speeds. The results represent our highest revenue results ever. We remain encouraged by the continued margin improvement within Fios, driven by the adoption of Mix and Match plans and a greater contribution from broadband. Consumer segment EBITDA for the quarter grew 4.9% over 2020, representing an EBITDA margin of 44.3%, down from the prior year, primarily resulting from higher activations.Now let's move to our Business segment on Slide 9. Business wireless activity was highlighted by postpaid gross adds of 1.2 million, up 6.3% over second quarter 2020, and up 2.1% over second quarter 2019. Segment postpaid phone churn was 1.07%, up 17 basis points year-over-year, reflecting elevated disconnects from COVID-related purchases in 2020, particularly within the education vertical of public sector. As schools plan for more in-person learning this fall, we expect disconnects to remain elevated in public sector in the third quarter. Despite the disconnect pressures, phone net adds was strong at 78,000 with improving trends in both SMB and enterprise, both of which posted their strongest phone net adds in over a year, offsets in the disconnects in public sector.Let's now move to Slide 10 to review the Business financial performance. The Business segment delivered strong top-line growth with total revenue up 3.7% year-over-year. Equipment revenue, which is up approximately 47% was the primary driver of the increase. Wireless service revenue growth of 8% was driven by strong momentum in small and medium business and the first quarter of enterprise growth since the onset of the pandemic. Public sector continue to show strong growth over 2020 though it's pressured by COVID-related churn in education. The wireless strengths were partially offset by declines in Business wireline, which returned to a more normal trajectory after elevated COVID-related demand.Business segment EBITDA margin was 24.1% in the quarter, down approximately 210 basis points year-over-year, mostly driven by higher equipment volumes and wireline pressure. While pressures likely persist in the near term, the economic reopening, business transformation initiatives, and 5G for enterprise provide opportunities to drive margin.Now let's move on to Slide 11 to discuss Verizon Media Group. Verizon Media Group continued its recent trends and delivered strong performance, driven by high customer engagement with our brands and demand for our advertising platforms. Total revenue for the quarter was $2.1 billion, up approximately 50% from a year ago and up 13% from second quarter 2019.Let's now move to our cash flow results on Slide 12. Cash flow from operating activities for the first half of 2021 totaled $20.4 billion compared with $23.6 billion from the prior year. The change was primarily driven by higher cash taxes and higher working capital requirements due to greater volumes. The cash tax impact was a result of a one-time benefit received in the second quarter of 2020, as well as a COVID-related postponements of payments in the year ago period. These expected headwinds were offset by our strong operational results.Capital spending for the first half of 2021 totaled $8.7 billion as we continued to support traffic growth on our 4G LTE network, while expanding the reach and capacity of our 5G Ultra Wideband network. C-Band capex was more than $160 million in the first half and we have placed orders for approximately $1.4 billion of related equipment year-to-date, giving us a confidence that we will be within the previously provided $2 billion to $3 billion range for the year. The net result of cash flow from operations and capital spending is free cash flow for the first half of the year of $11.7 billion.During the quarter, we began to normalize our cash balance closer to the pre-pandemic levels, given the macro environment, and we ended the period with $4.8 billion of cash on the balance sheet; a sequential change of $5.4 billion. We exited the quarter with unsecured debt of $141.6 billion; a sequential improvement of $6 billion as we continue to focus on optimizing our debt footprint. Our total borrowing cost in the second quarter were $1.4 billion, which was relatively flat to second quarter 2019 levels, despite having approximately $40 billion in additional debt this year. Net unsecured debt at the end of the first half was $136.8 billion and our net unsecured debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio was approximately 2.9 times.Now let's review our annual guidance targets on Slide 13. Our strong first half performance and the momentum in our business gives us the confidence to raise guidance. Please note that the updated guidance reflects the planning assumption that the Verizon Media sale closes at the end of the third quarter.Starting with revenue, we are raising our wireless service revenue growth outlook to 3.5% to 4%, up from the prior 3%-plus. The drivers of the revised outlook are broad-based, and include positive trends we have seen for customer acquisition, premium plan adoption, products and services such as cloud and content, as well as prepaid and reseller growth. The anticipated timing of the Verizon Media sale means we would not recognize any revenue from that business in the fourth quarter. As a result, service and other revenue is no longer an apples-to-apples comparison with 2020 and we are withdrawing that growth guidance at this time.Turning to earnings. We now expect an adjusted EPS range of $5.25 to $5.35, up from the prior range of $5 to $5.15. The increase is driven by the improved wireless service revenue outlook, the aforementioned Media D&A benefit and a reduction in the expected interest expense related to the C-Band investment. Our guidance for the effective tax rate and capex are unchanged.In summary, we are competing effectively and delivering strong volumes, growing accounts, driving healthy step-ups and positioning our base to capitalize long-term as we grow 5G adoption. Our customer performance has led to quality financial results as demonstrated by the sequential wireless service revenue growth, while also flow into the bottom-line with best-on-record adjusted EPS. We enter the second half with a lot of momentum and I'm confident we will continue to execute our strategy and deliver strong operational and financial results throughout the remainder of the year.With that, I will now turn the call back over to Hans to discuss our priorities for the remainder of 2021.Hans Vestberg -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Matt. At our Investor Day, we laid out commitments for 2021 and beyond to scale our Network-as-a-Service strategy and generate GDP plus growth. We made transformational investment over the last 12 months through acquisitions, divestiture and customer innovation and creating a strong platform for growth in the second half of 2021 and beyond.Our priorities for the second half: continue to build on our current network and customer initiatives to further amplify and accelerate 5G adoption; further cement our network leadership through industry-leading millimeter way and C-Band assets. We expect to close our TracFone and VMG transaction later this year, increasing our focus on what we do best and bringing innovation and best-in-class customer experience to the value segment. And overall, drive growth across our five vectors with disciplined and customer-focused execution.At the end, the great transform in the first half, we competed very well in the marketplace and we're very confident and excited on our opportunities ahead.With that, I turn it over to Brady for the Q&A.Brady Connor -- Senior Vice President, Investor RelationsThank you, Hans. Brad, we're now ready to take questions.