
OperatorGood morning, and welcome to the Healthpeak Properties, Inc. Third Quarter Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Andrew Johns, Vice President, Corporate Finance and Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Andrew Johns -- Vice President Corporate Finance and Investor RelationsWelcome to Healthpeak's Third Quarter 2021 Financial Results Conference Call. Today's conference call will contain certain forward-looking statements. Although we believe the expectations reflected in any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, our forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. A discussion of risk and risk factors is included in our press release and detailed in our filings with the SEC. We do not undertake a duty to update any forward-looking statements. Certain non-GAAP financial measures will be discussed on this call and exhibit to the 8-K we furnished to the SEC yesterday. We have reconciled all non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in accordance with the Reg G requirements.

 



The exhibit is also available on our website. Also, last night, we published a West Cambridge in South San Francisco transaction update presentation. This presentation can be found in the Investor Presentations section of our website. I will now turn the call over to our Chief Executive Officer, Tom Herzog.Thomas M. Herzog -- Chief Executive OfficerThanks, A.J., and good morning, everyone. On the call with me today are Scott Brinker, our President and CIO; and Pete Scott, our CFO. Also on the line and available for the Q&A portion of the call are: Tom Klaritch, our COO; and Troy McHenry, our Chief Legal Officer and General Counsel. Our Q3 operating and earnings results were favorable. Meanwhile, we have been very active and productive in our transaction, development and leasing activities. Let me hit the high points. Starting with operations. Our life science and MOB businesses, which represent close to 90% of our Q3 NOI continued to perform above expectations. While our combined CCRC and sovereign wealth fund JV performance was roughly in line with expectations. On the transaction front, we closed our remaining $150 million of rental senior housing sales, bringing total sales since July of 2020 to $4 billion.And we redeployed the entirety of the sales proceeds into our core life science and MOB acquisitions and debt reduction. In life science, we announced a $625 million largely contiguous assemblage of operating and covered land investments in West Cambridge. With the strategic play, we have now captured the majority of the high-quality developable land in this important submarket and plan to develop multiple Class A life science properties over the next decade plus. In MOBs, we added three new acquisitions, bringing our year-to-date MOB acquisitions to approximately $780 million, which are primarily on-campus. We were also awarded three new developments from HCA, two traditional medical office buildings, along with a stand-alone nursing school that will be fully leased by HCA. As I mentioned last quarter, we expect to continue to focus our MOB growth on flow business to leverage our platform, scale and relationships, hitting accretive singles and doubles.

 



Moving to development. Our life science development program continues to see positive momentum as fundamentals remain strong across our three core markets of San Francisco, Boston and San Diego. A $1.2 billion active development pipeline is 87% pre-leased with the remaining unleased space and active discussions. Given this, yesterday, we announced the commencement of our $393 million Vantage Phase one development in South San Francisco. With the scheduled closings of the remaining West Cambridge acquisitions, we will have aggregated seven million square feet or $10 billion plus of embedded development and densification opportunities across our three businesses and all fully under our ownership and control. One final comment. This quarter, we added to our ESG recognition with the GRESB Green Star designation and inclusion in the FTSE4Good Sustainability Index, both for the tenth consecutive year. We're proud that ESG has and will continue to be woven into the fabric of our corporate culture. With that, I'll turn it over to Scott.Scott M. Brinker -- President and Chief Investment OfficerOkay. Thank you, Tom. I'll cover operating results then discuss acquisitions and development. Starting with life science results. Virtually, our entire footprint is in the three hot beds of biotech innovation, Boston, San Francisco and San Diego. Over the past four decades, these markets have developed an unmatched ecosystem of academics, capital and scientific talent, placing them at the heart of the biotech revolution that's just getting started. We've purposely chosen to concentrate our resources and build a strong position in these markets, which is driving strong performance. Year-to-date, we signed 2.2 million square feet of leases, which is two times our full year budget from the beginning of the year. The leasing success was broad-based across all three markets and included new developments, renewals and expansions.In the third quarter, we signed 406,000 square feet of renewals at a 20% cash mark-to-market, that's in line with the current upside across our entire life science rent roll. And of course, the mark-to-market will vary from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year. Same-store cash NOI growth for the quarter was 6.8%, bringing year-to-date growth to 7.7%. The results were driven by contractual escalators, leasing activity and mark-to-market on renewals. Looking forward, we have a leasing pipeline of nearly 600,000 square feet under signed letters of intent, including new developments, renewals and expansions with existing tenants. Our run rate, annual cash NOI for life science now exceeds $500 million. and is in the $600 million range, including development leases that have been signed but not yet commenced.

 



Moving to medical office. Leasing activity continues to outperform our expectations. We had 700,000 square feet of commencements in the quarter. Mark-to-market on renewals was 2.3% and retention was strong at 80% for the trailing 12 months, both in line with historical averages. We're seeing strong demand in Nashville, Seattle, Dallas and Denver, all markets where you've seen us grow in recent quarters. Thanks to our cash NOI growth this quarter was 2.9%, toward the high end of our historical range, driven by leasing activity, strong collections and part of the income. We're also benefiting from our green investments to reduce carbon footprint and operating cost. Hospital inpatient and outpatient volumes are strong and hospitals continue to invest in our affiliated properties, benefiting our unique on-campus portfolio.Finishing with CCRCs. Our concentration in Florida is a long-term positive, but made for a more challenging third quarter as the state was hit hard by the Delta variant. This had a temporary impact on occupancy, especially in assisted living and skilled. Consistent with the national headlines, labor is a headwind. As a result, same-store cash NOI growth was negative 1.7% for the quarter, excluding CARES Act funding. Independent living represents 2/3 of the total unit count at our campuses and demand for those units is strong. The number of entry fee sales in 3Q was nearly back to 2019 levels, and entry free cash receipts in the quarter exceeded historical levels. We have strong pricing power in most of our markets, supported by the housing market. Moving to medical office acquisitions. In September, we acquired two on-campus MOBs in Dallas, affiliated with the Baylor Scott & White system for $60 million.This was an off-market acquisition and expands our number one medical office market share in Dallas. In October, we acquired an MOB in Seattle for $43 million. The building expands our footprint on the campus of Swedish Medical Center to 600,000 square feet. We see potential to significantly densify the site over time, taking advantage of the land locked location next to one of Seattle's leading hospitals. Also in October, we acquired a 55,000 square foot MOB on the campus of an HA Hospital in New Orleans at $34 million. Once again, this acquisition was done off market. Turning to life science development. Lease up is exceeding our underwriting on both the rate and timing. Our active development pipeline is now 87% pre-leased, excluding Vantage phase one, which commenced yesterday. The final phase of the shore is now 100% pre-leased and the rate on the final lease was 32% higher than the initial lease we signed at the shore just three years ago.Staying in South San Francisco with very strong leasing activity at our Nexus project nextdoor, we chose to commence development at Vantage. A picture can say a thousand words, so please take a look at the investment deck we published yesterday. On page seven, you'll see that the Vantage campus sits in the heart of South San Francisco, adjacent to our Nexus and Pointe Grand campuses. Phase one will include 343,000 square feet and deliver in the second half of 2023. Upon completion of all phases, the Vantage campus will include at least one million square feet of Class A lab and potentially far more subject to entitlements which are ongoing. Moving to San Diego, where we fully pre-leased our 540,000 square feet of active development. In the third quarter, we secured the next phase of our growth with a covered land play acquisition.The site sits between our existing Sorrento Gateway and Sorrento Summit campuses, all of which have excellent visibility and accessibility from Interstate 805. Once the site is developed, we'll have 700,000 square feet across these three campuses. In Boston, our 101 Cambridge Park Drive project in Alewife delivered in 4Q 2022 is now 88% pre-leased. The average lease rate is $99 per foot or 27% above our underwriting. This project brings our footprint in the Alewife submarket of West Cambridge to 1.1 million square feet across 18 acres. And that brings us to the series of acquisitions we announced yesterday. In eight separate transactions totaling $625 million of initial investment, we assembled 36 acres of largely contiguous land in the AOA submarket West Cambridge. We now have a significant development opportunity on the East Coast to balance our enormous development pipeline in South San Francisco.The blended Year one FFO yield is 4.2% with the potential for huge earnings and NAV upside in the future. Roughly 1/4 of the $625 million investment represents stabilized cash flowing acquisitions, the remainder are covered land plays, primarily single-store industrial and flex office that we intend to eventually replace with Class A lab buildings in phases over the next decade plus. We'll be working with the City of Cambridge on the development plan and have more to share in coming quarters. If you turn to page four of yesterday's investment deck, you'll see the assemblages within walking distance to our existing buildings in Alewife. Both sites have commuter access by train, car and bike. In particular, we're within walking distance to the Alewife train station and adjacent to Route two in the Minuteman bike path, all of which connect Cambridge, Downtown Boston and the Western suburbs.These campus settings are a competitive advantage for leasing because we can provide world-class amenities, infrastructure and flexibility for tenants to grow without relocating. This is very, very different than owning a single lab building in an isolated location. I'll turn it to Pete.Peter A. Scott -- Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Scott. Starting with our financial results. For the third quarter, we reported FFO as adjusted of $0.40 per share and blended same-store growth of 3.2%. Our strong results are driven by continued outperformance in both life science and medical office. And for the third quarter, our Board declared a dividend of $0.30 per share. Turning to our balance sheet. We finished the third quarter with a net debt to adjusted EBITDA of five times. We expect to reach our mid-five times target leverage ratio by the end of the year with the majority of our announced acquisition activity closing in the fourth quarter. During the quarter, we closed on an upsized $3 billion revolving credit facility, an increase of $500 million. The upsized revolver provides us with significant benefits. It increases our liquidity position.It extends our debt maturity profile, and it reduces our overall borrowing costs. We had 100% of our banking group reup their commitment, which is a testament to their confidence in our company and our future. Also, during the quarter, we raised net proceeds of approximately $320 million of equity under our ATM program at a blended gross stock price of approximately $35.60 per share. All of the equity was raised under 18-month forward contracts. Pro forma the settlement of our equity forwards, third quarter net debt-to-adjusted EBITDA is reduced to 4.7 times. Turning to our guidance. We are increasing our 2021 guidance as follows: FFO as adjusted, revised from $1.55 to $1.61 per share; two, $1.58 to $1.62 per share, an increase of $0.02 at the midpoint; blended same-store NOI growth revised from 2.25% in to 3.75% to 3.5% to 4%, an increase of 75 basis points at the midpoint.The major components of our revised guidance are as follows: In life sciences, we had increased the midpoint of our same-store guidance by 75 basis points to 6.5%. The -- In medical office, we have increased the midpoint of our same-store guidance by 25 basis points to 2.75%. For our significant nonsame-store portfolios, we have tightened our guidance range to $85 million to $105 million, leaving the midpoint unchanged. Finishing with acquisition. Year-to-date, we have announced $1.6 billion of acquisitions that have either closed or are under contract. Accordingly, we have updated our acquisition guidance to reflect this activity. Please refer to pages 41 and 42 of our supplemental for additional details on our guidance revision. With that, operator, let's open the line for Q&A.