  OperatorGood afternoon. My name is Brittany, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the KLA Corporation June quarter 2021 earnings conference call and webcast. [Operator instructions] I will now turn the call over to Kevin Kessel, vice president of investor relations. Please go ahead.Kevin Kessel -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you, and welcome to KLA's fiscal Q4 2021 quarterly earnings call to discuss the results of the June quarter and the outlook for the September quarter. With me on today's call is Rick Wallace, our chief executive officer; and Bren Higgins, our chief financial officer. During this call, we will discuss quarterly results for the period ended June 30, 2021, released this afternoon after market close. You can find the press release, shareholder letter, slide deck, and infographic on the KLA IR section of our website. Today's discussion is presented on a non-GAAP financial basis, unless otherwise specified. And whenever we make references to a year, we are referring to calendar years. A detailed reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP results is in the earnings materials posted on our website. Our IR website also contains future investor events as well as presentations, corporate governance information, and links to our SEC filings, including our most recent annual report and quarterly reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q.Our comments today are subject to risks and uncertainties reflected in the risk factor disclosure in our SEC filings. Any forward-looking statements, including those we make on the call today are subject to those risks, and KLA cannot guarantee those forward-looking statements will come true. Our actual results may differ significantly from those projected in our forward-looking statements. Let me now turn the call over to our chief executive officer, Rick Wallace. Rick? Rick Wallace -- Chief Executive Officer Hello, and thank you for joining us today. The June 2021 quarter showed continued momentum and strength for KLA. We delivered on our top- and bottom-line goals and progressed against our long-term strategic objectives. Specifically, quarterly revenue grew 7% sequentially and 32% year over year to $1.925 billion. Non-GAAP earnings per share was $4.43, representing 15% sequential growth and 63% growth compared to the prior year. These results demonstrate strong growth momentum in our core markets, and the operating leverage in the KLA model. We continue to see increased customer demand across each of our major product groups. This demand is related to ongoing secular demand trends driving semiconductor industry growth across a broad range of markets and applications. Our customers are increasing their strategic capex investments to address these growth markets and investing in their leading-edge R&D efforts. Against the strong demand backdrop, we are navigating evolving customer needs and persistent supply chain challenges. Still, KLA continues to outperform expectations by operating with purpose and precision and focusing on creating value for our customers, partners, and shareholders. This strong execution is led by our talented global teams continuing to go above and beyond, constantly rising to the challenge and opportunities of the marketplace. I will quickly summarize our view of the industry demand environment. We're in a great position relative to growth drivers that are creating momentum for the industry and our business. As a result, our outlook for the wafer fab equipment industry continues to move higher. We have increased our growth estimate from the low- to mid-20s stated last quarter to the low to mid-30s on a percentage basis. This is from a base of approximately $61 billion in calendar 2020. With strong secular semiconductor demand trends continuing, we expect positive industry dynamics to sustain into calendar 2022. As our business benefits from this increased demand and our customers are also investing in leading-edge node development, fab optimization, and regional expansion, KLA offers the leading portfolio of products to solve our customers' challenges. We continue to invest high levels of R&D to ensure we are constantly improving and remaining indispensable to our customers. Specifically, we're prioritizing investment in artificial intelligence and machine learning. KLA's unique capabilities in leveraging these technologies and our product and service offerings help drive adoption and differentiates KLA against the competition. KLA benefits from long-standing market leadership and high levels of investment in advanced laser, sensor, optics, and data analytics technologies that leverage our AI and ML capabilities to identify critical defects in the production process and deliver ever-increasing precision in metrology applications. This investment helps our product and service offerings deliver best-in-class performance, lower process variability, higher yields, improved time to market, and reduced cost of ownership for our customers. Our growing R&D investment is happening as process control intensity is increasing. KLA's market leadership in the process control market remains greater than four times the nearest competitor as reported by Gartner Research in April of 2021. KLA's sustained performance in process control is augmented by a broader position within the electronics ecosystem through our electronics, packaging, and components or EPC businesses and the contributions of our large and growing services business. For new and longtime KLA investors, it's essential to point out that KLA's market leadership is a result of consistent and focused execution of our company's differentiated strategy. With this favorable backdrop and our strong execution, we're on track to achieve our 2023 financial targets well ahead of expectations. Let's now move along to the top highlights for our most recent quarter. First, KLA continues to execute well and outperform expectations. In foundry and logic, we see simultaneous investments across multiple nodes, and our customers continue to increase demand forecasts. We remain encouraged by the breadth and consistency of investment across our customer base. In memory, demand is strong and spread across a broader set of customers. During the quarter, we announced four new products targeting the automotive semiconductor market, including patterned and unpatterned wafer inspection and in-line test solutions. KLA's automotive solutions aim to help customers identify and mitigate potential reliability defects in the development and manufacturing of automotive semiconductors early in the manufacturing process, improving device reliability and driving significant value for our customers. Second, KLA's strong market leadership and optical pattern wafer inspection has helped to drive strong relative growth for our semiconductor process control segment in 2021. In fact, optical pattern wafer inspection is forecast to be among the fastest-growing segments in WFE in 2021 for product segments over $1 billion in revenue and is poised to outpace the overall industry growth by a factor of two times this year. This follows similar growth and outperformance in 2020. Third, KLA's flagship reticle inspection business is on pace for a record year in 2021, growing faster than the market and growing our leadership position. As proof of that, we estimate that nearly all the reticles today at 5-nanometer are inspected by KLA systems. Our next-generation e-beam based 8XX mask inspection platform shipped last quarter and has begun customer qualification for applications at 3-nanometer and below. Fourth, our services revenue was $444 million in the June quarter or 23% of total sales. 75% of services revenue in our semiconductor process control segment and more than 90% of services revenue in our printed circuit board business is from recurring subscription-based contracts. We believe these are among the highest subscription service rates in the industry. The services business is on track for another year of strong double-digit growth, well above our long-term growth model target. The growth is driven by our expanding installed base, higher utilization rates and increasing expansion of service opportunities at the trailing edge and the EPC group. Our semiconductor process control service business revenue continues to grow faster than the rate of the growth of the installed base, approximately 2.8 times faster from 2016 through 2020. KLA Service business has the advantage of always working in close collaboration with our customers and partners, driving innovation and new initiatives for growth. Finally, in keeping with our commitment to deliver strong and predictable capital returns to our shareholders, today, we announced that KLA's board of directors approved a 17% increase in the company's quarterly dividend level from $0.90 to $1.05 per share. This is the 12th consecutive annual increase in our dividend level, which has grown at a compounded annual rate of 16% since inception in 2006. In addition, we announced a new $2 billion share repurchase authorization targeted for execution over the next 12 to 18 months. We believe KLA's track record of delivering strong capital returns is a key component of the KLA investment thesis and offers predictable and compelling value creation for our shareholders. Before moving into the financial highlights, let's briefly summarize a few key points. KLA's June quarter results demonstrate the critical nature of KLA's products and services in enabling the digital transformation of our lives, the resiliency of the KLA operating model, and our commitment to productive capital allocation. KLA is exceptionally well-positioned with a comprehensive portfolio of products to meet demanding customer requirements that balance sensitivity and throughput. The semiconductor and electronics landscape are constantly changing, and we are seeing broadening customer interest driven by more technology innovation than ever before at the leading edge. KLA also delivers enduring value through our commitment to corporate stewardship. We look forward to sharing an update on our ESG vision in our Global Impact report, which will be released in the coming weeks. And with that, I'll pass the call over to Bren.Bren Higgins -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Rick. KLA's June quarter '21 results highlight the soundness and strength of our ongoing strategies. We continue to demonstrate our ability to meet customer needs in a robust demand environment while expanding market leadership, growing operating profits, generating strong free cash flow, and maintaining our long-term strategy of productive capital allocation. Total revenue in the June quarter was $1.93 billion, toward the top end of the guided range. Non-GAAP gross margin was 62%, at the midpoint of the guided range for the quarter of 61% to 63%. Non-GAAP EPS was $4.43, above the guided range of $3.47 to $4.35. GAAP EPS was $4.10. Non-GAAP total operating expenses were $419 million, about $7 million higher than expected, primarily due to engineering materials timing and adjustments to variable compensation programs. Non-GAAP operating expenses included $241 million of R&D expense and $178 million of SG&A. At KLA, technical application support for our customers is included in SG&A and was $44 million in the quarter. The combination of R&D expense and technical applications represents about 70% of total operating expenses. KLA innovation is fundamental to our go-to-market strategy focused on differentiated solutions. R&D is at the heart of KLA and remains a key element in driving our portfolio strategy and product differentiation. This in turn helps sustain our technology and market leadership. Non-GAAP operating income was very strong at 40.2%. Given higher revenue expectations for the second half of '21, product development requirements, ongoing regionalization of additional customer engagement resources, and increased investment in our global infrastructure due to overall business volume, we expect non-GAAP operating expenses to be approximately $430 million in the September quarter. Going forward, we will continue to size the company based on our target operating model, which delivers 40% to 50% incremental operating margin leverage on revenue growth over a multi-quarter horizon. Other income and expense in the June quarter net was $11 million, reflecting the gain on an investment in a strategic supplier that recently completed an initial public offering. This gain represented $0.15 of earnings per share at the company's tax planning rate of 13.5%. You should continue to model other income and expense net at approximately $43 million per quarter. The quarterly adjusted effective tax rate was 10.4%, reflecting the benefit of favorable audit adjustments recognized in the period. Non-GAAP net income was $684 million, GAAP net income was $633 million. Cash flow from operations was $466 million, and free cash flow was $410 million. The company had approximately 154 million diluted weighted average shares outstanding at quarter end. Revenue for the semiconductor process control segment, including its associated service business, was $1.581 billion, a sequential quarterly increase of 5% and also up 37% compared with June of last year. The approximate semiconductor process control customer segment mix was in line with our forecast from April, as foundry/logic was 68% and memory was 32%. In memory, the business was split roughly 34% NAND and 66% DRAM. Revenue for electronics, packaging, and components group hit a record in the quarter, driven by continued strength in 5G mobile and infrastructure, as well as rising demand in automotive. More specifically, the Specialty Semiconductor Process segment generated revenue of $98 million, up 7% sequentially and down 2% over the prior year. Demand in this segment was mostly driven by growth in the automotive power semiconductor applications, where we have a leading position in edge and deposition products. Specialty semiconductor processes' performance was also highlighted by the second straight quarter of record bookings. PCB, display, and component inspection revenue was $247 million, up 20% sequentially and up 22% year over year with the data center driving strength in advanced PCB and packaging inspection. KLA ended the quarter with $2.5 billion in total cash, total debt of almost $3.5 billion, and a flexible and attractive bond maturity profile supported by strong investment-grade ratings from all three agencies. We were also pleased to see Moody's upgrade our debt rating in early June to A2 from BAA1, further underscoring the strength of our balance sheet and sustainability of our business and financial performance. We have tremendous confidence in our business over the long run and are committed to a long-term strategy of cash returns to shareholders, executing a balanced approach split between dividends and share repurchases, targeting long-term returns of at least 70% of free cash flow generated. Our announcement today of our 12th consecutive annual increase in the dividend and the additional share repurchase authorization are representative of our explicit approach and strong track record of predictable and productive capital deployment. Over the last 12 months, KLA returned $1.5 billion to shareholders, including $559 million in dividends paid and $939 million in share repurchases. While circumstances can change, our current expectation remains that our capital returns for calendar '21 will exceed 85% of expected free cash flow. KLA has a history of consistent free cash flow generation, high free cash flow conversion, and strong free cash flow margins across all phases of the business cycle and economic conditions. During the quarter, we generated $410 million in free cash flow and repurchased $300 million of common stock, while also paying $139 million in dividends. Our overall semiconductor demand and WFE outlook continues to increase from our views earlier in the year. At the start of this year, we characterized the expected growth of the WFE market to be in the low teens, plus or minus a few percentage points. In April, we revised that view to the low to mid-20s on a percentage basis with a bias to the upside. Today, we see further improvement and expect the WFE market to grow in the low to mid-30s from approximately $61 billion in calendar in 2020 to approximately $81 billion at the midpoint in calendar '21. This reflects the broad-based strengthening of demand across all customer segments. KLA is in position to deliver strong relative growth this year, driven by our market leadership and strong momentum in the marketplace across multiple product platforms in both the semiconductor process control and EPC groups. Looking ahead, we remain encouraged by the sustainability of our current demand profile. As a result, we continue to expect total company revenue to improve sequentially quarter to quarter throughout the remainder of the calendar year. We also expect the second half of calendar '21 to grow in the mid-teens on a percentage basis versus the first half as more of our manufacturing capacity comes online to support this strong customer demand. Furthermore, our system shipment expectations point to meaningful growth in semiconductor process control equipment systems the second half of calendar '21. This strong backdrop supports our current expectations of high 30s to low 40s year-over-year percentage growth for the semiconductor process control systems business in calendar '21. As a result, we continue to believe that this business is positioned to outperform in '21 relative to the overall WFE market. Our September quarter guidance is as follows: total revenue is expected to be in a range of $2.02 billion, plus or minus $100 million. Foundry/logic is forecasted to be approximately 59% and memory is expected to be approximately 41% of Semiconductor Process Control Systems revenue to semiconductor customers. Within memory, DRAM is expected to be about 60% of the segment mix. We forecast non-GAAP gross margin to be in a range of 61.5% to 63.5%. At the midpoint, this is 50 basis points above the June quarter level due principally to product mix. While in any given quarter, the mix of our business across products and business segments will affect our gross margin results, the structural trends, both in terms of product cost, manufacturing efficiency and product positioning remain compelling and are sustainable tailwinds going forward. Other model assumptions for September include non-GAAP operating expenses of approximately $430 million; other income and expense of approximately $43 million; and an effective adjusted tax rate of approximately 13.5%. Finally, GAAP diluted EPS is expected to be in a range of $3.76 to $4.64, and non-GAAP diluted EPS in a range of $4.01 to $4.89. The EPS guidance is based on a fully diluted share count of approximately 153.5 million shares. In closing, the industry dynamics driving semiconductors and investments in WFE remain compelling, with broad-based customer demand and simultaneous investments across multiple technology nodes. We are encouraged by the leading indicators for our business, including our backlog and sales funnel visibility over the next couple of quarters. Our customers' multiyear investment plans also point to the stability of demand in the future. KLA continues to execute well and is on track to exceed our 2023 financial targets well ahead of expectations. The KLA operating model positions us well to outperform and guides our important strategic objectives. These objectives fuel our growth, operational excellence, and differentiation across an increasingly diverse product and service offering. They also underpin our sustained technology leadership, deep competitive mode, strong financial performance, and long-standing track record of free cash flow generation and capital return to shareholders. And with that, I'll now turn the call back over to Kevin to begin the Q&A.Kevin Kessel -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thanks, Bren. Brittany, can you please queue up for questions. 