  OperatorGood day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Capital One first quarter 2022 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Jeff Norris, senior vice president of global finance. Sir, you may begin.Jeff Norris -- Senior Vice President of Global Finance Thanks very much, Keith, and welcome, everybody, to Capital One's first quarter 2022 earnings conference call. As usual, we are webcasting live over the Internet. To access the call on the Internet, please log on to Capital One's website at capitalone.com and follow the links from there. In addition to the press release and financials, we've included a presentation summarizing our first quarter 2022 results.

 



 With me this evening are Mr. Richard Fairbank, Capital One's chairman and chief executive officer; and Mr. Andrew Young, Capital One's chief financial officer. Rich and Andrew are going to walk you through this presentation.To access a copy of the presentation and press release, please go to Capital One's website, click on Investors, then click on Quarterly Earnings Release. Please note that this presentation may contain forward-looking statements. Information regarding Capital One's financial performance and any other forward-looking statements contained in today's discussion and the materials speak only as of the particular date or dates indicated in the materials. Capital One does not undertake any obligation to update or revise any of this information, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Numerous factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements. And for more information on those factors, please see the section titled Forward-Looking Information in the earnings release presentation and the Risk Factors section in our annual and quarterly reports accessible at the Capital One website and filed with the SEC. Now I'll turn the call over to Mr. Young. Andrew? 

 



Andrew Young -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Jeff, and good afternoon, everyone. I'll start on Slide 3 of tonight's presentation. In the first quarter, Capital One earned $2.4 billion or $5.62 per diluted common share. The results include one notable item, a $192 million gain from the sale of two card partnership loan portfolios in the quarter. Period-end loans held for investment grew 1% on a linked quarter basis, and average loans grew 3%. Revenue in the linked quarter increased 1%. Noninterest expense decreased 3% in the quarter, driven by declines in both marketing and operating expenses. Provision expense in the quarter was $677 million, as net charge-offs of $767 million were partially offset by an allowance release. Turning to Slide 4, I will cover the changes in our allowance in greater detail. For the total company, we released $119 million of allowance in the first quarter, and the total allowance balance now stands at $11.3 billion. We continue to hold an elevated amount of qualitative factors to account for a number of uncertainties. Our total company coverage ratio is now 4%.

 



 Turning to Slide 5, I'll discuss the allowance and coverage of each of our segments. As you can see in the graph, our allowance coverage ratio was largely flat across each of our business segments. In our total card segment, the allowance balance declined $65 million, driven by our International Card businesses. In our Domestic Card business, the allowance balance remained flat at $8 billion. With the slight decline in ending loans, the flat allowance balance in Domestic Card resulted in a slight increase in the coverage ratio to 7.38%. In our Consumer Banking segment, the allowance balance declined by $16 million, which, when coupled with loan growth, resulted in a 10 basis point decline in coverage to 2.37%. And in Commercial, the $41 million decline in allowance balance was driven by portfolio credit improvement. The decline in coverage ratio was driven by both the allowance release, as well as growth. Turning to Page 6, I'll now discuss liquidity. You can see our preliminary average liquidity coverage ratio during the first quarter was 140%. The LCR remained stable and continues to be well above the 100% regulatory requirement. The investment portfolio ended the quarter at $89 billion, declining by about $6 billion on a linked quarter basis. Rising rates drove a market value decline of $4.3 billion with the remaining decline due to our continued efforts to reduce our investment portfolio from the elevated levels during the pandemic. Turning to Page 7, I'll cover our net interest margin. Our first quarter net interest margin was 6.49%, 50 basis points higher than the year ago quarter and 11 basis points lower than Q4. Relative to a year ago, the increase in NIM is largely driven by a balance sheet shift as we deployed excess cash to loans. The linked quarter decrease in NIM was driven by having two fewer days in the first quarter. Normalizing for day count effect, higher yields in both our card business and in our investment portfolio were roughly offset by the impact of hedges on the balance sheet and lower auto yields. Outside of quarterly day count, the NIM from here will largely be a function of the changes in our balance sheet mix, interest rates and the impacts of competition on loan yields and deposit betas. Turning to Slide 8, I will end by discussing our capital position. Our common equity Tier 1 capital ratio was 12.7% at the end of the first quarter, down 40 basis points from the prior quarter. Net income in the quarter was more than offset by share repurchases, the impact of the CECL transition and higher risk-weighted assets. Recall that the phase-in of CECL transition relief began on January 1. We recognized 25% of our $2.4 billion total after-tax phase-in amount in the first quarter. Also in the quarter, we repurchased $2.4 billion of common stock as part of the $5 billion share authorization that our board approved in January. Earlier this month, in addition to approving our CCAR 2022 submission and our capital plan, our board of directors also approved the authorization of up to an additional $5 billion of common stock repurchases that will be available beginning in the third quarter of this year. We continue to estimate that our CET1 capital need is around 11%. With that, I will turn the call over to Rich. Rich?Rich Fairbank -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Andrew, and good evening, everyone. I'll begin on Slide 10 with our Credit Card business. Year-over-year growth in purchase volume and loans, coupled with strong revenue margin, drove an increase in revenue compared to the first quarter of 2021. Credit Card segment results are largely a function of our Domestic Card results and trends, which are shown on Slide 11. Our Domestic Card business posted strong year-over-year growth in every top line metric in the first quarter as we continued our long-standing strategic focus on winning with heavy spenders and building a franchise across the business. Purchase volume for the first quarter was up 26% year over year and up 47% compared to the first quarter of 2019. The rebound in loan growth accelerated with ending loan balances up $16.9 billion or about 19% year over year. Ending loans were down just 1% from the sequential quarter, better than the typical seasonal decline of around 7%. And revenue was up 20% year over year, driven by the growth in purchase volume and loans, as well as strong revenue margin. Domestic Card revenue margin for the first quarter was 18.3%. Revenue margin continued to benefit from spend velocity, which is the purchase volume and net interchange growth, outpacing loan growth. Spend velocity is driven by the traction we're getting with heavy spenders. The margin also includes a gain from a card partnership portfolio sale in the quarter. Credit results remain strikingly strong. The Domestic Card charge-off rate for the quarter was 2.12%, a 42 basis point improvement year over year. The 30-plus delinquency rate at quarter end was 2.32%, 8 basis points above the prior year. Gradual credit normalization continued in the first quarter. On a linked quarter basis, the charge-off rate was up 63 basis points, and the delinquency rate was up 10 basis points. Noninterest expense was up 33% from the first quarter of 2021, driven by an increase in marketing. Total company marketing expense was $918 million in the quarter. Our choices in domestic card marketing are the biggest, but of course, not the only driver of total company marketing trends. We continue to see opportunities to book domestic card accounts and loans that can generate resilient and attractive returns, and we continue to lean into marketing to drive growth and build our Domestic Card franchise. Consumer balance sheets and labor markets are strong. And in our own portfolio, credit results continue to be well below pre-pandemic levels and are normalizing gradually. We're keeping a close eye on competitor actions and potential marketplace risks. And as always, we're underwriting to worsening scenarios even as we lean into marketing. Our Domestic Card marketing is evolving and increasing as our decade-long focus on heavy spenders continues to gain traction. We increased marketing to grow the heavy spender franchise and drive the successful launch of Venture X. Growth in new accounts and robust customer spending drove an increase in early spend bonuses, which show up in our marketing expense. And part of our marketing is focused on strengthening our heavy spender franchise with investments in our new Travel portal and airport lounges. And looking across the whole company, our digital transformation is generating new business opportunities like Capital One Shopping in our card business and Auto Navigator in our auto business. And modern technology infrastructure and capabilities are driving our digital-first national direct banking strategy in Consumer Banking. We're marketing to continue to propel these growing digital businesses. Our marketing is paying off across these opportunities. We posted very strong growth in Domestic Card purchase volume, new accounts and loans. We're gaining share and building a long-term franchise with heavy spenders. And away from the card business, we're growing auto originations and deepening dealer relationships with Auto Navigator, and our national direct banking business is winning with customers and driving growth. Speaking of our auto and retail banking businesses, let's move to Slide 12, which shows that strong loan growth in our Consumer Banking business continued in the first quarter. Driven by auto, first quarter ending loans increased 14% year over year in the Consumer Banking business. Average loans also grew 14%. First quarter auto originations were up 33% year over year. On a linked quarter basis, auto originations were up 20%. Our digital capabilities and deep dealer relationship strategy continued to drive year-over-year growth in our auto business. We continue to closely monitor competitive and credit dynamics in the auto marketplace. First quarter ending deposits in the consumer bank were up $4.4 billion or 2% year over year. Average deposits were also up 2% year over year. Consumer Banking revenue grew 2% from the prior year quarter, driven by growth in auto loans, partially offset by declining auto loan yields and the early effects of our decision to completely eliminate overdraft fees. The year-over-year decrease in auto loan yields was driven by a mix shift toward prime loans and our focus on booking higher-quality loans within credit segments. Across the auto lending industry, the pace of price increases has not kept up with the pace of rising interest rates. The decline in loan yields, coupled with the pace of pricing changes, has compressed margins in our auto business. First quarter provision for credit losses swung from a net benefit of $126 million in the first quarter of 2021 to a net expense of $130 million. The allowance for credit losses in our auto business was flat in the quarter compared to an allowance release in the year ago quarter. The auto charge-off rate and delinquency rate are gradually normalizing and remain strong and well below pre-pandemic levels. The charge-off rate for the first quarter was 0.66%, up 19 basis points year over year. The 30-plus delinquency rate was 3.85%, up 73 basis points year over year. On a linked quarter basis, the charge-off rate was up 8 basis points, and the 30-plus delinquency rate was down 47 basis points. Slide 13 shows first quarter results for our Commercial Banking business, which delivered strong growth in loans, deposits and revenue in the quarter. First quarter ending loan balances were up 17% year over year, driven by growth in selected industry specialties and increasing utilization. Average loans were up 15%. Ending deposits grew 9% from the first year -- excuse me, from the first quarter of 2021 as middle market and government customers continued to hold elevated levels of liquidity. Quarterly average deposits increased 12% year over year. First quarter revenue was up 16% from the prior year quarter. Noninterest expense was also up 16%. Commercial credit performance remained strong. In the first quarter, the Commercial Banking annualized charge-off rate was 6 basis points. The criticized performing loan rate was 5.7%, and the criticized nonperforming loan rate was 0.8%. In closing, we continued to drive strong growth in Domestic Card revenue, purchase volume and loans in the first quarter. We also posted strong auto and commercial growth. Credit is gradually normalizing and remains strikingly strong across our businesses, and we continued to return capital to our shareholders. Pulling way up, we are well-positioned to capitalize on the accelerating digital revolution in banking. Our modern technology stack is powering our performance and our growth opportunity and is the engine of enduring value creation over the long term. And now we'll be happy to answer your questions. Jeff?Jeff Norris -- Senior Vice President of Global Finance Thanks, Rich. Let's start the Q&A session. [Operator instructions] If you have any questions following the Q&A, the investor relations team will be available after the call. Keith, please start the Q&A. 