
OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by and welcome to the Q1 2021 CSX Corporation Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] After the speaker's remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]I'd now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Bill Slater, Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Bill Slater -- Head of Investor Relations

 



Thank you and good afternoon, everyone. Joining me on today's call are Jim Foote, President and Chief Executive Officer; Kevin Boone, Chief Financial Officer; and Jamie Boychuk, Executive Vice President of Operations.On Slide 2 is our forward-looking disclosure followed by our non-GAAP disclosure on Slide 3.With that, it is my pleasure to introduce, President and Chief Executive Officer, Jim Foote.James M. Foote -- President and Chief Executive Officer

 



Great. Thanks so much, Bill and welcome to everyone joining us on today's call. I want to begin by thanking all of CSX's railroaders for the hardwork and the exceptional efforts they made to keep they've yards open and the terminals open to serve our customers throughout the severe weather we experienced this quarter, an amazing job. We entered this year cautiously optimistic about the potential for an improving economic environment. And I'm pleased to see momentum steadily building over the last few months. Throughout the quarter, we remained focused on laying the foundations to prepare for growth and I'm excited about our prospects for the rest of the year. It's nice to finally have an economic tailwind at our backs.Let's begin with Slide 5 of the presentation for an overview of our first quarter financial results. Earnings per share decreased 7% to $0.93 and the first quarter operating ratio increased to 60.9%, reflecting a spike in COVID cases early in the quarter, winter storm impacts and fuel surcharge timing lag.Turning to Slide 6. Revenue declined 1%, on 1% volume growth. As intermodal and other revenue growth was more than offset by merchandise, coal and fuel surcharge revenue declines. Merchandise revenue declined 6% and led by declines in automotive and energy-related shipments within the chemicals and minerals segments. These declines were partially offset by growth in the metals and fertilizers businesses.Intermodal revenue grew 11% reaching new first quarter record levels. This growth was driven by strong demand for transportation services due to continued inventory replenishments and growth from East Coast ports. Coal revenue decreased 5%. Domestic coal revenue increased due to growth in utility coal shipments. This growth was more than offset by declines in export coal, primarily from reduced international shipments of thermal coal. Other revenue increased 42%. The largest driver of this increase was higher revenue from storage at intermodal facilities.

 



Turning to Slide 7. We remain committed for being the safest railroad. With fewer recent COVID cases across the network, we are able to increase the number of in-person interactions and training sessions. We resumed hosting safety summits across the network and are even expanding these summits to cover additional crafts beyond our T&E workforce. Our top concern is eliminating life changing events and through increased engagement on critical rules compliance, we have seen a reduction in injury severity to start the year.Continued education and training will allow us to further reduce the total number of injuries by working with both managers and frontline employees on how to identify, and eliminate unsafe behavior across the railroad. Additionally, we're finding new ways to improve safety through the increased use of technology. We are increasing drone usage to help ensure the safe movement of trains throughout our yards and are already seeing the benefits of this program in the positive train accident trends. We will look to expand these programs going forward as part of our ongoing efforts to identify and implement new tools to help us operate as safely as possible.On Slide 8, let's review our operating performance for the quarter. Despite challenging conditions the team did a good job of maintaining network fluidity throughout the quarter. Going forward, we are focused on driving velocity and dwell back to pre-pandemic records, and we expect to see improvement in both metrics throughout the year. We also remained focused on driving additional efficiencies across the network. We set a new record for distributed powertrains averaging over 100 trains a day for the first-time. Labor productivity also reached a new record. Even though we are adding headcount in the second quarter in preparation for the expected volume growth, we still plan to realize incremental labor productivity this year.Turning to Slide 9. I wanted to take the opportunity to frame these recent operating metrics against where we started this transformation. Over this period, we have increased velocity more than 30% by reducing both line of road congestion and creating excess capacity within yards to limit how long fluid train sit idle. While dwell has also improved over this period, we view this metric as an area of opportunity. Even though CSX is currently has the lowest dwell in the industry pushing this number back toward previous record levels will enable us to further reduce cars online and improve asset utilization.It is most important to note that this increased fluidity was enabled by redesigning the train plan to operate as a more balanced and efficient network. We are doing the same amount of work today with 1,500 fewer locomotives and dramatically improved locomotive utilization. These efforts have also driven significant improvements in fuel efficiency. Not only are we more fuel efficient, but we have retired older, less efficient locomotives and increased the use of distributed power and trip optimizer technologies to further expand the emission savings we offer our customers.Our train plant also greatly improves our crew productivity. One measure of this productivity is the total number of dead heads or the times we have -- or the times where we have to reposition crews using taxes or other vehicles because there isn't a return locomotive. The balanced plan reduced the number of dead heads almost 60% by better matching crews and locomotives in both directions. We have also increased the number of cars processed per hour worked by over 30%. This higher throughput is due to both a reduction in yard congestion as well as more strategic upstream blocking of cars. Anyway, you look at the data, we have dramatically transformed how CSX operates, which has created the capacity to absorb significant growth for years to come. We remain focused on driving the network back to record performance levels as well as realizing the incremental efficiency benefits this will provide.Turning to Slide 10. I want to be clear that we are not done improving our network. The opportunities identified during the early stages of the pandemic last year continued to drive sustained efficiency improvements and the more streamlined network is well positioned for growth. While this quarter's trip plan performance was negatively impacted by the winter storms and COVID-related absences. Intermodal trip plan performance will still improve -- was still improved for the quarter and is currently running nearly 90%. We expect to see similar improvement trends for the carload business going forward. We are committed to providing our customers with an industry leading service product and are proactively adding headcount and prepositioning locomotives across the network to ensure, we are prepared to provide high-quality service, while handling incremental volumes.And I'll now let Kevin take us through the financials.Kevin Boone -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Jim and good afternoon, everyone. The team is encouraged by the positive economic momentum. Underlying demand is growing, truckload capacity is tight, and inventory levels are low. We are preparing the network for growth and focused on driving positive operating leverage. As Jim noted, we faced a challenging environment in the first quarter with winter storms and supply chain disruptions creating headwinds both operationally and commercially.Looking at the first quarter income statement on Slide 11. Revenue was down 1%, despite a 1% increase in carloads. Double-digit gains in our intermodal business were offset by lower fuel recovery and declines across several merchandise markets. Other revenue was also up significantly, primarily reflecting increased intermodal storage fees. For the year, we expect other revenue of approximately $500 million, this assumes intermodal storage fees returned to more normalized levels.Total expenses increased 2% in the quarter. Walking down the expense line items, labor and fringe was up 2%, driven by higher incentive compensation as well as inflation and other costs. The year-over-year increase in incentive compensation was largely due to our annual bonus program accrual as we lap the impact of the pandemic. Our long-term incentive comp costs also increased year-over-year as our growth outlook has continued to improve.Sequentially, we expect incentive comp in the second quarter to remain relatively flat based on our current outlook. Partially offsetting these headwinds, efficiency gains remain strong, as T&E employee productivity was up nearly 10% and train length increased 13% to a first quarter record. Total headcount was down 7%, reflecting structural improvements made over the last year. On a sequential basis, headcount was roughly flat, as increased T&E hiring was offset by improved labor productivity.Consolidation in our train plan has enabled a 23% reduction in locomotive maintenance headcount versus the prior year. We've also continued to drive efficiencies and yard support headcount, both through ongoing consolidation as well as technology. As you know, we are highly focused on ensuring we have adequate resources positioned to serve customer demand in a rebounding economy. We are actively recruiting and running important conductor training classes and as a result, headcount should increase slightly going forward.MS&O expense increased 2% or $15 million in the first quarter, driven by $15 million headwind from lower real estate gains while efficiency gains were offset by inflation and other items. As we run a tighter trading plan, asset related efficiency gains continue to headline MS&O savings. Despite weather related headwinds and some proactive actions to pull assets out of storage in anticipation of higher demand locomotive and terminal productivity levels continue to achieve record highs.Real estate gains were minimal in the first quarter. However, as you likely saw, last week, we announced the closing of an agreement with Virginia to sell certain interest in CSX owned line segments. This project will generate meaningful value for CSX and enhance the safety and reliability of both passenger and freight railroad service in the DC and Virginia area. The transaction will result in a significant gain of approximately $350 million in the second quarter this year. Cash proceeds of $525 million will be realized over time, with approximately $400 million expected in 2021.Turning now to fuel expense, which was $2 million favorable year-over-year. Record first quarter efficiency helped to offset the impact of 4% increase in the per gallon price. We continue to invest in technologies that will deliver further improvement in fuel efficiency. Widening the advantage that rails hold over truck and demonstrating our continued commitment to sustainability.Looking at other expenses. Depreciation increased $1 million in the quarter due to a larger asset base, partially offset by the 2020 road and track depreciation study. Reflecting these effects going forward, we expect full year depreciation expense to increase approximately $20 million. Equipment rent expense increased $7 million or 9% as the network fluidity impacted car cycle times in the quarter.Turning below the line, interest expense improved $3 million or 2% due to a lower weighted average coupon. Other income decreased $2 million or 9% as favorable pension impacts were offset by lower interest on cash. Income tax expense decreased $12 million or 5% due to lower pre-tax income. The average tax rate increased slightly to 24.7% due to an unfavorable state legislative change. Closing out the income statement, CSX delivered operating income of $1.1 billion and a 60.9% operating ratio.Turning to the cash flow Slide on 13. On the first quarter, free cash flow before dividends was $934 million, up 15% when compared to the first quarter of 2020. Free cash flow conversion on net income exceeded 100%. Finally, as you can see from the chart on the right, shareholder distributions rebounded in the quarter. Share repurchase activity returned to prior year levels and the recent dividend increase is also reflected. We expect to continue to be opportunistic in our buyback approach going forward and we remain committed to returning cash to shareholders.With that, let me turn it back to Jim for his closing remarks.James M. Foote -- President and Chief Executive OfficerGreat, Kevin. Thanks a lot. Concluding with Slide 15, we entered the year projecting volume growth in excess of GDP and still expect to achieve this target. We will continue to attract demand throughout the year and based on the combination of the strengthening economic outlook and our focus on converting additional volumes off the highway. We now expect to achieve double-digit full year revenue growth.We will drive incremental operating leverage by efficiently absorbing this growth and we will diligently monitor our train plan to address resources as needed to provide our customers with high-quality service. Our entire company is aligned to capture this growth opportunity and as always our focus is first and foremost on our customers and finding creative ways to help customers meet their own growth targets this year.Now is the time to capitalize all the work we have done to transform our network. Thank you. And now I'll turn it back to Bill for questions and as you may have noted Mark is unable to join the call again today. He continues to deal with a non-COVID personal health issue, but remains engaged in the business. The rest of the team will do the best to answer any marketing questions you may have.Bill Slater -- Head of Investor RelationsThank you, Jim. In the interest of time, I would ask everyone to please limit themselves to only one question. With that, we will now take questions.