  OperatorGood day, everyone, and welcome to the Bank of America first-quarter earnings announcement. [Operator instructions] Please note today's call is being recorded. And it is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Lee McEntire. Please go ahead.Lee McEntire -- Senior Vice President, Investor Relations Good morning. Thank you for joining the call to review our first-quarter results. Hopefully, you've all had a chance to review our earnings release documents. As usual, they're available, including the earnings presentation that we'll be referring to during the call on the new and improved investor relations section of the bankofamerica.com website.

 



 I'm going to first turn the call over to our CEO, Brian Moynihan, for some opening comments. And then I'll ask Paul Donofrio, our CFO, to cover the details of the quarter. Before I turn the call over to Brian and Paul, let me just remind you that we may make forward-looking statements and refer to non-GAAP financial measures during the call regarding various elements of the financial results. Our forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties, particularly during the pandemic period we've been operating in.Factors that may cause those to be different are detailed in our earnings materials and the SEC filings that are on our website. Information about the non-GAAP financial measures, including reconciliations to U.S. GAAP, can also be found in our earnings materials that are available on the website. So with that, I will turn it over to you, Brian. Take it away. Brian Moynihan -- Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thank you, Lee, and thank all of you for joining us. It's been a year since we first reported our results, which would include the health -- health crisis impact. But what we see different now is we see an accelerating recovery versus the economic uncertainty that we would have faced the last year at this time. The most recent economic indicators reflected an economic recovery that has gained momentum and continues to be supported by fiscal monetary policies. From our company's perspective, we have emerged as an even stronger company and competitor than what we were when we entered the healthcare crisis. Compared to last year, Bank of America's balance sheet has higher capital ratios, higher reserves with lower charge-offs, and record liquidity. Our diverse business model with leadership positions across all our businesses has helped us earn our way through the crisis. Our Global Markets and Global Wealth Management businesses, which would typically benefit from this healthy capital markets environment, continued to perform well this quarter. Our Consumer and Global Banking businesses also performed well. But they were -- this is after being more negatively impacted for several quarters by the interest rate environment and credit costs. These businesses now are in full recovery mode and are out generating new assets and new relationship with our clients. All this work by my team, and which we're very proud of here, has led to EPS in the first quarter of $0.86 per share, and a return on tangible common equity of 17%. Paul is going to take you through the details in a moment. But simply put, we believe our decade-plus long dedication to responsible growth has put us in a position to both earn more money and deliver more back to you, our shareholders. Our announcement this morning regarding share repurchases highlights our intention to increase those repurchases over the coming quarters as the current restrictions are lifted by the Federal Reserve. But first, let's discuss the recovering economy.

 



 On Slides 3, 4, and 5, we've shared slides like this with you the last few quarters. They are updated for the most quarterly data. They highlight the key economic signposts. I won't go through all the details on them, but they're there for your reference. But a few highlights. Obviously, GDP consensus production -- projections continue to improve. And you can see our tremendous best-in-class Bank of America Research Team's projections in the upper left-hand corner of Slide 3. You will note also the increases in the consumer spending from our Bank of America customers at the bottom of the slide, which is not only much higher than the prior year when payments began to decline but notably is much higher this year to date than year-to-date 2019, a more appropriate comparison. This is a key element of the economic optimism you're seeing reflected in the market. Looking back to 2017, after-tax reform and other matters, we saw a step-change in money movement by our customers, moving from previously a 5% year-over-year type of growth rate to up to 9% in 2019 versus 2018. Then the pandemic hit and growth of '20 over '19 was only 1%. But so far year to date, we're going faster on a larger base than the 2019 9%-plus growth trend at 10% plus. The first quarter was a record dollar amount of money moved by Bank of America consumers. The trend is fully on track, even though the economy is not yet fully reopened. March was a record month of spending by Bank of America consumers and led to the highest ever quarter of consumer spending. As you look also on these slides, note on Slide 4, the lower level of card delinquencies as a spike from the expired deferrals, and the for [Inaudible] has worked its way through the charge-offs. In addition, early stage delinquencies are at or near historic lows, suggesting low levels of card charge-offs again next year -- the next quarter, excuse me. As the economy has improved, customers have continued to increase their business across our platform. When you think about it from a customer's perspective, which is what we do as a business and comparing across the pandemic period of the last 12 months, we have simply added more customers across every line of business. And those customers are more digitally engaged in every business as well. You're going to see later on Slide 17 that we added nearly 1 million active digital customers this quarter, pushing us past 40 million active users, led by increased use by boomers and seniors. We have more deposit and cash management customers and balances in every business from consumer to small business to Merrill Lynch to Private Bank, the business bank, and the commercial bank across the whole franchise. New investment relationships in our consumer businesses Merrill Edge platform now total more than 3 million accounts, and net new households continue to grow both in Merrill Lynch and the Private Bank. We saw aggregated client flows across our investment platforms of $48 billion in the quarter, bringing those total investment assets over $4 trillion with a range of those capabilities from our digital-only capabilities in our consumer business all the way through the great service and capabilities provided by our 20,000 wealth advisors. We added new lending customers, whether through PPP and small business and business banking, and along with broader traditional banking relationships, our middle market, and corporate clients. And we've helped existing the new clients attained funding taxes market through our sales and trading investment banking platforms. Combined sales and trading investment banking revenue of $7.3 billion is our highest in a decade, is up 28% year over year. Jimmy DeMare, and Matthew Koder, and the teams led by Tom Montag have done a great job there. Our customer satisfaction levels across all these groups of clients rose during the pandemic, and a brand loyalty of our company is at the highest it's been. We also note that our employee engagement is at highest it's been. And we have driven our success to our teammates this quarter, and you'll note in our expenses with another broad-based bonus plan, which is the fourth time we've done this. And with support provided to the communities we serve, our employees sense of pride in our company and what it does has reached a new level of satisfaction. So with that being said, we do have some work to do in certain areas as we have for the last decade. I'd highlight those three areas with a couple of comments on each. Those areas are loan growth, net interest income, and expense, while loan growth continues to be a lot of liquidity in the system and customer payments remain high, which impacts our loan balances. This is across the whole consumers and companies. Pipeline origination are improving but remain below pre-pandemic levels. We've reinstated all our credit standards back to where they were before the pandemic. And we remain highly focused on capturing loan growth as the economy expands and continues to recover. The projected economic growth should cause the need for companies to borrow, build inventory, increase hiring, and invest and do what they do in their businesses. As you can see from Slide 4, Global banking loans after following in January appear to have stabilized again in March. We'll have to see how this plays out, but that's the first -- this -- the month of March was a good sign. Pipelines continue to build but line usage remains low. Card applications and mortgage originations continue to increase in each of the last three quarters. This, along with mortgage rates moving higher and driving lower prepayments and runoff of current mortgage loan, sets up consumer loan growth. That strong customer liquidity obviously negatively impacts loan growth, but it has benefited credit cost. We saw Quarter 1 net charge-offs remain below pre-pandemic levels in dollars and percentage, further supporting reduction in our credit reserves this quarter. Now net interest income. We told you six months ago that we believe the third quarter would be the trough and has proven to be so. Despite the drawdown of loans and two less days of interest in this current quarter, NII was flat to fourth quarter of last year. As we move through 2021, we believe the benefits from a steepened interest rate curve should begin to work its way into our revenue, driven by continued investment of our liquidity, as well as, picking up those lost days of interest. And thinking about the expected NII trajectory this year in the year ahead, I would set the stage just as follows: if the forward interest rate curve materializes and we see modest loan growth late -- in the later quarters of the year, we ought to see NII as we exit the fourth quarter of this year, $1 billion a quarter higher than the most recent level of $10.3 billion in this quarter. The last area I would highlight is expense. We had a large expense this quarter driven by several factors. Some were seasonal impacts. Some were good news in that their volume and revenue-driven impacts and others were not typical of our normal operating expense due to charges taken. We expect a significant decline as you look forward to the second quarter 2021 in expense. We've seen the headcount in our company start to work its way back down due to attrition, especially as the specialized programs begin to run their course. I'd also remind you that the first quarter is typically elevated for payroll tax expense, and this year was about $350 million. Next, I would say roughly $500 million of our increase is driven by the improved activity and higher revenue, which, of course, is a positive. It's what we're in the business to do. The items I classify is differing from our typical costs were as follows. First, given the progress made in our digital engagement with our customers and other customer traffic behavior. We will continue to rationalize real estate for our teammates and our customers, and recorded an impairment charge to do that of $240 million in the quarter. Second, a portion of the equity awarded last year to our -- before last year's work for our Global Banking and Markets teammates, we had different retirement rule. And as previously reported, we changed our retirement rule, which caused that to accelerate in full this quarter instead of being amortized over the next four years. Other costs worth noting include severance costs and special incentive board recognizing a broad base of 200,000 teammates for their outstanding efforts during this pandemic. That award for the fourth time is built on shared success awards three times prior, that was given in three previous years. Additionally, COVID expense remains elevated as we continue to help our clients through the various assistant programs established by the government. PPP, unemployment claims, stimulus payment disbursement, and PPP forgiveness. But broadly speaking, we have done a great job in helping customers to these programs. We've now originated almost 500,000 PPP loans and have obtained forgiveness for our clients for 200,000 of those. We processed $180 billion unemployment claims and $73 billion in the IP stimulus payments. Paul is going to share a bit of the details in the quarter's expenses, but even after absorbing these expenses are PPNR rose from fourth quarter. As we ended last year, we talked about a target for this year's expense in 2021 fiscal year expenses to be similar to the $55 billion levels in 2020. Given the charges this quarter, we would increase that target by about $1.5 billion. However, I just want you to keep some perspective here. We reported $57 billion in expense for the year 2015, six years ago. Even though all the investments we have made in technology and the buildout of branches in new markets, new sales resources, and just having more customers, more activities, the inflation in healthcare and real estate and other costs, moving our teammates -- our starting wages from $15 to $20 an hour during that time period. We are targeting 2021 expense at roughly to where it was in 2015, six years later and a lot bigger company later. That discipline in operational excellence is what we do, and you should expect us to continue that. So in summary, this quarter, we -- we again drove responsible growth. We support our employees by keeping them safe and rewarding their efforts in the pandemic. We support our customers by providing strong balance sheet and resilient systems to transact. We support our communities by supplying critical funding and driving improvement toward racial and social equality with our increase in our $1 billion commitment to $1.25 billion. We've already delivered over $300 million of that commitment. At the same time, we delivered to you, our shareholders, $8 billion in earnings, generating return on tangible common equity of 17%, and returned $5 billion in capital to the shareholders in the first quarter. This shows you we can both deliver for you, our shareholders, and deliver for our customers, our employees, and our other stakeholders in society. With that, let me hand off to Paul to cover the quarter in a little more detail.Paul Donofrio -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Brian. Good morning, and hello, everyone. I'm starting on Slide 6 and 7 together. As I've done in the past few quarters now, the majority of my comparisons will be relative to the prior quarter to reflect how we are progressing through this health crisis rather than year over year. In Q1, we earned net income of $8.1 billion, or $0.86 per share, which compares to $5.5 billion, or $0.59 per share in Q4. The earnings improvement included strong revenue growth, which more than offset higher expense. Additionally, earnings also included a $2.7 billion reserve release, which resulted in a $1.9 billion provision benefit. Revenue growth was driven by strong sales and trading results, record investment banking fees, and record asset management fees, and our wealth management business, while consumer fees faced the seasonal challenge against elevated Q4 holiday spending. With respect to returns, return on tangible common equity was 17.1 and ROA was 113 basis points. Moving to the balance sheet on Slide 8. The balance sheet expanded $150 billion versus Q4 to $2.97 trillion in total assets. Deposit growth continued to drive the balance sheet higher. Deposits grew $89 billion in the quarter and are up $300 billion from Q1 '20. Note that as deposits continue to grow, loans declined $25 billion from Q4. We deployed some of this excess liquidity into debt securities, which increased $172 billion while cash balances declined $54 billion and a reverse repo also fell. It is also worth noting that our liquidity portfolio is now more than one-third of our total balance sheet and has surpassed $1 trillion. On a period-end basis, our Global Markets balance sheet increased by $129 billion, coming off year-end seasonal lows and as customers increase their activity with us. Note that on an average basis, it is only up marginally from the prior year, and versus Q4, up only $40 billion. Shareholders' equity increased $1 billion. Earnings were mostly offset by $4.5 billion in net capital distributions and a decrease in OCI of $1.8 billion, driven by an increase in long bond rates. With respect to regulatory ratios, consistent with the fourth quarter, standardized remain our binding approach for us. And at 11.8%, our CET1 ratio is our binding metric. While the CET1 ratio declined 15 basis points from Q4, it is 230 basis points above our minimum requirement of 9.5%, which translates into a $35 billion capital allocation. The benefits to the ratio from an increased level of capital were more than offset by higher RWA from the liquidity deployed into mortgage-backed securities and growth in our global markets balance sheet. Our supplemental TLAC ratio at quarter-end was 7% and 6.1% on a pro forma basis, excluding the relief for deposits at the Fed and investments in treasuries. Six point one percent versus the 5% minimum requirement leaves us plenty of room for growth in the balance sheet. Our TLAC ratio remained comfortably above our requirements. Let me spend a minute on loans and deposits before moving away from the balance sheet. I will focus on averages as that is what drives NII. With respect to loans, on Slide 9, you can see the downward trend across the year as customer liquidity and accommodating capital markets drove pay downs well above historic levels. I would draw your attention to the linked quarter change, global banking, commercial loans declined $16 billion. But as Brian noted earlier, we are seeing pipelines build and balances have stabilized for more than a month, so we are hopeful for a turnaround. Loan payments by consumers continue to outpace originations with loans declining $14 billion in consumer banking led by mortgages. Plus, we saw normal seasonality in our card products as customers paid down holiday balances with stimulus contributing to the high payment rates. But what is also noteworthy is the linked quarter improvement in GWIM and global markets. GWIM continued to benefit from security-based lending, as well as custom lending. In global markets, we relax some hold limits as the economy continued to strengthen. With respect to deposits, on Slide 10, we continued to see tremendous growth across the client base, not only because of growth in the money supply but also because we are adding new accounts and attracting liquidity from existing customers. Turning to Slide 11 and net interest income. On a GAAP non-FTE basis, NII in Q1 was $10.2 billion, $10.3 billion on an FTE basis. Net interest income declined $1.9 billion from Q1 '20, driven by the rate environment and lower loan balances, but was relatively flat to Q4. Compared to Q4, we see this as a good outcome considering the headwinds of two fewer days of interest, lower loan levels, and modestly higher premium amortization expense. These headwinds were mostly offset by the deployment of excess deposits into securities and a benefit of approximately $100 million from a legacy litigation settlement involving some securities. The net interest yields was relatively stable, declining 3 basis points from Q4 and it was flat if you exclude global markets. Reducing cash and repo, we deployed some of our excess liquidity into securities in Q1, split across treasuries and mortgage-backed securities. Ser -- securities increased $172 billion from year-end. On a weighted average basis relative to what we were earning on the cash, we improved our yield on that roughly $170 billion by approximately 115 basis points. Now, the improvement in yield could have been higher, however, but similar to Q4 purchases, we hedged a portion of the treasuries purchased with swaps, effectively keeping those securities floating. As you will note, given all of the positive growth in loan rates, our asset sensitivity is rising. Our asset sensitivity to rising rates remained significant, highlighting the value of our deposit and customer relationships. The sensitivity is -- is lower from the year-end levels as higher rates and deployment of liquidity into securities increased our baseline. So the sensitivity no longer assumes that liquidity is available to invest at higher rates. A few thoughts on NII for the remainder of the year. But first, please note that these forward-looking comments on NII assume that the forward interest rate curve materializes, that the economy continues to recover, and that we have some fairly modest loan growth in the back half of the year. Given those assumptions, we expect some improvement in premium amortization across the next few quarters if mortgage rates follow the forward curve. At $1.5 billion in Q1, write-off of premium continued to be a headwind as mortgage prepayments remained quite high. So forward-looking comments include a lot of mate -- of material moving parts from rates, loan levels, and premium amortization. But as Brian said, we believe 4Q '21 NII could rise by as much as $1 billion from this quarter's level. OK. Turning to Slide 12 and expenses. Q1 expenses were $15.5 billion, $1.6 billion higher than Q4. I will add to some of the remarks Brian mentioned earlier. First, Q1 included the normal seasonal elevation of payroll tax expense of about $250 million. Second, as a result of the current period's solid revenue performance and a better outlook for revenue for the remainder of the year, we accrued for higher incentives and experienced increased processing costs. This added roughly $500 million to the quarter. Third, we incurred some expense that differs from our typical operating expense. We reversed a decision made on some 2020 incentive comp awards, making certain portions of those awards retirement eligible. This accelerated approximately $200 million of expense into Q1 that would have been expensed over four years. We also recorded an impairment charge of $240 million for real estate realization. And we incurred $160 million of severance charge as we moved back toward business as usual with respect to our headcount. This is based on an expectation that as roles get eliminated through process improvement, some associates might choose severance over opportunities to work in a different role in the company. Lastly, our COVID costs remained largely unchanged as modest declines in some employee-related costs were offset by cost associated with restarting PPP originations and forgiveness and additional unemployment claims processing. COVID costs are proving a little slower -- a little slower to safely reduce than we had hoped. Turning to asset quality on Slide 13. Government stimulus and support has helped customers get through this pandemic. That support, coupled with our customer assistance programs and years of underwriting discipline under responsible growth, has resulted in low net charge-offs. Net charge-off this quarter were $833 million, or 37 basis points of average loans, and were lower than Q4. And they were 14% lower than the fourth quarter of 2019, which was the last quarter before the pandemic despite an expected increase in card losses of $229 million in Q1. With the exception of a small uptick in small business and the card losses, losses in every other category declined from Q4. Provision was a 1.9 benefit in the quarter as an improvement in the macroeconomic outlook and lower loan balances resulted in a $2.7 billion release of credit reserves. Total consu -- consumer reserve -- reserve releases were $1.4 billion, driven primarily by card, while the commercial release was $1.2 billion. Our allowance as a percent of loans and leases end of the quarter at 1.8%, which still remained well above the 1.27% where we began 2020 following our Day 1 adoption of CECL. With res -- with respect to reserve setting assumptions, we continued to include a multitude of scenarios. Based upon our Q1 weighting of those scenarios, GDP is forecasted to return to its 4Q '19 level by the end of 2021. The weighted scenario also assumes that the unemployment rate at the end of 2021 will be just north of 6%, which is in line with March unemployment rate. For 2022, the weighted average scenario assumed unemployment just under 5.5% as we exit the year. To the extent the economic outlook and the remaining uncertainties continue to improve, we expect our reserve levels will move lower. On Slide 14, we showed the credit quality metrics for both our consumer and commercial portfolios. Overall, consumer net charge-offs rose $211 million from Q4, and absent the $229 million increase noted in card, other losses declined. With respect to card losses, given the reduction in late-stage delinquencies in the 180-day pipeline, we expect card losses to be lower in Q2. NPLs remained low despite a small uptick due to consumer real estate deferrals, which have limited expected loss content given healthy LTV ratios. Moving to commercial, net charge-offs declined $296 million from the fourth quarter as the portfolio stabilized with re -- reservable criticize exposure and NPLs declining in the quarter. Overall, given the environment, the asset quality of our commercial book remains solid and 90% of the exposures are either investment grade or collateralized. Turning to the business segments and starting with consumer banking on Slide 15. Consumer banking produced another strong quarter in terms of customer deposits and investment flows, reflecting the strength of our brand, the innovation around digital, and deployment of specialists in our centers, all of which has enabled us to capture more than our fair share of the increase in customer liquidity. The segment earned $2.7 billion in Q1, versus $2.6 billion in Q4 as the provision benefit more than offset lower mostly seasonal revenue and ex -- and higher expense. Revenue declined 2%, reflecting lower card income from Q4. Q4 has elevated holiday spending. Expenses moved higher as a result of real estate impairment costs, as well as seasonally higher payroll tax expense. This also caused an increase in our cost of deposits this quarter, 242 basis points. Absent the impairment charge, the cost of deposits would have been 131 basis points. As expected, net charge-offs rose from Q4 due to the flow-through of the bulge in card delinquencies as noted earlier. At -- a $1.4 billion reserve release resulted in a $617 million provision benefit in the quarter. On Slide 16, you can see the significant increase in consumer deposits and investments. Average deposits of $924 billion are up 25% compared to Q1 '20 with nearly two-thirds of that growth in checking. Rate paid is down to 3 basis points as 56% of the deposits are low-interest checking. Lastly, note the growth throughout the -- the quarter as average deposits were up $39 billion from Q4. We covered loans earlier, so I would just note, investment balances of $324 billion are up 53% year over year as customers continue to recognize the value of our online offering. As Brian noted and as you can see on Slide 17, we continued to see improvement in digital enrollment this quarter. Seventy percent of our consumer households use some part of our digital platform this year. We continued to see digital payments and Zelle taking hold across all our businesses. Zelle consumer dollar volume is up 72% year over year. Small businesses up 182% year over year. And 90% of our business-to-consumer payments in global banking are now made via Zelle. As you can see, our digital assistant, Erica, continues to add users' capabilities and usage. Plus, we are applying our success with Erica to other businesses as well. OK. Turning to wealth management. We continued to deliver solid organic growth, durably comprehensive banking and investment needs of clients, and manage risk responsibly. We experienced strong household -- new household acquisition in a virtual environment and a very competitive market. This resulted in a record quarter with respect to total client flows, including near-record AUM flows and record AUM fees. Net income of $881 million improved 6% from Q4 as revenue growth and improvement in provision exceeded an increase in expense. With respect to revenue, the record AUM fees were complemented by higher NII on the back of solid loan and deposit increases. Expenses increased driven by revenue-related costs and seasonally elevated payroll tax. Merrill Lynch and the private bank both continue to grow clients as we remain a provider of choice for affluent clients. Client balances rose to a record $3.5 trillion, up $882 billion year over year, driven by higher market levels, as well as strong client flows. During Q1, our advisors added over 6,000 net new households in Merrill Lynch and nearly 700 net new relationships in the private bank. Let's skip to Slide 20, which is a new page that highlights our progress to digitally engage wealth management clients. In Merrill and the private bank, our clients and advisors have both embraced the value of a digitally enabled relationship in which digital tools are critical mechanisms for fast, safe, and secure transa -- interactions. Our wealth manage -- our wealth clients are some of the most highly engaged clients in the franchise with 80% of Merrill households digitally active. In Q1, we saw a record number of log-ins. Clients are logging in to trade, check balances, and originate loans with ease all of which can be done through a simple side -- sign in. We continue to enhance and modernize the capabilities for both the client and advisor, and these capabilities are becoming key differentiators, as well as being recognized by third parties. Moving to global banking on Slide 21. The business earned nearly $2.2 billion in Q1, improving $500 million from Q4, driven by a provision benefit and solid revenue. While loan growth has been challenging, deposit growth has been strong and investment banking revenue exceeded previous records. The team produced $2.2 billion in firmwide investment banking fees, growing year over year by 62% and 20% over Q4. Looking at revenue and comparing to Q4, despite the higher IB fees, total revenue declined 2%, driven by the -- by weather-related impairments on some tax-advantaged investments. Provision expense reflected a reserve release of $1.2 billion in Q1. Importantly, net charge-offs of $36 million fell by $278 million from Q4. Non-interest expense rose 14% from Q4, reflecting the incentive award changes noted earlier. Additionally, the strong IB performance and improved outlook and seasonally elevated payroll tax increased personnel costs in Q1. Looking at the balance sheet on Slide 22, average deposits moved up relative to Q4 as customers remained highly liquid. Year over year, deposits are up an impressive 27%, while repaid is at an historic low. As noted earlier, loans declined early in the quarter but stabilized late in the quarter. Wholesale digital engagement continued to accelerate and usage continued to grow, driven by the same ease, safety, and convenience of our digital banking capabilities that our consumer customers enjoy. We present some wholesale digital highlights on Slide 23. Switching to global markets on Slide 24, results reflected the highest revenue quarter in over a decade with solid year-over-year improvement and an even more significant increase relative to Q4. As I usually do, I will talk about the segment results excluding DVA. This quarter, net DVA was negligible but the year-ago quarter had a $300 million gain. Global markets produced $2.1 billion of earnings in Q1, more than double the level of Q4 and up 39% from Q1 '20. Focusing on year over year, revenue was up 26% on higher sales and trading and equity underwriting fees. The year-over-year expense increase was driven by volume-related expenses in both card and trading, and an acceleration in expense from changes in the incentive awards. Sales and trading contributed $5.1 billion to revenue, increasing 17% year over year, driven by a 22% improvement in fixed and a 10% increase in equities. These results reflected gains in commodities and strong results in credit, mortgage, and municipal products versus relatively -- relative weakness in the year-ago period. This was partially offset by reduced activity and trading opportunities in other macro products. The strength in equities was driven by a strong trading performance in cash. The business has produced strong return delivering a 22% return on capital in Q1. Finally, on Slide 26, we show all other which reported profits of $257 million compared to Q1 20. The improvement in net income was driven by a larger tax benefit given an expected increase in ESG activities this year. The year-ago quarter also included a modest reserve build. Our effective tax rate this quarter was 12% and excluding the tax credit, driven by our portfolio of ESG investments, our tax rate would have been 23%. For the full year, absent any changes in the current tax laws or other unusual items, we expect an effective tax rate to be in the range of 10% to 12%. OK, with that, let's go to Q&A. 