  OperatorGood day, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Honeywell's third-quarter earnings release. [Operator instructions] I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference, Reena Vaidya, director of investor relations. Reena, please go ahead.Reena Vaidya -- Director of Investor Relations Thank you, Ari. Good morning and welcome to Honeywell's third-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. On the call with me today are chairman and CEO, Darius Adamczyk; and senior vice president and chief financial officer, Greg Lewis. Also joining us are senior vice president and general counsel, Anne Madden; and senior vice president and chief supply chain officer, Torsten Pilz.

 



 This call and webcast, including any non-GAAP reconciliations, are available on our website at www.honeywell.com/investor. Honeywell also uses our website as a means of disclosing information, which may be of interest or material to our investors for complying with disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Accordingly, investors should monitor our investor relations website in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings, public conference calls, webcast and social media. Note that elements of this presentation contain forward-looking statements that are based on our best view of the world and of our businesses as we see them today.Those elements can change based on many factors, including changing economic and business conditions and we ask that you interpret them in that light. We identified the principal risks and uncertainties that may affect our performance in our annual report on Form 10-Q and other SEC filings. This morning, we will review our financial results for the third quarter of 2021, share our guidance for the fourth quarter and full-year 2021 and share some preliminary thoughts on 2022 plan. As always, we'll leave time for your questions at the end. With that, I'll turn the call over to chairman and CEO, Darius Adamczyk. Darius Adamczyk -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thank you, Reena and good morning, everyone. Let's begin on Slide 2. Our outstanding discipline and execution enabled us to deliver third-quarter results that met or exceeded our financial guidance in an increasingly challenging environment. We achieved the high end of our third-quarter adjusted earnings per share guidance range and exceeded the high end of our segment margin guidance by 60 basis points despite significant headwinds from inflation and supply chain constraints, which tampered down our top-line growth potential. Despite that, organic sales were up 8% year over year driven by double-digit organic growth in safety and productivity solutions, the commercial aerospace aftermarket from advanced materials and UOP. Segment margin expanded 130 basis points to 21.2% driven by strong actions that we took across the portfolio to address the headwinds we faced from inflationary pressures and supply chain disruptions. Specifically, we've continued to operate our strong productivity playbook. We took swift pricing action that allowed us to stay ahead of the inflation curve. We drove a 4% increase year over year in -- on the top line and yielded approximately 40 basis points of margin expansion net of inflation. Adjusted earnings per share was $2.02, up 29% year over year, achieving the high end of our guidance range. We delivered a strong third quarter despite a volatile backdrop that included a hurricane in our PMT factory corridor, power blackouts in China and the persistent and ongoing impacts on the supply chain more broadly. I am pleased of our disciplined execution, which enabled us to navigate the challenges in the macroeconomic environment and capitalize on the ongoing recovery in our end markets. I continue to be encouraged by the strength we are seeing in many areas of our portfolio. Orders across Honeywell are up high single digits year-over-year organic, excluding the impact of COVID-related mask business, which has seen significant demand decline since the pandemic has been subsiding. Orders across Honeywell were up double digits year over year. Backlog was up 7% to $27.5 billion and up 9%, excluding the impact of COVID mask orders, driven by strength in many of our segments and positioning us to deliver next phase of the recovery as we head into 2022.

 



 As always, we continue to execute on our rigorous and proven value creation framework that drives outstanding shareholder value. Now, let's turn to Slide 3 to discuss some of our exciting recent announcements. Last month, United Airlines and Honeywell announced a joint multimillion dollar investment in Alder Fuels, powering the biggest sustainable fuel agreement in aviation history. Alder Fuels is a clean tech company that is pioneering first-of-its-kind technologies from producing sustainable aviation fuel or SAF at scale. When used together across the fuel life cycle, the Alder technologies, coupled with Honeywell's Ecofining process, have the ability to produce a carbon-negative alternative to today's jet fuels. As part of the agreement, United is committing to purchase 1.5 billion gallons of SAF when produced to United's requirement, which is one and a half times the size of the known purchase commitments of all global airlines combined, making this easily the largest publicly announced SAF agreement in aviation history and demonstrating the power of Honeywell technologies continue to bring to the oncoming global energy transition. We also recently announced the acquisition of Performix, a provider of manufacturing execution system or MES software for the pharmaceutical manufacturing and biotech industries. This acquisition builds on our strategy to create the world's leading integrated software platform for customers within the life sciences industry who are striving to achieve faster compliance, improved reliability and better production throughput at the highest levels of quality. The Performix MES software joins Honeywell's large and growing portfolio of automation solutions for the life sciences industry, including Sparta System's quality management software and Honeywell's Experion Process Knowledge System. The combined offerings will address life sciences' customer needs across the product life cycles, from automation project execution to optimal production to sustainable quality. Lastly, we unveiled an all-new aircraft cockpit system earlier this month called Honeywell Anthem, the first in the industry build with an always-on cloud connected experience that improves flight efficiency, operations, safety and comfort. Honeywell Anthem offers unprecedented levels of connectivity and exciting and intuitive interface model after everyday smart devices in a highly scalable and customizable design. This next-generation flight deck is powered by a flexible software platform that can be customized for virtually every type of aircraft and flying vehicle, including a large passenger and cargo planes, business jets, helicopters, general aviation aircraft and the rapidly emerging class of advanced air mobility vehicles. In fact, Honeywell Anthem has already been selected by Vertical aerospace and Lilium with their vertical takeoff and landing all-electric aircraft. As these announcements highlight, we're continuously innovating and enhancing our portfolio of exciting new technologies align to our long-term strategic objectives. Now, let me turn it over to Greg on Slide 4 to discuss our third-quarter results in more detail.Greg Lewis -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you and good morning, everyone. As Darius highlighted, we executed with the typical level of rigor that you have come to expect from Honeywell and delivered on our commitments despite a challenging backdrop. Our third quarter was strong with sales up 8% organically to $8.5 billion, segment margins expanding 130 basis points to 21.2%, resulting in 36% incremental margins and free cash flow of more than $900 million, up 20% year on year. Our third-quarter performance demonstrates our ability to deliver for our shareholders in all environments. Now, let's take a minute to discuss how each of the segments contributed to that. Starting with aerospace, third-quarter sales were up 2% organically as the ongoing recovery in flight hours drove another quarter of strong double-digit commercial aerospace aftermarket growth. As expected, air transport aftermarket sales continued to gain momentum, growing more than 10% sequentially from the second quarter and growing 40% year over year. Commercial original equipment returned to growth in the quarter driven by strong demand for business jets. The growth in commercial aerospace was partially offset by defense and space, which was down 17% in the quarter primarily due to supply chain constraints, which limited our deliveries. Excluding those impacts, defense and space would have been down mid-single digits in the quarter, an improvement versus the first half run rate. aerospace segment margins expanded 390 basis points to 27.1%, driven by growth in our high-margin aftermarket business, strong productivity from our lower cost base and pricing. building technologies sales were up 3% organically driven by broad-based demand across the building products portfolio as well as continued growth in building solutions services. Orders were up double digits year over year for the fourth straight quarter driven by demand for fire products, building management systems and projects. Backlog for building solutions services was up over 35% year over year, positioning the business for growth into 2022. In addition, our healthy buildings portfolio maintained strong customer momentum with approximately $100 million of orders in the quarter, bringing year-to-date orders to $250 million. HBT segment margins expanded 190 basis points to 23 and a half percent, driven by pricing and productivity, partially offset by inflation. In PMT, sales were up 9% organically, led by 29% growth in UOP and 14% growth in advanced materials. UOP sales growth was driven by higher petrochemical catalyst shipments and their backlog grew double digits year over year, which should drive growth well into 2022. Process solutions sales were down 2% organically as the recovery in projects has lagged, partially offset by high single-digit growth in Thermal Solutions and Lifecycle Solutions & Services. HPS orders were up 20% year over year, driven by broad-based demand across the portfolio, providing confidence in the longer-term outlook for the business. PMT segment margins expanded 260 basis points to 22.2% in the quarter driven by pricing, strong operating leverage and a healthy mix of UOP. In safety and productivity solutions, despite battling supply chain and inflation challenges, sales were up 21% organically, driven by another quarter of double-digit warehouse and workflow solutions growth, productivity solutions and services growth and gas analysis growth. Orders in these three businesses were also up double digits year over year, resulting in a robust SPS backlog of more than $4 billion. Personal Protective Equipment sales declined year over year as mask demand declined meaningfully. This was partially offset by growth in the hearing, gloves and fall protection categories. SPS segment margins contracted 70 basis points to 13.2% driven by unfavorable business mix, which, combined with targeted investments and supply chain challenges in Intelligrated, drove inefficiencies in manufacturing installation as the business has been scaling to outsized growth, which was 60% organically this quarter. Finally, growth across our portfolio was underpinned by continued progress in Honeywell Connected Enterprise. Our connected buildings and cyber solutions delivered another quarter of double-digit organic growth and third-quarter recurring revenue growth was once again up double digits year over year. So overall, we delivered strong organic sales growth, drove 130 basis points of improvement in segment margins, 60 basis points above the high end of our guidance despite the challenging environment. For the quarter, we delivered GAAP earnings per share of $1.80 and adjusted earnings per share of $2.02, up 29% year over year, achieving the high end of our guidance. A bridge from 3Q '20 adjusted EPS to 3Q '21 adjusted EPS can be found in the appendix of this presentation, which includes reference to a $160 million noncash charge related to ongoing UOP matters that are described in our Form 10-Q. The majority of our year-over-year adjusted earnings growth of $0.26 was driven by our strong segment profit improvement. Below-the-line items were a $0.13 tailwind driven by lower repositioning and higher pension income. A lower effective tax rate of 22.9% and lower weighted average share count of 699 million shares drove a $0.04 and $0.03 benefit, respectively. We generated $900 million of free cash flow in the quarter and -- as increased earnings -- excuse me, increase in working capital due to growth of the business and related supply chain challenges tamped that down a bit. Finally, we strategically deployed $1.5 billion primarily to share repurchases, dividends and capex in the third quarter, which significantly exceeded operating cash flow. We paid $646 million in dividends, deployed $208 million to capital expenditures and reduced $650 million of Honeywell shares, reducing our weighted average share count to 699 million. Total capital deployment was up 44% year over year. In all, this was another strong quarter under difficult circumstances. We continue to manage through the multi-speed recovery across our portfolio, making disciplined investments for the future and meeting or exceeding our commitments while proactively addressing macroeconomic challenges. With that, let's turn to Slide 5 to discuss the impact of the supply chain constraints we're facing and how Honeywell is adapting to address those challenges. As we saw last quarter, the world continues to face persistent supply chain challenges as the sourcing environment for direct materials and electrical components continues to be tight, logistics capacity remains strained and labor availability becomes more challenging, all driving constraints in operating and inflationary pressures on our cost base. Semiconductors remain an acute problem due to a structural disconnect between supply and demand driven by canceled industrial and automotive orders during COVID-19 as well as unplanned growth of 5G, personal computing and consumer electronics. We've also started feeling pressure in aerospace as the supply chain broadly ramps up more slowly than needed, leading to parts challenges due to deteriorating supplier delivery. While we have been mitigating the overall risk by proactively partnering with distributors and alternative suppliers, the challenges accelerated in the last quarter, constraining growth in some of our businesses. The most affected businesses in our portfolio are SPS, aerospace and HPT. We provide guidance ranges for our quarterly and annual outlook in order to incorporate an adequate level of risk for things just such as this as we see these dynamics in the last few quarters. We are managing the situation aggressively on a daily basis and have deployed the full strength of our reengineering efforts to qualify alternative parts, which has mitigated some risk on our productivity solutions and services, advanced sensing and fire businesses. We created tiger teams using advanced digital tools to track shortages and deploy a number of actions to liberate supply in the market. We also continue to mitigate inflation in materials, freight and labor in our operations through targeted regular pricing actions. For the longer term, we're developing dual-sourced platforming strategies and executing long-term supply agreements with some of our key suppliers. This, coupled with strengthening direct engagement with the semiconductor OEMs and foundries, will improve our ability to secure increased volumes in the future. We do expect this environment to persist into the fourth quarter and the first half of '22. We'll continue to adapt as we manage through this period. With that, let's turn to Slide 6 to talk about our expectations for the fourth quarter. As we enter the fourth quarter and given the ongoing challenges I mentioned, we expect sales to be in the range of $8.5 billion to $8.9 billion, down 4% to flat on an organic basis, which includes the impact of the COVID-19-driven mask sales decline. Excluding this impact, organic sales would be down 2% to up 2% organically. We would also normally see a seasonal step up from the third to the fourth quarter, which this year will be somewhat dampened by the unique calendar impact of having more days in the third quarter than we do in 4Q. In aerospace, we expect our commercial business to continue to improve as business aviation and air transport flight hours continue to accelerate, driving continued sequential and year-over-year growth in the commercial aftermarket sales. The pace of the air transport acceleration will continue to vary regionally with domestic travel recovering faster than international. Commercial original equipment build rates will also continue to progress gradually. defense and space sales will be down due to lower demand from U.S. DoD programs driven by moderating U.S. defense spend and soft international defense volumes. We will continue to manage through the constraints as the aerospace supply base ramps up, but we are expecting to miss out on potentially hundreds of millions of dollars worth of shipments due to these continued challenges in Q4. We now expect organic sales growth to be down mid-single digits for the year in aerospace. In building technologies, we expect continued strong demand across the portfolio as the world continues to reopen and sustainability solutions take hold, driving sales and orders growth in the fourth quarter. We will face ongoing pressures from the supply chain constraints, but continue to work our mitigation actions as we anticipate mid-single-digit sales growth for the year. In PMT, we see continued strength in the short-cycle HPS businesses, though this will be tempered by the slower recovery in projects. Our strong orders growth in the third quarter will support a growth acceleration into '22. For UOP, we're pleased with our robust 3Q performance and expect continued growth into the fourth quarter and into '22, supported by the strong backlog, which is up double digits year over year. Last, we expect continued healthy demand for products across the advanced materials portfolio. We expect PMT organic sales to be up low single digits for the year. In safety and productivity solutions, we expect another quarter of robust growth in our warehouse and workflow solutions and productivity solutions and services businesses. In our productivity solutions and services business, we just have an outstanding year. Backlog remains up triple digits year over year, which, combined with our Intelligrated backlog that is over $2.4 billion, gives us confidence in these businesses for the remainder of '21 and into '22. Mask demand has accelerated as expected as the world recovers from the pandemic, though we will partially offset the softness with strengths in other areas of the PPE portfolio. Finally, we expect to see strength in our short-cycle gas analysis and advanced sensing businesses driven by double-digit orders growth in the third quarter. We'll continue to manage through this challenging supply environment, which will impact our growth potential, but we'll record strong double-digit growth for the year. Now, let me turn to our expectations for our other core guided metrics. For our fourth-quarter segment margins, we expect to be in the range of 21.2% to 21.7%, up 10 to 60 basis points year over year. We expect margins to continue to benefit from pricing actions ahead of inflation, volume leverage and ongoing productivity from our streamlined cost base despite the headwinds from unfavorable business mix in Intelligrated and efficiency challenges due to the supply chain environment. Fourth-quarter net below-the-line impact, which is the difference between segment profit and income tax -- and income before tax, is expected to be in the range of negative $10 million to negative $95 million with a range of repositioning between approximately $140 million and $250 million as we continue to fund ongoing restructuring projects. We expect the effective tax rate to be approximately 20% and average share count to be approximately 698 million shares. As a result, we expect fourth-quarter adjusted earnings per share between $2.03 and $2.13, down 2% to up 3% year over year. Given these fourth-quarter expectations, full-year organic sales growth will be in the range of 4% to 5%, narrowing the range we provided last quarter to $34.2 billion to $34.6 billion. We are once again raising the low end of our segment margin guidance by 10 basis points for the year to a new range of 20.9% to 21.1%, representing expansion of 50 to 70 basis points for the year. We expect margin expansion in Aero, HPT and PMT as we carefully invest back into the business while managing the multi-speed recovery across the portfolio. Our fixed cost management remains a focus and we are tracking favorably to the permanent reduction of $1 billion of fixed costs from our 2020 cost actions. We expect our net below-the-line impact to be in the range of $40 million to $125 million, including capacity for $400 to $475 million of repositioning. Our full-year effective tax rate will be approximately 22% and weighted average share count will be approximately 701 million for the year, over-delivering on our minimum 1% reduction in shares. This will take adjusted earnings per share to a range of $8 to $8.10, up 13% to 14% year over year. This maintains the high end of our previous guidance and raised the low end by $0.05. Despite these challenges, we are maintaining the same cash flow outlook for the year in the range of $5.3 billion to $5.6 billion. Now, let's turn to Page 7 and review our guidance progression throughout the year. Since we provided our initial 2021 guidance in January, we have navigated through several uncertainties, the ongoing global pandemic, supply chain challenges, unprecedented raw material inflation and labor market challenges. And in each turn, our rigorous operating principles have enabled us to continue to demonstrate our resiliency. And our latest update, we have adjusted our sales outlook purely due to the constraints we are battling in the supply chain, which dampened 3Q and our fourth-quarter sales potential. We continue to have a robust backlog of demand. Despite these changes to top-line expectations, we have not only maintained the high end of our segment margin and adjusted EPS guidance, but we have further increased the low end of both ranges and maintained our previous free cash flow guidance. These are excellent proof points of our ability to execute in all economic cycles. In total, I'm encouraged by the strength we are seeing in key areas of the portfolio as we head into '22, particularly driven by strong orders growth and backlog position as well as aggressive supply chain tactics that are mitigating risks, enabling us to deliver on our long-term commitments. Now, let's move to Slide 8, where we can talk about some of the preliminary thoughts we have on 2022. With the commercial aerospace recovery in view, upcoming capital reinvestment in the energy sector, nonresidential construction spending returning to 2019 levels and the exponential growth we continue to see in e-commerce, we have a strong setup for 2022. We expect organic growth in all four segments driven by strong portfoliowide demand in backlog, underpinned by year-to-date orders growth of 17% in HBT, 14% in Aero, 10% in PMT and 6% in SPS or 8% in SPS,, if we exclude the COVID mask business. This, coupled with the strategies we have in place that are focused on driving uniquely innovative and differentiated technologies to address the world's increasing demand for digital transformation, process technology and sustainable solutions, gives me confidence in our future. However, we do expect growth in the first half of '22 to be constrained due to continued challenges from labor force uncertainty, supply availability and logistics challenges. Inflation will continue to be a factor under these circumstances though our pricing rigor as reflected in our margin rates will help us. We do expect changes to corporate tax legislation, though the exact impact of that is as of yet unknown. With these dynamics in mind, let's look at our key markets. In aerospace, we expect strong growth in our commercial aerospace business. Ongoing improvement in global flight hours will drive growth in our commercial aerospace aftermarket. We also expect original equipment build rates, which have lagged the flight hour recovery, to ramp up in '22. In defense and space, we expect flat to low single-digit growth year over year as U.S. and international defense budget spending stabilizes and our supply challenges abate. In HBT, we expect nonresidential construction growth and an ongoing return to public spaces to drive demand for building products, services and projects. We also expect continued demand for our portfolio of healthy building solutions as well as tailwinds from U.S. infrastructure. We expect a large backlog to draw from as well as we end with 2021. In PMT, we're assuming improved macroeconomic conditions and higher stable oil prices will improve growth in UOP and also help recover automation projects in HPS. We expect continued strength in advanced materials driven by demand in the auto, construction and healthcare sectors. For safety and productivity solutions, we expect strong demand in our productivity solutions and services, gas analysis and advanced sensor businesses. We also execute on our robust backlog of major projects in our warehouse and workflow solutions businesses. However, we will face constraints to growth as supply chain challenges continue in the first half of '22. Mask demand will remain at our lower second half exit rates as the world recovers from the pandemic. For overall Honeywell, we expect margin expansion to be driven by aftermarket recovery in aerospace, accelerating catalyst shipments in UOP and improving mix in SPS. Our strong productivity and pricing actions, which should carry through to next year and provide potential upside, will enable key investments to support medium-term top-line growth, including a step-up in R&D and our digital initiatives. We look forward to completing the combination of Honeywell Quantum Solutions with Cambridge Quantum Computing, which is a very big strategic step forward for us, but will be a minor drag on our margin. We have significant balance sheet capacity for M&A and share repurchases and we expect to reduce our share count by a minimum of 1% again in 2022. So overall, we have some insight into our end markets and a lot of confidence in our continued operational execution, which will give us the ability to deliver another strong financial performance and continue to execute our strategy to be the premier software investor. We'll provide more specific inputs once we close out the year. So with that, I'd like to turn the call back over to Darius.Darius Adamczyk -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Greg. Before we wrap up, I'd like to take a minute on Slide 9 to discuss an important topic. Honeywell's culture of inclusion and diversity. Our commitment to inclusion and diversity enables better decision-making, helps build competitive advantages and further long-term success. Inclusion and diversity is one of our foundational principles and Honeywell expects all employees to exemplify these principles. We continue to build out our initiatives to promote racial equality and inclusion and diversity, including employing mandatory unconscious bias training to our global workforce, establishing a global I&D student committee, co-sponsored by me and fortifying Honeywell's I&D governance structure by embedding I&D councils into each business group. We also established 2021 goals for each of my direct reports that include an annual objective of driving diversity in his or her organization. These initiatives have yielded results. Women and people of color represent a higher percentage of the workforce at Honeywell compared to our peers. In addition, representation of women and people of color in Honeywell has increased each year since 2018, which is a testament to our ongoing commitment to hiring, developing and retaining diverse talent. Now let's wrap up on Slide 10. We delivered on our third-quarter commitments despite a challenging backdrop. As always, we remain laser-focused on executing our strategic objectives and investing in growth opportunities that position our business well for the next phase of recovery. We're executing on our proven value creation framework with the rigor you can expect from Honeywell, which will continue to consistently drive shareholder value. With that, Reena, let's move to Q&A.Reena Vaidya -- Director of Investor Relations Thank you, Darius. Darius, Greg, Anne and Torsten are now available to answer your questions. We ask that you please be mindful of others in the queue by only asking one question. Ari, please open the line for Q&A. 