
OperatorGood morning and welcome to Otis' Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. This call is being carried live on the Internet and recorded for replay. Presentation materials are available for download at Otis' website at www.otis.com.I will now turn over to Michael Rednor, Senior Director of Investor Relations.Michael Rednor -- Senior Director of Investor Relations

 



Thank you, Michelle. Welcome to Otis' third quarter 2021 earnings conference call. On the call with me today are Judy Marks, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Rahul Ghai, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.Please note, except where otherwise noted, the company will speak to results from continuing operations, excluding restructuring and significant non-recurring items. The company will also refer to adjusted results where adjustments were made as though Otis was a stand-alone company in the current period and prior year. A reconciliation of these measures can be found in the appendix of the webcast.We also remind listeners that the presentation contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to risks and uncertainties. Otis' SEC filings, including our Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q provide details on important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially.With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Judy.

 



Judy Marks -- President & Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Mike, and thank you everyone for joining us. We hope that everyone listening is safe and well.Otis continue to make significant progress driving our long-term strategic priorities as reflected in the strong financial performance year-to-date. In the third quarter, we grew organic sales and expanded margins in both segments. We gained approximately 1.5 points of New Equipment share this quarter and year-to-date, on top of 60 basis points in the prior year. On a year-to-date basis, New Equipment orders were up mid-teens with growth in all regions, reflecting our continued focus on providing value for our customers and a recovery in our end markets throughout the year.In the quarter, New Equipment orders were particularly strong in Asia, up mid-teens where we secured an order for the Hong Kong International Airport extending an over 20-year relationship with this customer. We will install over 100 escalators and moving walkways to keep passengers moving across the concourse. This is further progress of our sub-strategy to win in infrastructure.

 



In China, we're seeing traction on our new Gen3 connected elevators, reaffirming our investment in the innovation that Otis ONE provides to our customers and passengers. Just a few months after officially launching our Gen3 elevator, we secured our first repeat customer in China for the new platform. Jilin Longchang Property Developer Company ordered an additional 123 Gen3 elevator systems for four more commercial and residential projects in Northeast China.We're also making progress on deploying our Gen360 connected elevator platform in EMEA. In the first few months after launch, we received several Gen360 awards, adding more than 50% to the pilot phase volumes.Moving to Service. In the quarter, we grew our industry-leading maintenance portfolio by 3%; a goal we set for ourselves entering the year and grew organic Service sales for the third consecutive quarter. In the Americas, Otis was selected to continue a 35-year partnership with One Commerce Square in downtown Philadelphia. Otis installed the building's original elevators in the 1980s and has been maintaining the unit since then. Otis will now modernize the building's elevators, including the introduction of our Compass 360 destination dispatching system. Our own portfolio modernization awards are a testament to Otis service excellence and long-standing customer relationships.The strong year-to-date company performance and robust cash flow generation in excess of 140% of net income enabled us to complete $725 million in share repurchases. In September, we announced a tender offer for the remaining interest in Zardoya Otis, a premier elevator business in Spain, Portugal and Morocco, with a strong service presence. The transaction will simplify our corporate structure and operations, while optimizing alignment of assets and debt financing in Europe. We expect this transaction to be mid-single-digit percentage accretive in 2023.In parallel with this strong financial performance, we made additional progress on our ESG initiatives. Focusing on sustainability has always been an integral part of our operations culture and achieving ISO 14001 certification for all of our factories is an important part of our existing efforts. We're pleased that this quarter we achieved this goal, years ahead of schedule, adding our factories in Korea and Florence, South Carolina. We're proud to see several programs recognized at these two factories, including power consumption reduction programs, robust package recycling processes and lubricant leakage prevention measures. In addition, in Florence, we launched a pilot for zero-waste-to-landfill program that will scale to other manufacturing sites next year as we work toward our goal of having all factories eligible for a zero-waste-to-landfill certification by 2025.We also made progress on our social initiatives, launching the second year of our Made to Move Communities signature CSR program. Participating colleagues will guide 200 student participants from 20 schools across 12 countries and territories to develop creative mobility solutions, while also helping to close the STEM skills gap. This year, we aim to make a difference by helping communities adapt and leverage better design and newer technologies to address the mobility, health and safety concerns of older populations. We look forward to sharing these solutions and highlights of the program with you during our Lift Our Communities month in April of next year.Now turning to Slide 4; Q3 results and 2021 outlook. New Equipment orders were up 3.8% in Q3, and up 10.3% on a rolling 12-month basis. Organic sales were up 8.1% in the third quarter with 14.1% organic growth in the New Equipment segment, and 3.6% organic growth in the Service segment. Adjusted operating profit was up $63 million and margin expanded 20 basis points despite a 50 basis point impact from segment mix as the New Equipment business grew faster than the Service business.Year-to-date, we generated robust free cash flow of $1.4 billion or 141% conversion of GAAP net income. This positive momentum and our progress on our long-term strategy, gives us the confidence to improve our 2021 outlook and positions us well to build upon this strong performance in 2022. We now expect sales for the year to be approximately $14.3 billion, up 11.8% to 12.3% versus the prior year, and up 8.5% to 9% organically. Adjusted operating profit is expected to be in the range of $2.18 billion to $2.19 billion, up $260 million to $270 million at actual currency, and up $195 million to $205 million at constant currency. We're improving adjusted EPS from the prior outlook by $0.04 at the midpoint and $0.06 from the low end and now expect it to be approximately $2.95; a 17% increase versus the prior year. Lastly, we're improving our free cash flow outlook to approximately $1.5 billion to $1.55 billion with 125% conversion of GAAP net income.With that, I'll turn it over to Rahul to walk through our Q3 results and 2021 outlook in more detail.Rahul Ghai -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Judy, and good morning everyone.Starting with third quarter results on Slide 5. Net sales grew 10.8% to $3.6 billion as the strong growth momentum continued in New Equipment, and Service grew for the third consecutive quarter. Adjusted operating profit was up 12.5% or $63 million and up $52 million at constant currency, primarily from the benefit of higher volume in both segments. Installation productivity initiatives in New Equipment and favorable Service pricing and productivity helped to offset the headwinds from commodity inflation and the absence of temporary cost actions taken last year to alleviate the impact from COVID-19.We maintained the focus on cost containment, while continuing to invest in the business. Adjusted SG&A was down 70 basis points as a percentage of sales, despite the step up in public company expenses. R&D and other strategic investments were up slightly versus prior year and were about flat as a percentage of sales. This strong focus on execution resulted in 20 basis points of margin expansion in the quarter and 70 basis points of margin expansion at constant segment mix. Third quarter adjusted EPS was up 11.6% or $0.08, driven by $0.11 of operating profit growth, partially offset by $0.04 from a higher adjusted tax rate due to the absence of a cumulative year-to-date tax benefit in the third quarter of 2020. On a year-to-date basis, the adjusted tax rate is down by 180 basis points.Moving to Slide 6. New Equipment orders were up 3.8% at constant currency. Orders momentum remained strong in Asia, up mid-teens, including sixth consecutive quarter of growth in China. As expected, after 47% growth in the second quarter, orders declined year-over-year in the Americas, primarily due to timing as awards which precede order booking in North America were up approximately 24% versus the prior year. EMEA was down 1.8% from the timing of major project orders. Proposal volumes in the quarter also continued to show signs of strong demand globally, up double-digits. Total company backlog increased 4% and 1% at constant currency from strong growth in China. Pricing on new orders declined by over 1 point and backlog margin was down about 1 point versus prior year. Both, pricing on new orders and backlog margin, were about flat sequentially.Year-to-date, New Equipment orders were up 15%, including 13% growth in the Americas, mid-single-digit growth in EMEA, and approximately 20% growth in Asia. Organic sales were up 14.1% with growth in all regions. Americas was up mid-teens, driven by strong backlog execution as the business surpassed pre-COVID levels. EMEA was up low-single-digits and Asia grew high-teens, driven by China, where organic sales were up double-digits. New Equipment adjusted operating profit was up $33 million from higher volume. Pricing was marginally unfavorable in the quarter and higher commodity prices were a headwind of $35 million, but we more than mitigated these impacts through strong installation execution, including favorable project closeouts, leading to 80 basis points of adjusted operating profit margin expansion.Service segment results on Slide 7. Maintenance portfolio units were up 3% versus the prior year with global improvements in retention, recapture and conversion rates. The number of units increased in all regions, and China was up high-teens, accelerating from the mid-teens growth in the second quarter. There was pressure on modernization demand in the third quarter and modernization orders were down 4.1% at constant currency as growth in EMEA and Asia was offset by decline in the Americas, primarily driven by timing of orders as the market is recovering strongly in 2021. Overall, modernization backlog was up 2% at constant currency.Service organic sales were up 3.6% with growth for the third consecutive quarter, as the business continues to recover from the impact of COVID. Maintenance & Repair grew 4.7% with strong recovery in repair and low single-digit growth in contractual maintenance sales. Modernization sales were down 1.2% as growth in Europe and China was more than offset by declines in Asia Pacific from lingering COVID-related lockdowns, and in the Americas from supply chain shortages. Adjusted operating profit grew $27 million as higher volume productivity initiatives and improved pricing and mix more than offset the absence of favorability from COVID-related cost containment actions taken in the prior year. Adjusted operating profit margin expanded for the seventh consecutive quarter and was up 30 basis points.Overall, year-to-date results reflect solid performance with approximately 1.5 points of New Equipment share gain; our best portfolio growth in the last decade, 11% organic sales growth and $261 million of adjusted operating profit growth with margin expansion in both segments.We also generated close to $1.4 billion in free cash flow, enabling us to complete $725 million in share repurchases, raise dividends earlier this year, continue with bolt-on acquisitions, and announce the tender offer for the remaining stake in Zardoya Otis.Looking forward to the balance of the year on Slide 8. We feel confident about strong growth across all key metrics for the year. We now expect organic sales to be up 8.5% to 9%, up 1 point from the prior outlook with improvement in New Equipment segment. We now expect operating profit to grow between $260 million to $270 million, up $15 million from prior outlook at the midpoint with sales growth, operating profit growth and margin expansion in both segments. Adjusted EPS is now expected to be approximately $2.95; $0.04 higher than prior outlook at the midpoint, and up 17% versus the prior year. The year-over-year EPS increase is driven by strong operating profit growth, a reduction in the adjusted tax rate, and a reduced share count.The adjusted tax rate is now expected to be in a range of 28.5% to 29%; more than 150 basis point reduction versus the prior year and a 25 basis point improvement from the prior outlook at the midpoint. Following strong year-to-date cash generation from net income growth and over $300 million reduction in working capital from the end of last year, we now expect free cash flow for the year to be between $1.5 billion to $1.55 billion. This is up $50 million from the prior outlook from improved net income and reduced working capital.Taking a further look at the organic sales outlook on Slide 9. New Equipment is now projected to be up 15% to 15.5%, driven by accelerated backlog conversion and a 15% year-to-date orders growth. This is an increase of more than 250 basis points from the prior outlook and over 11 point improvement from our expectations at the beginning of the year. This broad-based improvement in expectations is supported by robust market growth in all regions, strong year-to-date performance and continued backlog growth. Americas is now up high-teens -- sorry up mid-teens; EMEA up high-single-digits; and Asia up high-teens, driven by China.In Service, we are adjusting our outlook to approximately 4% growth, the lower end of the prior range, reflecting slower than expected recovery on modernization in the second half of the year. Modernization is now expected to be up approximately 4% for the year from up mid-single-digit previously driven by COVID-related job site restrictions in Asia Pacific, slower decision making in EMEA and some parts shortages in the Americas. Despite the resurgence of COVID in Asia Pacific, there is no change to the Maintenance & Repair outlook, that is still expected to be up approximately 4% for the year, driven by continued maintenance portfolio growth and recovery in discretionary repair.Overall, the organic sales growth outlook of 8.5% to 9% reflects a strong year-to-date performance and good momentum positioning us well to deliver growth across all regions and all lines of business, while building backlog to support continued growth in 2022.Switching to operating profit on Slide 10. We now expect operating profit to be up between $260 million to $270 million versus the prior year with margin expansion of 30 basis points. At constant currency, operating profit is expected to be up between $195 million to $205 million. This represents an improvement of $15 million versus the prior outlook from the impact of updated volume expectations in both segments and actions taken to reduce the corporate expenses. FX tailwind is now expected to be approximately $65 million from $70 million that we were expecting previously, primarily due to the recent strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the euro impacting the profit growth in the Service business.The year-over-year growth in operating profit reflects the benefits of higher volume, Service productivity initiatives, favorable Service pricing and strong installation execution. It is partially offset by unfavorable New Equipment price mix, headwinds from the absence of prior-year cost containment actions related to COVID-19 and higher commodity prices. The headwind from commodities is now expected to be between $80 million to $90 million for the year; at the higher end of what we communicated in July, driven partially by higher New Equipment volume in the year. The broader price increases announced last quarter have been rolled out and will help to alleviate the impact from higher commodity prices in 2022.Overall, this strong outlook puts us more than $1 billion ahead of our 2019 reported revenue with 100 basis points of margin expansion. 2021 sales, earnings and margin in both segments are expected to be higher than 2019 and adjusted EPS is expected to be up more than 30% versus 2019, reflecting broad-based improvement in performance, driven by our ability to execute implementation of the long-term strategy and the benefits of a solid end market recovery.And with that, I'll request Michelle to please open the line for questions.