
OperatorGood morning and welcome to PACCAR's First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Today's call is being recorded and if anyone has an objection, you should disconnect at this time.I would now like to introduce Mr. Ken Hastings, PACCAR's Director of Investor Relations. Mr. Hastings, please go ahead.Ken Hastings -- Director of Investor RelationsGood morning. We would like to welcome those listening by phone and those on the webcast. My name is Ken Hastings, PACCAR's Director of Investor Relations. And joining me this morning are Preston Feight, Chief Executive Officer; Harrie Schippers, President and Chief Financial Officer; and Michael Barkley, Senior Vice President and Controller. As with prior conference calls, we ask that any members of the media on the line participate in a listen-only mode.Certain information presented today will be forward-looking and involve risks and uncertainties, including general economic and competitive conditions that may affect expected results. For additional information, please see our SEC filings and the Investor Relations page of paccar.com.I would now like to introduce Preston Feight.Preston R. Feight -- Chief Executive Officer and DirectorGood morning. Harrie Schippers, Michael Barkley and I will update you on a very good first quarter results and business highlights. First, my sincere appreciation to PACCAR's employees around the world for their dedication, hard work and upbeat spirit. Throughout the past year's challenges, they've delivered outstanding trucks and services that provide essential goods to our communities.Now, as the world moves forward, we have many reasons to be optimistic. In the first quarter, PACCAR achieved very good revenues and net income. PACCAR's first quarter sales and Financial Services revenues increased 13% to $5.85 billion and first quarter net income increased 31% to $470 million. PACCAR Parts increased its first quarter revenues to a record $1.16 billion, and Parts pre-tax profits were a record $251 million, 17% higher than the same period last year.Truck and Parts gross margins increased from 12.6% to 13.4% in the first quarter. And PACCAR Financial had a great quarter, delivering excellent portfolio performance and achieving pre-tax income of $76 million.PACCAR is having a tremendous year of new product introductions. In February, Peterbilt and Kenworth launched beautiful new heavy-duty truck models. The new Peterbilt Model 579 and next-generation Kenworth T680 feature enhanced aerodynamics and powertrains that deliver up to 7% higher fuel efficiency. They feature new LED headlights, new Advanced Driver Assistance Systems and a state-of-the-art interior for the 15-inch configurable digital display. Truck owners and drivers will appreciate these, and many other features in these great new trucks.In April, Kenworth and Peterbilt introduced a new medium-duty truck lineup. These vehicles have an 8-inch wider cab, lower cap heights, which makes it easier to get into and out of the truck, best-in-class visibility for enhanced safety, and a new premium interior with configurable dash displays. The new medium-duty trucks feature PACCAR's PX-7 and PX-9 engines and the new PACCAR 8-speed automatic transmission.In April, DAF began producing CF electric trucks, and Peterbilt and Kenworth expect to deliver their first production battery electric vehicles in the coming months. PACCAR has strategic partnerships with two electric vehicle battery providers, CATL and Romeo Power. These two excellent partners provide our customers with the right technology choice for their applications.As the US economy recovers, GDP and industrial production are each projected to expand 6.3% this year. Consumer spending, the housing market and the automotive sectors have strengthened. Good freight tonnage, high truck utilization and a shortage of drivers has created strong demand for PACCAR's premium trucks. 2021 market size will be tempered by the industrywide under supply of semiconductors. And we estimate the US and Canada Class 8 market to be in the range of 260,000 to 290,000 trucks. The UK and European economies are also expected to grow strongly. Economists project UK GDP to increase 4.8% and European GDP to increase 4.2%. The 2021 European truck market is expected to increase to a range of 260,000 to 290,000 trucks.Harrie Schippers will now provide an update on PACCAR Parts, PACCAR Financial Services and other business highlights. Harrie?Harrie C. A. M. Schippers -- President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Preston. PACCAR delivered 42,200 trucks during the first quarter. This was a 3% increase over fourth quarter production despite an under-supply of semiconductors. This was enabled by all the efforts of PACCAR's outstanding purchasing and production teams.Truck, Parts and Other gross margins improved to 13.4% in the first quarter. Second quarter production has a higher-than-normal level of uncertainty. Depending on semiconductor supply, we anticipate second quarter global truck production to be similar to the first, with Truck, Parts and Other gross margins also at first quarter levels.PACCAR Parts had an outstanding quarter, achieving revenues of $1.16 billion, which is 16% higher than the same period last year. Parts pre-tax profits were a record $251 million. Parts gross margins were robust 28.2%. PACCAR Parts benefited from strong freight demand and truck utilization, investments and distribution initiatives, such as TRP all-makes parts and stores and a growing population of connected vehicles with PACCAR engines.E-commerce part sales increased more than 30% in the first quarter, compared to the same quarter last year. Parts is a business in which speed of delivery is a major factor in customers' purchasing decisions. Each new distribution center that we open increases sales capacity, parts availability and delivery speed to customers and dealers. PACCAR will continue its investments in world-class distribution by opening a new distribution center in Louisville, Kentucky next year. We expect second quarter Parts sales to be similar to the strong first quarter, with full-year Parts sales up 15% to 18%, compared to last year.PACCAR Financial Services benefited in the first quarter from strong new loan and lease business volumes, improved used truck prices, and an excellent portfolio quality. Revenues were $432 million, 13% higher than last year. Pretax income was $76 million, 58% higher than last year. The excellent portfolio performance resulted in low past dues of less than 0.5% at the end of March.In the first quarter, North American Kenworth and Peterbilt used truck pricing increased by 30%, compared to a year ago. Kenworth and Peterbilt truck resale values continue to command a premium over the competition. PACCAR Financial has been increasing its retail used truck center capacity and now has 12 facilities worldwide. Selling used trucks at retail has resulted in higher prices and margins. PACCAR Financial plans to open another used truck retail center in Madrid, Spain later this year.PACCAR has invested $7.3 billion in new and expanded facilities, innovative products and new technologies during the past decade. Capital expenditures are projected to be $575 million to $625 million and research and development expenses are estimated to be $350 million to $375 million this year. PACCAR is investing in many exciting projects. These include next-generation truck models, zero emissions and ultra clean diesel powertrains, advanced driver assistance and autonomous driving systems, connected vehicle services and enhanced production and distribution facilities.We thank our excellent independent Kenworth, Peterbilt and DAF dealers for their support to our customers. Kenworth, Peterbilt and DAF dealers are well capitalized and have invested $1.7 billion in their businesses in the last five years. These investments make a significant contribution to PACCAR's truck market share and support the growth of PACCAR Parts and PACCAR Financial Services.Thank you. We'd be pleased to answer your questions.