
OperatorGood morning, and welcome to the Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. My name is Josh, and I will be your operator. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Ms. Andrea DeMarco, Senior Vice President from Investor Relations, Corporate Communications and ESG. Ms. DeMarco, please proceed.Andrea DeMarco -- Senior Vice President from Investor Relations, Corporate Communications and ESGThank you, Josh, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us for our first quarter 2021 earnings call. I'm joined today by Frank Del Rio, President and Chief Executive Officer of Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings; and Mark Kempa, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Frank will begin the call with opening commentary, after which Mark will follow to discuss our financials before handing the call back to Frank for closing remarks. We will then open the call for your questions. As a reminder, this conference call is being simultaneously webcast on the company's Investor Relations website at www.nclhltdinvestor.com. We will also make reference to a slide presentation during this call, which may also be found on our Investor Relations website. Both the conference call and the presentation will be available for replay for 30 days following today's call. Before we discuss our results, I would like to cover a few items. Our press release with first quarter 2021 results was issued this morning and is available on our Investor Relations website. This call includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from such statements. These statements should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements contained in our earnings release. Our comments may also reference non-GAAP financial measures, a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure and other associated disclosures contained in our earnings release and presentation.And with that, I'd like to turn the call over to Frank Del Rio. Frank?Frank J. Del Rio -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Andrea, and good morning, everyone. As always, I hope that all of you joining us today, as well as your loved ones, remain healthy and safe. Today, we will focus our commentary on the progress we have made thus far toward the resumption of cruising, the overall strength of the booking and pricing environment and our efforts to bolster our liquidity and maximize financial flexibility as we methodically return our fleet to operations. Over a year since the suspension of voyages worldwide, our team at Norwegian has accelerated, yet the time has finally come to where we shift our focus to what I like to call our Great Cruise Comeback, even if the comeback starts from international ports. As you can see on slide four, our return to service plan is centered around three key phases. First, we developed our multilayered SailSAFE health and safety strategy, including mandatory vaccinations for all guests and crew at its cornerstone, which I will touch on in more detail later in the call. Second, last month, we announced our initial voyage resumption plan with a two-pronged approach to restarting cruises from both within and outside of U.S. waters starting this summer. All three of our brands have now announced initial voyages embarking from both new and normally scheduled international ports, and we are -- and we remain engaged in active dialogue with the CDC regarding a potential resumption of cruising from U.S. ports.Lastly is the phased relaunch of the remainder of our fleet, the timing of which will depend on several factors such as the global public health environment, port openings, travel restrictions and the all-important CDC. Slide five further details our 2-pronged voyage resumption plan. Outside of the U.S., our long-awaited return to cruising will begin in July, first with three Norwegian Cruise Line vessels sailing from Athens and throughout the Greek Isles and new Caribbean home ports in Jamaica and the Dominican Republic. Oceania Cruises will start in late August with voyages from Copenhagen, and Regent Seven Seas Cruises will resume from South Hampton England beginning in September, with Seven Seas Splendor, our newest and most luxurious vessel, resuming her inaugural season. The response to our international voyage resumption has been overwhelming, and even sailings from our new Caribbean home ports are performing better than expected, despite the extremely condensed booking window. I can't thank our loyal guests, value travel partners and all of our stakeholders enough for their patience and support over the past year as we prepare for our return to cruising. As for our work to restart voyages in the U.S., on April 5, we submitted a comprehensive ironclad proposal to the CDC requesting authorization to resume cruising this summer with the robust and healthy safety strategy I just described, which includes 100% vaccination of all guests and crew. We and the rest of the cruise industry have since continued dialogue with the CDC.And just last week, the CDC issued additional clarification for its previously outlined technical guidance, which alleviated some of the pain points in the original Phase IIa guidance. Even more importantly, we were pleased to see the CDC incorporate vaccines, our most powerful tool against COVID-19, into its guidance, creating two different pathways for the resumption of cruising from U.S. ports: one for vaccinated voyages with a vaccination threshold of 95% for guests and 98% for crew; and one for nonvaccinated voyages that fall below this threshold. The vaccinated path, which is consistent with, but falls short of, our plan for 100% vaccination of guests and crew has fewer hurdles to clear before we turn to cruising, including the removal of the requirement for simulated voyages prior to revenue sailings and the relaxing of certain burdensome and costly testing requirements. In addition, yesterday, the CDC issued technical guidance for Phase IIb and III, which covers simulated voyages and restricted voyages and the application process for a conditional sailing certificate. The guidance includes an operations manual for simulated and restricted voyages for which we need more clarity on whether the numerous and onerous requirements would apply to vaccinated voyages as well or only to those that are not. Our team is working through the new guidance. But at first glance, however, it appears the path forward is a bit rockier and a bit steeper than originally expected.As time goes by, and given how long it takes to stand up a shift from cold layup, the urgent need for an acceptable and definitive agreement with the CDC is imperative as a potential mid-summer restart from U.S. ports could be in jeopardy. However, the CDC's recent willingness to engage with the industry in constructive dialogue has shown that they are committed to working with us to find an acceptable path forward, and we are certainly in a better place today than we were just 30 days ago. The progress we have made so far has been possible in part due to the incredible grassroot efforts undertaken across the cruise ecosystem to encourage elected officials to help resume cruising in the U.S., which supports thousands of jobs, families and small businesses throughout the country. Through CLIA's Ready, Set, Sail platform, and our own Safe to Sail advocacy campaign, we were able to send over 150,000 messages to elected officials throughout the United States. Thank you to all of you who have called, emailed or tweeted your officials in support of the cruise industry. The wind is at our back, and now is the time to keep the positive momentum going with our advocacy efforts, so I encourage you to continue reaching out to your elected officials by cruising -- or excuse me, by texting Cruise to 52886 and have your voices heard.Turning to slide six. We unveiled our robust and multilayered SailSAFE health and safety program, which includes mandatory vaccinations for all guests and crew as its cornerstone. We believe that vaccinations, combined with a dozens of science-backed preventive protocols, including universal COVID-19 testing that were developed by the Healthy Sail Panel, will provide one of, if not, the safest vacation option available anywhere on land or at sea. Our protocols extend well beyond those of the already successfully reopened travel and hospitality sectors, including hotels, resorts, casinos, theme parks, restaurants, movie theaters, arenas and airlines. SailSAFE was developed in conjunction with our expert advisors, including the Healthy Sail Panel and our newly announced SailSAFE Global Health and Wellness Council chaired by former FDA Commissioner, Dr. Scott Gottlieb. The Council, which is comprised of six public health and scientific experts featured on slide seven, will complement the work of the Healthy Sail Panel and provide Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings with specific expert advice on the implementation and continuous improvement of our SailSAFE program. Shifting to our booking trends, which you can see on slide eight, we continue to see the strongest demand we have ever experienced for future cruise vacations across all three of our brands, despite continued reductions of demand-generating marketing investments, the absence of a full complement of our all-important travel agent partners and a virtual lockdown for many of our international source markets. Perhaps the best indicator of this pent-up demand is our booking volumes, which, during what is probably the most unorthodox wait season in our industry's history, accelerated considerably with bookings net of cancellations more than doubling versus the prior quarter. As I touched on at our last call, this demand, coupled with the opening of voyages for sale further in advance, continues to result in a significant expansion of the booking curve, with the first quarter's curve nearly doubling versus the same time last year.Pent-up demand is particularly evident for 2022 voyages. For the first half of 2022, our load factor is meaningfully ahead of 2019, with pricing higher when excluding the dilutive impact of future cruise credits. Keep in mind that 2019 was a record year, which makes the strong booking trends we are experiencing even more impressive. In addition, approximately 70% of our book position is comprised of new cash bookings, with the remainders comprised of future cruise certificates. By the time summer 2021 comes around and the industry begins to resume operations, more than 50 million would-be cruises will have been left ashore, so the pent-up demand is real and it's deep, and you can see that in our growing advanced ticket sales, which increased approximately $200 million on a gross basis in the quarter or up approximately 40% versus the prior quarter's build. We believe we have reached an inflection point, as this is the highest gross build since the beginning of the pandemic. And as we get closer to our resumption of cruising and begin phasing in the rest of our fleet, we expect this momentum to continue to accelerate sequentially. Another exciting milestone reached in the quarter was the naming of Vista, the first of two new 1,200 guest Allura Class ships for the Oceania Cruises brand and the first new build to the line in over a decade, which you can see on slide nine. The upscale vessel, the seventh for the line, will set sail in early 2023 followed by a sister ship in 2025. Like her sister vessels, Vista will deliver the finest cuisine at sea and will introduce several unique first for the brand in the realm of dining and guest experience. More reveals of Vista's venues and experiences will begin later this month, and the lead-up to the launch and sails for her inaugural voyages in September of 2021. I'll be back later to provide an update on our ESG efforts as well as provide closing remarks.But now I'd like to turn the call over to Mark for a financial update. Mark?Mark A. Kempa -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Frank. My remarks today will focus on the continued execution of our COVID-19 financial action plan and our planned return to cruising later this summer. I am pleased to say that we are beginning to see light at the end of the tunnel, with the significant progress we have made in recent months on our return to cruising. Despite this positive momentum, we have not lost sight that the pandemic is not yet over, and we remain focused on maintaining our cost discipline and pulling all levers available to conserve cash and maximize financial flexibility in what is an improving but still uncertain environment. As I have said before, our team is focused on what we can control, and we continue to adapt our strategy as needed as the pandemic evolves. Slide 10 illustrates the three focus areas of our action plan and the additional proactive measures taken since the beginning of the first quarter. First, we continue to tightly control operating expenses and capital expenditures through a number of initiatives, including the significant reduction or outright deferral of near-term demand-generating marketing expenses and nonessential capital expenditures. As an example, our non-newbuild capital expenditures continue to be less than half our pre-pandemic expectations for 2021. In addition, we finalized EUR50 million of incremental deferrals of newbuild-related shipyard payments since our last earnings call, resulting in a total deferral of EUR270 million through the end of the second quarter 2022. Second, we have made significant progress on improving our debt maturity profile to provide additional near-term financial flexibility.In March, we repaid the Pride of America and Norwegian Jewel facilities, which were set to mature in 2022, leaving no significant debt maturities until 2024. We also worked with our lenders to amend certain credit agreements to free up approximately $2 billion of additional debt capacity, most of which is on an unsecured basis. While we believe our liquidity position today is strong, this incremental debt capacity meaningfully improves our financial flexibility and gives us additional optionality should the need arise. And the final focus of -- area of our action plan is securing additional capital. We successfully tapped the market, which resulted in an approximately $1 billion of incremental liquidity in the quarter. Slide 11 illustrates the two highly successful capital market transactions executed in March. First, we issued $1.1 billion of senior unsecured notes consisting of a $575 million tack-on to the December unsecured notes offering and $525 million of new unsecured notes due 2028. These transactions generated approximately $650 million of incremental liquidity after repaying the Norwegian Jewel and Pride of America facilities, both of which were to mature in 2022. Second, we went to the market with a strategic multifaceted offering to proactively manage our balance sheet. We raised approximately $1.6 billion of proceeds net of underwriting fees through a public common equity offering of approximately 53 million shares at $30 per share. We then used approximately $1 billion of the net proceeds to fully repay the L Catterton exchangeable notes due 2026. This opportunistic transaction had several strategic benefits. First, it enhanced our balance sheet by effectively converting debt to equity with the prepayment of debt at par. Second, the early redemption of the L Catterton notes enabled us to repurchase a significantly lower number of shares than what would have been required if the notes were held to maturity.Third, we unlocked value and added approximately $530 million of incremental liquidity, with limited additional dilution to shareholders, as the vast majority of the shares were already reserved for the L Catterton notes. And lastly, we reduced our future interest expense burden. To date, we've accessed the capital market 7 times over a 12-month period with several multi-instrument transactions. As a result, since the onset of the pandemic, we've raised more than $7.5 billion, including the drawdown of the $875 million revolver early last year. This incredible feat would not have been possible without the hard work, support and partnership of countless individuals, including our team at Norwegian, our lenders, the shipyards, investors, bankers and many, many more. Turning to our illustrative liquidity profile on Slide 12. Total liquidity as of March 31 was approximately $3.4 billion, which is net of the portion of customer deposit refunds that are included in accounts payable as of quarter end. We have also estimated approximately $100 million for anticipated health and safety investments. These factors combined result in a net liquidity on a pro forma basis of approximately $3.3 billion, enabling us to continue to navigate through this fluid environment and execute on our return to service plan. As for cash burn, our team continues to be laser-focused on cost containment and cash conservation. For the first quarter, our average monthly cash burn was in line with prior guidance at approximately $190 million or approximately $170 million per month, excluding nonrecurring debt modification costs. We paid approximately $50 million of onetime costs in the quarter as a result of debt deferrals and covenant waivers and suspensions, which, when combined with the newbuild payment extensions, have resulted in approximately $1 billion of additional liquidity through first quarter of 2022. As for the second quarter, we expect the average cash burn to be approximately $190 million per month as we prepare for a resumption of cruising beginning in July.Restart expenses are primarily related to repositioning, provisioning and staffing of vessels, implementing new health and safety protocols and a measured ramp-up of demand-generating marketing investments. We will continue to be disciplined and take a thoughtful approach to reintroducing costs with our voyage resumptions in order to conserve cash while, at the same time, balancing the need to drive new cash bookings. Slide 21 details additional guidance we have provided for certain metrics, including depreciation and amortization, interest expense and newbuild-related capital expenditures. Turning to slide 13. We ended the first quarter with approximately $3.5 billion of cash and cash equivalents. Our balance -- our cash balance in the first quarter increased driven by approximately $1.2 billion of net proceeds from capital raises. This was partially offset by approximately $570 million of operating cash burn, including operating expenses, SG&A, interest and capex; customer cash refunds for canceled voyages of approximately $100 million; collateral obligations of approximately $250 million; and a net working capital and other outflow of approximately $50 million, which includes health and safety investments. Before handing the call back to Frank, I want to reiterate that, as we continue to navigate through this crisis and prepare to execute on our voyage resumption plans, we have not taken our focus off the future. Our medium- and long-term financial recovery plan, which is provided on slide 14, is focused on three critical components: first, rebuilding and gradually returning to pre-COVID margin levels, while continuing to identify opportunities to further drive margin expansion; second, maximize our cash generation; and third, focus on optimizing our balance sheet and charting a path to delever.With that, I'll hand the call back over to Frank for closing commentary.Frank J. Del Rio -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Mark. And before we wrap up our prepared remarks, I'd like to provide an update on our global sustainability program, Sail & Sustain, which is reflected on slide 15. Despite the current public health challenges we face, our commitment to drive a positive impact on society and the environment through the advancement of our ESG strategy remains at the core of our everyday operations. Throughout the crisis, we have remained committed to supporting our local communities and the destinations we visit. Earlier this week, we announced that we are providing a $10 million cash support to six Alaskan port communities to help families and small businesses with basic relief programs in the localities that are really impacted by the ongoing cruise suspensions. My heart breaks for Alaska and its wonderful people as we face a potential second year of 0 or, at best, limited cruise operations during the all-important summer tourism season, which would bring in another blow to Alaska's hard-hit tourism economy. We are doing everything in our power to resume cruising in the U.S. as soon as possible, so we can provide additional much-needed relief to this important region. In addition, we also joined the Shop Local Alaska program, which is a joint initiative between BuyAlaska and Voyij.com to encourage and support the severely impacted small businesses in Alaska. This virtual platform allows consumers who live around the globe to browse and purchase a wide range of items from virtual Alaska shops. In our local Miami community, we provided $100,000 worth of Visa gift cards to the cruise members of the International Longshoremen's Association Local 1416, who saw over 60% of their business wiped out nearly overnight with the suspension of cruise voyages. We were proud to support this pillar of the local community, which has been providing longshore labor to Port Miami for over 85 years and holds the historic position as the oldest Black union in Florida. As part of our ongoing humanitarian efforts and in the spirit of giving back, we also provided more than $2 million of in-kind humanitarian relief to support various community organizations worldwide throughout 2020 and 2021.This support was directed to a variety of efforts, including local food banks, disaster relief and COVID-19 recovery efforts. In addition, and in celebration of Teacher Appreciation Week on Monday, we relaunched our Giving Joy contest, which provides educators with 100 free cruises and a chance to win up to $25,000 cash awards for their schools. Throughout this unprecedented period, countless teachers have worked tirelessly to give their all to their students. And we believe now, more than ever, they deserve our recognition and gratitude. On the environmental front, we are honored to receive the prestigious 2021 ACG Build America Merit Award for environmental enhancement for our newly constructed double ship pier at Ward Cove in Ketchikan, Alaska. Through this project, we were able to transform Ward Cove, a superfund site, into a sustainable, environmentally friendly and entertaining sites for the local community and cruise visitors alike. Going forward, we continue to be focused on enhancing our ESG disclosures to provide additional transparency, and I look forward to sharing additional details with you as we continue on our ESG journey. Turning to slide 16. I'd like to leave you with a few final key takeaways. First, we are putting health and safety at the forefront of our return to service plan as demonstrated by our science-backed SailSAFE health and safety program, which includes 100% vaccination of all guests and crew, in addition to comprehensive protocols. We will continue to work with our expert advisors to evolve these protocols over time with the latest science and technology developments. We are focused on our Great Cruise Comeback with our phased voyage resumption plans, both within and outside of U.S. ports. At the same time, we are keeping our longer-term strategic and financial priorities in focus, as we execute on our recovery plans.And lastly, we continue to experience strong future demand for cruising across all three of our award-winning brands with very positive booking and pricing trends for 2022 and beyond. Overall, I am more hopeful today than when I spoke with you last. I can't thank enough our dedicated and passionate team members around the globe for all their hard work and perseverance, which has brought us to this critical point and which will propel us forward. We still have a long road to full recovery ahead of us, but we are optimistic and encouraged by the progress we have recently made to a resumption of cruising as well as the continued robust demand we are seeing from our loyal guests. We can't wait to get back to what we do best, providing guests with incredible experiences and lifetime memories, and our shareholders with industry-leading financial metrics and year-over-year improved financial results.And with that, Josh, please let's open the call for questions.