
OperatorGood morning. My name is Sarah, and I will be your conference operator. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Danyal Hussain, Vice President, Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Danyal Hussain -- Vice President of Investor Relations

 



Thank you, Sarah. And welcome, everyone, to ADP's Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2021 Earnings Call. Participating today are Carlos Rodriguez, our President and CEO; and Kathleen Winters, our CFO. Earlier this morning, we released our results for the fourth quarter and full year. Our earnings materials are available on the SEC's website and our Investor Relations website at investors.adp.com, where you will also find the investor presentation that accompanies today's call. During our call, we will reference non-GAAP financial measures, which we believe to be useful to investors and that exclude the impact of certain items. A description of these items, along with a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to their most comparable GAAP measures, can be found in our earnings release. Today's call will also contain forward-looking statements that refer to future events and involve some risk. We encourage you to review our filings with the SEC for additional information on factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations.I'd also like to share that we intend to host our Investor Day on November 15. At this time, we're planning to keep it virtual for most of our attendees. But given positive reopening trends, we do have capacity here in our Roseland, New Jersey headquarters to host our sell-side analysts live, and we look forward to seeing our analyst community in person soon.With that, let me turn it over to Carlos.Carlos Rodriguez -- President and Chief Executive Officer

 



Thank you, Danny, and thank you, everyone, for joining our call. We reported very strong fourth quarter results, including 11% revenue growth and 5% adjusted diluted EPS growth, capping a year in which revenue and margin outperformed our expectations in every quarter. For the full year, we delivered 3% revenue growth, the high end of our guidance range. And I'm happy to say we reached $15 billion in revenue, a big milestone for the company. As we've discussed all year, we took a consistent approach to investing this year while also prudently managing expenses. As a result, our adjusted EBIT margin was down only slightly, and we were able to deliver 2% adjusted diluted EPS growth for the year, ahead of our guidance and well ahead of our expectations at the start of the year. I'll first cover some highlights from the quarter.Our new business bookings results were very strong, and our momentum in the market continues to build. Compared to last year's fourth quarter, we grew our Employer Services new business bookings by 174%, which was slightly ahead of our expectations. And for the full year, we delivered 23% growth in ES bookings, toward the higher end of our guidance. We are very pleased with this outcome from our sales team, which booked $1.5 billion in new business in a year with a high degree of economic uncertainty. This full year ES bookings performance represented an average quota carrier productivity level of roughly 90% of our fiscal 2019 pre-pandemic levels when we delivered $1.6 billion in ES bookings. And our sales productivity continued to trend favorably in Q4. At this point, most of our U.S. PEO quota carriers have conducted some in-person meetings, and we expect that to keep trending positively as our clients and prospects show increasing preference for doing so.We also reopened additional sales offices in this quarter, and our current plan is to have most of our major U.S. sales offices back open by the end of September. Our retention was likewise an area of very strong performance with better-than-expected fourth quarter results. Our ES segment experienced a full year increase of 170 basis points to a record 92.2% retention. Our PEO segment also experienced record retention for the year. And as we've seen all year long, client satisfaction remained incredibly high. Kathleen will share how we have approached our assumptions for next year's retention, but in Q4, the trends remained strong. In addition to impressive retention performance, our PEO continued to benefit from the overall resilience of our client base. And in the quarter, we had 12% revenue growth, driving us to 7% full year growth, which was ahead of our expectations and guidance.This was a result of record retention as well as stronger hiring and payroll trends within our PEO, which we believe reflects the very high quality of our client base. And our ES pays-per-control turned positive in the quarter with 8% growth. This was in line with our expectations, and we continue to see some gradual rehiring amid what seems like a supply constrained labor market. For the full year, we ended up rounding to negative 3% pays-per-control growth, right in the middle of our guidance range and the assumption that we held all year long. During the quarter, we also continued to advance our market-leading solutions and achieved some new milestones I'd like to highlight. I'm excited to announce that this quarter, we launched and began rolling out a new user experience for RUN, representing the most comprehensive refresh we've done since its launch. RUN is already the leading solution in the market with 750,000 clients that use it to help with payroll, time, HR, insurance, retirement and other means.

 



It's a powerful HCM product, and we look forward to maintaining its positive momentum. We're also looking forward to rolling out similar UX refreshes on our other major platforms in the near future. This year, we also made a number of enhancements to our workforce management solutions. Workforce management, which includes time, attendance and scheduling offerings, represents one of the most critical parts of our HCM suite. This year, we launched timekeeping plus scheduling, an entirely new native solution for the RUN platform. And for our Workforce Now platform, we rolled out advanced scheduling, enabling clients to perform more complex workforce management tasks such as skills-based scheduling.I'm also proud to share that this quarter, we reached 100,000 workforce management clients for the first time as the pandemic reinforced the need for robust workforce management solutions for our clients while they navigate the new norm of increasingly flexible schedules and work arrangements. Our suite of HRO solutions also continued to deliver steady growth for us this year. I already mentioned the strength in our PEO business, which had its average worksite employee count grow to 616,000, up 12% from last year's count and which now serves 14,500 businesses. And in addition to these employees covered by our PEO, we have over two million client employees on our other HRO solutions within our Employer Services segment where we've seen robust demand all year long as clients look for ways to outsource parts of their HR function to a best-in-class provider like ADP.Also, this quarter, we enhanced our return to Workplace suite by adding a vaccination status tracker, allowing our clients to easily assess and track vaccinations within their workforces to facilitate planning decisions. Our clients continue to appreciate the efforts we've made to help them navigate the pandemic. And our Next Gen agenda continued to progress nicely. Our Next Gen HCM platform continues to deliver competitive takeaways in the market. During the quarter, we also expanded our global footprint by going live in Ireland. And in the U.S., we are quickly adding to our implementation capacity for our pipeline of sold clients. For Next Gen Payroll, we've now sold over 1,000 Next Gen Payroll clients on Workforce Now. And Roll by ADP, which also utilizes our Next Gen Payroll engine, is off to a great start where we are running ahead of our expectations so far as we drive micro businesses to this mobile-first solution.And as a final highlight, we ended the year with over 920,000 clients, up 7% from the 860,000 we had a year ago and no doubt supported by these continuous improvements we've been making to our product portfolio. I have to say that fiscal 2021 stood out as one of the most challenging years in ADP's history, and I'm very proud of how we executed. It's hard to overstate the amount of effort took across the organization to quickly adopt and manage through the pandemic while providing excellent service to our clients. And in the end, our organization and financial results both demonstrated the extraordinary resilience that is expected from us. As we look ahead to fiscal 2022 and beyond, our focus is on reaccelerating our growth through an intense focus on market-leading innovation, further simplification of our product portfolio, continued digital transformation and an unwavering commitment to best-in-class service.And with that, I'll now turn the call over to Kathleen for more detail on the quarter and outlook.Kathleen Winters -- Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Carlos, and good morning, everyone. Our fourth quarter represented a strong close to the year with 11% revenue growth on a reported basis and 9% growth on an organic constant currency basis, solidly ahead of our expectations. Our adjusted EBIT margin was down 120 basis points, better than expected. And as a reminder, we did have some comparison pressure versus last year's lower selling and incentive compensation expenses that drove the comparative decline. Our 5% adjusted diluted EPS growth was strong and in addition to the revenue and margin performance, benefited from share repurchases. For our Employer Services segment, revenues increased 10% on a reported basis and 8% on an organic constant currency basis as we lapped last year's pandemic-affected Q4. We continued to see contributions from excellent retention, strong new business bookings and growth in pays-per-control, offset by lower client funds interest.ES margin was down 90 basis points due primarily to higher selling and incentive compensation expenses versus the prior year. Our PEO also had another very strong quarter. Average worksite employees increased to 616,000, up 12% on a year-over-year basis on both continued retention outperformance and contribution from solid employment growth. Our PEO revenue grew 12%, an impressive performance as we once again benefited from higher payroll per WSE as well as stronger workers' comp and SUI revenue per WSE compared to the prior year, partially offset by lower growth in 0 margin pass-throughs. PEO margin was up 340 basis points in the quarter due to an elevated workers' compensation reserve true-up last year. We are very pleased with our strong finish to the year. For fiscal 2021, a year heavily impacted by a pandemic, we drove strong bookings growth, solid 3% revenue growth, delivered positive EPS growth and continued to invest for sustainable growth and digital transformation.I'll turn now to our outlook for fiscal 2022. Beginning with ES segment revenues, we expect growth of 4% to 6%, and this outlook is a product of several underlying assumptions. We expect our ES new business bookings growth to be 10% to 15%. This strong growth would be driven by two factors: sales headcount growth, which we typically aim to do; and benefits from continuing recovery in sales productivity as we trend back to and surpass pre-pandemic levels by the back half of the year. Please note, beginning this year, we will no longer be reporting our Employer Services new business bookings growth on a quarterly basis. Instead, we will focus on our full year bookings growth, which better normalizes for the inherent variability in this metric. This also aligns to how we focus internally on bookings trends over a full year period.We'll, of course, continue to update the full year bookings guidance quarterly. And as we do so, we'll continue to provide color on our quarterly ES bookings performance. We believe our annual bookings disclosure and guidance remains an industry best practice. Moving on to ES retention. We are not yet seeing any specific indications from our clients that we should expect an increase in switching behavior. However, we believe it is prudent planning to expect that a portion of the retention gains we saw over fiscal 2021 will reverse as companies reopen and reengage in the marketplace. For the purpose of our outlook, our initial assumption is that we'll experience a decline of about 75 basis points for the year, representing just under half of last year's improvement. If this proves out, our resulting fiscal 2022 retention rate would still be a record compared to pre-pandemic levels.But as I think we all can appreciate, there is still uncertainty in this environment given the unusual year we just experienced, and we believe this to be a prudent middle-of-the-road assumption to make. We will update you in the quarters ahead as we gain further visibility, particularly during the calendar year-end period where we've historically seen the most switching. Our pays-per-control outlook for fiscal 2022 is for 4% to 5% growth and above normal growth rate that assumes a continued gradual recovery in the overall labor market. Labor markets appear to be tight at the moment, but we do expect overall employment to continue trending in a favorable direction from where we are today. And then for our client funds interest revenue, most of which sits in the ES segment, we expect some modest pressure. The interest rate environment remains favorable to what we were experiencing earlier -- in the earlier part of the pandemic.But we are still expecting to reinvest at lower yields than what we are earning on securities that are maturing this coming year. We are also providing for the first time an added disclosure for our expected average yield on new purchases for the remainder of the fiscal year, which we believe to be useful for you in understanding the direction our average portfolio yield is headed as the portfolio turns over. Currently, that expectation is for a 1% yield on new purchases. All this said, we are expecting balanced growth of 8% to 10% and an average yield of 1.4% versus 1.5% last year. Together, this would net us $405 million to $415 million in client funds interest revenue for fiscal 2022. For our ES margin, we expect an increase of 50 to 75 basis points, and there are a few factors considered in this outlook.As a starting point, we are benefiting more fully from operating leverage in fiscal 2022 than we did last year while also recognizing higher sales expenses and continuing our steady investment in product, implementation and service. Additionally, we expect incremental margin benefit from the continuation of our digital and other transformation initiatives in fiscal 2022 as we continue to increase the utilization of digital tools to improve efficiencies throughout the organization. However, the benefit from our transformation initiatives is expected to be largely offset by a year-over-year increase in facilities and other return-to-office expenses as well as higher T&E expenses. Moving on to the PEO segment. We expect PEO revenues to grow 9% to 11% and PEO revenues excluding 0 margin pass-through to grow 10% to 12%.The primary driver for our PEO revenue growth is our outlook for average worksite employee growth of 9% to 11%. We expect PEO margin to be down 25 to 75 basis points in fiscal 2022 compared to the very strong margin results in fiscal 2021. This is driven partly by an assumption for stronger sales growth and associated selling expenses. Putting it together, our consolidated revenue outlook is for 6% to 7% growth in fiscal 2022, and our adjusted EBIT margin outlook is for expansion of 25 to 50 basis points. At this time, because of some comparison differences in the prior year, we expect the first quarter to have revenue growth just above the guidance range with the remaining three quarters in the range. We expect adjusted EBIT margin flat to down slightly in the first half, with most of the margin expansion coming in the later part of the year.We expect our effective tax rate for fiscal 2022 to improve very slightly to about 22.5% next year, assuming no change in the corporate tax rate. Our outlook also reflects the impact of additional corporate interest expense. During our fourth quarter, we enhanced our capital structure by issuing $1 billion in 7-year notes, the proceeds of which we're planning to use for additional accretive share repurchases over the coming quarters. This added about $3 million in interest expense in fiscal 2021 with a full run rate of about $18 million in fiscal 2022. At the same time, we're also contemplating further reduction in our share count beyond the typical level we would have expected to achieve driven by these incremental share repurchases. Net of this higher interest expense, lower tax rate and additional share repurchases, we expect growth in adjusted diluted EPS of 9% to 11%.As we enter fiscal year 2022, despite the continuing challenges around the pandemic, we are very encouraged by the signs of a continued recovery in the global economy as well as the ongoing secular growth trends in HCM. As the world of work evolves, we believe we are very well positioned to continue adding value for our clients and differentiating ourselves in the market. We look forward to updating you on our progress.I'll now turn it back over to the operator for Q&A.