  OperatorGood day, everyone, and welcome to the Estee Lauder Companies fiscal 2021 third-quarter conference call. Today's call is being recorded and webcast. For opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to the senior vice president of investor relations, Ms. Rainey Mancini. Please go ahead.Rainey Mancini -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Hello. On today's call are Fabrizio Freda, president and chief executive officer; and Tracey Travis, executive vice president and chief financial officer. Since many of our remarks today contain forward-looking statements, let me refer you to our press release and our reports filed on the SEC, where you will find factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements. To facilitate the discussion of our underlying business, the commentary on our financial results and expectations is before restructuring and other charges and adjustments disclosed in our press release. Unless otherwise stated, all net sales growth numbers are in constant currency, and all organic results exclude the impacts of acquisitions. You can find reconciliations between GAAP and non-GAAP measures in our press release and on the Investors section of our website. As a reminder, references to online sales include sales we make directly to our consumers through our brand.com sites and through third-party platforms. It also includes estimated sales of our products through our retailers' websites.[Operator instructions] And now, I'll turn the call over to Fabrizio. Fabrizio Freda -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Rainey, and hello, everyone. It's a pleasure to speak with you today, and I hope that you and your families are in good health. Our hearts are with those impacted by COVID-19, particularly in places like India and Brazil that are experiencing severe resurgences. We remain committed to doing what we can to support our employees and these communities. Our third quarter for the fiscal year 2021 marks the continuation of strong sequential sales growth improvements despite the ongoing challenges from the pandemic. We exceeded our sales and earnings growth expectation even as several markets experienced increasing COVID-19 pressure to out the quarter. Our multiple engines of growth strategy drove our success, empowered by the exceptional creativity and passion of our employees. We achieved these outstanding results while acting on our values. First and foremost, we continue to invest in employees and consumer safety and well-being during the health crisis. We expanded our work for the environment from setting innovative new sustainability goals in travel retail to seeing a wide farm -- wind farm in Oklahoma become fully operational, which is our largest renewable energy concept to date, and a project we were proud to support. We made progress on our racial equity commitments, and also outlined a new set of commitments for women's advance in gender equality. Inclusive of achieving gender pay equity and globally increased representation of women from underrepresented groups. In March, we launched our new Equity and Engagement Center of Excellence to drive greater equity representation within our business and across the value chain. We also launched a partnership with Howard University to support the success of its alumnae to our experiential learning, career coaching, professional training, and mentorship opportunities. While there was joy in this progress, there was also sorrow. We stood with our employees, consumers, and partners in denouncing the rise in acts of violence, hate, and discrimination against the Asia and Pacific Islander community and committed to donate to organizations that support justice and equal treatment from Asian community in the United States. We keep our employees and communities top of mind through these challenging times. With that as I was guiding principle, let me turn back to financial results. Constant-currency sales rose 13%, representing a sequential acceleration of organic sales growth improvement. We delivered strong performance despite increased COVID-19 hardship in Western Europe, Latin America, and parts of North America during the quarter. Estee Lauder, La Mer, Jo Malone London, Clinique, and Tom Ford Beauty led the impressive performance of many brands. Skincare and fragrance once again delivered superior sales growth. Although they had toughest comparison to the year-ago period. In fact, our skincare category was nearly 30% larger on a reported basis this quarter than it was two years ago, owing to innovation in our powerful hero franchises, strength across multiple subcategories, and the addition of Dr. Jart. But before the future inclusion of DECIEM. And our fragrance category was 16% bigger than it was in fiscal-year 2019 on a reported basis, driven by our strategic focus on the luxury and our seasonal segments. Both of these categories now have even greater scale to capture Prestige Beauty's share as the recovery unfolds. In the third quarter of fiscal-year 2021, we focused our investment decisions on engines of growth and employed cost discipline in other areas, resulting in a near doubling of adjusted diluted earnings per share versus the prior-year period. While the complexities of the pandemic are ever-present, adjusted operating margin nonetheless exceeded that of the third quarter of fiscal-year '19, and adjusted diluted earnings per share was 5% higher. Throughout the pandemic, we have been steadfast in our commitment to the long term as we successfully navigate the short term. We continue to strategically invest to drive sustainable growth, including building an end-to-end innovation center in Shanghai and a state-of-the-art manufacturing facility near Tokyo. These are expected to open in calendar-year 2022. More recently, several of our brands decided to participate in the new partnership of Sephora with Kohl's and Ulta Beauty with Target beginning in the second half of this calendar year. This new consumer coverage represents the promising evolution of the retail landscape both in-store and online in the United States for Prestige Beauty. We also agreed to increase our ownership in DECIEM, becoming majority investors with the path to full ownership in three years. DECIEM with its fast-growing brand The Ordinary and new brand incubation capability aligns well with our multiple engines of growth strategy. The Ordinary father diversifies our skincare growth engine by consumer segment, price point, and geography with a superior online business. The brand has redefined entry Prestige with an increased ingredient-focused, regimen-based product portfolio that drives basket size. The Ordinary has quickly established itself as a top-five skincare brand in the U.S. Prestige Beauty, having improved its rank significantly over the last year. Sustainability is integral to DECIEM'S equity, products, and retail practices which will enhance our sustainability brand portfolio in and fuel the achievement of our ESG strategy and goals. We look forward to continue the exciting journey we Nicola Kilner and her incredibly talented team to realize DECIEM'S global opportunities. In the third quarter, the Estee Lauder brand delivered stellar results, led by strong double-digit growth in skincare, sequentially improving trends in makeup, and a return to growth in fragrance. The brand is driving a renewal in this skinification on makeup trend with a significant growth of its futuresque franchise and its new Beautiful Magnolia fragrance is off to a very promising start. The Estee Lauder skincare franchises performed exceptionally well, led by Advanced Night Repair and its recently formulated namesake serum. Revitalizing Supreme also was a standout as the launch of Supreme Bright proved highly sought. Supreme Bright is an amazing story of east-to-west success with products born in the brazen trend in Asia and realizing global appeals for its uneven skin tone benefits. Re-Nutriv new eye serum surged and created a halo effect for the franchise phase in eye creams. La Mer performance was once a game outstanding. The brand's worldwide success is multi-facet. From both loyal and new consumers, and with increasing demand from men, who now represent more than 15% of sales in mainland China. La Mer's iconic product rich storytelling in ideal merchandising, a line to deliver the successful Journey to Renewal campaign for Chinese New Year, as well the brand executed a superb global campaign focused on moisturizers. The new Genaissance de la Mer, the concentrate the night balm continue to spark consumer desires, elevating the brand Ulta luxury franchise. Clinique sales growth accelerated sequentially and rose in every region, driven by its skincare portfolio. From consumers' excellent response to the new Moisture Surge 100-Hour in the United States to Even Better Clinical Interrupter showing substantial growth in mainland China, to in-demand hero franchises like Dramatically Different Moisturizing, Clinique prospered. Our luxury and our seasonal fragrances realized significant growth in the Americas and Asia Pacific. Like skincare, fragrance offer a means to express self-care, and that's so to the emotion comfort of scent. We are seeing strong repeat from the emerging category in Asia Pacific, while we continue to welcome new consumers in the region. These trends in fragrances, driven by our strategic shift to the higher end is favorable to margin enhancement in the category. Jo Malone London, Tom Ford Beauty, Kilian Paris, Le Labo, and Frederic Malle each grew double digits. Innovation and hero products worked in harmony to fulfill consumer desires with newness from Jo Malone London and Tom Ford Beauty incredibly well-received. Kilian Paris' virtual selling, which engaged founder Kilian Hennessy, influencers, and education ambassadors through live chat and shoppable live streams contributed to superb online growth. Each region grew this quarter, led by Asia Pacific, which saw sales rise in every category and many countries contribute. Mainland China was exceptional, delivering sequentially accelerating double-digit sales growth with skincare and fragrance performing ahead of the previous quarter and makeup returning to growth, up double digits. Both brick and mortar and online thrived, driven by the strong equity of our brands, desirable innovation, high-quality products leading to repeat purchase, competitive investment in advertising, and investment in local talent and capabilities. For the Chinese New Year, we met the consumer where she or he chose to shop, serving the local consumer as well, the traveling consumer in Hainan, both in-store and retail to tremendous success. Online continues to be a powerful growth engine as global sales increased strong double digits in every region. Sales of Brand.com, third-party platforms, and Retail.com rose strong double digits, while sales of Pure-Play grew triple digits as we are building our consumer coverage with select Pure-Play's retailers. Our online channel is now nearly double the size it was two years ago. Importantly, the media value of Brand.com continues to rise as live chat, virtual try-on, and live streaming led to increased traffic and time spent on our sites. EMEA online sales increased near triple digits, while Latin America's growth was also very high. We adeptly met consumer demand in these regions, which weigh more pressure than others from temporary brick-and-mortar closures. In Asia Pacific and North America where in-store traffic is gradually improving and comparisons to the prior year are increasingly more difficult, online sales still grew double digits. We are innovating in the high-touch online consumer experience and harnessing our data to increase engagement and drive sales. Let me share two examples from email. In the United Kingdom, Clinique launched an integrated platform to deliver seamless end-to-end, high-touch virtual experiences with a personalized data-led version of its Skin School on Demand. Clinique is providing consultants with data to unlock more sophisticated recommendation with a multitude of tools to ensure the consumer experience is customized based on preferences. Consultants can now enable co-browsing and the adding of friends to services. This new platform, while still in its early days, is delivering above-average conversion rates. La Mer enhanced its virtual experiences with more expert classes and one-to-one consultations tailored to local consumers. The brand expanded live chat to every market in the region with standard hours and additional days, leading to incredible growth in conversion. All told, La Mer saw its regional online mix of business surge. Our brands are investing for growth with social media platform. Too Faced introduced a new virtual try-on lens on Snapchat to add to its growing portfolio of Virtual Try-On experiences. On TikTok, it launched a mini-movie showcasing the transformative experience of Better Than Sex Mascara via its first world premiere on the platform. Dr.Jart+ Cicapair color-correcting treatment targets strong online sales in the United States for the brand, amplified by social selling, TikTok, and influencer support. Looking ahead, we are preparing a renaissance in makeup, and we anticipate the momentum we gradually build around the world driven by local reopening and social and professional locations. Our data and insights are driving new creativity to aspire consumer as they increase their occasion-based makeup. We are strategically well-positioned to grow our sales and capture prestige beauty share makeup recovery with our hero products, robust innovation pipeline, analytics engine driving aspirational intelligence, and enticing in-store and online activation centered on the omnichannel consumer. Already in the third quarter, newness from Clinique Even Better franchise in foundation and concealer was highly sought as we saw consumer restocking their core makeup products. Too Faced new leap plumper was a major hit. Hero products like Tom Ford Beauty eyeshadows and mascara from Too Faced, the Bobbi Brown also performed very well. MAC is launching a new mascara, and there is exciting innovation from many brands to come. In closing, we delivered outstanding performance despite the resurging impact of the pandemic in many countries. We led with our values as we continue to prioritize the safety and well-being of our employees and consumers. We made progress on our environmental goals, enacted on our social committed. We invested in accelerating drivers for sustainable growth, including innovation in China, manufacturing in Asia Pacific, global online, and consumer analytics. For the long term, we are confident that our multiple engines of growth strategy will continue to create value for our stockholders. I want to say thank you to our employees, who are integral to our success and are making us a better company through this difficult moment. We are beautifully positioned in prestige beauty to continue driving recovery with a house of the most dedicated and talented employees. I will now turn the call over to Tracey. Tracey Travis -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Fabrizio. I certainly echo that statement and look forward to the continued progression of our recovery. For our fiscal third quarter, net sales rose 13% as we lapped the onset of the COVID pandemic and delivered exceptional growth in the Asia Pacific region and in the skincare and fragrance categories. While our brick-and-mortar distribution continued to experience soft foot traffic, our online channel delivered strong growth across all formats and all regions. Conversely, the environments in Western Europe, Latin America, and parts of North America were challenged throughout the quarter. Our gross margin increased 90 basis points compared to the prior-year quarter. Favorability in category and channel mix driven by skincare and online growth, as well as lower tester costs, were partially offset by obsolescence, negative currency, and COVID-related under-recovery of fixed costs, primarily in our facilities that manufacture makeup products. Operating expenses improved by 530 basis points compared to the prior-year quarter, largely reflecting the improved sales leverage this year. You will recall that when the pandemic struck in the prior-year quarter, the sudden and dramatic drop in sales created expense deleverage that was difficult to fully offset despite the cost actions we took at that time. This quarter, we benefited from both temporary and longer-term cost savings, which is reflected in the substantially lower selling and store operating costs as a percent of sales continued to shift from brick-and-mortar to online -- as sales continued to shift from brick-and-mortar to online. This was due in part to temporary store closures in response to a resurgence of the virus in certain EMEA and Latin American markets. We realized some subsidies and the extension of furlough benefits in some of the affected markets. We have also prudently managed staffing levels in our stores and new hires on our management team until we see the recovery gaining more consistent momentum. Advertising spending grew double digits and was predominantly focused on digital spending. We invested to support our online acceleration, as well as our new product launches, a strong recovery in certain markets, and key shopping moments such as Lunar New Year, Women's Day, and Valentine's Day. As a result, our operating margin rose 620 basis points to 20.5%, which was 40 basis points above fiscal '19 level. Our effective tax rate for the quarter came in at 20.7%. The lower tax rate for the quarter was primarily due to a lower rate on the company's foreign operations. Diluted EPS of $1.62 increased 92% compared to the prior year. EPS exceeded our expectations, primarily due to the higher sales, continued cost management, and a lower effective tax rate. Our plans under the post-COVID business acceleration program are progressing. Year to date, we have taken actions in three main areas: to adjust our distribution footprint in Latin America and EMEA, including travel retail; to exit global distribution of BECCA products; and to realign resources and capabilities, including employee-related costs, between our brick-and-mortar and online channels. We are already beginning to realize some modest benefits from these actions. As the program continues, we expect to further rationalize our brick-and-mortar retail footprint, primarily in Western markets. For the nine months, we generated $2.78 billion in net cash flows from operating activities, which was substantially above the prior year, primarily due to higher net earnings, as well as working capital improvements. We invested $386 million in capital expenditures to support key investment areas like production and distribution capacity and technology, including our online business. Conversely, we spent far less on counters and stores. We ended the period with approximately $6.4 billion in cash and cash equivalents, including cash from 600 million in senior notes issued in March, to support the increased equity investment in DECIEM once the deal is finalized. We also reinstated our share buyback program in March and utilized 316 million of cash to repurchase our stock. And we paid 561 million in dividends. After the end of the quarter, we used 450 million in cash to pay down debt maturing in the fourth quarter. Given our strong cash generation this year, we still remain in a very strong position to pursue further growth opportunities after these actions. So now, let's turn to our outlook. We continue to be encouraged by the sequential improvement we have seen in our business throughout the fiscal year. And we are optimistic that restrictions and hesitancy on travel and social activities will begin to ease in certain markets as vaccine coverage steadily increases. In China, Australia, and Israel, which are at the leading edge of recovery, we are seeing higher makeup sales with usage occasions increasing as social and professional engagement gradually normalize. For example, sales in our freestanding stores in Israel have returned to pre-pandemic level, and even lipstick sales are almost back to normal. The upcoming edition of the DECIEM brands to our portfolio and the expansion of our business with Sephora and Ulta Beauty in the U.S. represent additional growth drivers for us as we progress in recovery from the pandemic shock, giving us further cause for optimism. We have led with our strengths, our values, and our amazing team and have proactively addressed areas where -- which we could control, while at the same time ensuring we are protecting our strategic growth areas. As a result, in the context of a very challenging environment in fiscal 2021, we expect to end the year with sales growth of between 9% and 10% in constant currency. Currency translation is expected to add approximately 2 percentage points to reported growth, reflecting rates of 1.18 for the euro, 1.33 for the pound, and 6.64 for the yuan. Six months of incremental sales from the December 2019 acquisition of Dr. Jart and approximately one month expected from DECIEM are contributing approximately 2 percentage points to our expectations of growth for the year. Mindful of the more gradual resumption of traffic to our brick-and-mortar distribution, we kept tight control over costs this year to protect investments needed for long-term growth. Some of the costs we cut temporarily will gradually return as more doors open. Subsidies will correspondingly diminish, and we plan to meaningfully ramp up advertising spending in our fourth quarter as consumers return to social and professional engagements. That said, we expect to end this fiscal year with an operating margin of approximately 18.5%, an improvement of roughly 100 basis points above fiscal 2019. Full-year EPS is expected to be between $6.05 and $6.15 before restructuring and other charges. This reflects approximately $0.10 accretion from currency translation and $0.04 dilution from acquisitions. Our fourth-quarter sales are expected to rise between 44% and 50% in constant currency. This reflects both the recovery in many parts of the world, as well as an easier comparison against the prior-year period most impacted by the pandemic. Currency is expected to be accretive by approximately 4 percentage points. And the addition of approximately one month of sales from DECIEM would contribute less than 2 percentage points to sales growth. Fourth-quarter EPS is expected to be between $0.38 and $0.48, reflecting the sales outlook and increased investments to support the ramp-up of our innovation and manufacturing capabilities in Asia, continued investment to drive our online business, and the advertising and promotion to support recovery, with the resulting operating margin more typical of our pre-pandemic level of mid- to high single digit in the quarter. Currency is expected to add $0.02 to EPS. And the addition of DECIEM is immaterial for the quarter given the short time frame and purchase accounting. In closing, we are pleased with our performance in the third quarter in the context of a challenging macro backdrop. Our skincare and fragrance brands have proven to be resilient during this time as consumers shifted online and we enhanced the digital experience with increased services on our sites. As we navigate through the final months of our fiscal year, we are investing in both the near-term recovery and the drivers of long-term sustainable growth that create value for our multiple stakeholders. While it is difficult to predict the growth of global prestige beauty in the near term, we are confident, as we have demonstrated, that we can nimbly allocate resources to continue to operate with agility and gain share as the recovery gives way to the new normal. That concludes our prepared remarks, and we'll be happy to take your questions at this time.  