  OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Walt Disney Company's second-quarter 2021 financial results conference call. [Operator instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Lowell Singer, senior vice president of investor relations. Please go ahead.Lowell Singer -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations

 



 Good afternoon, and welcome to The Walt Disney Company's second-quarter 2021 earnings call. Our press release was issued about 25 minutes ago and is available on our website at www.disney.com/investors. Today's call is also being webcast, and a transcript will be available on our website. We are once again hosting today's call remotely. So joining me remotely are Bob Chapek, Disney's chief executive officer; and Christine McCarthy, senior executive vice president and chief financial officer. Following comments from Bob and Christine, we'll be happy to take your questions. So with that, let me turn the call over to Bob, and we'll get started.Bob Chapek -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Lowell, and good afternoon, everyone. It's been a busy few months and we've been pleased to see more encouraging signs of recovery across our company. We ended the second fiscal quarter with adjusted EPS up 32% to $0.79, compared to $0.60 last year. And since then, we've continued to make progress across our businesses as we remain laser-focused on our ongoing recovery while also fueling long-term growth.

 



 Our strategic focus continues in three key areas. First is direct-to-consumer. We successfully launched our streaming offerings, Disney+ and Star, in a number of markets internationally. And we've been pleased with the growth and engagement in those markets to date. Our steady cadence of new, high-quality branded content, along with our robust collection of library titles, allows us to continually attract new subscribers and retain existing ones. At the same time, we are also closely monitoring the recovery of theatrical exhibition as consumers begin to return to theaters, and I'll talk more about the specifics later. Finally, we are focused on the ongoing recovery of our parks business and the resumption of Disney Cruise Line. There have been some encouraging developments in recent months, particularly with the ongoing rollout of the vaccine and the gradual lifting of government-mandated restrictions. And through this time, we've taken advantage of the opportunity to make improvements to our operating procedures to enhance the guest experience through the use of technology innovations, new ticketing strategies, and other offerings. We are especially excited that after being closed for 412 days, we welcomed our first guests back to Disneyland two weeks ago, and the response has been overwhelmingly positive. Bob and I stood on Main Street U.S.A. on opening day, and it was so wonderful to see the joy on our casts' and guests' faces and feel the excitement in the air. It's been fantastic to see cast members back at work. Most recently at Disneyland, we were able to quickly recall more than 10,000 furloughed casts and retrain them to be able to operate to the state of California's new health and safety requirements. We continue to see strong, growing demand from consumers as we are at or near our reduced capacity levels at both Walt Disney World and Disneyland for the current quarter. It's clear our guests are excited to get back to experiencing the magic of Disney, and they also have extraordinary confidence in our safety protocols.

 



 At Shanghai Disney Resort, where they just kicked off their year-long fifth-anniversary celebration, the park is operating at or above FY '19 levels. We're also encouraged by what we're seeing at Hong Kong Disneyland, and we are hopeful we will be able to announce a reopening date for Disneyland Paris soon. Despite the pandemic, we continue to make progress on a number of highly anticipated projects at our parks around the world, including the all-new Avengers campus which is set to open at Disney California Adventure on June 4. I had a chance to visit recently, and the attractions and multiple state-of-the-art experiences are truly phenomenal. We recently unveiled our newest cruise ship, the Disney Wish, to the public with a virtual live stream presentation that has been viewed nearly 1.2 million times. The ship is amazing, and it includes the Aqua Miles water ride, the first-ever Disney attraction at sea. The Disney Wish will set sail on its maiden voyage in 2022, and bookings opened to the general public on May 27. On the studio side, we are pleased to be nearing full production levels, and we are also significantly ramping up content creation at our studios, consistent with the guidance we provided at Investor Day. An example of this is 20th Century and search-like pictures where they are gradually increasing output and will reach a steady-state of 50 and 20 films, respectively, to fuel our general entertainment offerings across all of our distribution platforms. We're incredibly proud that Searchlight's Nomadland took home Oscars for Best Actress, Best Director, with Chloe Zhao, becoming the first woman of color to win the award, and Best Picture. That's five Best Picture wins since 2009 and 43 Academy Awards in total. Additionally, Pixar's stellar record of award-winning films continues with the studio's animated masterpiece, Soul, which took home Oscars for Best Animated feature and Best Original Score. And I'm happy to say that now millions are able to enjoy Soul on Disney+ and Nomadland on Hulu. As we have consistently stated, Flexibility is a key component of our distribution strategy, and we have outlined three approaches for distributing our films: releases in theaters with a simultaneous offering via Disney+ Premier Access, releases straight to Disney+, and traditional exclusive theatrical releases. Here's how this translates to our tremendous upcoming film slate. Cruella will be released in theaters and via Disney+ Premier Access on May 28; followed by Pixar's Luca, which will be released exclusively at Disney+ on June 18. The highly anticipated Black Widow will be in theaters and on Disney+ via Premier Access on July 9. And Disney's Jungle Cruise, a hilarious adventure-filled expedition, will be available in theaters and on Disney+ Premier Access on July 30. I'm pleased to announce today that amid recent signs of increased consumer confidence in moviegoing, two films, 20th Century's exciting comedy, Free Guy; and Marvel's action-adventure, Shang-Chi and the Legend of the 10 Rings, will be released with a 45-day exclusive theatrical window on August 13 and September 3, respectively. And of course, regardless of where they originate, all of our films and episodic series will end up as part of the robust library of content on our DTC platforms. Like our films, our Disney+ original series have become must-watch events. Starting with the success of The Mandalorian, followed by Marvel's Wanda Vision and the Falcon and the Winter Soldier. These not only became immediate hits but part of the cultural zeitgeist. And the anticipation for Marvel's newest series, Loki, which debuts on June 9 has been through the roof. The second season of High School Musical, The Musical, The Series, The All-New, The Mysterious Benedict Society, based on the popular young adult book series, and the animated series Monsters at Work, are also coming to Disney+ in the next couple of months, just to name a few. We are uniquely positioned with the most compelling brands and franchises in entertainment, and we continue to deliver the high-quality, one-of-a-kind content that consumers want. That's clearly reflected in the success of Disney+ which amassed nearly 104 million paid subscribers as of the end of the second fiscal quarter. We are on track to achieve our guidance of 230 million to 260 million subscribers by the end of fiscal 2024. Looking at our entire portfolio of streaming services, we expect that as full production levels resume and we get to a more normalized cycle, the increased output would help fuel additional sub growth across Disney+, ESPN+, Hulu, and Hotstar. Hulu and ESPN+ had 41.6 million and 13.8 million paid subscribers, respectively, at the end of the quarter. On Hulu, buzzworthy content continues to boost performance, including the award-winning Hulu original film, The United States vs. Billie Holiday, and season four of the Handmaid's Tale, which premiered to the biggest audience ever for a Hulu Original. And there's lots more coming to Hulu, including Marvel's new animated series, M.O.D.O.K, season two of the hit series Love, Victor, and season 10 of the wildly popular anthology, American Horror Story on FX on Hulu. In March, we launched ESPN+ on Hulu, and we are very pleased with its early progress. Viewers who subscribe to both Hulu and ESPN+ are able to watch and engage with the great content that's available on ESPN+ without leaving the Hulu environment. ESPN+ programming includes thousands of live sporting events, original shows, series, and documentaries with the UFC Lightweight Championship fight airing live on ESPN+ pay-per-view on May 15; the final match of the FA Cup also on May 15; followed by the PGA Championship, Wimbledon, and the highly anticipated third UFC match-up between Dustin Poirier and Conor McGregor on pay-per-view, July 10. Not to mention the incredible additions to our lineup, including NHL and more, call it football in the fall. Live sports are a very important component of our content business. And even amid the challenges of the past year, we have continued to build our unrivaled portfolio of sports rights in a disciplined way. While our overall strategy is still very supportive of our linear business given the important economic value it drives for the company, we are also building out our ESPN+ direct-to-consumer offering. And with every deal we make, we are considering both the linear and DTC components. With this strategy in mind, we've reached a number of long-term accretive deals that each play a very specific role as part of our sports portfolio. Some are weighted more toward linear with a significant digital component, such as the NFL and SEC deals; others reflecting an emphasis on direct-to-consumer. These include agreements with the UFC, the PGA Tour, Bundesliga, and the NHL. For example, as part of the seven-year rights deal with the NHL, 75 of the league's live national games will be available exclusively on ESPN+ and Hulu. And ESPN+ will be the sole home for more than 1,000 out-of-market NHL games, further cementing the service as a must-have for hockey fans. And today, I'm excited to announce two additional sports rights deals. We've reached a renewal deal through 2028 with Major League Baseball, with 30 exclusive regular-season games, which include 25 Sunday night baseball games and opening night annually, coverage of the highly anticipated potential expanded wildcard series, and the option to simulcast all live MLB coverage from ESPN networks on ESPN+. We've also signed a historic rights agreement with the top division in Spanish club football, La Liga. La Liga is one of the world's best and most popular soccer leagues, including a number of the top clubs in the world and one of the best players in the world, Lionel Messi. And this eight-year deal covering both English and Spanish language rights brings 380 La Liga matches and a host of La Liga two matches per season to ESPN+ beginning in August. And this deal bolsters ESPN+'s position as a top destination for soccer in the U.S., offering fans more than 2,900 matches per season. When you combine the unparalleled assets of the Walt Disney Company, ESPN, ESPN+, ABC, and Hulu, plus our highly engaging digital and social content, it's clear that Disney is the absolute leader when it comes to serving our sports fans in the most effective way possible. We believe in the power of live sports and are confident our multi-platform rights deals we've made will provide us tremendous value now and into the future. Overall, we are pleased with the encouraging signs of recovery across our businesses. And we are confident we continue to move in the right direction for our future growth. And with that, I'll now turn it over to Christine, and she'll talk more in-depth about our results for the quarter.Christine McCarthy -- Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Bob, and good afternoon, everyone. Excluding certain items, diluted earnings per share for the second fiscal quarter increased 32% versus the prior year to $0.79 per share. We are beginning to see progress in many of our businesses after more than a year of adverse impacts from the pandemic. While we are not out of the woods yet, we are pleased with our results this quarter at both our DMD and DPF businesses. I'll walk through our results by segment, starting with media and entertainment distribution. Operating income at this segment increased by 74% in the second quarter versus the prior year due to higher results across all of the segment's lines of business. At linear networks, the increase was driven by growth at both our domestic and international channels. At domestic channels, both cable and broadcasting operating income increased versus the prior year. Higher results at cable were driven by lower programming and production costs and higher affiliate revenue, partially offset by lower advertising revenue. ESPN's results were in line with the guidance we gave last quarter, and ESPN was the most significant contributor to cable's growth this quarter. The decrease in programming and production costs was largely due to the timing of the College Football Playoffs. As we mentioned last quarter, fiscal Q2 included only one CFP ballgame, the National Championship, compared to four in the prior-year quarter, three CFP ballgames, and the National Championship game. Cable programming and production costs also benefited in the quarter from lower production costs for other live sporting events and lower programming costs at Freeform. Lower advertising revenue at cable was primarily due to lower average viewership. At ESPN, domestic advertising revenue decreased significantly in the quarter, driven by lower ratings for key programming in addition to the timing of the College Football Playoffs. Quarter to date, domestic advertising revenue at ESPN is currently pacing up significantly versus last year, benefiting from the prior year's lack of significant live sports programming due to COVID. At broadcasting, higher results were driven by growth at ABC, partially offset by a decrease at the owned television stations. At ABC, lower programming and production costs and higher affiliate revenue were partially offset by lower advertising revenue. Programming and production costs were impacted by the shift in timing of the Academy Awards, which took place in the third quarter this year compared to the second quarter last year. Lower advertising revenue was primarily driven by lower average viewership and the timing of the Academy Awards, partially offset by higher rates. On our Q1 earnings call, we said we expected the Academy Awards timing shift and lower political advertising at our owned stations would negatively impact Broadcasting results in the second quarter versus the prior year. While we did see those specific adverse impacts play out, overall Broadcasting results were higher than we expected, driven by lower marketing spend due to timing shifts of some new series in addition to a number of other smaller factors. Total domestic affiliate revenue increased 5% in the quarter. This was driven by a benefit of eight points of growth from higher rates, offset by a four-point decline due to a decrease in subscribers. Operating results at international channels increased due to a decrease in programming and production costs and an increase in advertising revenue, partially offset by lower affiliate revenue. Lower programming and production costs in the second quarter were driven by a higher percentage of content cost being allocated to our DTC business rather than our Networks business as we continue the international expansion of Disney+ and STAR, in addition to channel closures over the past year. Advertising revenue increased primarily due to the timing of BCCI cricket matches, which generally take place in the first quarter, or in the second quarter this year due to COVID-related timing shifts. Lower affiliate revenue at our international channels was due to channel closures as well as an unfavorable foreign currency impact. At our direct-to-consumer businesses, operating results in the quarter improved by over $500 million versus the prior year due to stronger results at Hulu and ESPN+. The increase at Hulu was due to subscriber revenue growth and higher advertising revenue, partially offset by higher programming and production costs related to the Hulu Live TV service. Hulu ended the second quarter with 41.6 million paid subscribers, up from $39.4 million in Q1, inclusive of the Hulu Live digital MVPD service. Paid subscribers to Hulu Live declined modestly to 3.8 million from 4 million at the end of Q1 which we attribute primarily to the $10 price increase we took in December, in addition to a modest impact from seasonality. At ESPN+, improved year-over-year results were driven by subscriber growth and an increase from UFC pay-per-view events. ESPN+ had 13.8 million paid subscribers as of the end of the quarter. At Disney+, results were comparable to the prior-year quarter as an increase in subscribers was largely offset by higher content, marketing and technology costs. As Bob mentioned earlier, we had almost 104 million Disney+ paid subscribers at the end of the second quarter. At our annual meeting, we announced we have reached 100 million global paid subscribers. We reached that milestone in early March, so we added subs at a faster pace in the last month of the second quarter than we did in the first two months. And that was despite no major market launches, a price increase in EMEA, and a domestic price increase toward the end of the quarter. We attribute this success to the strength of our overall content slate, the launch of the Star General Entertainment offering in many markets, and the continued growth of Disney+ Hotstar. Between Q1 and Q2, Disney+ Hotstar was the strongest contributor to net subscriber additions, making up approximately one-third of the total Disney+ subscriber base as of the end of the second quarter. However, ARPU at Disney+ Hotstar was down significantly versus the first quarter due to lower advertising revenue as a result of the timing of IPL cricket matches and the impact of COVID in India. As a reminder, the majority of the prior IPL tournament took place in fiscal Q1, and there were no games in Q2. The current IPL tournament began on April 9 in fiscal Q3 and was suspended last week, given the COVID situation in India. Disney+'s overall ARPU this quarter was $3.99, Excluding Disney+ Hotstar, it was $5.61 As we move through the remainder of the year, we should start to see the benefit on Disney+ ARPU from price increases we've taken around the world. Last quarter, we guided to second-quarter direct-to-consumer operating income improving modestly versus the prior year. Actual results came in significantly better versus the prior year due to Hulu advertising sales upside, lower content, and marketing expense at Hulu and Disney+, and better-than-expected ESPN+ pay-per-view results. Content sales, licensing and other operating income at DMED increased in the second quarter versus the prior year due to higher TV SVOD results and lower content impairments partially offset by lower home entertainment results. Higher TV SVOD results were primarily due to an increase in income from sales of episodic content driven by sales of more profitable programs in the current period and lower write-offs. This was partially offset by a decrease in sales of film content. The decrease in home entertainment results was driven by the absence of significant title releases in Q2. Moving on to our parks, experiences, and products segment. DPEP's operating income in the second quarter decreased by $1.2 billion year over year as growth at consumer products was more than offset by lower results at parks and experiences due to the impacts of COVID-19. At consumer products, growth in operating income was due to increases at our merchandising games licensing businesses. The parks and experiences results were again adversely affected by COVID-19-related closures and reduced operating capacities versus the prior year. Disneyland Resort, Disneyland Paris, and our cruise business were closed for all of the second quarter, whereas these businesses closed in mid-March of the prior-year quarter. Hong Kong Disneyland Resort was opened for approximately 30 days during the second quarter compared to approximately 25 days in the prior-year quarter. Walt Disney World Resort and Shanghai Disney Resort were both open for all of Q2. In the prior-year quarter, Disney World closed in mid-March and Shanghai closed in late January. Our parks and resorts that were opened during the quarter operated at significantly reduced capacities, yet all achieved the objective of a net positive contribution, meaning that revenue exceeded the variable costs associated with the opening. At Walt Disney World, attendance trends continued to steadily improve throughout the second quarter, and guest spending per capita again grew by double digits versus the prior year. Disneyland Resort reopened on April 30. And as Bob mentioned earlier, we are very encouraged by the initial guest response. Forward-looking bookings for park reservations at both of our domestic parks are strong, demonstrating the strength of our brands as well as growing travel optimism as case counts decline, vaccine distribution ramps, and government restrictions loosen. Looking ahead, there are a couple of items I would like to mention. At linear networks, we expect a significant decline in operating income year over year in the third quarter, largely due to higher sports programming and production costs at ESPN, which we expect to increase by $1.2 billion versus the prior year. This year's Q3 includes marquee events such as the NBA, Major League Baseball, the Masters, Wimbledon, and the European Football Championship. which compares to Q3 of last year, during which we had a limited slate of events due to COVID. At our direct-to-consumer business, we now plan to launch STAR+, our stand-alone general entertainment and sports streaming service for Latin America, on August 31. Moving the launch to late summer allows us to leverage a strong sports calendar which includes the return of European soccer leagues, including La Liga and the Premier League. Championship games for the Copa Libertadores, the prominent regional international soccer competition, along with Grand Slam tennis. As Bob mentioned earlier, We remain right on track to reach our fiscal 2024 guidance of 230 million to 260 million subs, powered by the addition of 30 million paid Disney+ subs in the first half of the year. And notwithstanding our expectation for fewer net sub adds in the second half of the year given the COVID-related suspension of the IPL season and our decision to move the Star+ Latin America launch to the fourth quarter, we remain very optimistic about our future. And with that, I'll now turn the call back over to Lowell, and we would be happy to take your questions.Lowell Singer -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations OK. Thanks, Christine. And as we transition to the Q&A, let me note once again that since we are not all physically together this afternoon, I will do my best to moderate by directing your questions to the appropriate executive. And with that, operator, we are ready for the first question. 