  OperatorGood morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to The Mosaic Company's first-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] Your host for today's call is Laura Gagnon, vice president, investor relations of The Mosaic Company. Ms. Gagnon, you may begin.Laura Gagnon -- Vice President of Investor Relations Thank you, and welcome to our first-quarter 2021 earnings call. Opening comments will be provided by Joc O'Rourke, president and chief executive officer, followed by a fireside chat, as well as open Q&A. Clint Freeland, senior vice president and chief financial officer; and Jenny Wang, vice president, global strategic marketing and other members of the leadership team will also be available to take your question. We will be making forward-looking statements during this conference call. The statements include but are not limited to statements about future financial and operating results.

 



 They are based on management's beliefs and expectations as of today's date and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from projected results. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are included in our press release furnished yesterday and, in our reports, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We will also be presenting certain non-GAAP financial measures.Our fourth-quarter press release performance data attached as exhibits to yesterday's Form 8-K filing also contain important information on these non-GAAP measures. Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Joc. Joc O'Rourke -- President and Chief Executive Officer Good morning. Thank you for joining our call today. Mosaic delivered excellent results in the quarter, with revenues up almost 30% year over year and the gross margin rate at the highest level since early [Inaudible] and our momentum continues to build higher fertilizer prices driven by very strong global demand, tight supply and excellent agricultural fundamentals, combined with our significantly improved cost structure, lead us to a positive outlook for the remainder of the year. Laura, let's go to the analyst questions.

 



Laura Gagnon -- Vice President of Investor Relations Joc, we've received several questions about nutrient affordability, its impact on demand and sensitivity to commodity prices. Specifically, how elastic does developed market demand tend to be? And how much application elasticity do you see in emerging markets?Joc O'Rourke -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you. Generally speaking, within normal ranges, grower demand for fertilizer is relatively price inelastic, whether that be in developed or emerging markets. Accepting that, changes to demand would then be driven by acreage and by yield expectations. However, growers will look at the return on investment of fertilizer applications and particularly, if prices of crops are elevated, or conversely, if they're down, they will adjust their rates higher or lower in order to maximize their yield potential.

 



 It certainly appears that last year and now this year, we're seeing signs of some of those upward adjustments to application rates. In India, maximum retail price is set by the government. As such, Indian farmer affordability may be negatively impacted this year.Laura Gagnon -- Vice President of Investor Relations Joc, a few of our analysts had questions regarding our phosphate sales volumes during the quarter. P.J. Juvekar of Citi and Vincent Andrews of Morgan Stanley both asked about our sales volumes being higher than our production volumes despite lower inventories and raw material constraints. Did Mosaic draw down further inventory? And will that offset the sulfur impact?Joc O'Rourke -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, gentlemen. Our inventories do continue to be below typical levels for this time of the year. But you must understand that this is normally the time of the year where the strong spring demand means we will run down our inventory, and that's typical of most years. At the end of the quarter, we certainly had lower-than-normal inventories. However, we also relied on 100,000 tonnes from Ma'aden that flowed through the Phosphates segment.Laura Gagnon -- Vice President of Investor Relations John Roberts of UBS and Joel Jackson of BMO asked for additional color around the sulfur market, specifically, is the sulfur shortage only a North American phenomenon? Or are sulfur prices going up elsewhere? Also, do we think the situation could extend into the second half of the year? And what plans do we have in place to resolve the Q2 sulfur shortage?Joc O'Rourke -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, gentlemen. This year, the molten sulfur supply was constrained due to COVID impacts on refineries. And this was exacerbated in that freeze at the February of 2021. So, when you ask, is this a local or global issue, certainly, sulfur is tight around the world, but particularly, molten sulfur is very tight right now. So, you will see that we actually melted more in our melters than we normally would, and that was actually up 27% from a normal of about 20%. Now, we do expect U.S. refinery activity to recover in the second half, which would take us back to more normal levels.Laura Gagnon -- Vice President of Investor Relations Joc, Michael Piken of Cleveland Research, Ben Isaacson of Scotia, Andrew Wong of RBC and Steve Byrne of Bank of America, all asked for an update on Canpotex negotiations with China. In particular, they ask that with the domestic potash price in China now well over $100 per tonne higher than the last import contract price and about $100 per tonne above the recent India contract price, what are the implications for a new contract in late 2021? And what might the effect be on 2022?Joc O'Rourke -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you. Look, Canpotex is committed through Quarter 3, as they've said publicly. And we're seeing strong demand in North America, in Brazil, in Southeast Asia, all of which were seeing prices go up. And this price strength is also occurring in China's spot market. So, we see all of those markets as having high demand, which is shown by Canpotex' tight supply. And even India now, which was -- had an updated contract is now well out of the money and seems to be outdated. So, we see all of these things as very positive for the potash market moving forward. And I expect they will lead to an earlier and more constructive settlement with the Chinese at some point in the fall or early next year.Laura Gagnon -- Vice President of Investor Relations Joc, I have a two-part question here. Michael Piken of Cleveland and Adrien Tamagno of Berenberg and Ben Isaacson of Scotia have all asked about Mosaic Fertilizantes. First, do you have guidance for Fertilizantes from a pricing and margin standpoint? Or how should we think about pricing and margin progression at Fertilizantes?Joc O'Rourke -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you. While we don't give specific guidance for Mosaic Fertilizantes, we have said that of the pricing sensitivity we provide in our earnings materials for DAP, about 20% of that enterprise impact occurs in Mosaic Fertilizantes. Now, also, we have historically seen distribution margins in the range of $25 to $40 per tonne. We believe that those two together should give you the information you need to model our Brazil business. In terms of cost, our Quarter 1 was impacted by a few short-term issues related to mine productivity and lower conversion rates, which are temporary in nature and should improve throughout the year. Also remember, there are actions being taken for COVID that will impact our cost short term in Brazil as they are in a fairly serious spot with COVID right now. Finally, depreciation of the Brazilian real has offset the increase in inflationary pressures that we're seeing there.Laura Gagnon -- Vice President of Investor Relations The second part to that question, Joc, was a follow-up. Could you discuss seeming disconnect between the magnitude of price appreciation for MAP versus a much smaller increase in average realized selling prices for Mosaic Fertilizantes sales?Joc O'Rourke -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you. Our average selling price includes blends that have a significant amount of nitrogen, potash and lower-grade phosphate materials in them. A portion of which will vary throughout the season and can have a real impact on our realized pricing. Beyond that, a significant portion of Q1 sales were committed in Q4, which contributed to the pricing lag. And that is typical in Brazil due to logistics constraints in that country.Laura Gagnon -- Vice President of Investor Relations Joc, we've received several questions on India. In particular, John Roberts from UBS and Andrew Wong of RBC asked about our outlook for India's agriculture business, fertilizer demand and nutrient affordability resulting from higher retail prices. They would also like to know if COVID is having any impact.Joc O'Rourke -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, gentlemen. Look, good monsoons and full [Inaudible] and even still attractive crop prices continue to point to favorable farmer economics in India. Certainly, COVID is disrupting activity as the country goes into lockdown. And we've seen a bit of a pause in the near-term activity. So, we're waiting to see how the country addresses the recent outbreaks. While COVID is a near-term headwind, the underlying demand for nutrients remain significant as indicated by the extremely low inventories and still strong crop prices. We will not speculate on subsidy changes, but believe the government is committed to maintaining domestic food security.Laura Gagnon -- Vice President of Investor Relations Joc, PJ Juvekar of Citi, Seth Goldstein of Morningstar and Michael Piken of Cleveland Research, have all asked for thoughts on Chinese phosphate supply and demand. What are our expectations for Chinese phosphate exports in 2021? And are we concerned that attractive pricing could lead to higher operating rates?Joc O'Rourke -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you. Our base case for 2021 shows phosphate exports relatively unchanged, and we expect them to stay at around the 9.3 million tonnes we saw in 2020. Now, clearly, and even the latest report show the operating rates in China are up, probably exceeding 80%, but most of that is going to internal demand inside the country. So, we have seen so far, exports that are right on our expected target. Also, there has been several structural changes that occurred last year in China. And I'm going to let Jenny just give a little bit of background on some of the major ones there.Jenny Wang -- Vice President, Global Strategic Marketing Sure, Joc. We've seen some structural changes in the Chinese phosphate industry since last year. On the supply side, the Chinese largest producer, BPC, they have shifted their production from producing DAP/MAP fertilizer to other industrialized use of P2O5. For example, they have shifted production to purified cost assets not only for use of -- in the food industry, but also in the emerging growth of electrical vehicle and 5G stations demand to the batteries. We see this is going to continue in 2021 and going forward. Therefore, we are going to see less P2O5 to be produced at DAP and MAP. The other change is really on the demand side, domestic phosphates tax growing in 2020, which has tipped most of the increased production in Q1 at home. Therefore, we see really little export increases in the first quarter. Over to you, Joc.Laura Gagnon -- Vice President of Investor Relations Joc, following on this topic, John Roberts and Ben Isaacson both asked about the marginal cost phosphate producers, specifically have costs for marginal producers tracked with phosphate pricing?Joc O'Rourke -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you. Price increases for the integrated producers have largely outpaced production cost increases, including those in China, to the point that most Chinese producers there are experiencing good margins despite higher raw material costs. So, now, the marginal cost producers are predominantly the nonintegrated producers in India and particularly those that are reliant on imported phosphoric acid. Their DAP production costs at the new Q2 phosphoric acid contract price of $998 per tonne is about $615 per tonne, or about $50 per tonne higher than the Indian imported DAP price.Laura Gagnon -- Vice President of Investor Relations Joc, we have two questions on our global distribution businesses. First, Mark Connelly from Stephens asked what a good across-the-cycle margin assumption for distribution is now given our operational improvements and growth?Joc O'Rourke -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Mark. Historically, we've targeted around $25 a tonne for our distribution business, but we have seen that improve with economies of scale and efficiencies. And we've seen that margin expand recently. Scale matters, and this has led to this quarter's margin of $40 a tonne and even higher for our combined business in India and China.Laura Gagnon -- Vice President of Investor Relations Andrew Wong of RBC also asked what China and India distribution contribute to earnings?Joc O'Rourke -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Andrew. In this quarter, we had a combined gross margin of the two businesses that sat around $30 million. And -- but we have to understand that that margin was enhanced by the upward trajectory of phosphate and potash, which allows for profit from the inventory that was held by those businesses.Laura Gagnon -- Vice President of Investor Relations Joc, we have a few questions on free cash flow generation and capital allocation. First, Vincent Andrews asked why net income increased by $300 million quarter over quarter, but cash flow from operations only increased by $130 million. What are the drivers in cash flow from operations this year versus last?Joc O'Rourke -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Vincent. I'm going to hand this straight over to Clint to talk about our cash flow.Clint Freeland -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Joc. I think there are -- specific to the year over year, I think a large part of that is inventory movements between the two years. Last year, we were -- if you recall, we were -- we had very significant inventories, and we're liquidating some of those excess inventories. Where this year, our inventory is built by about $180 million mostly in Brazil and Canada. So, I think a year-over-year comparison, that's what's driving a lot of it. But also recall that every year during the first quarter, there are some pretty meaningful accruals that are actually paid out in the first quarter. Those accruals primarily being some tax accruals from the previous year that actually pay out and hit our free cash flow in the first quarter of every year, as well as our short-term incentive accruals that again were accrued the previous year, but paid out in the first quarter of every year. So, that's just something to keep in mind that are recurring things in the first quarter each year.Laura Gagnon -- Vice President of Investor Relations Second related question comes from Ben Isaacson of Scotia who asks if Mosaic has revised its thoughts on capital allocation, given the strong free cash flow Mosaic will generate this year, especially as K3 capex line is down?Joc O'Rourke -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Ben. The simple answer here is no, we are not changing our priorities. We continue to have a balanced approach to capital allocation, which balances debt repayment, return to shareholders and investing in the business in high-return, quick payback projects. And there's a couple of things I'd like to highlight here. Earlier this year, we increased the dividend by 50%. We've committed to paying down $450 million of long-term debt that comes due in November. And the other piece is we've had a number of really good return projects in our transformation. And we continue to invest small but meaningfully in those high-return, quick payback projects. So, we completely remain committed to doing exactly what we've said all along, which is balancing off all of our positions. And frankly, that's what our investors have said they expect of us. Thank you. That ends our fireside chat. Now, I would like to open the phone lines up for any further questions from the audience. 