  OperatorGreetings, and welcome to the Penn National Gaming first-quarter conference call. [Operator instructions] It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Joe Jaffoni. Please go ahead.Joe Jaffoni -- Investor Relations Contact Officer Thank you, Tina, and good morning, everyone, and thank you again for joining Penn National Gaming's 2021 first-quarter conference call. We'll get to management's presentation and comments momentarily, as well as your questions and answers, but first, I'll review the safe harbor disclosure. In addition to historical facts or statements of current conditions, today's conference call contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, which involve risks and uncertainties. These statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminologies such as expects, believes, estimates, projects, intends, plans, seeks, may, will, should or anticipates or the negative or other variations of these or similar words or by discussions of future events, strategies or risks, and uncertainties, including future plans, strategies, performance, developments, acquisitions, capital expenditures, and operating results. Such forward-looking statements reflect the company's current expectations and beliefs but are not guarantees of future performance. As such, actual results may vary materially from expectations. The risks and uncertainties associated with the forward-looking statements are described in today's news announcement and in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the company's reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q. Penn National Gaming assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.Today's call and webcast will also include non-GAAP financial measures within the meaning of SEC Regulation G. And when required, a reconciliation of all non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP can be found in today's press release, as well as on the company's website. Thank you for your patience with that. And it's now my pleasure to turn the call over to Penn National's CEO, Jay Snowden. Jay, please go ahead. Jay Snowden -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Joe. Good morning, everyone, and thanks for joining us. Here with me in Wyomissing for her first official Penn earnings call, at least on this side is our new CFO, Felicia Hendrix. So welcome, Felicia. We also have Todd George, our head of operations, here to help answer questions about our core business, as well as other members of my executive team, who can help respond to your follow-up questions as needed. As you can see from our earnings release, our core business results are very strong and still ramping actually as we sit here in the second quarter. Meanwhile, our new online and retail Barstool Sportsbooks and iCasino offerings in Michigan and Pennsylvania, continue to perform very well. Further, we managed to fully integrate our industry-leading mychoice player loyalty program across all of our retail and digital offerings in time to take advantage of this momentum, which has significantly bolstered our unique omnichannel strategy and competitive advantages. At our land-based operations, the momentum has continued following the rollout of vaccines and the ongoing relaxation of COVID-19-related restrictions across the country. Our record first-quarter results highlight the robust recovery in our land-based business. Benefiting from many actions taken in 2020, we generated adjusted EBITDAR growth of 7% on a revenue decline of 6% over 1Q '19, despite COVID-related property closures in January at a handful of our Midwest and Northeast properties, nearly a full closure of Zia Park in New Mexico and some harsh winter weather in the South in February. More impressive is our performance in March and April, which reflects the additional easing of restrictions and an increase in the percentage of people vaccinated. Revenues grew 8% over the same two-month period in 2019, while adjusted EBITDAR accelerated 29% to $410 million and EBITDAR margins increased 650 basis points to nearly 40%. We also note that spend per visit is much higher than it was pre-COVID. In fact, our visitation is now at or near 2019 levels in most of our markets. Importantly, the younger demographic continues to view gaming as a compelling entertainment option, while the 55 and over age group has been steadily returning to our casinos. We illustrate this point in our slide deck on Page 7, where you can see that our 55-plus age segment continues to gain momentum, particularly in April, while growth from our younger age segments, 21 to 44, has accelerated since the beginning of the year. Further, unrated play is demonstrating unprecedented growth, which has provided us with the opportunity to convert these players to our mychoice loyalty program through new member programs and incentives. Our rated play trends continue to accelerate. This strong top-line demand, coupled with the structural changes we put in place at the start of the pandemic has resulted in remarkable and sustainable margin improvement even as our interactive business continues to scale. As it relates to our partners at Barstool Sports, they've been able to maintain their incredible momentum from 2020 into the new year with strong financial performance in audience growth. Barstool's promotion of Penn National's retail sportsbooks has driven significant awareness and visitation to our land-based properties. This is especially true of those properties that have introduced Barstool branded sportsbooks and we plan to open six more of them by the end of this year. In addition, progress continues on the development of several stand-alone Barstool branded sports bar locations. We're really excited about these projects, and we're providing much more information along with our partners at Barstool in the next couple of months. On March 11, we successfully launched the Barstool Sportsbook app in Illinois ahead of the 2021 NCAA basketball tournament and just ahead of the return, thank goodness for us on timing of the in-person registration requirement in the state. The initial results for the first 30 days of operations exceeded our expectations, thanks in large part to the loyal following of stoolies in the Chicago land area with better first-time deposit conversions relative to what we had generated in Pennsylvania or Michigan. During this period, we registered 54,700 new customers and generated total handle and gaming revenue of 67 [Technical difficulty] The power of Barstool's social media reach was on full display upon the reinstatement of the in-person registration requirement in Illinois as they were able to help us drive an incredible 20,000 registrations during just a 36-hour period. Meanwhile, Barstool's creative promotions, exclusive bets, custom parlays, have led to a leading position in Pennsylvania and Michigan based on handle, GGR, and NGR, life-to-date market share despite limited external marketing spend. We expect our low customer acquisition costs, strong retention rates, unique promotions, exclusive betting features, and high adoption among casual betters will drive outsized profitability over the long term. We continue to over-index a bit on GGR and NGR as compared to handle, and we anticipate this continuing to be a trend in the aggregate over the long term. The power of our mychoice customer base, combined with the fierce loyalty of Barstool's audience, has allowed us to successfully cross-sell our online offerings. In Michigan, for example, over 50% of our online sports betting monthly uniques, placed a wager on our iCasino product during the month of March, which was above our initial expectations. As we highlight on Slide 17, our experience in Michigan has shown that a customer's value increases significantly when they play on multiple channels, which highlights the benefits of our 100% owned and controlled omnichannel strategy. With the introduction of online gaming, we've been able to generate twice as much combined revenue as we have traditionally generated at Greektown by engaging with consumers on our digital products in addition to the physical property. We are really excited about yesterday's launch of the Barstool iCasino product in Pennsylvania, which we believe will greatly expand our penetration and aggregate revenue in the state, particularly in the Philadelphia MSA, where we currently do not have a land-based presence. Although we are pleased with the initial results of our first-generation Barstool iCasino product, we are really just scratching the surface of our potential in this space. Over the next few months, we will be adding significantly more third-party content to our Barstool Sportsbook app, which will help increase conversion of our mychoice database in both Michigan and Pennsylvania. In addition, we recently acquired Hit Point Studios, which will serve as the centerpiece of our newly formed Penn Game Studios and allow us to create customized Barstool themes, as well as casino-branded content that we believe will lead to an even greater cross-sell opportunities. Before I hand it over to Felicia for a summary of our first-quarter results and a review of our financials, I want to call special attention to the continued strides we're making on the ESG front. As you know, this is a topic that's very personal to me, and I know our board of directors and my executive team share my same level of commitment and enthusiasm on taking care of our people, our host communities, and our planet. Highlights from this quarter include the launch of a new $1 million annual diversity scholarship program. We're looking forward to providing up to 65, two, and four-year scholarships this year to the children of our team members, which reflects our commitment to equity in post-secondary education. In addition, we implemented a supplier diversity initiative with the goal of developing new opportunities for minority-owned businesses. And last month, we hosted companywide days of learning -- days of listening, excuse me, to gather feedback from our team members on all matters of diversity and inclusion. Finally, on May 15, which is Armed Forces Day, we'll be launching a new initiative to honor our active-duty military, veterans, and first responders. We're calling it the myheroes program, which is an exclusive fully integrated extension of our mychoice rewards program, and it's to provide our nation's heroes, access to exclusive discounts and offers at all of our properties across the country. With that, I'll pause and turn it over to Felicia.Felicia Hendrix -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Jay. It's great being here and being part of this tremendously talented team. Over the past few months, I've been asked by many of you what the biggest surprise was for me once I joined Penn. Having covered the company for over 20 years, I would say that there were more pleasant discoveries than surprises, and three stand out. The first is the depth of the bench across the entire company. The level of talent, creativity, and commitment to excellence at Penn is seen in every aspect of the company and at every level. The second is transparency. Jay's commitment to transparent communication is well-known and respected by the investment community and that ethos is no different internally. And finally, Penn's commitments to diversity and inclusion, and community service is certainly inspiring. So with that being said, we're very proud of our first-quarter results, especially given COVID-related closures in January and the late in the quarter reopening of Zia Park. Revenues of $1.27 billion and adjusted EBITDAR of $447 million after corporate overhead of $24 million, which, as you know, is reported in the other segment, represented 94% of 2019 revenues and 107% of 2019 EBITDAR pro forma for a full quarter of Greektown, which is above our previously stated goals. Pro forma margins increased 434 basis points. Adjusting for the COVID-related closures and excluding Penn Interactive, our EBITDAR flow-through was even more impressive as our adjusted EBITDAR increased 12% compared to the first quarter of '19 on a 9% decline in revenues. On this adjusted basis, pro forma EBITDA margins increased more than 700 basis points. Our Midwest and South regions reported record EBITDAR and margins in the quarter despite COVID-related closures in January and uncharacteristically harsh weather in the South in February. Our performance in the South segment was particularly noteworthy as the region generated margin improvement of 1,100 basis points compared to the same period in the first quarter of '19. While cost savings, efficiencies, and a rational marketing and promotional environment certainly benefited results, the less restricted COVID protocols drove revenue growth as compared to the first quarter of '19, which bodes well for the remainder of our portfolio as regions continue to reduce restrictions and open back up. Last week, for example, Mississippi removed all mandatory restrictions in the state. In the Midwest, adjusting for our property closures in the first quarter, that segment also reported an impressive EBITDA margin gain of nearly 900 basis points despite competitively unfavorable COVID restrictions in certain markets. Our balance sheet remains a key strength for us. Total liquidity as of March 31, 2021, was $2.7 billion, consisting of over $2 billion in cash and a fully undrawn revolver. Traditional net debt was $353 million, compared to $578 million as of 12/31/2020. Our lease-adjusted net leverage was 4.5 times based on 2019 adjusted EBITDAR. Capex in the quarter was $25.7 million, of which $9.1 million pertains to our Hollywood York project that we expect to open in August. And $1.7 million for our Hollywood Casino Morgantown development that we plan to open by the end of the year. Despite the ramp in vaccine distribution, the U.S. remains in a pandemic, which creates uncertainty. As such, we will continue our pause on providing guidance, which we will reevaluate quarter to quarter. I'll now turn it back to Jay.Jay Snowden -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Felicia. In addition to these impressive results, we had many other notable accomplishments in the quarter, including being added to the S&P 500. And just last week, Moody's upgraded our senior secured rating one notch and moved our outlook to stable. As I look ahead, I remain excited about really every aspect of our business. The recovery is well under way at our land-based casinos, as evidenced by the strong trends we saw in March, which continued into the second quarter. Meanwhile, at Barstool, they remain focused on driving top-of-the-funnel growth. Our differentiated strategy has earned us market-leading positions in Michigan and Pennsylvania in terms of handle, GGR, and NGR, and we remain on track to be live in eight states by football season and 10 or more states before the end of this year. Further, we remain busy at work on a variety of growth initiatives, all with a focus on driving shareholder value well into the future. With that, Tina, I'd like to turn it over to you and open the line up for questions. 