  OperatorGood afternoon, and welcome to the F5, Inc. second quarter fiscal 2022 financial results conference call. [Operator instructions] Also, today's conference is being recorded. If anyone has any objection, please disconnect at this time. I will now turn the call over to Ms. Suzanne DuLong. Ma'am, you may begin.Suzanne DuLong -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



 Hello, and welcome. I am Suzanne DuLong, F5's vice president of investor relations. Francois Locoh-Donou, F5's president and CEO; and Frank Pelzer, F5's executive vice president and CFO, will be making prepared remarks on today's call. Other members of the F5 executive team are also on hand to answer questions during the Q&A session. A copy of today's press release is available on our website at f5.com, where an archived version of today's call will be available through July 24, 2022. Today's live discussion is supported by slides, which are viewable on the webcast and will be posted to our IR site at the conclusion of today's discussion. To access a replay of today's call by phone, please dial 800-585-8367 or 416-621-4642 and use meeting ID 7769889. The telephonic replay will be available through midnight, Pacific Time, April 27, 2022.For additional information or follow-up questions, please reach out to me directly at s.dulong@f5.com. Our discussion today will contain forward-looking statements, which include words such as believe, anticipate, expect and target. These forward-looking statements involve uncertainties and risks that may cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these statements. Factors that may affect our results are summarized in the press release announcing our financial results and described in detail in our SEC filings. Please note that F5 has no duty to update any information presented in this call. With that, I will turn the call over to Francois. 

 



Francois Donou -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Suzanne, and hello, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. As you all know, we entered our second quarter with some significant challenges that limited our ability to fulfill demand from our systems business. We are pleased to have delivered above the midpoint of our revenue guidance and at the upper end of our non-GAAP EPS guidance despite those challenges. Importantly, we continued to deliver strong results on our software business with 40% year-over-year growth in the quarter, software represented the majority of our product revenue for the first time. Systems revenue declined 27% as a result of supply chain constraints and our global services revenue was flat year over year. Our second quarter reflected another in an ongoing trend where customers continued to rapidly grow and scale both their traditional and modern applications, while placing increased importance and focus on application security. This benefits F5 and translates to continued strong demand across our portfolio. While our view toward strong demand drivers remains clear, our visibility into resolution of hardware supply chain challenges is murky. Going into Q2, we discussed two primary supply chain challenges. I am happy to report that we successfully resolved the first, which was related to standard electronic components and required us to design in and qualify an alternative source. The second challenge we discussed is related to global shortages of specialty semiconductor components.

 



 While we have made some incremental progress on this issue, we continue to expect supply constraints will limit our ability to fulfill systems demand through the end of this fiscal year. Part of our efforts to fulfill system demand included shifting customers from our iSeries appliances to our next-generation rSeries appliances, which launched in February. We are seeing solid traction in rSeries sales, and we are ramping manufacturing. However, semiconductor constraints, primarily from a handful of suppliers, continued to limit our ability to ship iSeries and are now also impacting our ability to accelerate the ramp of rSeries. As a result, our systems revenue recovery has been delayed beyond the expectations we had last quarter. Frank will review our outlook in detail later in our prepared remarks. But as a result of the delayed systems revenue recovery, we now expect to deliver fiscal year 2022 revenue growth in the range of 1.5% to 4%. This compares to our prior expectations for 4.5% to 8% growth. Our underlying demand remains strong, however, and we continue to expect to deliver software revenue growth near the top end of our 35% to 40% target for the year. In light of the sustained strength of our demand and our view that the supply chain constraints are temporary, we are not making changes to our operating structure. And therefore, our margins will be impacted correspondingly in near term. We obviously feel a strong sense of frustration with this change and an equally strong sense of urgency toward resolution so we can get back to reflecting the true health of the business in our reported results. We are taking every available path to resolve the issues as quickly as possible. Our suppliers expect additional capacity beginning in the last calendar quarter of 2022, which should translate into improvement during our second quarter for fiscal 2023. While the supply chain challenges are more severe than we estimated last quarter, they are temporary. In addition to seeing continued demand for hardware, we are seeing good traction across our software portfolio, including from security use cases and our ability to bring a broader solutions portfolio to customers. I will speak to our business momentum and demand drivers before Frank reviews the quarter's results and our outlook in detail. Our customers are increasingly operating in both traditional and modern architectures and looking to F5 for solutions that simplify and unite their strategies for both. As an example, during Q2, an American multinational beverage company and a longtime big IP customer selected NGINX to service cloud and Kubernetes-based workloads and modern use cases. The customer is using NGINX to automate app content delivery, including its loyalty program and delivery services, both of which have experienced substantial growth during the pandemic. The addition of NGINX technologies to the customer's multiyear subscription resulted in a 2x expansion of the subscription upon renewal. Customers also are operating in multiple clouds and uncovering new challenges as a result. F5's infrastructure-agnostic approach through application security and delivery differentiates us from vendors who are siloed to a single environment. This means we are uniquely positioned to help customers with their multi-cloud challenges. During Q2, we were selected by the Ministry of Health for a nation in our APAC region. Not being locked into a single cloud was an important consideration for this customer. They had intentions of modernizing in a single cloud short term the plan to expand to additional clouds in the near future. This customer selected F5 over cloud-native offerings as a result of our solutions clear value add and our cloud-agnostic capabilities. We enable the customer to create a true multi-cloud architecture with both on-premises and cloud environment in a deal spanning our portfolio, including BIG-IP hardware and software with advanced WAF, and NGINX, including App Protect and API management. Finally, it's clear that hybrid architecture, including on-premises data centers and as-a-service offerings are here to stay. Applications and workloads also are increasingly containerized and mobile. This means complexity is here to stay too and that managing applications across disparate environments will remain a challenge for customers. Meeting that challenge is likely to require a distributed cloud architecture and platform-agnostic security and delivery technologies that provide consistent protection, visibility and performance for all applications, legacy, modern and mobile across environments. In Q2, we took a large step forward toward helping customers better manage multi-cloud complexities with the launch of our F5 distributed cloud services. With this platform, we are delivering security, multi-cloud networking and edge-based computing solutions on a unified Software-as-a-Service platform. Our first solution for the platform, F5 distributed cloud web application and API protection or WAP, augments multiple security capabilities across F5 technologies in a SaaS offering. This offering reflects the first major step in our integration of our Volterra platform and F5 software security stack. F5 distributed cloud services is globally available, and we are seeing strong early enterprise and service provider interest. SoftBank announced one of the first notable wins for F5 distributed cloud this quarter. The corporate information technology division of SoftBank needed to improve low resource utilization and other inefficiencies of its private virtualized infrastructure. But its security requirements mandated on-premises deployment with an option for future public cloud capabilities. It sought a way to bring the effectiveness of cloud-native micro services and containers to its private data center and turn to F5 distributed cloud services. We are leveraging F5 distributed cloud branding to further integrate customers' experience with F5 by simplifying our product meaning. You will see we have united and renamed our SaaS and managed services portfolio, including Shape, Volterra and Silverline under our F5 distributed cloud services umbrella. So expect to hear us refer to those solutions accordingly going forward. In summary, despite our short-term supply chain challenges, there is a lot to look forward to from F5. We have multiple current and future software drivers that are well aligned with our customers' most pressing application needs between BIG-IP's ability to serve and secure traditional apps, NGINX's ability to serve and secure modern apps and the exciting opportunity to grow and expand F5 distributed cloud services, we are well placed to enable our customers to manage and secure their growing and rapidly evolving application estate. Now, I will turn the call to Frank to review our Q2 results and our second half outlook in detail. Frank?Frank Pelzer -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Francois, and good afternoon, everyone. I will review our Q2 results before discussing our second half outlook. We delivered second quarter revenue of $634 million, above the midpoint of our guidance range and reflecting a 2% decline year over year. Software revenue grew 40% to $152 million. Systems revenue declined 27% to $146 million. We delivered a 4% product revenue decline year over year, with product revenue representing 47% of total revenue in the quarter and software contributing 51% of product revenue. Rounding out our revenue picture, global services delivered $337 million in revenue. This is flat compared to last year and represented 53% of total revenue. Taking a closer look at our software revenue. Subscription-based revenue represented 75% of total software revenue in the quarter. This is down a bit from the 80% mix, where it had been in the last couple of quarters, but we do not see this as indicative of a trend. Rather, it reflects some activation timing variability for a couple of large multiyear subscription agreements, as well as a small number of larger deals in the quarter where customers preferred a capex model. As a reminder, a significant component of our subscription business is term-based licenses that are not recognized ratably, and as such, we expect some quarter-to-quarter variability. Revenue from recurring sources, which includes term subscriptions as a service and utility-based revenue, as well as the maintenance portion of our services revenue totaled 69% of revenue in the quarter. This is up from 64% in the year ago period. On a regional basis, Americas delivered 4% revenue growth year-over-year, representing 57% of total revenue. EMEA declined 9%, representing 25% of revenue, and APAC declined 6%, representing 19% of revenue. In the quarter, we saw some signs of softness in EMEA. We believe this is in part related to the macro and global political concerns in the region. Enterprise customers represented 65% of product bookings in the quarter. Service providers represented 15% and government customers represented 20%, including 7% from U.S. Federal. I will now share our Q2 operating results. GAAP gross margin was 80.1%. Non-GAAP gross margin was 82.9%. We continue to experience increased component prices, expedite fees and other sourcing-related costs. GAAP operating expenses were $433 million. Non-GAAP operating expenses were $358 million. Our GAAP operating margin in Q2 was 11.8%. Our non-GAAP operating margin was 26.5%. Our GAAP effective tax rate for the quarter was 22.7%. Our non-GAAP effective tax rate was 21.3%. GAAP net income for the quarter was $56 million or $0.92 per share. Non-GAAP net income was $131 million or $2.13 per share. I will now turn to the balance sheet. We generated $127 million in cash flow from operations in Q2. Capital expenditures for the quarter was $5 million. DSO for the quarter was 59 days. Cash and investments totaled approximately $922 million at quarter end. During the quarter, we repurchased approximately $125 million worth of F5 shares or approximately 610,000 shares at an average price of $205. Deferred revenue increased 17% year-over-year to $1.60 billion, up from $1.58 billion in Q1. The growth in total deferred was largely driven by subscriptions and SaaS bookings growth and, to a lesser extent, deferred service maintenance. Finally, we ended the quarter with approximately 6,700 employees, up approximately 150 from Q1. Francois shared our updated fiscal year 2022 revenue outlook in his remarks. I will recap the details of the second half outlook with you now. Unless otherwise stated, please note that my guidance comments reference non-GAAP operating metrics. I will begin with our revised view for fiscal 2022. Given persistent and dynamic supply chain pressures, which are limiting our systems revenue recovery near term, we expect to deliver fiscal year 2022 revenue growth within the range of 1.5% to 4% for the year. This compares to our prior expectations of 4.5% to 8% growth. We continue to expect to deliver close to the top end of our 35% to 40% software revenue growth target for the year. We expect global services growth of approximately 1% to 1.5% for the year, reflecting the lower expected range of system sales. Because we believe the current supply chain challenges are temporary and do not reflect the underlying growth of the business, we do not intend to adjust our operating model near term. We believe doing so would risk compromising our ability to deliver future revenue growth. As a result, we are likely to see operating margin pressure over the next several quarters. We expect non-GAAP operating margin in the range of 27% to 28% for FY '22. We would expect to regain the Rule of 40 operating benchmark as we return to full manufacturing capacity. We continue to expect our full fiscal year effective tax rate will be in the range of 20% to 21% with some fluctuations quarter to quarter. We remain committed to repurchasing 500 million in shares during the fiscal year. I will now move to our third quarter expectations. We expect Q3 revenue in the range of $660 million to $680 million. Given component costs and the costs related to actions we are taking to mitigate supply chain pressures, we expect Q3 gross margins of approximately 82%. We estimate Q3 operating expenses of $368 million to $380 million. Our Q3 earnings target is $2.18 to $2.30 per share. We expect Q3 share-based compensation expense of approximately $63 million to $65 million. With that, I will turn the call back over to Francois. Francois?Francois Donou -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Frank. In closing, we will continue doing everything in our power to mitigate supply chain impact for our customers. While supply chain is currently overshadowing the underlying strength of our business, we believe constraints will begin to abate as we move through the next several quarters. Our software and Software-as-a-Service app security and delivery solutions will drive our future growth and our long-term opportunity. We have created a portfolio and a road map that is well aligned with our customers' strategic priorities. And because of that, we are more confident than ever in our position, our strategy and our long-term opportunity. With that, operator, we will open the call to Q&A. 