  OperatorGood morning, and welcome to the Q2 2021 Albemarle Corporation earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded. I will now like to turn the conference over to your host, Meredith Bandy, vice president of sustainability and investor relations. Please go ahead.Meredith Bandy -- Vice President of Sustainability and Investor Relations Thanks, operator, and welcome, everyone, to Albemarle's second-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. Our earnings were released after the close of market yesterday, and you will find the press release, earnings presentation, and non-GAAP reconciliations on our website under the Investor Relations section at www.albemarle.com. Joining me on the call today are Kent Masters, chief executive officer; and Scott Tozier, chief financial officer. Raphael Crawford, president, catalyst; Netha Johnson, president, bromine specialties; and Eric Norris, president, lithium, are also available for Q&A. Reminder, some of the statements made during this call, including outlook, guidance, expected company performance and timing of expansion projects may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws. Please note the cautionary language about forward-looking statements contained in our press release and earnings presentation, that same language applies to this call. Also note that some of our comments today refer to non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation to GAAP financial measures can be found in our earnings release and appendix of the presentation, both are posted on the website.And finally, as a reminder, Albemarle will be hosting our 2021 Investor Day the morning of Friday, September 10, webcast live from our Charlotte offices. Registration webcast is also available on the Investor Relations section of our website. And now I'll turn the call over to Kent. Kent Masters -- Chief Executive Officer Good morning, and thank you all for joining us today. On today's call, I'll highlight quarterly results and our recent strategic achievements. I'll also introduce the new operating model we are implementing to support Albemarle's growth strategy. Scott will give you more detail on our results, outlook, and guidance. Our businesses continue to execute well as global markets improve. Second-quarter net sales were $774 million and adjusted EBITDA was $195 million, both of which marked a slight improvement compared to the second quarter of last year. Note that we closed the divestiture of FCS on June 1. So second-quarter 2021 included only two months of FCS results. Excluding FCS, net sales increased 5% and adjusted EBITDA was up 13% compared to last year. And our financial release issued yesterday after the close, we revised our guidance for the year, in part to reflect higher lithium performance, but also supply chain disruptions for our bromine business. We've also updated full-year guidance to reflect the sale of FCS. Scott will walk you through those changes in more detail in just a few minutes. We continue to execute on our next wave of growth projects to capitalize on attractive long-term fundamentals in the markets we serve. We recently completed the construction of La Negra three and four as planned, and we are progressing through the commissioning stage. Finally, I want to briefly describe the operating model we are launching to drive greater value, improve performance and deliver exceptional customer service. And you see that on Slide 5. Our operating model, which we call the Albemarle Way of Excellence, or AWE, serves as a framework for how we execute, deliver, and ultimately accelerate our strategy. AWE is based on four pillars: sustainable approach includes responsibly managing our natural resourcing and engaging with our stakeholders; high-performance culture includes focusing on safety leadership and fostering an agile, engaged corporate culture; competitive capabilities means we are ensuring we have the right talent, resources, and technologies; and finally, operational discipline is about embracing lean principles and operational excellence across the organization. The operating model helps us connect our strategy with day-to-day initiatives, prioritize projects, clarify resource allocation, ensure accountability and drive efficient and profitable execution. We will discuss the operating model in more detail at our upcoming Investor Day on September 10. Now turning to Slide 6. We've completed the construction of La Negra three and four in Chile and are in the commissioning stage. We expect commercial production from these two trains beginning in the first half of next year, ramping to 40,000 tons of lithium carbonate per year by 2024. This brownfield project allows us to increase existing capacity and leverage our world-class brine resource in Chile, just one of the avenues of growth that we have as an established lithium producer with a global footprint. We also continue to progress our Kemerton conversion facility in Western Australia. To mitigate risk related to the tight labor market and COVID-related travel restrictions in Western Australia, we have modified our execution strategy to prioritize Kemerton 1 over Kemerton 2. Kemerton 1 remains on track for construction completion by the end of the year. We now anticipate completion of Kemerton 2 by the end of the first quarter next year, a delay of about three months. These delays and higher labor rates have also increased capital cost. It's been a difficult situation in a labor market that was already tight, but we have been able to maintain the schedule for Kemerton 1 with only a three-month delay for Kemerton 2. We continue to expect commercial production for both Kemerton 1 and 2 during 2022. Importantly, we are making progress on our wave three lithium projects, and we'll provide further details at Investor Day in September. Site selection is underway, and we are negotiating with the authorities to include investment agreements. We're also expediting investments in bromine to meet increasing demand. We completed the first well at Magnolia ahead of schedule and under budget. Unfortunately, we're unable to take advantage of that additional capacity in the second half due to shortages of chlorine in the supply chain. We also have two projects in Arkansas that are currently in the select phase. These projects are designed to increase production capacity of clear brine fluids and hydrobromic acid. A third project to increase the capacity of our brominated flame retardants is in the evaluate stage. I'll hand the call over to Scott, who will provide an overview of our financial results for the quarter.Scott Tozier -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Kent, and good morning, everyone. I'll begin on Slide 7. We generated net sales of $774 million during the second quarter, which is a slight increase from the same period last year, driven by stronger sales from our lithium and bromine segments. Higher sales, as well as strong operating margins, resulted in an adjusted EBITDA of $195 million, which was 5% higher year over year. GAAP net income of $425 million includes an after-tax gain of $332 million related to the divestiture of our FCS business to W.R. Grace. Adjusted EPS, which excludes the gain on FCS, was $0.89 for the quarter, up 4% from the prior year. Let's turn to Slide 8 for a look at adjusted EBITDA by business. Excluding FCS, second-quarter adjusted EBITDA increased by 13% or $22 million compared to the prior year. Higher adjusted EBITDA for lithium and bromine was partially offset by higher corporate costs related to incentive compensation and foreign exchange movements. Lithium's adjusted EBITDA increased by $19 million, excluding FX compared to last year, primarily driven by higher volumes, customers under long-term agreements continue to pull orders forward and we shipped higher spodumene volumes from our Talison joint venture. Adjusted EBITDA for bromine increased by $16 million due to higher volumes and pricing. End market demand continues to very strong following the winter storms experienced in Q1 with very limited excess capacity or inventory to meet that additional demand. Catalyst adjusted EBITDA declined just $1 million from the previous year. CFT volumes were down due to shipment timing, SEC continued to be impacted by a change in the order patterns from a large North American customer, although the FCC demand trend was generally higher. This was partially offset by excellent TS results which benefited from a favorable customer mix. Slide 9 highlights the company's financial strength. Since the beginning of the year, we have taken significant steps to strengthen our balance sheet. The strategic decision to divest our FCS business added cash proceeds to the balance sheet and reduced our leverage ratio to 1.5 times. That transaction further demonstrates our ability to drive value by prudently managing our asset portfolio. Our strong balance sheet and investment-grade credit rating gives us the financial flexibility we need to accelerate profitable growth and continue to provide a growing dividend. Turning to Slide 10. I'll walk you through the updates to our guidance that Kent mentioned earlier. And there are several key changes from our previous guidance. First, higher net sales guidance reflects higher lithium sales volumes and improving catalyst trends, offset by a lower bromine outlook. Adjusted EBITDA guidance is the same reflecting higher net sales, offset by higher corporate costs and foreign exchange expense. Guidance on adjusted diluted EPS and net cash from operations is improving from an expected reduction in interest expense and tax rates. The timing of working capital changes is also expected to benefit net cash from operations. And finally, we see capital expenditures trending toward the high end of our previous $850 million to $950 million range based on the tight labor markets in Western Australia, as Kent discussed. In the far right column, pro forma revised guidance ranges are adjusted for the sale of our FCS business on June 1 this year, removing the guidance on FCS for the rest of the year. I'm turning to Slide 11 for more detail on the GBUs outlook. Adjusted EBITDA for lithium is expected to increase by 10% to 15% over last year, an improvement from our previous outlook. Lithium volume growth is expected to be in the mid-teens on a percentage basis, mostly due to higher tolling volumes as well as the restart of North American plants at the beginning of the year and improvements in plant productivity. Our pricing outlook is unchanged. We continue to expect average realized pricing to increase sequentially over the second half of the year, but to remain roughly flat compared to full-year 2020. We also continue to expect margins to remain below 35%, owing to higher costs related to project start-ups and incremental tolling costs. Margins should improve as the plants ramp up commercial sales volumes. Our outlook for Catalyst hasn't changed since the first-quarter report with adjusted EBITDA anticipated to be lower by 30% to 40%. However, we are more optimistic as fuel markets continue to improve globally. Lower year-over-year results are primarily related to the impact of the U.S. Gulf Coast, winter storm in the first quarter, and the ongoing impact from the change in customer order patterns in North America. Finally, for bromine, we now expect mid-single-digit year-over-year growth in adjusted EBITDA, which is down from our previous outlook due to a force majeure declaration from our chlorine supplier in the U.S. Like many industrial companies, we are -- increased costs and supply disruptions for raw materials, but it is partially offset by price and productivity improvements. Results are expected to be lower in the second half as production is constrained due to the chlorine shortage. We are accelerating our expansion plans in bromine. However, we have been unable to take advantage of this new capacity yet due to the chlorine disruption. Looking ahead to 2022, we expect sales and EBITDA increases for all three businesses. Lithium results are expected to improve on the higher volumes as the new plants ramp up. Bromine results are expected to rebound from short-term supply chain disruptions and the winter storm impacts, and Catalyst results are expected to rebound strongly from 2021 levels, assuming continued improvements in global transportation fuel demand. And with that, I'll hand it back to Kent.Kent Masters -- Chief Executive Officer OK. Thanks, Scott. On Slide 12, we continue to execute on our strategic objectives for 2021. First, we are growing profitably. Construction is complete at La Negra, and we are commissioning this project with commercial volumes expected in the first half of next year. Both Kemerton trains are expected to contribute volumes in 2022 as well, despite the restructuring of our execution plan at Kemerton. As previously discussed, we are making progress on our wave three lithium projects and expediting investments in bromine to meet increasing demand. Second, we are increasing productivity. We are on track to achieve at least our targeted $75 million in productivity improvements this year. We expect to continue to build on these improvements as we implement our operating model and build a culture of continuous improvement. Third, we are maintaining our disciplined approach to investments and continue to optimize shareholder value by actively managing our portfolio of assets, including the recently completed FCS divestiture. Finally, all of our efforts are being driven with sustainability in mind. And our annual sustainability report published at the beginning of June, we disclosed initial sustainability targets, including plans to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and fresh water use. We are also working closely with customers, investors, and ESG rating companies to make sure they are up to speed on all these developments and have a full appreciation for our efforts. So with that, I'd like to open the call for questions.Meredith Bandy -- Vice President of Sustainability and Investor Relations Operator, we're ready for questions now. 