  OperatorHello, and welcome to the AMD fourth quarter and full year 2021 financial results conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. It's now my pleasure to turn the call over to Laura Graves, corporate vice president of investor relations. Laura, please go ahead.Laura Graves -- Corporate Vice President, Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, and welcome to AMD's fourth quarter and fiscal year-end 2021 financial results conference call. By now, you should have had the opportunity to review a copy of our earnings release and accompanying slideware. If you have not reviewed these documents yet, they can be found on the Investor Relations page of amd.com. Participants on today's conference call are Dr. Lisa Su, our president and chief executive officer; and Devinder Kumar, our executive vice president, chief financial officer and treasurer. This is a live call and will be replayed via webcast on our website. Before we begin, I would like to note that Dan McNamara, senior vice president and general manager of server, will attend the Virtual Susquehanna Financial Group 11th Annual Technology Conference on Thursday, March 3rd. Our first quarter 2022 quiet time is expected to begin at the close of business on Friday, March 11th; and AMD will host its 2022 Financial Analyst Day on Thursday, June 9th.Today's discussions contain forward-looking statements based on current beliefs, assumptions and expectations, speak only as of today, and as such, involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations. Please refer to the cautionary statement in our press release for more information on factors that could cause the results to differ. We will refer primarily to non-GAAP financial measures during this call. The full non-GAAP to GAAP reconciliations are available in today's press release and the slides posted on our website. Now with that, I will hand the call over to Lisa. Lisa? 

 



Lisa Su -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Laura, and good afternoon to all those listening in today. 2021 was an outstanding year for AMD as we exceeded our aggressive growth goals and delivered another record year. Each of our businesses grew significantly and set new annual revenue record, highlighted by data center revenue more than doubling year over year. Annual revenue grew 68% to a record 16.4 billion, and we expanded gross margin for the sixth straight year. We also delivered record net income and EPS, both of which more than doubled year over year. Looking at the fourth quarter, we ended the year exceptionally strong with our sixth straight of greater than 45% year-over-year revenue growth. Fourth quarter revenue grew 49% from a year ago to a record 4.8 billion. We expanded gross margin by more than five percentage points and doubled operating income year over year. Turning to our computing and graphics segment. Revenue increased 32% year over year to 2.6 billion, driven by growth in both Ryzen and Radeon processor sales. Record client computing revenue grew by a double-digit percentage from a year ago, led by record notebook sales. We saw strong demand for premium AMD notebooks and our higher-end desktop CPUs in the quarter as Ryzen 5000 processor unit shipments grew by a double-digit percentage sequentially.

 



 As a result, we believe we gained client processor revenue share for the seventh straight quarter. We launched our Ryzen 6000 series notebook CPUs at CES last month, featuring our new Zen 3+ core that further extends the leadership compute, gaming, and battery life capabilities of our mobile processors. We increased the number of premium gaming and commercial design wins from Acer, Asus, Dell, HP, Lenovo, and other major PC providers to more than 200, including more than 20 AMD advanced notebooks that combine Ryzen CPUs, Radeon GPUs, and Radeon Software to deliver the ultimate gaming experience. We also provided the first public demonstration of our upcoming Ryzen 7000 desktop processors at CES. Ryzen 7000 series desktop CPUs provide a significant performance increase compared to our current Ryzen processors by combining our high-performance five-nanometer Zen 4 core with our next-generation memory and I/O technologies in the new AM5 socket. There's a lot of excitement in the market for our next-gen Ryzen desktop processors and we're on track to launch in the second half of 2022. In graphics, revenue more than doubled year over year for the third straight quarter. Radeon 6000 series GPU unit shipments and revenue both grew by double-digit percentages sequentially, led by strong demand across our RDNA 2 desktop family. At CES, we announced that we expanded our Radeon 6000 series GPU portfolio with our first mainstream RDNA 2 desktop GPU, priced at $199. We also introduced new mobile GPUs that deliver up to 20% more performance than our prior generation and our first mobile graphics chips for thin and light gaming notebooks. Data center graphics revenue more than doubled year over year, driven largely by HPC wins for our latest Instinct MI200 accelerators. We are seeing growing customer engagements for our data center GPUs based on the leadership AI and HPC performance of our new MI200 accelerators, highlighted by multiple supercomputing wins and an expanded set of platforms on track to launch from Atos, Dell, HP, Lenovo, Supermicro, and others starting later this quarter. Turning to our enterprise, embedded, and semi-custom segment. Revenue increased 75% year over year to 2.2 billion, driven by record EPYC processor and semi-custom sales. Semi-custom sales increased year over year as the current game console cycle continues outpacing all prior generations. We expect revenue to grow this year driven by continued strong demand for the latest Microsoft and Sony consoles. Turning to server. We had another outstanding quarter. Revenue more than doubled year over year and increased by a double-digit percentage sequentially, driven by demand across both cloud and enterprise customers. In cloud, revenue more than doubled year over year as the largest providers expanded internal deployments and more than 130 new AMD-powered instances launched from Amazon Web Services, Alibaba, Google, IBM, Microsoft Azure, and others. Microsoft Azure previewed a new HPC instance, powered by our third-gen EPYC processors with 3D stack memory that delivers up to 80% more performance than currently available instances. Our differentiated 3D stacking technology further extends the leadership performance of EPYC processors and technical computing workloads like EDA, fluid dynamics, and complex simulations. We started volume production of EPYC processors with 3D stacked memory earlier this quarter in advance of OEM platform launches with all our major server partners. In enterprise, revenue doubled year over year, driven by the ongoing ramp of more than 100 third-gen EPYC platforms available from Dell, HP Enterprise, Lenovo, Supermicro, Cisco, and others. In HPC, EPYC processor adoption was highlighted by the number of AMD-powered supercomputers on the November Top500 fastest supercomputers list, tripling year over year to 73. EPYC processors also dominated the Green500 list, and are now powering eight of the top 10 most efficient supercomputers in the world. Turning to our overall data center business. We made outstanding progress in the last year. We exited 2021 with data center revenue contributing a mid-20 percentage of overall revenue, and we expect 2022 to be another year of significant growth based on the strong customer demand signals for our current and next-generation products. In November, we provided first details of our next-generation EPYC processor, codenamed Genoa, that will feature up to 96 Zen 4 cores and next-generation memory and I/O technologies, including breakthrough memory expansion capabilities. Customer excitement for Genoa is extremely high as it extends our performance leadership across a broad range of workloads. We also announced the addition of Bergamo to our server road map, featuring a version of our Zen 4 core called Zen 4c that has been specifically optimized for cloud-native computing. Bergamo is a high-core talent, power-efficient CPU that can be used in the same platforms as Genoa. It will feature up to 128 CPU cores and deliver significant performance and power efficiency advantages for cloud workloads. We are sampling Genoa processors to customers now and are on track to launch later this year with Bergamo shipments planned to follow in the first half of 2023. Turning to our Xilinx acquisition. We were pleased to announce that China's State Administration for Market Regulation approved the transaction on January 27th. The only remaining regulatory approval required is FTC approval of our HSR refiling, and we expect to close the transaction in the first quarter of 2022. I am more excited than ever about the benefits of the acquisition for both AMD and Xilinx stakeholders. Customer excitement is also high as they look forward to the opportunity to deepen their strategic engagements with AMD based on our expanded technology and solutions portfolio. In summary, I am incredibly proud of our performance in 2021. Our record annual results highlight our strong execution over multiple years to establish the technical, operational, and strategic foundation to position AMD as a high-performance computing leader. Each of our businesses performed extremely well in 2021 with growth significantly ahead of the long-term financial model we outlined at our Financial Analyst Day in 2020. I want to take a moment to recognize and thank the AMD employees whose passion, dedication, and execution have enabled this success. Turning to 2022. Demand for our product is very strong, and we look forward to another year of significant growth and share gains as we ramp our current products and launch our next wave of Zen 4 CPUs and RDNA 3 GPUs. We have also made significant investments to secure the capacity needed to support our growth in 2022 and beyond. Looking out over the long term, we are confident in our ability to continue growing significantly faster than the market, based on our expanded road map investments and the deep relationships we have established with a broad set of customers who view AMD as a strategic enabler of their success. Now I'd like to turn the call over to Devinder to provide some additional color on our fourth quarter and full year financial performance. Devinder?Devinder Kumar -- Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Treasurer Thank you, Lisa, and good afternoon, everyone. We had a very strong 2021, with increased demand for our products, excellent execution resulted in record annual revenue, continued gross margin expansion, record profitability, and significant cash flow generation. Fourth quarter 2021 revenue of 4.8 billion was our sixth consecutive quarterly record, up 49% from a year ago, driven by strong revenue increases across all businesses. Gross margin was 50%, up 560 basis points from a year ago, driven by a richer mix of products and data center revenue growth. Operating expenses were 1.1 billion, compared to 789 million a year ago as we increased investments in our long-term product road maps to support the significant growth trajectory of our business. Operating income doubled from a year ago to a record 1.3 billion, up 665 million, primarily driven by significant revenue growth and higher gross margin. Operating margin was 27%, up from 20% a year ago. Net income was a record 1.1 billion, up 486 million from a year ago. Diluted earnings per share was $0.92, compared to $0.52 per share a year ago. This includes a 15% effective tax rate, compared to a 3% rate a year ago. Now turning to fourth quarter business segment results. Computing and graphics segment revenue was 2.6 billion, up 32% year over year, driven by higher graphics and client processor revenue. Computing and graphics segment operating income was 566 million, or 22% of revenue, compared to 420 million a year ago. The increase in operating income was driven primarily by higher revenue, partially offset by higher operating expenses. Enterprise, embedded, and semi-custom segment revenue was 2.2 billion, up 75% from 1.3 billion the prior year. The strong revenue increase was driven by significantly higher EPYC processor and semi-custom sales. EESC segment operating income grew significantly to 762 million, or 34% of revenue, compared to 243 million, or 19% a year ago. Operating income growth was driven primarily by higher revenue and richer product mix, partially offset by higher R&D and go-to-market expenses. Turning to the balance sheet. Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments were 3.6 billion at year-end. As we continue returning capital to shareholders, we repurchased 756 million of common stock in the fourth quarter and closed out the year with 1.8 billion of repurchases. Additionally, we have repurchased 1 billion to date in the first quarter of 2022 and have 1.2 billion remaining under the authorized 4 billion share repurchase plan. Quarterly free cash flow was 736 million, compared to 480 million in the same quarter last year and 764 million in the prior quarter. Inventory was 2 billion, up 53 million from the prior quarter. Now let me turn to our full year financial results. 2021 revenue was 16.4 billion, up 68% year on year, driven by strong growth across all businesses. Gross margin was 48%, up 370 basis points from the prior year, driven by the strength and competitiveness of our EPYC, Radeon, and Ryzen processors. Operating expenses were 24% of revenue, compared to 28% in 2020. 2021 operating income was up 146% from a year ago to 4.1 billion, resulting in an operating margin of 25%, compared to 17% in 2020. Net income was 3.4 billion, up 118% from the prior year. Full year free cash flow was a record 3.2 billion, resulting in free cash flow margin of 20% for the year. In addition, we invested approximately 1 billion during 2021 in long-term supply chain capacity to support our expectations for future revenue and market share growth. Let me now turn to our financial outlook. Today's outlook is based on current expectations and contemplates the current global supply environment and customer signals and does not contemplate the addition of Xilinx as that transaction has not yet closed. First quarter 2022 revenue is expected to be approximately 5 billion, plus or minus 100 million, an increase of approximately 45% year over year and approximately 4% quarter on quarter. The year-over-year increase is expected to be driven by growth across all businesses. The quarter-on-quarter increase is expected to be driven by higher server and client revenue. In addition, for Q1 2022, we expect non-GAAP gross margin to be approximately 50.5%; non-GAAP operating expenses to be approximately 1.2 billion; non-GAAP interest expense, taxes, and other to be approximately 207 million based on a 15% effective tax rate; and the diluted share count to be approximately 1.22 billion shares. For the full year 2022, we expect revenue to be approximately 21.5 billion, an increase of approximately 31%, driven by growth across all businesses. We expect non-GAAP gross margin to be approximately 51%, non-GAAP operating expenses to be approximately 24% of revenue, non-GAAP effective tax rate to be 15%, and non-GAAP cash tax rate to be approximately 9%, due primarily to the US tax requirement to capitalize R&D and the full utilization of our U.S. net operating losses and tax credits in 2022. In closing, we had an outstanding quarter and an excellent year with very strong revenue growth and numerous financial records. As we enter 2022, our leadership products and growing customer momentum continue to position us very well for long-term growth. I look forward to AMD delivering another year of very strong financial performance. With that, I'll turn it back to Laura for the question-and-answer session. Laura?Laura Graves -- Corporate Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you, Devinder, and thank you, Lisa. Operator, we're ready for our first question. 