
OperatorGood afternoon, and welcome to the F5 Networks Third Quarter Fiscal 2021 Financial Results Conference Call. Also, today's conference is being recorded. [Operator Instructions]I will now turn the call over to Ms. Suzanne DuLong. Ma'am, you may begin.Suzanne DuLong -- Vice President of Investor Relations

 



Hello and welcome. I'm Suzanne DuLong, F5's Vice President of Investor Relations. Francois Locoh-Donou, F5's President and CEO; and Frank Pelzer, F5's Executive Vice President and CFO, will be making prepared remarks on today's call. Other members of the F5 executive team are also on hand to answer questions during the Q&A session.A copy of today's press release is available on our website at f5.com where an archived version of today's call will be available through October 25, 2021. Today's live discussion is supported by slides which are viewable on the webcast and will be posted to our IR site at the conclusion of today's discussion. To access the replay of today's call by phone, dial (800) 585-8367 or (416) 621-4642, use meeting ID 5294198. The telephonic replay will be available through midnight Pacific Time, July 27th. For additional information or follow-up questions, please reach out to me directly at s.dulong@f5.com.Our discussion today will contain forward-looking statements which include words such as believe, anticipate, expect, and target. These forward-looking statements involve uncertainties and risks that may cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these statements. Factors that may affect our results are summarized in the press release announcing our financial results and described in detail in our SEC filings. Please note that F5 has no duty to update any information presented in this call.With that, I'll turn the call over to Francois.

 



Francois Locoh-Donou -- President, Chief Executive Officer and DirectorThank you, Suzanne, and hello everyone. Thank you for joining us today. I am pleased to share with you our very strong Q3 results. Broad-based strength across the business drove 11% revenue growth in the quarter, marking our third sequential quarter of double-digit revenue growth. We delivered 34% software growth, 13% systems growth, and 4% global services growth in Q3.F5s business is benefiting from digital acceleration and application growth as well as heightened demand for application security. Customers traditional apps are generating more revenue and more engagement than ever before. At the same time, customers also are accelerating adoption of modern application architectures like Kubernetes for new applications. With our expanded application security and delivery portfolio, we are uniquely positioned to solve our customers most significant modern and traditional application challenges on-prem, in the cloud and across multiple clouds. I will speak more about our business drivers and customer highlights from the quarter after Frank reviews our Q3 results and Q4 outlook. Frank?Frank Pelzer -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

 



Thank you, Francois, and good afternoon, everyone. As Francois just outlined, our team delivered another very strong quarter. Third quarter revenue of $652 million was up 11% year-over-year and above the top end of our guidance range. Please note as I review our revenue mix, I will be referring to non-GAAP revenue measures for the year ago period. Q3 product revenue of $310 million is up 21% year-over-year, representing a significant acceleration from 3% in the same period last year. Product revenue accounted for approximately 48% of total revenue, up from 40% in the year ago period. We continue to advance our transition to a more software-driven model. Q3 software revenue grew 34% to $129, million representing 42% of product revenue, up from 38% in the year ago period.Today, we offer customers annual and multi-year subscriptions as well as a growing base of SaaS consumption models. Customers' preference for these flexible models is driving growth in the subscription-based portion of our revenue. In fact, since Q3 of 2018, we've driven subscription software revenue growth at a three-year compounded annual growth rate of 118%. in Q3, '21, subscription-based revenue represented 78% of total software revenue, up from 73% in the year ago period. Customer adoption of our multi-year subscriptions continues to grow, providing much needed flexibility for our customers and future revenue visibility for us. These multi-year subscriptions are generally three-year term subscriptions and can be for BIG-IP or NGINX or combination of both. With customers increasingly looking to F5 to support both traditional and modern applications, our multi-year subscriptions are more frequently, including both BIG-IP and NGINX. In fact, in Q3, NGINX was part of over half of our multi-year subscription deals.We see continued strong system demand based on broad-based increases in application usage, continued growth of system-based security use cases, and 5G service provider usage. In Q3, systems revenue of $180 million is up 13% compared to last year when systems were down 12% Rounding out our revenue picture, we see continued strength from our global services with revenue of $342 million in Q3, up 4% compared to last year and representing 52% of total revenue. Revenue from recurring sources, which includes term subscriptions as a service and utility-based revenue as well as the maintenance portion of our services revenue totaled 66% of revenue in the quarter. On a regional basis, in Q3, Americas delivered 10% revenue growth year-over-year, representing 57% of total revenue. EMEA delivered 19% growth, representing 26% of revenue and APAC delivered 3% growth, accounting for 18% of revenue. The strength in Q3 spanned customer verticals as well. Enterprise customers represented 69% of product bookings in the quarter. Service providers represented 15% and government customers represented 17%, including 4% from U.S. Federal within the government vertical.I will now share our Q3 operating results. GAAP gross margin in Q3 was 81.4%. Non-GAAP gross margin was 84.1%. GAAP operating expenses were $434 million. Non-GAAP operating expenses were $349 million. Our GAAP operating margin in Q3 was 14.8% and our non-GAAP operating margin was 30.5%. Our GAAP effective tax rate for the quarter was 4.9%. Our non-GAAP effective tax rate was 14%. Our non-GAAP tax rate is lower than anticipated as a result of an election we made with our FY '20 U.S. income tax returns filed in Q3. The election related to certain research and experimentation costs for tax purposes only and had the effect of reducing our non-GAAP effective tax rate in Q3. GAAP net income for the quarter was $90 million or $1.46 per share. Non-GAAP net income was $169 million or $2.76 per share.I will now turn to the balance sheet. We generated $182 million in cash flow from operations in Q3. Cash and investments totaled approximately $863 million at quarter end. You will recall, in Q2, we initiated a $500 million accelerated share repurchase program. During Q2, we retired approximately $400 million worth of shares. In Q3, we retired the remaining approximately $100 million worth of shares, reflecting roughly 449,000 shares purchased during the quarter. The average price paid per share for the full $500 million program was $199.90. DSO was 53 days and capital expenditures for the quarter were $9 million. Deferred revenue increased 13% year-over-year to $1.44 billion from $1.28 billion. Finally, we ended the quarter with approximately 6,380 employees, up approximately 20 from Q2.Now, let me share our guidance for the fiscal fourth quarter. Unless otherwise stated, please note that my guidance comments reference non-GAAP metrics. Near-term, we expect customers will continue to invest to support both traditional and modern application growth and the modernization of their application infrastructures. We also anticipate continued focus on investment in application security. Thus far, our supply chain team has navigated industrywide supply chain challenges well, with all signs pointing to continued challenges for at least several quarters to come, we will continue to closely monitor the situation. With that as a context, we are targeting Q4 fiscal 2021 revenue in the range of $660 to $680 million, implying roughly 9% growth at the midpoint.We continue to expect FY '21 software revenue growth at or around 35% and feel very good about our software momentum as we closed FY '21 and head into the back half of our Horizon 2 timeframe. We expect Q4 '21 gross margins of 84% to 84.5% and we estimate operating expenses of $346 million to $358 million. We also expect to achieve our fiscal year 2021 non-GAAP operating margin target of 31% to 32%. We anticipate our effective tax rate for the year to be approximately 19%. Our Q4 earnings target is $2.68 to $2.80 per share. We expect to Q4 share-based compensation expense of approximately $62 million to $64 million.With that, I will turn the call back over to Francois. Francois?Francois Locoh-Donou -- President, Chief Executive Officer and DirectorThank you, Frank. Our very strong third quarter results demonstrate the powerful alignment of our expanded solution portfolio and our customers' most important application needs. Across the board, our customers are massively accelerating digital transformation to keep up with current demand and forecasted growth and to meet consumers' expectations for application performance and availability. But it is not just keeping up with application growth that is a challenge. Customers are caught managing this robust growth across multiple infrastructures with applications in both traditional monolithic 3Q architectures and in modern cloud native and container-based architectures.F5 is uniquely suited to solve customers' traditional and modern application challenges. Our flexible programmable BIG-IP portfolio secures and delivers traditional applications, whether in the systems or software-based form factor, on-premises and in the cloud. Meanwhile, our NGINX portfolio provides high performance application security and delivery for microservices in Kubernetes and container-based environments. And with our Shape Security portfolio, we also bring industry-leading fraud and bot protection against automated attacks. So let's talk about five sustainable customer trends resulting from accelerating digital transformation and driving robust demand across our portfolio.Number one. Enterprise customer developers and DevOps teams are using NGINX to insert security earlier in the application lifecycle. NGINX with App Protect delivers robust application security for microservices with the flexibility and agility developers' demand. And just one example, during Q3, we secured an NGINX win with an information services company that services high security customers in financial, FinTech, medical insurance, and the U.S. federal government. The customer selected NGINX Plus with App Protect for its ability to deliver layer 7 WAF, reverse proxy and load balancing in a single unified solution.Trend number two. Heightened security concerns and high profile ransomware attacks are escalating demand for top notch application security and fraud and abuse mitigation. With pronounced application growth and an ever expanding threat landscape, including high profile ransomware and credential stuffing attacks, we see growing demand for application security in cloud environments and rising demand for fraud and bot defense. And an example of the strong customer interest in our Shape solution, during the quarter, a big brand athletic shoe manufacturer selected Shape to take on a sneaker bot that was relentlessly attacking its retail site, attempting to siphon off shoes for resale. Through an exhaustive proof of concept, Shape proved far more effective than a competitor at identifying and stopping the bot attacks.Trend number three. Customers are leveraging F5 for Kubernetes, containers and cloud native architectures. Our growth in modern applications continues to accelerate, driven by NGINX, Kubernetes and cloud native deployments. We are seeing several top use cases emerge for NGINX including API Gateway, Kubernetes ingress controller, NGINX App Protect, and software-based load balancing. Customers' modernization efforts and the availability of NGINX Controller and enterprise level app security with NGINX App Protect continue to drive larger engine deal sizes. During Q3, a large health insurance provider in the United States selected NGINX to help their teams manage their modern apps. They deployed recently introduced NGINX instance manager to track, configure and manage their businesses, NGINX open source and NGINX Plus instances. They also deployed NGINX as an ingress controller to manage secure communications between services that are both external and internal to the Kubernetes cluster. In addition, they are using NGINX to monitor pods running in a public cloud providers manage Kubernetes Service and adjust the load balancing rules based on pod availability.Trend number four. Customers are scaling their existing hardware-based infrastructure to handle accelerating application growth, driving continued strength for BIG-IP systems. Last quarter, I spoke about the fact that some of our BIG-IP systems demand was being driven by cloud-based and SaaS providers. This global leaders are turning to F5 to help them scale their existing application infrastructures in support of continued rapid adoption and growth of their digital products and services. In Q3, this trend continued with a global SaaS-based cloud service provider, refreshing and extending their existing their BIG-IP infrastructure to efficiently and securely scale with rising demand.And finally, tend number five. Customers are leveraging BIG-IP for transformation, including cloud migration and automation initiatives. The demand we are seeing for BIG-IP systems and software is about more than just capacity additions. Customers also are choosing BIG-IP to drive transformation. When customers move traditional applications to a cloud, they are lifting and shifting with F5, choosing not to incur the time, cost and risk of refactoring their applications. And just one example in Q3. In APAC, we won a deal with a large credit issuer with a two year plan to exit their own data centers and migrate all non-mission-critical applications to the cloud. They chose a combination of BIG-IP and NGINX software with a multi-year subscription consumption model to ensure flexibility throughout the process. In another example of F5s role in app modernization, an American multinational computer technology company is embarking on a large-scale project to build their own private cloud, including repatriating cloud workloads to save costs and drive efficiency. They selected BIG-IP hardware and software as well as NGINX to execute the project.While several of the trends I have just described also apply to our service provider customers, service providers also face unique challenges as a result of 4G to 5 G migration and growing 5G traffic demand. We see Gi LAN use cases gaining momentum globally as 5G devices are enabled. We are seeing 4G to 5 G momentum growing for F5 in two ways. First, for capacity augmentation supporting 5G rollouts. Second, with virtual network function and cloud native network function based architectures gaining traction to replace legacy infrastructures. In one notable service provider win from Q3, one of the largest mobile providers in India turned to F5 to scale its 4G network in preparation for its 5G deployment.Before I wrap up our prepared remarks, I will comment briefly on our Volterra acquisition. The trends we are seeing across the business also bode well for the opportunity we see ahead with our Volterra platform. We continue to make good progress with our integration efforts and expect to have more to share about initial use cases and launch timing in the fall. As I mentioned last quarter, we initiated a pilot program concentrating on specific use cases and focused on bringing F5 security to the edge. Our goal is to leverage Volterra's organic momentum and early customer interest. Among service providers, the excitement and early interest related to Volterra continues to open doors not previously open to F5. The combination of application growth, our expanded solutions platform and our vision for the future of adaptive apps is resonating with customers and is well aligned with industry trends. We expect demand for application security will continue to grow as application demand grows and customer scale and modernize their applications. We believe that we are exceptionally well placed with the right perspective and toolset to solve our customers most pressing application security challenges. Our opportunity in application security is even more exciting with the ongoing integration of F5 and Volterra, which will bring enterprise grade F5 application security to the edge in an easily deployable SaaS model.I will wrap up today's prepared remarks by thanking the entire F5 team as well as our customers and partners. With that operator, we will now open the call to Q&A.