
OperatorWelcome to the Everest Re Group Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Jon Levenson, Head of Investor Relations. Thank you. Please go ahead.Jon Levenson -- Head of Investor Relations.Good morning, and welcome to the Everest Re Group Limited 2021 first-quarter earnings conference call. The Everest Executives leading today's call are Juan Andrade, President and Chief Executive Officer; Mark Kociancic, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. We are also joined by other members of the Everest management team. Before we begin, I will preface the comments on today's call by noting that Everest SEC filings include extensive disclosures with respect to forward-looking statements.

 



Management comments regarding estimates, projections and similar are subject to the risks, uncertainties and assumptions as noted in these filings. Management may also refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures. These items are reconciled in our earnings release and financial supplement.With that, I turn the call over to Juan Andrade.Juan Andrade -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Jon. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining the call. Everest this off to a strong start in 2021 with robust growth, strong overall profitability, continued improvement in attritional underwriting margins and excellent investment performance. We achieved these results despite the meaningful impact to the industry of the U.S. winter storms in the first quarter. Our thoughts are with those affected by the storms, as well as the Australian floods, and I'm very proud of the work our claims team is doing on the ground to help people restore their lives.

 



Our first-quarter results demonstrate the earnings power of Everest, and our success in implementing our strategy to build a broadly diversified company with a relentless focus on operational performance and disciplined underwriting. We are bullish about 2021. We will continue to profitably grow the insurance segment, while continuing to grow and strengthen our position as a leading global P&C reinsurer. Our diversified reinsurance and insurance franchises, financial strength, deep distribution relationships and leading customer solutions enable us to thrive in today's market.I will now discuss our Group, Reinsurance and Insurance first quarter 2021 results. Starting with the Group results. We grew gross written premiums by 14% and net written premiums by 16% with robust growth across both segments. Our growth stems from; One, the combination of new business opportunities; Two, improved terms and conditions; Three, increased rate levels; Four, expanded shares on attractive renewals and five, high overall renewal retention.The as-reported combined ratio was 98.1% including the previously announced U.S. winter storms and the Australian flooding catastrophe losses. We generated $45 million in underwriting profit compared to $29 million in the first quarter last year. While the pandemic is not over and as we have done in prior quarters, we completed a rigorous analysis of our COVID exposure in the first quarter, resulting in no change to our COVID loss provision. Our COVID loss provision remains at $511 million of which approximately 80% is IBNR.The attritional combined ratio was 87.3%, a 2.5 point improvement over the first quarter of 2020 with both segments continuing to show significant year-over-year improvement in loss and expense ratios. We continue to diligently manage our portfolios to improve returns with a broad array of underwriting actions, this includes managing attachment points and limits, improving on terms and conditions, and targeting non-renewals of business which does not meet our hurdle rates, as well as many other actions. Underwriting profitability remains at the core of everything we do. Net investment income was excellent at $260 million compared to $148 million in the prior year first quarter. These strong operating results led to a net income for the quarter of $342 million resulting in an annualized return on equity of 15%.

 



For our Reinsurance Division, the first quarter continued our strong growth with gross written premiums up 16%. We were pleased with our successful execution of our January 1 renewal plan. The targeted and disciplined growth was driven by higher rate, increased shares on profitable deals along with new opportunities in property, casualty, specialty lines, and facultative business. The attritional combined ratio was 85.5% for the quarter, a 2.3 point improvement year-over-year. This came from improvement in both the loss and expense ratio.We saw better economics in most treaties and parts of business around the world. We were disciplined and reduce shares or non-renewed underperforming treaties or those where we did not get our target rate, terms, conditions, wordings, or exclusions. We also deployed additional capacity into lines with more attractive risk-adjusted returns. This dynamic capital allocation resulted in an improved attritional combined ratio. Overall, we continue to write a stronger, more diversified, and more profitable book. With regard to the April 1 renewals, we achieved 10% to 15% rate increases on Japanese wind treaties and 5% rate increases in earthquake treaties. Rates in other geographies continue to rise in both property and casualty lines. John Doucette is available to provide additional details during the Q&A.Our insurance division continued its solid execution in the market, resulting in strong attritional underwriting performance and premium growth. Gross written premium grew 10%. If we exclude workers' compensation where we see less attractive pricing, gross written premium grew 20%. This growth is driven by disciplined cycle management, new business opportunities, ongoing strong rate increases in our target classes of business, and high retention rates on existing business. We are also seeing a slow but steady improvement in overall economic activity. The growth was well diversified in our target classes where market conditions are prime for profitable growth, including specialty, casualty, professional liability, and property short tail. We are happy with this diversification as it is a core tenet of our strategy.Everest Insurance delivered an improved attritional combined ratio of 92.2% for the first quarter, a 2.7 point improvement over Q1 2020. These results continue to be driven by proactive underwriting actions and a continued focus on expense management. These actions are resulting in the continued expansion of our insurance margins. The attritional loss ratio of 64.3%, improved 1.4 points year-over-year and the total expense ratio improved 1.3 points year-over-year. Renewal rate increases continue to exceed our expectations for loss trend, up 16% in the quarter excluding workers' compensation and up 10% including workers' compensation. The increased rate we achieved and the expected increase in margin is a function of market conditions and disciplined proactive underwriting actions across our businesses. After years of soft pricing and rising loss costs, pricing adjustments remain necessary. We expect this favorable pricing to continue throughout 2021.Consistent with prior quarters, rate increases were led by excess casualty, up 33%; D&O, up 24%; property, up 13%; and commercial auto, up 13%. We are also seeing widespread rate increases in other lines of business. We are managing the Insurance business to build a diversified portfolio, steering our mixed or product lines with better rate adequacy and higher long-term margins. We also continue to manage average limits deployed to control volatility. We are happy with the progress we have made and we expect that the strategic direction should possibly impact our results going forward. Conversely, we have been thoughtfully managing workers' compensation through the cycle. This portfolio now represents 14% of our first quarter premiums, down from 21% the year ago. We have pared back for writings in the monoline guaranteed cost base and shift in our portfolio to more loss sensitive, loss ratable business. Workers' compensation is an area of expertise at Everest and we are monitoring market conditions closely for potential opportunities, but these efforts illustrate the disciplined cycle management we have implemented in the company.Lastly, our strong position in both the E&S and retail channels continue to give us access to a wide set of opportunities. Mike Karmilowicz is available to provide additional details during the Q&A. Everest had a strong start to 2021 with robust growth, strong overall profitability, continued improvement in attritional underwriting margins, and excellent investment performance. We have vibrant and well-diversified Reinsurance and Insurance businesses with experienced leadership and underwriting teams providing industry-leading solutions to customers. We have sustained momentum. This company has excellent financial strength, top talent, and a prudent capital management philosophy. We are focused on sustained profitable growth, a more diversified targeted and deliberate mix of business, and superior risk-adjusted returns. We believe that the relentless and disciplined execution of our strategies will result in maximizing shareholder returns. I am confident in Everest's future and in our ability to deliver and our commitments to customers and shareholders.Now, let me turn the call over to Mark Kociancic for additional details on the financials. Mark?Mark Kociancic -- Executive Vice President and Group Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Juan, and good morning, everyone. Everest had very attractive results for the first quarter of 2021 with strong overall profitability, continued improving underlying margins, robust growth, and an excellent investment results. I'll touch on these points over the next few minutes.For the first quarter of 2021, Everest reported a net income of $342 million, resulting in an annualized return on equity of 15%. We also reported operating income of $260 million for Q1 and operating earnings per share of $6.49. Starting with underwriting income, Everest had positive contributions from both Reinsurance and Insurance with $45.2 million of underwriting income. This reflects the improved underlying attritional loss and expense ratios, offset by the impact of catastrophe losses. The catastrophe losses of $260 million of pre-tax, and net of reinsurance and reinstatement premiums with $213 million in the reinsurance segment and $47 million in the insurance segment. Vast majority of $250 million is coming from the U.S. winter storms with the balance from the floods in New South Wales, Australia. Also worth noting is that we have not added to our COVID-19 loss provision, which remains at $511 million with approximately 80% of our pandemic loss estimate remaining as IBNR.First quarter results continue to reflect the impact of our underwriting and portfolio management initiatives. Our underlying attritional loss and combined ratios are strong and continue to improve. Excluding the catastrophe losses, reinstatement premiums, prior year development and COVID '19 pandemic impact. The attritional loss ratio was 60.7% in Q1, compared to 61.4% in the first quarter of 2020. The attritional combined ratio was 87.3% for the first quarter of 2021, compared to 89.8% for the first quarter last year, representing a 2.5 percentage point improvement. For insurance, the attritional loss ratio improved from 65.7% in the first quarter of 2020 to 64.3% this quarter, and the attritional combined ratio for insurance improved to 92.2% compared to 94.9% in the first quarter of 2020.Our U.S. Insurance business, which makes up the majority of our overall Insurance business, continues to run very well with an attritional combined ratio in the high '80s. For Reinsurance, the first quarter 2021 attritional loss ratio was 59.5%, down from 59.8% a year ago. The attritional combined ratio on the same basis was 85.5%, down from 87.8%. The Group commission ratio of 20.5% for the first quarter of 2021 was down a 150 basis points from 22% reported last year in Q1, largely due to changes in the composition of our business mix plus higher ceding commissions received in the Insurance segment. The Group expense ratio remains low at 5.9% for the first quarter of 2021 versus 6.3% a year ago. The expense ratio continues to benefit from our continued focus on expense management, cost economies of scale as our premium base continues to grow.First quarter investment income had an excellent result of $260 million as compared to a $148 million for the first quarter 2020. Alternative investments recorded a quarterly record $120 million of income in the first quarter, largely due to increases in the net asset values from our portfolio of diversified private equity investments, reflecting the strong economy and financial markets. As a reminder, we report our limited partnership income one quarter in arrears. Invested assets grew approximately 2% to $25.9 billion during the quarter, up from $25.5 billion at year-end 2020. Approximately 80% of our invested assets are comprised of a well-diversified, high credit quality bond portfolio with a duration of 3.5 years. The remaining investments are allocated to equities and other invested assets, which include private equity investments, cash and short-term investments.Our effective tax rate on operating income for the first quarter of 2021 was 7.9% and 8.4% on net income, this was favorable versus our planned effective tax rate of approximately 12%, largely due to the geographic distribution of the catastrophe losses occurring within the United States. For the first quarter of 2021, Everest generated strong operating cash flows of $904 million, compared to $506 million for the first quarter of 2020, reflecting the strength of our premium growth year-over-year. Our balance sheet remains strong with a capital structure that allows for the efficient deployment of capital and ample capacity to execute on market opportunities. Shareholders' equity was $9.7 billion at the end of the first quarter and broadly flat versus the $9.7 billion at year-end 2020. Our debt leverage ratio stands at 16.5%, and book value per share stood at $241.57 at quarter-end. I close in noting that Everest repurchased approximately $24 million of common shares during the first quarter.And with that, I'll now turn it back to Jon.Jon Levenson -- Head of Investor Relations.Thanks, Mark. Operator, we are now ready to open the line for questions. We do ask that you please limit your questions to two, or one question plus one follow-up, and then rejoin the queue if you have any remaining questions.