
OperatorGood morning, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to Keurig Dr Pepper's Earnings Call for the First Quarter of 2021. This conference call is being recorded and there will be a question-and-answer session at the end of the call.I would now like to introduce Keurig Dr Pepper's Vice President of Investor Relations, Mr. Tyson Seely. Mr. Seely, please go ahead.Tyson Seely -- Vice President of Investor Relations

 



Thank you, and hello everyone. Thanks for joining us. Earlier this morning, we issued our press release for the first quarter of 2021. If you need a copy, you can get one on our website at keurigdrpepper.com in the Investors section. Consistent with previous quarters, today we will be discussing our performance on an adjusted basis excluding items affecting comparability. The company believes that the adjusted basis provides investors with additional insight into our business and operating performance trends. While the exclusion of items affecting comparability is not in accordance with GAAP, we believe that the adjusted basis provides meaningful comparisons and an appropriate basis for discussion of our performance. Details of the excluded items are included in the reconciliation tables included in our press release and our 10-Q, which will be filed later today. Due to the inability to predict the amount and timing of certain impacts outside of the company's control, we do not reconcile our guidance.Here with me virtually today to discuss our first quarter 2021 results are KDP Chairman and CEO, Bob Gamgort; our CFO, Ozan Dokmecioglu; and our Chief Corporate Affairs Officer, Maria Sceppaguercio. And finally, our discussion this morning may include forward-looking statements, which are subject to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially, and the company undertakes no obligation to update these statements based upon subsequent events. A detailed discussion of these risks and uncertainties is contained in the company's filings with the SEC.With that, I'll hand it over to Bob.Robert Gamgort -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

 



Thanks, Tyson, and good morning everyone. I hope you and your families are well. As we enter spring, cautious optimism as in the year. Vaccine rates are approaching 50% of the U.S. adult population and growing across North America. Higher levels of consumer mobility are evident in retail, restaurants, and entertainment and there is an increasing belief that the worst of the pandemic is behind us. If the last year has taught us anything, however, it is that our role is not to predict the future, but rather to be nimble, responsive, and prepared for whatever we may face in the future. This same mindset enabled Keurig Dr Pepper to deliver meaningful outperformance in 2020 and a strong start to 2021.While some companies have been devastated by the impacts of the crisis, others have experienced a windfall from it. We on the other hand have succeeded despite the pandemic by driving the parts of our business that are performing well to overcome the declines we've experienced in areas structurally challenged by COVID. While that may sound easy in concept, it is very difficult to execute in the real world. And I would like to thank our 27,000 team members across KDP who continue to step up to meet the challenge.In the first quarter of 2021, we delivered strong performance across the board, highlighted by double-digit growth in both net sales and adjusted diluted EPS we also reaffirmed our outlook for another strong year of double-digit adjusted diluted EPS growth. Despite the specter of rising inflation in part by increasing our net sales growth expectations from 3% to 4% to 4% to 6%. This sets us up for a solid 2021 and positions us to achieve our ambitious three-year merger targets ending this year.Let me now provide key highlights of the first quarter. Our net sales grew by 11% with all four business segments posting growth. Driving this performance with continued strong in-market execution across the business. In cold beverages, we continue to perform well with more than 80% of our cold beverage retail sales base expanding market share during the quarter. We believe a helpful way to assess both our results and those of the broader industry given the unique volatility of 2020 is on a two-year stack basis. Over this time period, nearly 90% of our cold retail sales base grew market share and our consumption was up nearly 17%. LRB performance continues to reflect KDP's broad-based strength in CSDs, premium unflavored water, Snapple teas and fruit drinks, and others.

 



During the quarter, we launched new zero-sugar varieties across our CSD portfolio, which has helped to solidify our Number 2 CSD manufacturer status in key retail accounts. We're also seeing KDP brands takeover leadership position. The latest being Sunkist, becoming the Number 1 fruit-flavored CSD brand, fueled by the zero sugar introduction and flavor line extension.In the past few months, we launched innovation behind Bai with Bai Boost. Made with clean ingredients including plant-based energy from tea extract, Bai Boost has been well received by retailers and consumers in early days. Finally, on cold beverages, our new brand partnerships and the growing sparkling water segment with Polar is performing well. Natural ACV has grown to 55% with more distribution to come as shelf resets are completed across the country.Our coffee business posted an exceptionally strong quarter with net sales advancing 17% on a constant currency basis, due to a 14% increase in pod volume growth and a 61% increase in brewer volume. The latter primarily being driven by a roughly 40% increase in consumer sales and some benefit of shipment timing between the quarters. Approximately, half of the 14% increase in pod volume was due to strong consumption in the quarter, with the remainder driven by differences in pod shipment timing relative to the unusual year-ago period. The fact that pod volume growth in tracked channels registered at just above 3% for the quarter demonstrates the trend that we've been discussing for some time.K-Cup pods are experiencing significantly higher levels of growth in untracked channels, particularly e-commerce. Sticking deeper into untracked channels highlights further the growing importance of e-commerce. Strength in at-home pods has been tempered by continued weakness in the away-from-home channel, as the return to offices continued to be slow. We do expect improvement over the course of 2021, especially after Labor Day, when we anticipate the race of office reopenings to accelerate. On a two-year stack basis, dollar consumption of pods in tracked channels was up 11% with two-year shipments up more than 20%.For total KDP, we delivered very strong bottom-line results in the quarter, with adjusted diluted EPS growth of nearly 14% despite lapping the sale-leaseback gains in the first quarter of the year. We also continue to generate high levels of free cash flow, enabling us to pay down debt and improve our management leverage ratios of 3.5 times at the end of the quarter. Since the merger, we have reduced our leverage ratio by 2.5 turns, while also investing meaningfully across the business.Let me now hand it over to Ozan to walk you through the financial results for the quarter and provide further details on our outlook for 2021.Ozan Dokmecioglu -- Chief Financial Officer and President, InternationalThanks, Bob, and good morning, everyone. Continuing on an adjusted basis, I will briefly review our performance for the first quarter, which was very strong and our press release discusses in significant detail. I will then turn to our outlook for full-year 2021. Constant currency net sales increased nearly 11%, fueled by higher volume/mix of 10.3% and favorable net price realization of 0.5%, with all four of our business segment posting growth.Adjusted operating income in the first quarter totaled $741 million, an increase of 8.3%, compared to $684 million in the year-ago period, driven by the very strong net sales growth, continued productivity and merger synergies, and lower marketing spending in relation to the pre-COVID spending levels in the year-ago period. These drivers were partially offset by higher operating expenses associated with increased consumer demand, inflation in logistics and input costs, and an unfavorable comparison to a $42 million gain in the prior year on the sale-leaseback of four facilities.For perspective, this gain negatively impacted the year-over-year adjusted operating income growth rate by more than 7 full percentage points. Adjusted operating margin in the first quarter was 25.5%, a decline of 70 basis points versus year ago, which included the 160 basis points headwind from the gain on the sale-leaseback transactions.Adjusted net income advanced 15.4% in the quarter to $471 million, compared to $408 million in the year-ago period, driven by growth in adjusted operating income and the lower adjusted effective tax rate. Adjusted diluted earnings per share grew 13.8% to $0.33 per diluted share, compared to $0.29 per diluted share in the year-ago period, which included the $0.02 gain from the year-ago sale-leaseback transactions.Let me take a moment to discuss the inflationary pressures we have referenced this morning. Like most other CPG companies, we have increased our outlook for installation over the past month. Price expectations continue to rise for aluminum, glass, corn inputs, and polypropylene, which is the material used in K-Cup pods. Most recently, we have experienced a spike in transportation and logistics costs, which is especially acute when we have been required to purchase spot capacity to satisfy the strong demand for our products.Some of these input costs, for example, transportation and polypropylene cannot be hedged. To manage inflation, we rely on a combination of productivity, cost controls, pricing, and incremental volume growth, pulling the right levers at the right time to protect the long-term health of our business while offsetting rising input costs. For 2021, we are in a positional strength as we are able to utilize our sales growth momentum to mitigate inflation. However, if inflation were to accelerate, we may need to utilize other options, just like we did in 2020. We will remain nimble and flexible to react, to changing market conditions, to ensure our continued success.Finally, we get a number of questions on the benefit of hedging and forward buying with regards to mitigating inflation. First, while we use these practices widely, their goal is primarily to provide pricing certainty for a period of time and to insulate against short-term volatility in input costs. They can postpone, but not offset inflation, coffee is a great example. We are seeing green coffee prices on the rise right now. But we are covered for a period of time, which lets us see how the market settles before we need to react.Like every other input costs, if green coffee inflation were to be persistent, then we would consider all of our available options to offset its impact on our profit and loss. The good news today is our strong guidance for 2021 incorporates all of these considerations as we are confident that we have the tools and management discipline to deliver strong growth in both revenue and earnings despite the inflation outlook that has been widely discussed this earnings season.Let me now turn to our segment performance in the first quarter. Coffee Systems constant currency net sales increased 16.9%, driven by higher volume/mix of 19.5%, partially offset by lower net price realization of 2.6%. The volume/mix performance reflected pod shipment volume growth of 13.7%, driven by double-digit at-home shipments, partially offset by continued softness in the away-from-home coffee businesses. The 61% increase in brewer shipments in the quarter was fueled by strong consumer consumption and the benefit of shipment timing.Adjusted operating income for Coffee Systems totaled $389 million, an increase of 12.1%, compared to $347 million in the prior year. The increase was driven by the strong net sales growth as well as continued productivity and merger synergies. These growth drivers were partially offset by inflation in logistics and input costs and the unfavorable comparison to the sale-leaseback gain in the year-ago quarter that impacted the segment by $16 million. The year-over-year adjusted operating income growth rate would have been 5 percentage points higher in the quarter, absent this year-ago again.Adjusted operating margin in the quarter was 34.1%, compared to 35.7% in the year-ago period, a decline of 160 basis points including a 170 basis points headwind from the asset sale-leaseback gain in the first quarter of 2020. Also impacting the comparison was unfavorable margin mix due to the exceptionally strong brewer growth in the current quarter and the breakeven margin structure of brewers. Offsetting these impacts were continued strong productivity and merger synergies.Packaged Beverages constant currency net sales grew 7.2% in the first quarter, driven by strong volume mix growth of 6.8% and higher net pricing of 0.4%. This performance reflected growth in both our company-owned DSD operations and warehouse direct businesses. Driving this growth were Dr Pepper, A&W, Canada Dry, Sunkist, 7UP and Squirt in CSDs, along with Snapple and Clamato, partially offset by a decline in Bai.Adjusted operating income for Packaged Beverages in the first quarter totaled $197 million, a decrease of 3% compared to $203 million in the year-ago period that included the sale-leaseback gain of $26 million for this segment. The year-over-year adjusted operating income growth rate would have been 14 percentage points higher in the quarter, absent this year-ago gain. Inflation in logistics and input costs and higher operating costs to meet strong consumer demand were also headwinds in the quarter as were continued channel and format mix challenges as we are comping to a largely non-COVID period last year.Partially offsetting these drivers were the strong net sales, continued productivity and merger synergies, and lower discretionary expenses. Adjusted operating margin for the segment was 15.1% in the quarter, compared adjusted operating margin of 16.7% in the year-ago period, a decline of 160 basis points including the 220 basis point headwind from the year-ago sale-leaseback gain.Beverage concentrates constant currency net sales increased 6.5% due to favorable net pricing of 7.2%, partially offset by lower volume/mix of 0.7%, this performance continued to be affected by the unfavorable impact of COVID-19 on the fountain foodservice business, albeit improved since the beginning of 2021. Adjusted operating income for Beverage concentrates increased 21.3% to $239 million, compared to $197 million in the year-ago period, driven by the net sales growth and lower marketing spending. Adjusted operating margin in the quarter advanced 850 basis points to 72.9%, primarily reflecting the favorable net price realization.And finally, Latin America Beverages constant currency net sales grew 7.7%, reflecting strong net pricing of 10.3%, partially offset by lower volume mix of 2.6%, as consumer mobility in Mexico continued to be impacted by COVID-19. However, this has improved from the beginning of 2021. Liquid refreshment beverage in-market execution in Mexico continued to be strong, driving market share growth for key brands namely Penafiel, Squirt, and Camargo. Adjusted operating income decreased 15% to $23 million, compared to $27 million in the year-ago period.On a constant currency basis, adjusted operating income decreased 14.8%, reflecting the impact of foreign currency transaction expense and inflation in logistics, partially offset by the strong growth in constant currency net sales, continued productivity, and lower discretionary spending. Adjusted operating margin in the quarter decreased 470 basis points to 18.4%, primarily reflecting the unfavorable impact of foreign currency transaction expense.Switching back to total KDP. Free cash flow in the quarter was again exceptionally strong at $458 million, which translated into a free cash flow conversion ratio of nearly 100%. As previously announced, we completed a $2.2 billion strategic refinancing in March of this year. Since the time of the merger nearly three years ago, we have generated significant cash flow and have rapid deleverage. This strategic refinancing further enhances our liquidity profile and strengths our balance sheet.To that end, our strong free cash flow performance in the quarter enabled us to reduce outstanding bank debt by $25 million and the structured payables by $5 million. And we paid $95 million for the early retirement of debt in conjunction with previously mentioned March strategic refinancing. We also ended the first quarter with $335 million of unrestricted cash on hand. Due to growth in earnings, our reduction in bank debt, and increased cash on hand, we improved our management leverage ratio to 3.5 times at the end of the first quarter of 2021. Since the merger closed in July 2018, we have reduced our management leverage ratio by 2.5 times.Let me move to our updated outlook for 2021. For the full-year 2021, we now expect constant currency net sales in the range of 4% to 6%, compared to our initial guidance of 3% to 4% at the beginning of this year, which reflects the strong demand for our brands across all segments. We also reaffirmed our EPS guidance range of 13% to 15% growth for the year, in part driven by the benefit of higher net sales outlook in offsetting higher inflation. As indicated in our release this morning, we plan to reinvest any earnings upside above our guidance range back in the business to drive future growth.For perspective, on a two-year stack basis, assuming the midpoint of our guidance range, adjusted diluted earnings-per-share growth will approach to 30%. Supporting our guidance, we continue to expect merger synergies of approximately $200 million for the three-year total of approximately $600 million, in line with our merger targets. Adjusted interest expense in the range of $505 million to $515 million and adjusted effective tax rate in the range of 23.5% to 24%.As you have seen in our results this morning, our effective tax rate was below this guidance range at 22.1% in quarter one, due to one-time discrete favorable items including employee stock vesting, which we anticipated. This is largely a first-quarter event. Our dividend rate did increase 25%, beginning with our regular quarterly dividend to be announced in the second quarter subject to official board declaration, as previously disclosed. Diluted weighted shares outstanding of approximately of $1.43 billion. Finally, we continue to expect our management leverage ratio to be at or below 3 times by the end of this year.While we do not provide quarterly guidance, giving the comparison to an unusually volatile quarter to 2020, let me provide some additional perspective on the second quarter. Giving the inflation allocations we discussed and the significant year-over-year increase in marketing spending, we expect to deliver double-digit adjusted diluted EPS growth for the quarter, although it will be below the full-year guidance range of 13% to 15%. Transportation will continue to be a headwind in the second quarter. With respect to marketing, we continue to restore investment behind our brands this year, especially to support our strong slate of innovation, which is comping a year-ago period in which everyone in the industry reduced marketing expenses due to the uncertain consumer demand environment under COVID. We hope this provides some helpful clarity on the phasing of our business results this year.With that, let me hand it back to Bob.Robert Gamgort -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Ozan. Before moving to Q&A, I would like to provide a brief update on corporate governance. As you are aware, we transitioned from a controlled company to a widely held one in 2020. Since that time, we've enhanced our Board structure, increasing its independence and diversity and establishing the role of Lead Independent Director.I want to highlight our announcement yesterday that we welcome Lubomira Rochet as a new Director to our Board. Since November, we've added four new directors, each of whom brings a unique experiences and fresh perspective to the Board.Finally, many of you have asked questions about our post-2021 outlook. We plan to hold an Investor Day shortly after we report our Q2 earnings, during which we look forward to sharing insights on our long-term strategy and financial expectations. Details for the conference will be provided in the near future.I will now hand it back to the operator.