  OperatorGood afternoon. My name is France, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to Facebook first-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] This call will be recorded. Thank you very much. Ms. Deborah Crawford, Facebook's vice president of investor relations, you may begin.Deborah Crawford -- Vice President of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you. Good afternoon, and welcome to Facebook's first-quarter earnings conference call. Joining me today to discuss our results are Mark Zuckerberg, CEO; Sheryl Sandberg, COO; and Dave Wehner, CFO. Before we get started, I would like to take this opportunity to remind you that our remarks today will include forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause these results to differ materially are set forth in today's press release and in our annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC. Any forward-looking statements that we make on this call are based on assumptions as of today, and we undertake no obligation to update these statements as a result of new information or future events. During this call, we may present both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures.A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP measures is included in today's earnings press release. The press release and an accompanying investor presentation are available on our website at investor.fb.com. And now I'd like to turn the call over to Mark. Mark Zuckerberg -- Chief Executive Officer

 



 Hey, everyone, and thanks for joining us today. Before we get started, I just want to take a moment to say that we are very worried about the COVID situation in India and also in Brazil. I'm hoping that we can get this virus under control soon. And in the meantime, we're focused on what we can do to help there. Now turning to the results. This was another strong quarter. More than 2.7 billion people now use one or more of our apps each day, and more than 200 million businesses use our tools to reach customers. And this has been an intense year, and I am proud that we continue to deliver value for people and businesses around the world. Now over the past couple of quarters, our business has been performing better than we expected. And this has given us the confidence to increase our investments meaningfully and in a few key areas that have the potential to change the trajectory of the company over the long term. So on today's call, I'm going to talk about the opportunities that we're pursuing in augmented and virtual reality and around commerce, business messaging, and creators. So first, let's talk about building the next computing platform. Now I believe that augmented and virtual reality are going to enable a deeper sense of presence in social connection than any existing platform. They're going to be an important part of how we will interact with computers in the future. So we're going to keep investing heavily in building out the best experience this year, and this accounts for a major part of our overall R&D budget growth. Quest 2 is doing better than we expected, even after the holiday season.

 



 We continue to see good engagement, and we keep shipping updates that make Quest better and better, including Air Link, which enables wireless streaming of games and content from PCs and support for 120-hertz refresh rates. Now achieving Quest's high quality in a wireless form factor has been a major breakthrough. Having wires wrapped around you just really breaks the sense of presence in immersion. And the technology to deliver a great experience wirelessly is very advanced, and most companies aren't going to be able to deliver this. But we believe that it is the minimum bar for a high-quality experience. This quarter, we also shared more about our future investments, including neural interfaces for interacting with AR. And we started testing our new avatar system, which will be a key part of how people express themselves and connect. One interesting trend is that we're seeing the app ecosystem broaden out beyond games into other categories as well. The most used apps are social, which fits our original theory for why we wanted to build this platform in the first place. We're also seeing productivity and even fitness apps. So for example, we launched a tool so people can subscribe to services like FitXR to do boxing and dancing in VR, just like they would for biking on Peloton. We introduced App Lab so developers can ship early versions of their apps directly to consumers without having to go through the Oculus store. And between App Lab and streaming from PCs, we're pioneering a much more open model of app store than what's currently available on phones today. Now over time, I expect augmented and virtual reality to unlock a massive amount of value, both in people's lives and the economy overall. There's still a long way to go here, and most of our investments to make this work are ahead of us. But I think that the feedback that we're getting from our products is giving us more confidence that our prediction for the future here will happen and that we're focusing on the right areas. Now beyond AR and VR, I want to call out some of the other long-term opportunities that we're really focused on, especially in commerce and business messaging. Commerce has been growing in our services for a while, but it has become a lot more important as the pandemic has accelerated a broader shift toward businesses moving online. In the last year, we've seen online storefronts stay open, even when physical stores closed. And going forward, online commerce will continue to offer an increasingly personalized and convenient experience. Commerce ads continue to do very well and drive a meaningful amount of our overall business. We built Marketplace into one of the world's leading services for people to buy and sell. And I am pleased to share today that more than 1 billion people visit Marketplace each month. And now we're investing in building for the future of commerce, so we launched Shops last year. And as I recently shared, there are now more than 1 million monthly active shops and over 250 million monthly shops and visitors. We are also focused on building more native commerce tools across our apps. We recently updated WhatsApp catalog, so businesses can keep them updated from their computers and to include what's in stock. We launched carts on WhatsApp last year, and people have used them to send orders more than 5 million times. We're also building a broader infrastructure to support commerce, everything from payments to customer service and support. And WhatsApp Payments is now live in India, and we have gotten approval in Brazil to launch shortly, too. We're starting to see a meaningful shift in the way that people communicate with businesses. For a lot of people, online commerce is less about websites and shops and more about messaging. So people want to get support and make purchases right from a chat. Smaller businesses want to show their products and take orders via messages, and larger businesses want reliable and secure infrastructure to communicate with their customers. Businesses using the WhatsApp business API are already sending more than 100 million messages per day. Over the last year, during the height of COVID, total daily conversations between people and businesses on Messenger and Instagram grew by more than 40%. More than 3 million advertisers are already using click-to-message ads to direct people to Messenger. And since we introduced click-to-WhatsApp ads, nearly 1 million advertisers have already started using them, too. And now the next step here is we're going to make it possible to create those click-to-WhatsApp ads from -- directly within the WhatsApp business app. The next step is to make it easier for businesses to adopt all these services and to give them the tools that can handle messages and customer relationships. Our acquisition of customer is going through regulatory approvals, and we're looking forward to offering businesses a native way to manage their customer relationships on our platform. Now I want to be clear that we have a long way to go to build out a full-featured commerce platform across our services. And this is a multiyear journey, but I am very committed to getting there. This modern commerce system is going to bring together a number of areas where we either already have strong offerings like in ads, community tools, and messaging, with areas like shops and business messaging and payments that we are focused on ramping up now. As part of this, we're also investing more in building out better customer support for our products. For the last several years, we focused a lot on content moderation and privacy work. And I view customer support as the next pillar of the trust and safety work for our services. The last area that I want to discuss today is around creators. I think that a positive vision for the future of the economy is one where more people get to do creative work that they enjoy rather than jobs that they don't. And to get there, we need to build out the creative and monetization tools to support this creator economy. People create an incredibly diverse set of content across our services from long-form writing to live conversations to documentaries and augmented reality filters. And our goal is to support the full range of human expression and to be the best platform for millions of creators to make a living. Now, part of this is going to be delivering a suite of tools and products that span all of the ways that people want to create and consume content. I believe that the intersection of every media type and every audience size, there is a compelling experience to build. For example, I recently discussed our audio road map. And we already support audio calls for private audio communication, but now we're also building out live audio rooms, which we think will be especially useful for groups and communities. We're building sound bites for sharing and consuming short-form audio clips broadly, and we are supporting podcasts for sharing and listening to long-form audio. And we're also partnering with Spotify to launch a music player in the Facebook app. So we also need to connect these experiences with easy options for monetization, whether that's subscriptions, tipping, or enabling creators to give product recommendations and enable commerce. And with Instagram and Facebook, we have a unique ability to bring creators and commerce together, and we will share more on that later this year. Now together, these efforts around creators, commerce, and the next computing platform are a few of the big areas that we were doubling down on going forward. And in each of these, there is a unique opportunity to help people connect in deeper ways and to support a stronger economy for everyone. I'm optimistic that our work in all of these areas will help accelerate some of the positive emerging trends that we are seeing in the world. And now I'm going to hand it over to Sheryl.Sheryl Sandberg -- Chief Operating Officer Thanks, Mark, and hi, everyone. I hope you're all safe and healthy. This was a really strong quarter for our business. Our total revenue for Q1 was $26.2 billion, which is a 48% year-over-year increase. We've seen good growth in all regions, and we continue to see strong results in verticals that have performed well during the pandemic, like e-commerce, retail, and CPG. Our performance has been driven, in large part, by the continued digital transformation as more and more businesses shift online. For years, we've invested in products and tools to support this shift. And these investments have helped many businesses reinvent themselves during the pandemic. One of the best parts of my job is I get to meet SMB owners and hear what's on their minds. Many of them tell me how they've used Facebook to adapt and grow. At a virtual roundtable with SMBs from Detroit this quarter, I spoke to La'Asia Johnson, who runs an all-natural skincare company called Elle Jae Essentials. When COVID hit and she had to close her store, she started a Facebook group called The Garden, which now has more than 1,000 members. They give her product ideas. And when she makes the projects they suggest, as she says it, they sell quicker than she can keep them on the shelves. By pivoting online, she's been able to replace all of the income she lost from her store. I also spoke to Ita Reyes, who runs a yoga studio in nearby Ann Arbor. She started doing outdoor classes during the pandemic and needed to get the word out. She couldn't afford to advertise to everyone in the city, and not everyone in the city wants to do yoga so she uses personalized ads. This enables her to advertise to people in the area who are interested in yoga or meditation. It's all done in a privacy protected way. We show her ad to those people, and we don't share their information with her, and then they sign up for her classes. Like everyone else, the business owners I talk to want to know what will happen next. Many are all in online. So even when things fully reopen, they want to be able to do more online than they did before. So understandably, they're asking us what we can do to help them, not just now, but over the long run. Part of the answer is continuing to improve our tools and products and creating new ones to suit their needs. And part of it is helping them navigate the headwinds that are coming down the line, whether it's the iOS 14 changes or potential regulations. On the first part, tools, and products. We are all in, too. From day one of COVID, we fast-tracked our work to help people buy and sell online. Initially, we focused on getting the experience right for sellers. As Mark said, we launched Shops nearly a year ago. We've continued to develop new features to help personalize the shopping experience and worked with partners to make transactions as seamless as possible. And we've created new formats like live shopping, which bring to life the unique commerce experiences our platforms can offer. Now we're equally focused on getting the experience right for consumers. We're rolling out the Shop tab in more countries and exploring new immersive formats like product tags and drop stickers that enable more people to shop with creators and brands they love. We're also constantly developing and improving our ad products to help businesses reach people where they are and get the best possible return on investment. We continue to see strong growth in Stories ads and video ads, which we've invested in heavily. We've also seen strong growth across ads in Facebook Watch, which now has more than 1.25 billion people visiting every month. As the number of people watching video grows, we're developing more opportunities for businesses and creators to reach them. We're expanding paid online events to more countries. We're enabling more people to run in stream ads, including in live videos. And we're developing ads in short-form videos, where we're testing the ability for content creators to monetize their Facebook Stories with ads that look like stickers. On the second part, headwinds. Yes, there are challenges coming to personalized advertising, and we've been pretty open about that. We're doing a huge amount of work to prepare. We're working with our customers to implement Apple's API and our own aggregated events measurement API to mitigate the impact of the iOS 14 changes. We're rebuilding meaningful elements of our ad tech so that our system continues to perform when we have access to less data in the future. And we're part of long-term collaborations with industry bodies like the W3C on initiatives like privacy-enhancing technologies that provide personalized experiences while limiting access to people's information. It's also on us to keep making the case that personalized advertising is good for people and businesses and to better explain how it works so that people realize that personalized ads are privacy protected. Small businesses don't have to understand the alphabet soup of acronyms they'll need to comply with, but they do need to have confidence that they can still use our tools to reach the people who want to buy what they're selling in a privacy-safe way. We're confident they can and that they can continue to get great results as digital advertising evolves. With the rollout of vaccines, there's reason to be hopeful. But the pandemic is still causing real heartbreak and hardship for people in many countries. And in particular, like Mark, my thoughts are with our friends and colleagues in India and Brazil right now. If the last year has taught us anything, it's to not make assumptions and to not expect things to get better for everyone at the same time. Whatever happens, we'll continue to keep people connected, support the public health response and invest in ways to support businesses now and in the long term. I want to close by saying how grateful I am to all the businesses who work with us, big and small, who we learn from every day, and to our incredible teams who have supported millions of businesses through this turbulent time and set them up for success now and in the future. Now over to Dave.Dave Wehner -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Sheryl, and good afternoon, everyone. Q1 was a strong quarter for our business, driven by sustained growth in the digital economy and our continued success in helping businesses engage with consumers across our services. Let's begin with our community metrics. We estimate that approximately 2.7 billion people used at least one of our services on a daily basis in March and that approximately 3.4 billion people used at least one on a monthly basis. Note that these Q1 family metrics reflect new data from recent user surveys. Further details on our family metrics are included in the earnings slides on our IR website. Our global community continued to grow, even as we lapped elevated user growth in the first quarter of last year related to the pandemic. Facebook daily active users reached 1.88 billion, up 8% or 144 million compared to last year. DAUs represented approximately 66% of the 2.85 billion monthly active users in March. MAUs grew by 250 million or 10% compared to last year. Turning to the financials. All comparisons are on a year-over-year basis, unless otherwise noted. Q1 total revenue was $26.2 billion, up 48% or 44% on a constant currency basis. We benefited from a currency tailwind. And had foreign exchange rates remained constant with Q1 of last year, total revenue would have been $706 million lower. Q1 ad revenue was $25.4 billion, up 46% or 42% on a constant currency basis. The growth in advertising revenue was largely driven by continued strength in product verticals such as online commerce. Growth was broad-based across all advertiser sizes, with particular strength from small- and medium-sized advertisers. Our year-over-year ad revenue growth also benefited from lapping pandemic-related demand headwinds experienced during March of last year. On a user geography basis, ad revenue growth accelerated in all regions. Growth was strongest in Europe at 53%. Rest of World, Asia Pacific, and the U.S. and Canada grew 47%, 46%, and 42%, respectively. Europe and Asia Pacific benefited from currency tailwinds, while Rest of World continued to face currency headwinds. In Q1, the total number of ad impressions served across our services increased 12%, and the average price per ad increased 30%. Impression growth was driven by both Instagram and Facebook. The increase in average price per ad was driven primarily by lapping depressed pricing levels from one year ago, as well as strong advertiser demand. Other revenue was $732 million, up 146%, driven by continued strong Quest 2 sales. We've been encouraged by the sustained strength we're seeing with sales of Quest 2 since its October launch. Turning now to expenses. Q1 total expenses were $14.8 billion, up 25% compared to last year. In terms of the specific line items, cost of revenue increased 48%, driven mostly by core infrastructure investments, hardware costs related to Quest 2 sales, and payments to partners. R&D increased 29%, driven mostly by hiring to support our core products and consumer hardware efforts. Marketing and sales increased 2% with growth in hiring partially offset by lower marketing spend. Lastly, G&A expenses increased 2% with growth in employee-related costs partially offset by lapping higher bad debt expenses related to COVID in the first quarter of last year. We added over 2,000 net new hires in Q1, primarily in technical functions. We ended the quarter with over 60,600 full-time employees, up 26% compared to last year. First-quarter operating income was $11.4 billion, representing a 43% operating margin. Our tax rate was 17%. Net income was $9.5 billion or $3.30 per share. Capital expenditures, including capital leases, were $4.4 billion, driven by investments in data centers, servers, network infrastructure, and office facilities. Free cash flow was $7.8 billion. We repurchased $4.1 billion of our Class A common stock in the first quarter, and we ended the quarter with $64.2 billion in cash and marketable securities. In terms of sustainability, I'm pleased to report that Facebook's global operations have now reached net zero emissions and are 100% supported by renewable energy. This is an important milestone for our business, but we also recognize there's more work to do in the years ahead. And we remain committed to our next goal of decarbonizing our entire value chain in 2030. Additional information on our ongoing efforts across environmental, social, and governance areas can be found in our recently filed proxy statement. Turning now to the outlook. We are pleased with the strength of our advertising revenue growth in the first quarter of 2021, which was driven by a 30% year-over-year increase in the average price per ad and a 12% increase in the number of ads delivered. We expect that advertising revenue growth will continue to be primarily driven by price during the rest of 2021. We expect second-quarter 2021 year-over-year total revenue growth to remain stable or modestly accelerate relative to the growth rate in the first quarter of 2021 as we lap slower growth related to the pandemic during the second quarter of 2020. In the third and fourth quarters of 2021, we expect year-over-year total revenue growth rates to significantly decelerate sequentially as we lap periods of increasingly strong growth. We continue to expect increased ad targeting headwinds in 2021 from regulatory and platform changes, notably the recently launched iOS 14.5 update, which we expect to begin having an impact in the second quarter. This is factored into our outlook. There is also continuing uncertainty around the viability of transatlantic data transfers in light of recent European regulatory developments, and like companies across a wide range of industries, we are closely monitoring the potential impact on our European operations as these developments progress. Turning now to expenses. We expect 2021 total expenses to be in the range of $70 billion to $73 billion, updated from our prior outlook of $68 billion to $73 billion. The year-over-year growth in expenses is driven by investments in technical and product talent, infrastructure, and consumer-related costs. We remain committed to investing for long-term growth, and our expense outlook reflects the underlying strength of our business and the compelling investment opportunities we see across our products, including consumer hardware. We expect 2021 capital expenditures to be in the range of $19 billion to $21 billion, down from our prior estimate of $21 billion to $23 billion. Our capital expenditures are driven primarily by our investments in data centers, servers, network infrastructure, and office facilities. Turning now to tax. We continue to expect our full-year 2021 tax rate to be in the high teens. In closing, the pandemic during the past year has presented some incredible challenges to our global community. During this time, we have worked to help both businesses and consumers stay connected. We remain focused on helping people and businesses navigate the transition out of the pandemic as more regions reopen. With that, France, let's open up the call for questions. 