
OperatorGood day, everyone, and welcome to the Williams Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instruction]At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Danilo Juvane, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Danilo Marcelo Juvane -- Vice President of Investor RelationsThanks, Mishawna, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us and for your interest in the Williams Company. Yesterday afternoon, we released our earnings press release and the presentation that our President and CEO, Alan Armstrong; and our Chief Financial Officer, John Chandler, will speak to this morning. Also joining us on the call today are Micheal Dunn, our Chief Operating Officer; Lane Wilson, our General Counsel; and Chad Zamarin, our Senior Vice President of Corporate Strategic Development. In our presentation materials, youll find a disclaimer related to forward-looking statements. This disclaimer is important and integral to our remarks and you should review it. Also included in the presentation materials are non-GAAP measures that reconcile to generally accepted accounting principles, and these reconciliation schedules appear at the back of todays presentation materials. So with that, Ill turn it over to Alan Armstrong.Alan S. Armstrong -- President, Chief Executive Officer & DirectorGood morning, and thanks, Danilo, and thank you all for joining us today. Our long-term strategy of connecting the fastest-growing natural gas markets with the best supplier continues to deliver solid financial results as demonstrated by our strong second quarter financials across our key metrics. Our stellar results this year were supported by equally strong fundamentals that demonstrate how sticking to this strategy has put us in an enviable position. As evidence, Williams gas gathering volumes grew 6% in the first half of 2021, while the U.S.s natural gas production volumes actually declined by 0.4%, continuing to prove that our assets are in the low-cost basins. We expect a constructive natural gas macro backdrop to continue to drive significant value for our business. Recent commitments to Transco market area expansions coupled with producer commentary on Transco projects such as our Leidy South and Regional Energy Access projects are clear pathways to growth for our Northeast gathering volumes for years to come.We will walk through more details of our business in just a moment, but I want to first call attention to our 2020 sustainability report, which we just published last week. As this report details, we are making headway on critical ESG-related fronts. For example, becoming the first North American midstream company to set a near-term climate goal based on right here, right now emission reduction opportunities and making steady progress on developing our leaders for the future. Were also looking to the future as our nationwide infrastructure footprint is well suited and adaptable to renewable energy sources like clean hydrogen and RNG blending. Williams ongoing focus on sustainable operations positions us well to meet clean energy demand for generations to come. In fact, we are now up to seven renewable natural gas sources flowing into our gas transportation systems, and we have nine more that are in progress. I hope you can find some time to visit our website and read our new sustainability report. But right now, let me turn things over to John Chandler for a review of our 2Q and year-to-date results. John?John D. Chandler -- Senior Vice President & Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Alan. At a very high-level summary, the quarter benefited from nice increases in profitability from our Northeast gathering systems, an uplift in revenues on our Transco pipeline from new projects that have been put into service over the last year and contributions from our upstream operations in the Wamsutter. These positives were offset somewhat by slightly higher operating expenses resulting from increased incentive compensation expenses, reflective of the strong performance that is unfolding this year. And you can see the strong performance in our statistics on this page. In fact, once again, we saw improvements in our key financial metrics. First, our adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was up $77 million or 6%, and we have seen a 9% increase in EBITDA year-to-date. We will discuss EBITDA variances in more depth in a moment. Adjusted EPS for the quarter increased $0.02 a share or 8% and AFFO grew for the quarter similar to our growth in EBITDA. AFFO is essentially cash from operations, including JV cash flows and excluding working capital fluctuations.If you put our year-to-date AFFO of $1.948 billion up against our capital investments year-to-date of $737 million and our dividends of $996 million, we have generated about $250 million of excess cash year-to-date. Included, as a side note, included in the capital investments is about $160 million of maintenance capital. Also, you can see our dividend coverage based on AFFO divided by dividends is a healthy 1.96 times year-to-date. This strong cash generation and strong EBITDA for the quarter, along with continued capital discipline, has led to our exceeding our leverage metric goal where were currently set at 4.13 times debt-to-EBITDA. You will see later in our guidance update in this deck that weve moved our guidance for the year from being around 4.2 times by the end of the year to now less than 4.2 times debt-to-EBITDA for the year. So really strong performance for the quarter and the year, and the fundamentals are set up for a good second half of the year. So now lets dig a little deeper into our EBITDA results for the quarter. Again, Williams performed very well this quarter. Our upstream operations added $19 million of incremental EBITDA this quarter.And this EBITDA was entirely from our Wamsutter upstream acreage. Remember that we owned the BP Wamsutter acreage the entire quarter, but only owned the Southland acreage for one month during the quarter. Production from the combined Wamsutter assets totaled 6.9 Bcf for the quarter. The Haynesville upstream acreage produced very little EBITDA, given it has only a small amount of PDP reserves. And therefore, it will take some time before we see new production and therefore, new EBITDA coming from these assets. Now moving to our Transmission & Gulf of Mexico assets. They produced results that were $31 million more than the same period last year. New transmission pipeline projects added $25 million in incremental revenues versus the second quarter last year, including the Southeastern Trails project that went into service during the fourth quarter of last year, as well as a portion of the Leidy South project that also went into service in the fourth quarter of last year. And you can see this evidenced in the growth in our firm reserve capacity, which is up 5% from the second quarter of 2020.In addition, our Gulf of Mexico revenues were up somewhat due to less shut-in issues compared to the second quarter of last year. In addition, commodity margins from processing volumes for processing the Gulf of Mexico gas was about $5 million due to higher NGL prices and higher volumes. These revenue increases were offset somewhat by a slight increase in operating expenses, again, mostly due to employee-related expenses, a large part of which can be attributed to higher incentive compensation accruals. The Northeast G&P segment continues to come on strong, contributing $46 million of additional EBITDA this quarter. Collectively, total Northeast gathering volumes grew 750 Mcf a day or 9% this quarter versus the second quarter of last year, while processing volumes grew 33% and set a new record. The volume growth was predominantly at our JVs in the Bradford Supply Hub, where we benefited from a gathering system expansion on that system in late 2019; and at our Marcellus South supply basin, where we benefited from more productive wells of larger pads. And just to be clear, because we do not operate Blue Racer Midstream, those volumes are not included in our volume statistics.As a result of this volume growth, though, our EBITDA from our equity method investments improved by a little over $36 million, which also includes the benefit of additional profits that we do receive from Blue Racer Midstream due to the additional ownership we acquired in mid-November last year. Now moving to the West G&P segment. It was down $21 million compared to the prior year. However, remember that first, we did agree to reduce gathering rates in the Haynesville in return for receiving upstream acreage in the South Mansfield area of the Haynesville. Again, as I mentioned, we are not yet seeing the benefit of those upstream assets but we have just named an operating partner to begin developing that acreage. The impact of the gathering rate reduction was about a negative $15 million for the quarter. In addition, in the quarter, we also saw $9 million less EBITDA due to a deficiency fee that One Oak paid us last year related to OPPL, which allowed them to pull volume that they had otherwise submitted to OPPL last year. One Oak does not have that volume obligation to OPPL this year, and therefore, we did not see the deficiency revenue this year.And finally, we did see a $9 million decline in deferred revenue from our Barnett Shale gathering assets, which is a noncash step-down in revenues. So other than those three negatives, namely the lack of efficiency revenue on OPPL, the Haynesville rate decline and the deferred revenue step-down in the Barnett, our West assets were otherwise up $12 million versus the second quarter of last year. And this is in large part due to higher NGL margins, where once again, in our commodity marketing group is realizing more profit from elevated NGL prices. And while our overall gather volumes in the West were down about 3.5% versus the second quarter of last year, this was more than offset by better gathering rates, where in the Piceance and the Barnett, our contracted gathering rates are influenced by commodity prices. So now moving to year-to-date results. Year-to-date, our results show growth of $230 million of EBITDA or roughly a 9% in EBITDA, driven, of course, by the impact of Winter Storm Uri in the first quarter and by many of the same positive factors that I just mentioned affecting second quarter growth. Combined between our marketing activities and our upstream operations in the Wamsutter, winter storm Uri had a combined positive impact of $77 million.In addition, our upstream operations otherwise have added an additional $27 million year-to-date. Our Transmission & Gulf of Mexico assets are up $22 million year-to-date or about 2% better, with this increase being driven largely by additional transmission revenues from new projects that have been put into service and incremental revenues from Gulf of Mexico assets, largely due to lower downtime this year versus last year. These positives were partially offset by lower revenues from one less billing day on a regulated transmission pipeline and higher expenses, where, last year, expenses were delayed due -- some due to COVID and because this years expenses, again, are higher due to higher incentive compensation expenses resulting from our strong performance. Our North G&P assets are up $78 million, almost entirely driven by profits from our JV investments, namely from the Bradford Supply Hub gathering system and our Marcellus South gathering systems. In addition, we benefited from the increased ownership of Blue Racer Midstream. In total, gathering volumes for the Northeast are up 10% versus 2020, while processing volumes year-to-date are up 24%. And then finally, the West, West E&P is up $23 million versus the year-to-date last year, and this is on top of the $55 million that we earned from winter storm Uri.The $23 million increase is driven by higher commodity margins and slightly lower operating costs, offset by lower Barnett deferred revenues, lower Haynesville gathering rates, which were exchanged for upstream acreage, and lower OPPL deficiency revenues that I just mentioned in my 2Q remarks. Otherwise, we did see a 5% gathering volume decline year-to-date, but that again was more than offset by MVCs and higher gathering rates, as again, I mentioned in my second quarter remarks. Again, this is stacking up to be a very good year for us. Ill now turn the call back over to Alan to cover a number of key investor focus areas. Alan?Alan S. Armstrong -- President, Chief Executive Officer & DirectorGreat. Well, thanks, John, and were moving on here to the key investor focus areas here on slide four. First of all, regarding our financial expectations, we are on track to generate EBITDA closer to the high end of our guidance range that we just increased at the last earnings call. The resilience of our business has supported our financial results and helped us recently overachieve against our previous leverage metric goal of 4.2 times. As a result, we recently received a Moodys upgrade to Baa2 and now have a BBB equivalent credit rating among the three key rating agencies. Our free cash flow outlook for 2021 remains intact. And in fact, the long-range plan unveiled during our most recent Board strategy session forecasted continued steady growth in EBITDA and continued improvement in our credit metrics. Importantly, our long-range plan also shows that even after funding these many growth opportunities, our business is poised to generate significant excess free cash flows that will support a robust and multifaceted capital allocation approach that will enhance returns for our shareholders, including the potential for opportunistic share buybacks, so stay tuned on this front. Next, looking at our recent transactions and project development.Our -- first of all, the upstream JVs, great effort on the organization here. As we announced last month, we were able to finalize an upstream joint venture with Crowheart in the Wamsutter basin, consolidating our legacy BP Southland and Crowheart upstream assets into one contiguous footprint of more than 1.2 million acres. So as weve mentioned before, this acreage was very divided and checker-boarded out here. And so being able to consolidate these assets in a way that it can be developed at a low cost is really critical to the value of the upstream business, important to us to the midstream business and taking advantage of the latent capacity we have out there today. And just recently, we inked a joint venture with GeoSouthern in the Haynesville that provides us with the following benefits: first, it unlocks significant midstream value for Williams through GeoSoutherns obligation to develop the South Mansfield acreage. Under this agreement, GeoSouthern will carry a portion of our drilling cost and will earn increased ownership in the leaseholds as they deliver on agreed-to development milestones. Second, it provides Williams with the opportunity to optimize all of the natural gas production in the area through fixed fee agreements marketed by our Sequent business.And third, with the South Mansfield being in close -- with South Mansfield being in close proximity to Transco, it provides Williams with future development opportunities, including the ability to source and deliver responsibly sourced natural gas into the growing LNG market. Importantly, both of these recent JVs improve the value proposition in the Wamsutter and the Haynesville basins as were partnering with well-positioned, high-performing local operators and the deals require development of the properties driving volumes to our midstream and downstream assets. From a project execution standpoint, we continue to deliver on multiple fronts, including bringing online key projects such as Leidy South, which is on track for an early in-service now before the winter heating season. And importantly, Transco growth opportunities remain highly visible, and weve recently received customer commitments for two new market expansion projects in the Mid-Atlantic region. Transco also has ample runway to provide additional low-risk growth through rate-based modernization projects. In the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, we continue to highlight the great growth it continues to show for us out here, and weve recently reached definitive agreements for both the Shenandoah and the Whale projects, these will contribute to significant EBITDA growth beginning in 2024. And then finally, on sustainability.I mentioned our sustainability report at the top of the call, and we also filed our carbon emissions disclosure with the Carbon Disclosure Project last week. Ill just add that we continue to leverage our natural gas-focused strategy in todays technology to deliver on immediate opportunities to reduce emissions. At the same time, natural gas and our infrastructure are enabling the next generation of clean energy technologies. The next wave of renewable power generation will be up against two key constraints: both the transmission and the storage of energy. No other energy infrastructure system integrates a reliable delivery network into critical population centers with a massive storage solution on the scale that natural gas transmission does. We believe our infrastructure can be a critical part of both near- and long-term solutions. We continue to advance our solar projects that were announced last year, and Im pleased to share that we have six projects now awaiting approval from the grid operator with another 10 ready for the same regulatory approval by the end of 2021. In total, these 16 projects amount to about $250 million in capex. It should start to cash flows beginning in 2023, and we have another approximately $150 million of these similar projects that are under development.We are looking forward and anticipating future innovations and technologies that we can use on our key energy networks to deliver on our countrys clean energy future. And in fact, in a partnership with the University of Wyoming, we recently awarded a $1 million -- we were recently awarded a $1 million grant from the State of Wyoming to fund a feasibility study that would evaluate the creation of a green hydrogen hub near our operations in Wyoming. And this really is another example of how we continue to leverage our existing assets and footprint to drive clean energy solutions. In the Wamsutter, we now have 1.2 million acres dedicated to our midstream assets through the Crowheart JV. But in addition to that, we have about 200,000 acres where we own or control the surface rights, which we intend to leverage for clean energy development. So in closing, Ill reiterate that our intense focus on our natural gas-based strategy has built a business that is steady and predictable, with continued growth, improving returns and significant free cash flows. This has translated into a strong balance sheet and a well-covered and growing dividend. Our best-in-class long-haul pipelines, Transco, Northwest Pipeline and Gulfstream, are in the right place and the right markets.And by design, our formidable gathering assets are in the low-cost basins that will be called on to meet gas demand as it continues to grow. We remain bullish on natural gas because weve recognized the critical role it plays and will continue to play in both our countries and the worlds pursuit of a clean energy future. Natural gas is an important component of todays fuel mix and should be prioritized as one of the most important tools to aggressively displace more carbon-intensive fuels around the world. Our networks are critical to serving both domestic and global energy demand in a lower carbon and economically viable manner. And with that, Ill open it up for your questions.