  OperatorGood day and welcome to The Kroger Co. second-quarter earnings call. [Operator instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Rob Quast. Please go ahead.Rob Quast -- Director of Investor Relations Thank you, Sarah. Good morning. Thank you for joining us for Kroger's second-quarter 2021 earnings call. I am excited to be here today and look forward to working with all of you in my new role as head of investor relations.

 



 I am joined today by Kroger's chairman and chief executive officer, Rodney McMullen; and chief financial officer, Gary Millerchip. Before we begin, I want to remind you that today's discussions will include forward-looking statements. We want to caution you that such statements are predictions and actual events or results can differ materially. A detailed discussion of the many factors that we believe may have a material effect on our business on an ongoing basis is contained in our SEC filings.The Kroger co. assumes no obligation to update that information. Our press release and supplemental information regarding the quarter can be found on our website at ir.kroger.com. After our prepared remarks, we look forward to taking your questions. I will now turn the call over to Rodney. Rodney McMullen -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thank you, Rob and congratulations on your new role. I would also like to take a minute to thank Rebekah Manis for her service to the IR team. We wish her continued success in her new role as head of new geographies for our customer fulfillment centers. Finally, I would like to thank you all for joining us today. Our associates have done an incredible job operating our stores, pharmacies, supply chain and manufacturing facilities through the COVID environment. Their unending commitment to serving our customers and communities continues to make a difference in Kroger's second-quarter identical sales without fuel grew 14% on a two year stacked basis, ahead of our internal expectations. We saw triple digit growth in digital over the same time period and continue to drive costs out of the business through cost saving initiatives and operational efficiencies. We remain confident in our positioning and our ability to deliver consistently attractive total shareholder returns of 8% to 11% over time. I'd like to spend the next few minutes discussing three key areas. First, customer behavior and how our seamless ecosystem is working. Second, I'll share examples of how we are leading with fresh and accelerating with digital and finally, I will highlight how we continue to live our purpose to feed the human spirit through the associate experience and our work to advance Kroger's ESG commitments. Our strategic focus on leading with fresh and accelerating with digital continues to build momentum across our businesses. As we've operated through the pandemic, we've recognized the structural shifts in our customers' eating and cooking habits. Customers are responding favorably to our value proposition and are enjoying the convenience of our seamless offerings. Early in the quarter, customers visited stores more frequently and many shifted from online to in store. This highlights the relevance and convenience of our easily accessible footprint.

 



 Towards the end of the quarter, as COVID-19 cases increased in many geographies, customers began shifting back to our digital solutions. This further demonstrates the strength of our seamless ecosystem. Customers can choose how they want to shop. Our job is to be available in every channel, so the customer does not have to compromise. Regardless of how they choose to shop, customers are eating more food at home because it's more affordable, convenient and healthier than other options. While some food and home trends may be transitory, our research suggests those I highlighted are structural and Kroger is uniquely positioned to address them. Through our assortment of fresh products, world-class digital platform and innovative meal solutions, we will continue to elevate our position as a food authority so that when customers think food, they think Kroger. We continue to advance our position as a leader in fresh during the second quarter. We saw positive identical sales in produce and floral and deli bakery, even as we lapped elevated sales in 2020. Our research shows how much our customers love our brands. Sales for both simple truth and private selection brands were strong as food-at-home trends remained sticky. We continue to innovate within fresh. For example, our expanded partnerships with ghost kitchens allow us to offer customers freshly prepared, on-demand restaurant food. This is especially relevant at a time when many customers are looking for inspiration and 70% of our customers say convenience is important when cooking. We also announced our 2021 Go Fresh & Local Supplier Accelerator cohort and are already bringing innovative, locally and regionally sourced products to stores across the country and helping many small entrepreneurs achieve their dreams. Earlier this week, Kroger announced our new brand icon. The fresh cart icon brings together the Kroger Family of Companies under one unifying visual and reinforces our brand promise, fresh for everyone. We are very proud of our growth in digital, which increased 114% over the last two years, similar to our first-quarter growth. We remain on track to deliver against our 2023 digital growth and profitability targets introduced at our 2021 IR Day. While digital sales decreased 13% during the quarter, almost all customers who reduced their online spend during the quarter continue to shop with us in store, highlighting the power of our ecosystem and our ability to create a meaningful customer experience across all channels. As a short reminder, Kroger has doubled our e-commerce household penetration, increasing the number of our brick-and-mortar customers that engage with our digital solutions since 2019. During the quarter, we added over 340,000 new customers to our digital platforms. We continue to expand capacity across our footprint and we reduced wait times for Kroger pickup. As we look ahead, our seamless ecosystem will remain a competitive advantage as we offer what customers need and want in a way that fits into their life, whether it's shopping in our stores, picking it up at our stores, or getting it delivered or shipped directly to their homes. We continue to enhance our seamless ecosystem. As we've shared last quarter, we currently have two customer fulfillment centers open, which are expanding our capabilities in Ohio and allowing us to expand into the new geographies within Florida. We are happy with the performance thus far and are energized by the volume and growth in both sheds. In Ohio, our focus has been on evolving the customer proposition to maximize opportunities alongside our existing digital solutions. In Florida, we launched delivery savings pass, offering customers unlimited deliveries for just $79 per year. We continue to see incredible Net Promoter Scores and our customers tell us they love our friendly, professionally trained drivers and the refrigerated delivery vans that bring the freshest food directly to their doorsteps. Looking ahead, we remain on track to open six customer fulfillment centers over 2022 and 2023, which will further expand our seamless ecosystem. Before I share some specifics on how we are using data and personalization to grow the business, I thought it would be helpful to remind you about our rewards program and how it works. Our rewards program has been active for over two decades. It captures data from 60 million households and 96% of our sales. Customers clearly see the value of our program, which drives sales and builds loyalty. As an example, nearly 60% of all items in a digital basket were added through our personalization science, highlighting our ability to make meaningful suggestions that surprise and delight customers. Furthermore, when we personalize recommendations for our customers, we can reduce their time to shop by nearly 70%. Overall, one in three people have noted that groceries have gotten more expensive in the past months. Kroger customers benefit from our personalization as we offer highly relevant savings at a household level, allowing them to further stretch their food dollars. Our associates continue to deliver a full, fresh and friendly customer experience every day, every time while also supporting our communities through the pandemic. We remain urgently focused on keeping people safe in our stores and facilities. Our teams were recently recognized with the gold award for excellence in human capital management from the Brandon Hall Group for our people-centered COVID-19 response. Obviously, we're especially proud of that recognition. During the quarter, we introduced new technology to elevate our associate experience. Kroger launched Fresh Start, a new, personalized training program to foster greater associate engagement and retention. We also launched our FEED app, which provides associates easy access to company communications and resources from their smartphones. We are incredibly proud that, during the quarter, we saw an improvement in retention as we strive to gain an employer where associates can come for a job and stay for a career. Now, turning now to the live our purpose. We continue to believe that customers, associates and investors are increasingly choosing where to shop, where to work and where to invest in companies that are taking meaningful steps to improve our communities and work to build a more sustainable planet. We've recently published our 2021 ESG report on thekrogerco.com. It outlines our progress over the last several years. It further outlines our aspiration to further integrate ESG performance into lines of business and our commitment to creating shared value that benefits all stakeholders. We imagine a world where everyone is thriving together and Kroger is helping millions of people live healthier, more sustainable lifestyles, protecting and restoring natural resources and contributing to more responsible and inclusive global systems. One of the many ways we bring our ESG vision to life is through our work that our Kroger Health team has been doing to serve and support our customers and communities through the pandemic. During the quarter, we worked with Lyft to provide rides to COVID-19 vaccine appointments, teamed up with local sports icon to drive awareness and access in the underserved communities and we concluded our #communityimmunity giveaway. To date, we have provided over 6.7 million doses of the vaccine and continue to drive availability and education. And yesterday, president Biden noted that Kroger is one of three national partners who have agreed to make the rapid COVID test available to customers at cost for the next 100 days. Kroger is committed to helping people live healthier lives while safeguarding the communities we serve. Our ESG goals are ambitious. And with a team of almost 500,000 dedicated and driven associates, they are also achievable. Since we first introduced our commitment to delivering strong and sustainable total shareholder return in 2019, our teams have been laser-focused on execution. This focus has resulted in tangible results, allowing us to deliver this quarter and for the long term. Now, I would like to turn it over to Gary to discuss our second-quarter financial results. Gary?Gary Millerchip -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Rodney and good morning, everyone. Kroger is delivering strong results and continues to build momentum as we execute on our priorities of leading with fresh and accelerating with digital. During the quarter, adjusted FIFO operating profit grew by a compounded annual growth rate of 23% over 2019 and adjusted EPS grew by a compounded annual growth rate of 35% over the same two year period. This reflects our disciplined approach to executing our strategy, balancing investments in our associates and customers with strong cost management and accelerating growth in our alternative profit business. It also provides a further proof point of how we are successfully navigating the pandemic and emerging stronger as a business. I will now provide additional details on our second-quarter results. Identical sales without fuel declined 0.6%. On a two year stack basis, identical sales without fuel increased 14%. Each period during the quarter was stronger than the last and I'm delighted to say we returned to positive identical sales without fuel during the final period of the quarter. Our digital platform remains a key strength in our model and we were pleased with the triple digit growth achieved over 2019. We remain on track with our plans to double our digital business by 2023 and would expect continued investments in the customer experience, scaling of new fulfillment centers and several new innovations which we will announce throughout the year to drive future growth. As shared last quarter, we would not expect future digital growth to be linear, especially as we cycle COVID in 2021. During the quarter, we also made further progress in improving digital profitability as we achieved a record low for the time taken to pick a digital order in store and continue to see growth in the media revenue generated on digital transactions. Gross margin was 21.4% of sales for the second quarter. The FIFO gross margin rate excluding fuel, decreased 60 basis points compared to the same period last year. This decrease was primarily related to price investments and higher shrink and supply chain costs, partially offset by sourcing benefits and growth in our alternative profit business. On a two year basis, our FIFO gross margin rate excluding fuel, decreased 55 basis points compared to 2019. Consistent with many retailers, we experienced supply chain constraints and increased warehouse and transportation costs during the quarter. We are actively managing this risk within our business by securing increased capacity and augmenting associate retention programs within our own facilities. We expect supply chain costs to remain elevated in the second half of the year and this is contemplated in our updated guidance. In the second half of the quarter, we also saw higher inflation in some categories. We are being disciplined in working with suppliers to manage these increases and are passing along higher cost to the customer where it makes sense to do so. While difficult to predict with precision, as we shared last quarter, we believe inflation for the full year will be higher than originally contemplated in our 2021 business plan. For the second half of 2021, our guidance now assumes inflation of between 2% and 3%. Recognizing recent inflation trends and our outlook for the rest of the year, we recorded a higher LIFO charge for the quarter of $47 million compared to $23 million in the prior year. Further strong operational execution allowed us to leverage operating, general and administrative expenses by 76 basis points excluding fuel and adjustment items, in the second quarter. This reflects lower COVID-19-related costs and savings captured through our cost saving initiatives. On a two year basis, our OG&A rate excluding fuel and adjustment items, decreased by 137 basis points compared to 2019. We continue to see opportunities to streamline processes and leverage technology and remain on track to deliver $1 billion in cost savings during 2021. The traffic and data generated by our seamless ecosystem continues to create a strong flywheel effect for our alternative profit business, which again experienced significant profit growth in the quarter. Media and Kroger personal finance continued to lead the way and we remain on track to achieve the high end of our expected range of $100 million to $150 million of incremental operating profit in 2021. Fuel is also an important part of our overall value proposition for our customers. Gallons grew in the second quarter by 7% and outpaced market growth. The average retail price of fuel was $3.13 this quarter versus $2.14 in the same quarter last year. Our cents per gallon fuel margin was $0.39 compared to $0.37 in the same quarter in 2020 and fuel was a tailwind to operating profit of $33 million compared to prior year. Turning now to our financial strategy. We continue to generate strong free cash flow and remain committed to investing in the business to drive sustainable growth while also returning excess cash to shareholders. We are prioritizing capital investments that support our growth strategy, widen our competitive moats and deliver strong returns. Capital expenditures year-to-date were down compared to prior year as we carefully navigated the impact of higher project costs and longer project lead times due to a challenging labor market. As we confirmed in guidance today, we are maintaining our range for capital investments excluding mergers, acquisitions and purchases of leased facilities, of between $3.4 billion and $3.6 billion and would currently anticipate coming in at the low end of this range for the year. During the quarter, Kroger repurchased $349 million of shares and year-to-date has repurchased $751 million of shares. As of the end of the second quarter, $779 million remains outstanding under the current board authorization announced on June 17, 2021. In June, Kroger also increased the dividend by 17%, marking the 15th consecutive year of dividend increases. Our proactive approach to investing in our associates over recent years is helping us navigate a challenging labor market. Our strategy continues to focus on investing in compensation plans that reward our associates in ways that are meaningful to them. We are committing to investing $350 million in hourly wage increases for our associates during 2021, in addition to the $800 million we invested in associate wages between 2018 and 2020. Over the same period, we have also taken several opportunities to improve the security of our associates' pension benefits. Our average hourly rate is now in excess of $16 an hour. And with comprehensive benefits factored in, we'll be approaching $21 by the end of 2021. We are committed to increasing retail hourly wages sustainably and our long-term financial model fully contemplates continued investments in associate hourly rates. During the second quarter, we ratified new labor agreements with the UFCW for associates in our Atlanta, Michigan, Food 4 Less and Mid-Atlantic divisions, covering over 34,000 associates. We continue to negotiate contracts with the UFCW for store associates in Houston, Little Rock, Memphis and Portland. Our financial results continue to be pressured by inefficiencies in healthcare and pension costs, which most of our competitors do not face. We continue to communicate with our local and international unions, which represent many of our associates about the importance of growing our business in a profitable way, which will help us create more jobs and career opportunities and enhance job security for our associates. Turning now to our expectations for the second half of 2021. Driven by momentum in our results and sustained trends in food at home, we are raising our full-year guidance. We have also narrowed the range of our guidance as we are further into the year and the trends in our business and the broader food-at-home market become clearer. We now expect identical sales without fuel in the second half of 2021 to be flat to slightly positive, resulting in full-year results of negative 1.5% to negative 1% and a two year identical sales stack of between 12.6% to 13.1%. We expect our adjusted net earnings per diluted share to be in the range of $3.25 to $3.35. We expect our adjusted FIFO operating profit to be in the range of $3.9 billion to $4 billion, reflecting a two year compounded annual growth rate of between 14.1% and 15.6%. In conclusion, we are emerging stronger through the pandemic and remain confident in our ability to deliver total shareholder return of 8% to 11% by sustainably growing earnings and using our resilient free cash flow to return excess cash to investors. And now I'll turn it back to Rodney.Rodney McMullen -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Gary. The environment we operate in is dynamic and I am so proud of our associates' ability to meet the challenge and serve our customers while building for the future. Kroger's seamless ecosystem is working. This was evident during the quarter as we saw customers seamlessly shift between channels and we continue to see strong digital engagement. We are leveraging technology, innovation and our competitive moats to deliver against the total shareholder return model we introduced in 2019 and reaffirmed in 2021. Kroger will continue to deliver for all stakeholders and position the business for long-term success. Now, we look forward to your questions. 