  OperatorGood morning. My name is Sia, and I will be the conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Alaska Air Group 2021 third-quarter earnings release conference call. Today's call is being recorded and will be accessible for future playback at alaskaair.com. [Operator instructions] I will now turn the call over to Alaska Air Group's managing director of investor relations, Emily Halverson. Please go ahead.Emily Halverson -- Managing Director of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Sia, and good morning. Thanks for joining us for our third-quarter 2021 earnings call. This morning, we issued our earnings release, which is available at investor.alaskaair.com. On today's call, you'll hear updates from Ben, Andrew and Shane. Several others of our management team are also on the line to answer your questions during the Q&A portion of our call. This morning, Air Group reported third quarter GAAP net income of $194 million. Excluding special items and mark-to-market fuel hedge adjustments, Air Group reported adjusted net income of $187 million. Pretax margins were 12%, a 15-point improvement from the prior quarter.This marks our first profitable quarter on an adjusted basis since the pandemic began. As a reminder, our comments today will include forward-looking statements about future performance, which may differ materially from our actual results. Information on risk factors that could affect our business can be found in our SEC filings. We will also refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted earnings and unit costs, excluding fuel. And as usual, we've provided a reconciliation between the most directly comparable GAAP and non-GAAP measures in today's earnings release. Ben, over to you. 

 



Ben Minicucci -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Emily, and good morning, everyone. Air Group's $187 million adjusted net income marks an inflection point on our path to recovery. During our last earnings call, we forecasted a double-digit third-quarter pre-tax margin. And despite the impact of the Delta COVID variant, we delivered. Our 12% pre-tax margin solidly led the industry and was just six points shy of our Q3 2019 margin. I'm proud of how our company is emerging strong from the pandemic, and I'm looking forward to when the recovery is stable and less likely to undergo the man shocks due to variant. Our approach from the beginning has been deliberate, scaling our business back in a measured way, leveraging our strong balance sheet and running our operation to produce consistent industry-leading financial performance no matter what the external circumstances. Our third-quarter results reflect the strength of the summer season with pent-up leisure demand, bringing passengers back to the skies. With fourth of July and Labor Day passenger employments approach 2019 levels, even with the dampening impact that the Delta variant had on demand in August and beyond, our third quarter load factor came in at 80% and total revenue was down just 18% on a year-over-two basis. a 15-point improvement sequentially from the second quarter. Our unit costs were up 9% in the third quarter, meeting the better end of our guidance range. The solid cost execution reflects incremental progress toward our productivity goals as passengers per FTE increased 6% sequentially, falling just 12 points below 2019 levels for the quarter.

 



 Shane will provide more detail about our cost performance and pressures we are seeing in a few cost categories. Looking forward, our longer-term thinking about our approach to the recovery remains intact. Despite the transient choppiness we're experiencing from the Delta variant, our plan is still to return to our pre-COVID size, no later than next summer and then to grow from there. We anticipate recovery will continue to be volatile at times as we learn to live with COVID and until demand ultimately normalizes. Our job is to deliver consistently strong financial and operational performance, no matter what course the recovery takes and Q3 has shown us that when demand does come back, our business model is tuned for success. Looking ahead to the fourth quarter, we plan to increase our capacity to 13% to 16% below Q4 of 2019. And given the dampening effect of the Delta variant, we expect to deliver breakeven to slightly positive pre-tax margins. If the pace of the recovery accelerates from here, there will be upside to our expectations. This quarter's results were only possible because of the hard work of our frontline employees and crews. Their dedication to delivering an efficient operation with our culture of kindness and caring is at the heart of our success. I want to thank them for their efforts and for putting Air Group among the top performers in the industry in on-time arrivals and completion rates once again this quarter. Our guests have shown their appreciation for that great service too. guest satisfaction scores have exceeded internal targets every month so far in 2021. Sustaining operational performance with high guest satisfaction is a remarkable achievement given how complex reramping our operations has proven to be. Several quarters of improving demand and financial performance have provided the stability necessary to invest in repairing our balance sheet. Year-to-date, we have made gross debt repayments of $1.2 billion, driving our debt-to-capitalization ratio down 10 points from year-end 2020 to 51% and moving within reach of our sweet spot for leverage between 40% to 50%. Having deleveraged so quickly from our pandemic borrowings makes clear to me that we made the right decision in not diluting shareholders during the depths of the crisis, even though that is not yet something the market is rewarding us for. We are making progress each quarter on our path to single fleet. This quarter, we took delivery of two more 737-9 aircraft and also exercised options for 12 incremental firm airplanes to be delivered in 2023 and 2024. All told, we will have 93, 737-9 aircraft in our fleet by 2024 with options for 52 additional airplanes. This fleet order not only replaces our departing Airbus 319 and 320 fleet but positions us for significant growth when demand comes back, which we expect will be in the back half of 2022. Importantly, we are in a financial position to take these deliveries while also maintaining our strong balance sheet. To close, I'm optimistic about the foundation we have laid to prepare for Air Group's return to growth and profitability. We have a fantastic Boeing order book, creating flexibility for significant growth through 2025, a low-cost structure that allows us to compete with low fares, supported by a strong balance sheet, a great onboard product match with industry-leading customer service and operational performance, a powerful domestic West Coast network supported with the Oneworld Alliance, a brand with a fierce customer loyalty behind it and most importantly, a culture rooted in kindness and caring. I'd like to thank our people one more time on a great quarter. And with that, I'll turn it over to Andrew.Andrew Harrison -- Executive Vice President and Chief Revenue officer Thanks, Ben, and good morning, everyone. My comments today will focus on third-quarter performance, recent demand trends, progress with our alliances and revenue guidance for the fourth quarter. Our third-quarter revenues came in at $1.9 billion, down 18% versus 2019. This was on flown capacity that was also down approximately 18%, resulting in near flat unit revenues. We were very happy with this result, especially as the impact of the Delta variance started showing up in a meaningful way at the end of July. Our revenue performance reflects a 15-point sequential improvement from last quarter, while capacity was just 3.5 points higher. The load factor sequentially increased three points to 80% but the bigger revenue driver was strong sequential yields, which improved 13 points from last quarter to up 4% versus 2019. On a monthly basis, loads were strongest in July at approximately 88%, then deteriorated to 81% in August and bottomed at 72% in September. In the same time frame, yield deteriorated about five points from up 3.6% in July to down 1.5% in September, both on a year-over-two basis. These negative trends were all driven by the emergence of the Delta variant. Geographically, Hawaii represents 16% of our capacity and was our weakest performing region during the quarter given the travel advisories for the state, which damaged demand for Hawaii. In fact, the impact to our system results was to reduce RASM by two and a half points. Considering the headwinds in Hawaii, along with the broader impact of the Delta variant, I would characterize our Q3 revenue performance is strong. Our commercial team did a fantastic job managing revenue in a volatile demand environment. As I'll expand on momentarily, the consequences from the Delta variant have not yet dissipated, and we're still working to build back Q4 bookings that were lost from the fourth COVID wave, given it occurred during an important period for building Q4 traffic. But sticking with third-quarter results for a moment longer, there are two bright spots that have steadily bucked trends for several quarters now, premium product performance and our loyalty program. On the premium product side, this quarter's paid load factor in our first-class cabin was three points over 2019 and premium class cabin exceeded 2019 by nine points. We continue to see strong demand for our premium products, and we believe this will only continue as business demand returns along with international demand associated with our entry into Oneworld. Regarding our loyalty program, this quarter, we received the highest level of cash compensation in our airlines history, which was up 7% from the same quarter in 2019. Our loyalty program is one of our most durable competitive advantages, and we are squarely focused on maintaining and improving this momentum over the coming quarters. Now looking at our network, it's only -- it's been our priority throughout the recovery to quickly rebuild Seattle and restore the Pacific Northwest capacity. This approach is producing results as is evident from our revenue performance this quarter. We're also seeing opportunities to capitalize on demand shifts as they arise. Reflecting on the year, we'll have added 30 new markets and only discontinued three. In short, choices for our guests when combined with our strong relationship with American have improved significantly. Today, we're flying approximately 85% of our pre-COVID network. Our Seattle hub capacity is fully restored with capacity above 2019, while overall Pacific Northwest flying is quickly approaching 2019 levels. California recovery remained slower as we flew 65% of 2019 capacity during the quarter. I still expect that by the summer of next year, our California flying will be back to pre-pandemic levels. As part of the California rebuild, we've recently announced that we're expanding our service from the Bay Area to Mexico, positioning Alaska with more nonstop flights to Mexico from the West Coast and any other U.S. carrier. Now turning to the future. The current revenue environment has certainly been challenging. But, as I mentioned in the last call, my team is focused on building a strong commercial engine that will serve this company for a long time. One of the ways we'll do this is by leveraging the unique benefits available to us as part of Oneworld. I'd like to give a shout-out to the Alliance's team who have been working tirelessly to establish robust commercial agreements that will unlock flexibility and benefits for our guests. So far in 2021, we've added 195 incremental codeshare routes with five Oneworld partners, increasing our codeshare portfolio by 43%. This figure includes our recently announced agreements with Iberia and with Qatar. In very short order, we've seen Qatar become one of our top international partners as they efficiently connect our network with their nonstop services between Seattle, San Francisco and Los Angeles with their global hub in Doha. The Seattle-Doha nonstop, which was launched in January, has been especially strong. This success is an indication Alaska guests value our global portfolio, and I'm eager to see their responses to American's upcoming Seattle route launches to Shanghai and Bangalore in 2022. With American and our Oneworld partners, our potential to capture international traffic out of Seattle and California is significant. Oneworld and our partnership with American have also opened the door to greater access to corporate travel, and we believe Air Group is uniquely positioned to get more than our pre-COVID corporate market share with the tools we're putting in place. On September 1, we activated for the first time our preferred partner status with American Express GBT, enabling greater access to more corporate guests and quality traffic. I'm really looking forward to sharing more details with you about these new initiatives, as well as many others in the spring. Now turning to the fourth-quarter guidance. Although the Delta variant surge looks to be behind us, its impact on bookings have left an unfavorable imprint on our Q4 expectations. Bookings deteriorated from down 20% in July to down 35% in August and floated with down 50% on a few booking days during the peak of the surge. While that rate of recovery since the peak has been slower than we experienced after the last surge this spring, over the last seven days we've seen bookings recover to down 10% year over two. Ultimately, we believe the Delta variant has reduced fourth-quarter revenues by approximately $200 million. Although the trajectory of bookings today has improved, it is not enough to fully make up for what was lost in Q4. With this as our backdrop, we expect Q4 revenues to be down 16% to 19% on a year-over-two year basis. However, our assumptions reflect weaker performance in October, with total revenue down approximately 25%. So just looking at November and December, revenue is expected to be down between 13% and 16% right in line with our capacity reduction. From a unit revenue perspective, October RASM is shaping up to be down about 10% versus 2019, while November and December could improve to nearly flat versus 2019. Filling our planes is our top priority, but we're using discounts cautiously with an eye on preserving yields, especially in a rising fuel environment. While we aren't making any predictions about what awaits us around the corner, improving rates of vaccination, availability of booster shots, the expected near-term approval for vaccines for children and opening of international borders could have a positive impact on the recovery and the economy. However, the recovery unfolds I'm very optimistic that our commercial model will deliver relative outperformance as we saw in Q3 and that our work to date is positioned as well. As Ben just shared, we expect our efforts to lead to a breakeven quarter with upside potential. And with that, I'll pass it to Shane.Shane Tackett -- Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President Thanks, Andrew, and good morning, everyone. As we've highlighted today, another quarter of sequential improvement in strong margins underscore the durability of Alaska's business model. Underlying our industry-leading results were July and August performance that came within about two points of 2019 margin levels. I'm impressed by our team's execution and the results they delivered in such an unpredictable environment. In my commentary today, I'll provide insights on these results, our cash flows and liquidity, cost performance and our expectations going forward. I'll begin with cash flows and liquidity. We ended the quarter with $3.6 billion in total liquidity, inclusive of on-hand cash and undrawn lines of credit. This is down from $4 billion of total liquidity in June as we paid down nearly $550 million in debt and made a $100 million voluntary pension contribution. Debt repayment included retiring our $425 million 364-day loan and our pension contribution brings our funded status to 94% and also allowed us to capture a one-time permanent tax benefit of $14 million. Q3 cash flows from operations were essentially breakeven, excluding pension funding. The sequential decline from Q2 to Q3 was expected due to the absence of PSP grant inflows this quarter and the normal seasonal drawdown of ATL. However, as Andrew described in his commentary, the Delta variant stalled the otherwise strong demand recovery in the quarter. And as a result, the ATL drawdown was higher than originally forecast. Fourth-quarter cash flows from operations are expected to be between negative $100 million and zero dollars exclusive of tax refunds and payments, which we expect to net to a positive $100 million in the quarter, depending on when we receive our anticipated 2020 tax refund. This forecast factors in the reduced cash intake due to the impact on bookings of the Delta variant. Planned debt service for the remainder of the year is approximately $120 million, and we have no plans for further prepayments through the end of the year. With this quarter's debt retirements, our debt to cap has dropped to 51%, placing us just shy of our intended range as Ben shared. Today, our outstanding debt bears a relatively low weighted average effective rate of 3.3% and and our 2022 debt service is very manageable at about $375 million for the year, roughly 1/4 that of 2021. Moving beyond 2022 annual debt services in the range of $250 million to $400 million. With a sustained return to profitability, I expect our net debt-to-EBITDA levels to move to approximately two times or less in 2022. Our liquidity and balance sheet are in great shape, and we plan to leverage both as we fund our fleet order and eventually look forward to reactivating shareholder distributions, which we can do toward the end of next year. As of now, I expect our total liquidity to move to approximately $2.5 billion in 2022. Moving to costs. I will touch briefly on our Q3 performance, and I'm focused on our cost trajectory over the next several months as we prepare for a return to growth. This quarter, nonfuel costs were $1.3 billion with unit costs up 9.3% versus 2019, better than the guidance we issued in September. Our teams have continued to do a superb job meeting their internal cost plans, and we also saw lower-than-expected medical costs in the quarter. Fuel costs rose again this quarter to $2.05 per gallon, up approximately 25% from where we started the year. With crude at $70 per barrel for the quarter, our fuel hedges provided a $21 million benefit or $0.11 per gallon. We currently have 50% of our planned fuel consumption hedged for the next six months at an average strike price of $61 in Q4 and $69 in Q1. Given the current spot prices of oil, we expect to continue to realize hedge benefits in Q4 and into 2022, meaning we also expect to see fuel cost headwinds impact absolute margin performance in the near term. Looking forward, we continue to make steady progress on getting costs back to pre-COVID levels. That remains an expectation and priority of the leadership team. Our progression through 2021 has been solid with mainline CASMex compared to the same month in 2019, up 19% in June, up 7% in September, and likely to be up 4% to 5% in December. Capacity in December compared to 2019 levels is expected to still be down 13%. Capacity pressure is more acute for our Horizon operations as aggressive pilot hiring across the industry is expected to lead to abnormal action levels, creating lower capacity capability and consequently, also pressuring their unit costs in the near term. We're also seeing modest pressure in entry-level wages, which we believe is both an industry and general trend in the economy at large, and wage adjustments in this category are adding approximately $7 million for the fourth quarter. Additionally, as we ramp to 100% of pre-COVID capacity, we are onboarding more employees earlier than we normally would, given our training throughput capacity. Costs associated with additional training and carrying employees for the quarter are approximately $5 million. The costs associated with ramping capacity will normalize by next summer. In 2022, we will continue to reduce unit costs as capacity returns. Doing so is not without its challenges as we have two particular headwinds to offset, one is airport related costs as our airport partners run to CARES grants and return to fully charging airlines for both operations and capital expenses. The other area is a step-up in transition costs related to the returning our Airbus fleet to lessors. The cost of returning aircraft were fully contemplated in our decision to return to a single fleet, and the economics of doing so are strongly favorable long term. As we step squarely into the return window, we will be recognizing these expenses through the P&L in earnest. I expect the largest impact in 2022 with a significant step down from there into 2023 and a final one down in 2024, which will provide a nice tailwind to our CASMex trajectory as we exit 2022 and move through 2023. Notwithstanding the headwinds, we will emerge as an airline with a cost structure equal to or better than 2019 in short order. Our cost restructuring targets are intact, and this quarter's results reflect realization of productivity savings, as well as the efficiencies of now seven, 737-9 aircraft flying for our mainline fleet. As a result of the headwinds and tailwinds I've described, our expectations for Q4 unit costs is that they will be up 7% to 9% versus 2019 on roughly 15% lower capacity. To close, I would just say again that our underlying business model is strong. While demand is choppy and we hate that we don't get to have the fourth quarter that we think we were set up to have because of the Delta variant, we are confident that when reasonably strong demand returns. We are poised to deliver strong financial performance. We're looking forward to rescaling to our pre-COVID size and demand allowing growing from there. As we do this, we will be continuing to deliver on our cost restructuring and fleet transition and unlocking commercial levers to drive additional value to our bottom line. And with that, let's go to your questions. 