  OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Enphase Energy Second Quarter 2021 Financial Results Conference Call. [Operator instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Adam Hinckley. Please go ahead.Adam Hinckley -- Senior Director, Investor Relations, M&A & Government Relations

 



 Good afternoon, and thank you for joining us on today's conference call to discuss Enphase Energy's second-quarter 2021 results. On today's call are Badri Kothandaraman, Enphase's president and chief executive officer; Eric Branderiz, chief financial officer; and Raghu Belur, chief products officer. After the market closed today, Enphase issued a press release announcing the results for its second quarter ended June 30, 2021. During this conference call, Enphase management will make forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, statements related to Enphase Energy's expected future financial performance, the capability of our technology and products, including availability and features; our operations, including in manufacturing and customer service; the anticipated growth in our sales and in the markets in which we operate and target; and the capabilities of our installation partners. These forward-looking statements involve significant risks and uncertainties, and Enphase Energy's actual results and the timing of events could differ materially from these expectations. For a more complete discussion of these risks and uncertainties, please see the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020, which is on file with the SEC, and the quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2021, which will be filed during the third quarter of 2021. Enphase Energy cautions you not to place any undue reliance on forward-looking statements and undertakes no duty or obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events, or changes in its expectations. Also, please note that financial measures used on this call are expressed on a non-GAAP basis unless otherwise noted and have been adjusted to exclude certain charges.The company has provided a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures in its earnings release posted today, which can also be found in the investor relations section of its website. I would like to introduce Badri Kothandaraman, president and chief executive officer of Enphase Energy. Badri? Badri Kothandaraman -- President and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Good afternoon, and thanks for joining us today to discuss our second quarter 2021 financial results. We had a good quarter. We reported revenue of $316.1 million, shipped approximately 2.36 million microinverters and 43-megawatt hours of Enphase storage systems, achieved non-GAAP gross margin of 40.8%, and generated strong free cash flow of $49.2 million. We exited the second quarter at approximately 41%, 16%, 24%. This means 41% gross margin, 16% operating expenses, and 24% operating income, all as a percentage of revenue on a non-GAAP basis. As a reminder, our baseline financial model is 35%, 15%, 20%. Eric will go into details about our finances later in the call. Let's now discuss how we are servicing customers. Our Q2 net promoter score worldwide was 67% compared to 63% in Q1. And our North American net promoter score was 71% compared to 69% in Q1. Our average call wait time decreased to approximately three minutes in Q2 from more than five minutes in Q1. Our 24/7 global customer support helped to reduce the wait times. In addition, we are building field service teams in the U.S. and Europe to provide on-site help to our installers. We also expect to add a team in Australia during Q4. We remain laser-focused on customer service and making sure that we are the easiest company to do business with.

 



 Let's now talk about manufacturing. As we have discussed in the past earnings calls, the demand for our microinverter systems continues to be well ahead of supply. In Q2, we experienced component constraints on the supplier AC Fed drivers, which resulted in our microinverter shipment volume slightly lower as compared to Q1. We had three AC Fed driver suppliers qualified by the end of the second quarter compared to two in the first quarter. For the third quarter, we continue to expect to remain constrained on microinverters, but the supply situation is better than what it was in the second quarter. We expect to have four suppliers qualified by the end of the third quarter. Regarding the fourth quarter, we are cautiously optimistic that the situation will be significantly better compared to the third quarter. On the ASIC used in our microinverters, we have sufficient supply. So that has not been a big constraint so far. As previously discussed, we are expanding our microinverter manufacturing capacity in Mexico and India. At our facility in India, we installed a second fully automated line in Q2, with production beginning at the end of the quarter. This brings our quarterly capacity to 1.5 million microinverters from India. In Mexico, we expect to add a fully automated manufacturing line in Q4. This will bring quarterly capacity to approximately 2.2 million microinverters in Mexico. With our existing capacity in China, we expect to easily achieve our target capacity of five million microinverters per quarter by the end of 2021. Let's talk about batteries. We have two sources for battery cell packs with a total capacity of 120-megawatt hours per quarter. I previously mentioned, we are going to add a third source in 2022 to increase our overall capacity. Talking about our lead times. Our lead times for storage systems are a little high today between 12 and 14 weeks, and we are working on streamlining our engineering and manufacturing to bring them down below 10 weeks by the end of 2021. Let's move on to the regions. Our U.S. and international revenue mix for Q2 was 81% and 19%, respectively. The U.S. market demand was very strong in Q2, but we were supply constrained. Therefore, revenue was only up 3% sequentially. Our teams work hard to ensure customers that continuous supply of product. The sell-through from our distribution partners to installers remained very strong, keeping channel inventory tight but at manageable levels. Our teams ensured that all customers had product that they needed to complete jobs, and we're not forced to seek automative, although the constrained supply prevented customers from building buffer inventory. In Europe, we reported record revenue in Q2. The revenue increased 16% sequentially. The channel inventory was much tighter in Europe than the U.S., but we expect it to improve in Q3 and Q4. We had solid growth in Netherlands, France, and Germany, and continued strong microinverter sales to Maxeon for its ACM product during the second quarter. We also began selling our Enphase storage systems in Germany during late Q2, representing the product's first international expansion outside the U.S. We launched our solar plus storage system estimator sizing tool in Germany that showcases panel placement on the roof, along with storage sizing and a comprehensive financial analysis. Germany represents the largest residential storage market in Europe with high attach rates. The market response to the introduction of the Enphase storage system in Germany has been positive, and we expect this to also drive the microinverter business in the country. Overall, I'm very pleased with our growth in Europe. In the Asia Pacific region, revenue declined 3% sequentially in Q2, primarily due to COVID disruptions in Australia, along with normal seasonality. Despite these headwinds, we are quite happy with microinverter sales during the second quarter from the continued adoption of our highest power IQ 7A product and our AC module partnerships. We expect to pilot Enphase storage systems in Australia in the fourth quarter. In Latin America, Q2 revenue was up 38% sequentially, largely due to increased sales of both Enphase solar and storage systems in Puerto Rico. As I discussed last quarter, we are expanding into Brazil. We have hired a team there to enter the Brazilian market, and we expect first revenue from this region in Q3. Now that we have covered the regions, let's discuss the overall bookings for Q3. Our overall customer demand for Q3, once again, significantly exceeds the higher end of our guidance range. We continue to remain supply constrained in Q3. Our component availability is improving in Q3 compared to Q2, but not at the rate of growth in demand. Let's now move to our storage systems rollout. We shipped 43-megawatt hours of Enphase Storage Systems in the second quarter. During the quarter, we released load control, a new feature that provides Enphase storage systems with the capability to automatically shed nonessential loads during an outage. With load control, homeowners have the option to conserve their energy consumption and extend their backup duration simply via a onetime setting of the Enlighten app. Let's now turn to training for our Enphase Storage Systems. By the end of Q2, we trained 2,592 installers cumulatively, representing more than 1,500 unique installation companies. This represents a significant jump compared to Q1 as we were able to resume some in-person training in Q2. We also continue to make steady progress on the commissioning of our Enphase Storage Systems and made numerous updates to our software app. Our goal remains a sub-60-minute commissioning time, which will allow installers to visit the site, install, and commission and Enphase Storage System in less than a few hours. I'm very pleased with the progress we have made on that front. The introduction of load control in late May, along with some pricing adjustments we did for our installers, plus the improvements in the commissioning process have resulted in an acceleration of demand for Enphase storage since June. As a result, we expect to ship between 60- and 70-megawatt hours of Enphase Storage Systems in the third quarter. We are already fully booked for Q3 on storage. And our current lead times, as I said before, are 12 to 14 weeks. We are working hard to bring the lead times down to under 10 weeks. Let's talk about our new products, specifically the IQ 8 microinverter and the IQ 8D microinverter product launches. IQ 8 is the world's first grid independent microinverter for residential solar. And IQ 8 is the high-power 640-watt AC microinverter, capable of supporting two panels for small commercial solar. We are making good progress in the compliance, reliability, and system testing of these products. We expect first shipments of the IQ 8 PV microinverters in Q3 and first shipments of the IQ 8D product in Q4. Given our component supply challenges, we are going to ramp these products quite cautiously. On the last earnings call, we discussed the generator compatibility feature for our Enphase Storage Systems last quarter. We are a little bit behind here as we took more time to complete the system testing. We are currently piloting generator compatibility with a handful of real homes and are seeing great results. We expect to introduce this feature introduction by the end of the third quarter. Homeowners will then have the ability to add generators to their Enphase Storage Systems, and will be able to configure the generator behavior from the Enphase app. The Enphase Home Energy Management system provides a seamless transition from on-grid to off-grid, ensuring a superior installer and no molar experience. This generator functionality, as I said, will be integrated into our mobile app, so the homeowners have full visibility and control from one app. Let's now turn to digital transformation. Both our recent acquisitions, Softdesk and the solar business of BIN Engineering are fully integrated and exceeded our expectations with record revenue and installer accounts in Q2. The 850-plus installers using the solar graft software tool will soon have access to new features such as shading and storage system sizing. Our permitting services are also undergoing significant improvements toward automation to drive mass adoption among the long tail of installers. Our digital transformation initiatives focused on reducing staff costs, while improving profitability and efficiency for our installers, resulting in clean and affordable energy for all. Let me now give you an update on our Enphase Installer Network or EIN. We have now onboarded 500 installers in North America, 146 installers in Australia, and 169 installers in Europe to our Enphase Installer Network through a highly selective process focused on quality and homeowner experience. We also introduced EIN networks in India and Mexico during the second quarter. This has been a highly successful initiative as we are adding trusted installers who will act as product evangelists on our behalf and are expected to provide an exceptional experience to homeowners. Let's talk about our entry into grid services for the first time. We have started participating in the Connected Solutions program, which is an incentive program implemented by two utilities in the Northeast region of the United States to reduce electrical demand during the high use periods. Enphase storage customers in Connecticut, Massachusetts and Rhode Island can sign up, monitor, track money on, and control participation in the program using our Enlighten mobile app. These grid services programs enable utilities to leverage Enphase Storage Systems instead of turning on polluting bigger plants while generating an income stream for the battery owner. Enphase customers participating in the connected solutions program can receive up to $1,500 a year for our 10-kilowatt hour battery once they share the battery when they -- when called upon by the utility. Facilitating grid services participation for our customers will reduce the lifetime cost of Enphase storage systems and help drive increased demand. We plan to participate in more such programs in the future. Enphase is laser focused on building best-in-class home energy management systems and delivering them to homeowners through our digital platform, along with our Enphase Installer Network and distribution partners. We now have solar, storage load control grid services and generator compatibility as part of our home energy management system. We plan on adding other distributed energy resources down the line. Our digital platform captures both installer and homeowner journeys, providing tools and services such as design, proposal and permitting with the goal of reducing soft costs and accelerating the adoption of clean energy. In summary, we're very happy with the performance in the first half of 2021 and the ongoing strong demand for our solar and storage products. We look forward to the ramping of our storage systems, introducing new products, accelerating digital transformation and enhancing customer experience. We plan to host an analyst day in the fourth quarter, and will provide more details on our next quarter's earnings call. With that, I will hand the call over to Eric for his review of our finances. Eric?Eric Branderiz -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Badri, and good afternoon, everyone. I will provide more details related to our second quarter of 2021 financial results as well as our business outlook for the third quarter of 2021. We have provided reconciliation of these non-GAAP to GAAP financial measures in our earnings release posted today, which can also be found in the investor relations section of our website. Total revenue for Q2 was $316.1 million, representing an increase of 5% sequentially. We shipped approximately 796 megawatts DC of microinverters and 43-megawatt hours of Enphase Storage Systems in the quarter. Microinverter unit shipments declined slightly relative to Q, but favorable product mix led to the sequential revenue growth. Non-GAAP gross margins for Q2 was 40.8% compared to 41.1% for Q1. The decrease was primarily as a result of higher logistics and expedite costs, partially offset by disciplined pricing and favorable mix. GAAP gross margin was 40.4% for Q2. Non-GAAP operating expenses were $51.7 million for Q2, compared to $43.7 million for Q1. The sequential increase was primarily due to increased investment in R&D and sales and marketing programs and increased hiring. In addition, Q2 was the first full quarter of consolidation of the recent acquisitions of Softdesk and BIN. GAAP operating expenses were $68.4 million for Q2, compared to $61.6 million for Q1 GAAP operating expenses for Q2, including $14.3 million of stock-based compensation expenses and $2.5 million of acquisition-related expenses and amortization for acquiring intangible assets. On a non-GAAP basis, income from operations was $77.2 million for Q2, compared to $80.2 million for Q1. On a GAAP basis, income from operations was $59.4 million for Q2, compared to $61.4 million for Q1. On a non-GAAP basis, net income for Q2 was $74.7 million, compared to $78.7 million for Q1. This resulted in diluted earnings per share of $0.53 for Q2, compared to $0.56 per share for Q1. GAAP net income for Q2 was $39.4 million, compared to GAAP net income for -- of $31.7 million for Q1. GAAP diluted earnings per share was $0.28 for Q2, compared to diluted earnings per share of $0.22 for Q1. Now turning to the balance sheet and the working capital front. Inventory was $37.8 million at the end of Q2, compared to $34.9 million at the end of Q1. The sequential increase was driven by higher battery cell pack inventory to support the expected growth of Enphase Energy Store System shipment. This inventory outstanding was unchanged compared to Q1 and stood at 18 days, reflecting the current supply constrained environment as well as longer lead times. Accounts receivable were $281.2 million at the end of Q2, compared to $236.1 million at the end of Q1. The sequential increase was due to the higher revenue in Q2 and shipments being weighted to the second half of the quarter. DSO of 65 days increased from 56 days in the prior quarter due to the timing of shipments. We exited Q2 with a total cash balance of approximately $1.3 billion, compared to approximately $1.5 billion for Q1. We fully utilized our $200 million share repurchase authorization and bought approximately 1.7 million shares at an average share price of approximately $117 in Q2. In addition, our board of directors authorized a new share repurchase program of up to $500 million over the next three years. In Q2, we generated $65.6 million in cash flow from operations and $49.2 million in free cash flow. Capital expenditure was $16.4 million for Q2 to expand my competitor manufacturing capacity in Mexico and India, as well for costs related to Enlighten software app development, corporate website development, and investment in IT and cloud infrastructure. Now let's discuss our outlook for the third quarter of 2021. We expect our revenues for the quarter to be within a range of $335 million to $355 million, which includes shipments of 60- to 70-megawatt hours of Enphase Storage Systems. We expect GAAP gross margin to be within a range of 37% to 40% and non-GAAP gross margin to be within a range of 38% to 41%, which excludes stock-based compensation expenses. We expect our GAAP operating expenses to be within a range of $105 million to $108 million, including a total of approximately $46.4 million, estimated for stock-based compensation expenses, and $1.6 million estimated for acquisition-related expenses and amortization. We expect non-GAAP operating expenses to be within a range of $57 million to $60 million. Let me provide some additional color on a few topics. As Badri mentioned earlier, we will be constrained by component availability in Q3. The revenue guidance assumes a modest increase in microinverter shipments, but the primary driver of growth will come from increased storage systems. We expect to ship 60- to 70-megawatt hours of our Enphase Storage Systems in Q3, representing approximately 50% sequential growth at the midpoint. We expect improved component availability for microinverter production in Q4 and continued momentum for the Enphase Storage Systems. On the cost side, we are continuing to expedite components and finished goods in Q3 to ensure customers have an adequate supply of our products. To put in the magnitude of expedite cost into perspective, the expense in Q2 was larger than for all of 2020. We expect the quarterly expedited expenses to remain at similar levels for the remainder of 2021. Due to the elevated logistics costs and increase in some component costs, we implemented a modest price increase for microinverters starting in Q3. Next, I would like to touch upon our opex guidance. Our guidance for non-GAAP operating expenses as a percentage of revenue is expected to increase in Q3. As we mentioned in the last earnings call, our opex may be slightly above our 15% target at times, but we will still expect to be comfortably above our baseline financial model target of 20% operating income. As we accelerate toward our vision of providing best-in-class home energy management systems, we are investing significantly in R&D, particularly in areas that further our competitive advantage such as ASIC and so forth. Semiconductor integration and cloud software are core differentiation that increase our system performance, reduce cost and increase reliability. We are also ramping up our marketing expense in the back half of the year to increase homeowner awareness of our solutions. For Q3 accruals for post-combination expenses from prior acquisitions are expected to be approximately $3.4 million. Finally, I will touch on an increase of the stock-based compensation expense in Q3. The sequential increase is due to the higher number of employees globally as we continue to accelerate our growth plans as well as the need to retain top-level employees as an S&P 500 company. With that, I will now open the lines for questions. 