
OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. And and welcome to Accenture's Third Quarter Fiscal 2021 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Managing Director, Head of Investor Relations Ms. Angie Park. Please go ahead.Angie Park -- Managing Director and Head of Investor RelationsThank you, operator, and thanks everyone for joining us today on our third quarter fiscal 2021 earnings announcement. As the operator just mentioned, I'm Angie Park, Managing Director, Head of Investor Relations. On today's call, you will hear from Julie Sweet, our Chief Executive Officer and KC McClure, our Chief Financial Officer. We hope you've had an opportunity to review the news release we issued a short time ago.Let me quickly outline the agenda for today's call. Julie will begin with an overview of our results; KC will take you through the financial details, including the income statement and balance sheet along with some key operational metrics for the third quarter. Julie, will then provide a brief update on our market positioning before KC provides our business outlook for the fourth quarter and full fiscal year 2021. We will then take your questions before Julie provides a wrap-up at the end of the call.Some of the matters we'll discuss on this call, including our business outlook are forward-looking and as such are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to those factors set forth in today's news release and discussed in our annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and other SEC filings. These risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in this call.During our call today, we will reference certain non-GAAP financial measures, which we believe provide useful information for investors. We include reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures where appropriate to GAAP in our news release or in the Investor Relations section of our website at accenture.com. As always, Accenture assumes no obligation to update the information presented on this conference call.Now, let me turn the call over to Julie.Julie Sweet -- Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Angie, and thank you everyone for joining us. We had another outstanding quarter reflecting our laser focus on creating 360-degree client value and the importance of our scale, experience, industry knowledge and trust to the world's leading companies and governments as they continue to digitally transform their enterprises.We had a record 20 clients with bookings over $100 million and a total of $15.4 billion in bookings. We delivered 16% revenue growth in local currency, 3% above the top of our guided range with outstanding profitability and free cash flow. We estimate that we continue to take significant market share. Our growth was broad-based across geographic markets and industries with 11 out of 13 industries growing double-digits this quarter and reflects our ability to bring together our unmatched breadth of services from strategy and consulting to interactive technology and operations to create the solutions, which achieve the value at speed that makes a difference to our clients.We continue to meet our clients' strong demand adding a net 32,000 talented people this quarter alone. We offer an employee value proposition that allows us to attract top talent, develop our people with world-class training and provide them with vibrant career path. We are pleased with our record 117,000 promotions year-to-date, including almost 1,200 promotions to Managing Director, and while delivering these results, we have raised the bar again in terms of investments.We now expect to invest about $4 billion in strategic acquisitions this fiscal year with 39 acquisitions closed or announced year-to-date. This includes announcing this quarter two acquisitions with purchase prices over $1 billion each. The acquisition by Accenture Federal Services of Novetta in the US, an advanced analytics company, which we expect to close in August, and then umlaut, a world-class engineering services company headquartered in Germany, which we expect to close in Q1. These 39 acquisitions are well balanced with 10 in North America, 17 in Europe, and 12 and growth markets.Our level of investment demonstrates as well how scale, experience and trust matters. Scale in terms of our financial capacity, experience in terms of our track record of the successful integration of approximately 200 companies since 2013, and the trust we have earned in the market that attracts leading companies to want to join the Accenture family. We invest in acquisitions to scale in areas where we see a big market opportunity to add skills and new capabilities and to further deepen our industry and functional expertise, all to drive continued innovation in the next waves of growth.Finally, because we believe strongly in our commitment to share success with our communities, we recently announced that we would donate $100 for every one of our then 540,000 employees or $54 million to urgently address the needs of our communities, due to the pandemic, including $25 million for India.KC, over to you.KC McClure -- Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Julie. And thanks to all of you for taking the time to join us on today's call. As you heard in Julie's comments, we are extremely pleased with our results in the third quarter, which continue to reflect very strong momentum across all dimensions of our business. Based on the strength of our third quarter results and the confidence we have in our fourth quarter to continue to extend our market leadership position, we are increasing our full-year outlook, which I will cover in more detail later in the call.Before I get into the details, let me summarize the major headlines of our third quarter results, which reflect continued superior execution against our three financial imperatives. Revenue increased nearly $2.3 billion, reflecting growth of 16% in local currency. Results were approximately $300 million above the top end of our guided range driven by broad-based overperformance across the business, with double-digit growth in all three markets, four or five industry groups and in technology services and operations.As we expected, both strategy and consulting and the resources industry group returned to growth. These results demonstrate the power of our business model and our unique ability to seamlessly integrate our services at scale. We estimate that our growth continues to significantly outpace the market.Operating margin was 16%, an increase of 40 basis points for the quarter. Importantly, we no longer have the margin expansion tailwind from lower travel as we anniversary the benefit of the compare in this quarter. We continue to absorb significant investments in our people and our business as we are always focused on positioning our business for the future and we delivered very strong EPS of $2.40, up 26% over fiscal '20.Finally, we delivered strong free cash flow of $2.2 billion in the quarter and $6.2 billion year-to-date, while also continuing all elements of our capital allocation program including returning roughly $1.4 billion to shareholders this quarter via dividends and share repurchases. We've made investments of $1.5 billion in acquisitions through Q3 and we now expect to invest about $4 billion in acquisitions this fiscal year, which is -- which does not include the umlaut acquisition, which we anticipate to close in FY '22.I want to take a moment to highlight that as you can see from our results and guidance this year, we are able to step up our acquisition spend and continue to expand operating margin. And well, I won't comment on the specifics of FY '22 until September, based on our current line of sight, you should think of next year's inorganic contribution in the range of 4%, and we expect margin -- modest margin expansion as we continue to run our business with rigor and discipline.With that, let me turn to some of the details, starting with new bookings. New bookings were $15.4 billion for the quarter with a very strong book-to-bill of 1.2. Consulting bookings were $8 billion with a book-to-bill of 1.1. Outsourcing bookings were $7.4 billion with a book-to-bill of 1.2. We were very pleased with our new bookings, which represent 39% growth in US dollars and reflect a record 20 clients with bookings over $100 million. Each service dimensions, strategy and consulting, technology services and operations delivered double-digit bookings growth in local currency.Turning now to revenues. Revenues for the quarter were $13.3 billion, a 21% increase in US dollars and a 16% increase in local currency. Consulting revenues for the quarter were $7.3 billion, up 21% in US dollars and 16% in local currency. Outsourcing revenues were $6 billion, up 20% in US dollars and up 16% local currency. Taking a closer look at our service dimensions, operations grew very strong double-digits, technology services grew strong double-digits, and strategy and consulting grew high single-digits.Turning to our geographic markets. In North America, revenue growth was 18% in local currency, driven by double-digit growth in public service, software & platforms and consumer goods, retail and travel services. In Europe, revenues grew 14% local currency. We saw double-digit growth in consumer goods, retail and travel services and industrial, and high single-digit growth in banking, capital markets.Looking closer at the countries, Europe was driven by double-digit growth in UK, Italy and Germany. In growth markets, we delivered 15% revenue growth in local currency, led by double-digit growth in consumer goods, retail and travel services, banking, capital markets and public service. From country perspective, growth markets was led by double-digit growth in Japan and Brazil.Moving down to income statement. Gross margin for the quarter was 33.2%, compared with 32.1% for the same period last year. Sales and marketing expense for the quarter was 10.6%, compared with 10.2% for the third quarter last year. General and administrative expense was 6.6%, compared to 6.3% for the same quarter last year.Operating income was $2.1 billion in the third quarter, reflecting a 16% operating margin, up 40 basis points, compared with Q3 last year. Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 25%, compared with an effective tax rate of 25.5% for the third quarter last year.Diluted earnings per share were $2.40, compared to EPS of $1.90 in the third quarter last year. Days service outstanding were 36 days, compared to 34 days last quarter and 41 days in the third quarter of last year.Free cash flow for the quarter was $2.2 billion resulting from cash generated by operating activities of $2.4 billion net of property and equipment additions of $158 million. Our cash balance at May 31st was $10 billion, compared with $8.4 billion at August 31st.With regards to our ongoing objective to return cash to shareholders. In the third quarter, we repurchased or redeemed 3 million shares for $835 million at an average purchase price of $276.98 per share. As of May 31st, we had approximately $4.2 billion of share repurchase authority remaining. Also, in May, we paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.88 per share for a total of $559 million. This represents a 10% increase over last year, and our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.88 per share to be paid on August 13th, also a 10% increase over last year.So, in summary, we are extremely pleased with our results to-date and are now focused on Q4 and closing out a very strong year.Now let me turn it back to Julie.Julie Sweet -- Chief Executive OfficerThanks, KC. I'll start with the environment. The dynamics in the market we are seeing are not only a recovery from the lower spending pattern at the onset of the pandemic, but a more sustained growth in demand, as companies raise to modernize and accelerate their digital initiatives with compressed transformation.Pre-COVID, our research showed a digital achievement gap with leaders growing 2 times faster than laggards and we estimate that gap has now widened to 5 times with leaders stepping up their investment in technology and innovation and leap progress taking accelerated steps to catch up.Cloud is an even more critical enabler as companies are increasing their focus on enterprisewide transformations and rapidly moving to digital and cloud powered models. These needs of our clients are driving strong momentum in our business with an acceleration of continued strong double-digit growth across Applied Intelligence, Cloud, Industry X, Intelligent Operations and Security, with interactive and intelligent platform services returning to strong double-digit growth this quarter. These strategic priorities are multiservice and are powered by our unparalleled technology ecosystem relationships.Let me share some color to bring this demand to life. I want to particularly highlight Cloud, which continues to have very strong double-digit growth rates, as well as the subset of Accenture Cloud First where growth was even stronger and has exceeded our expectations when we formed Cloud First last September. With our Cloud First services, we are helping agencies served by concept. Italy's national procurement agency to deliver on Italy's National Recovery and Resilience Plan. We develop and -- developing and running industry-specific cloud-based platforms to standardize and improve their efficiency and speed, reducing the time to launch new contracts and ultimately providing much improved services for Italy citizens.We are using our intelligent platform services to help DuPont, a company with a rich history of business reinvention. We imagine its financial structure to coordinate operations across its large geographic footprint. After going through a strategic and deliberate restructuring through M&A, we will now help DuPont implement a central finance processing suite that will help them to consolidate their multiple financial systems and chart of accounts into one and close the books faster. This will provide real-time review of results for all of the business units, all in the Cloud, giving DuPont more agility, speed and certainty in a complex and volatile market.We are helping Jaguar Land Rover transform its global marketing model to deliver a more personalized customer experience with creativity and technology at its core. We were selected for our technology capabilities, data-led performance and experience-led approach. We will use the strength of the experience, creative and digital capabilities of Interactive and the marketing delivery capabilities of operations with our SynOps platform, which we already use as part of Jaguar Land Rover's warranty operations. SynOps will deliver AI-powered insights and highly automated production around the world.Security is top of mind for our clients as the threat landscape expands. Our very strong double-digit growth is driven by the breadth and depth of our services from advisory to cyber defense to manage security. For example, facing ever increasing cyber threats and continued financial pressures as a result of COVID-19, Accenture is helping a UKI Bank by bringing together the full breadth of these capabilities to provide innovative solutions to support the bank's future security strategy.Across many of these examples are our implied intelligence services. We were excited this quarter to announce Accenture Federal Services Agreement to acquire Novetta, an advanced analytics company serving US Federal Organizations, it is demonstrating what's possible with analytics, machine learning, cyber and cloud engineering. This will augment our already strong capabilities and scale in these critical areas providing even more diversification across our federal business, specifically in the national security space, which is seeing substantial growth.I want to give a special recognition to our colleagues serving the public sector around the world throughout the pandemic. There were seven consecutive quarters of double-digit growth, reflect your absolute commitment to the important missions of government serving their citizens.Turning now to Industry X, our digital engineering and manufacturing services. We believe the product development, design engineering, manufacturing and the supply chain make up the next big digital transformation frontier. The impact of COVID-19 is accelerating the need to transform these core operations, and for nearly a decade, we have been investing to build the unique capabilities and ecosystem partnerships to combine the power of data and digital with traditional engineering services.We are very pleased with the announcement of our agreement to acquire umlaut, which will add more than 4,200 industry-leading engineers and consultants across 17 countries and expand our capabilities across a range of industries including automotive, aerospace and defense, telecommunications, energy and utilities.Some recent examples of our Industry X services include helping a German telecom company continuously develop and enhance their Internet television service by utilizing embedded engineering in their set top boxes and managing new features on the platform. Helping a large media conglomerate accelerate their primary revenue streams in digital products and advertising with our product and platform engineering expertise to design, build, test and deploy new products, services and features. And working with a global automotive OEM to execute online remote software updates for their in-car computer systems to allow seamless deployment of new software versions.We are also working with an American multi-national manufacturer of confectionary, pet food and other food products to deploy a digital twin platform to optimize production in its manufacturing facilities, improve margins and reduce waste. We're working with a large electric company in Japan to help their power plants -- to help bring their power plants into the future by digitizing their operations and standards across each department.And with a large oil and gas company to build their internal digital capabilities to substantially reduce time to market for new digital solutions that extend to its customers, while supporting the company's key safety and sustainability goals throughout the use of a digital factory.Taking a step back, the examples I have provided today all required deep industry knowledge and innovation. Our breadth and depth across industries enables us to tailor industry solutions, while bringing cross-industry expertise as we help our clients facing industry convergence and by using the lessons of other industries. We are proud this quarter that Fast Company recognized us for innovation across multiple initiatives in its world-changing ideas awards.Our cross-industry expertise is one of the powerful sources of our ability to innovate. For example, using our deep banking industry and technical expertise, we rapidly developed for a commercial bank, which was not a traditional small business administration lender, a program under the US Paycheck Protection Program that allows them to make loans to 1,000s of small businesses struggling with the impacts of the pandemic.We then pivoted to apply this approach to stand up Facebook's Small Business Grants Program for black-owned businesses enabling the distribution of 10,000 grants to black-owned businesses in the US. This grants program is an important part of Facebook's overall commitment to invest $200 million in building programs and tools for black-owned businesses.Finally, let me turn to our incredible people. Their health and safety remain our top priority. We are supporting our people by facilitating vaccinations including standing up clinics in many of our offices such as in India where already 50,000 of our people, their families and contractors have been vaccinated. We have been focused on taking the lessons of an almost 100% remote workforce during the pandemic to a new way of working, moving from a remote or hybrid model to an omni-connected experience.People will work in a office, from home and at client sites and it is likely many of our clients will be doing the same. So our approach focuses on the experience of connecting to continue to serve our clients in a differentiated way and create an environment that our people feel a sense of belonging.The rich diversity and ingenuity of our people from our Board of Directors to our new hires helps us deliver 360-degree value for the benefit of all. We now have more than 250,000 women, representing approximately 46% of our workforce. As you may recall, shortly after the murder of George Floyd in the US, on this call, I shared with you our commitment to take three actions in the US, setting external goals to increase representation, training our people and making a bigger impact in our communities.One year later, I am pleased to report that we not only took each action, but have made measurable progress, including increasing our representation, having 95% of our US people complete our new anti-racism training and making substantial new investments in our communities. You can find a full progress update on our website, because we believe transparency and accountability are hallmarks of good governance and essential to building trust.As we see the rise or continuation of all kinds of hate crimes against diverse communities including violence against Asians, the LGBTI community, Anti-Semitism and Islamophobia, I want to reaffirm my and Accenture's unwavering commitment to equality and justice for all and zero tolerance for racism, bigotry and hate of any kind.KC, back to you.KC McClure -- Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Julie. Let me now turn to our business outlook. For the fourth quarter of fiscal '21, we expect revenues to be in the range of $13.1 billion to $13.5 billion. This assumes the impact of FX will be positive 4%, compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal '20 and reflects an estimated 17% to 21% growth in local currency.For the full fiscal year '21, based upon how the rates have been trending over the last few weeks, we continue to expect the impact of FX on our results in US dollars will be approximately positive 3.5%, compared to fiscal '20.For the full fiscal '21, we now expect our revenue to be in the range of 10% to 11% growth in local currency over fiscal '20, including approximately negative 1% from a decline in revenues from reimbursable travel. Based on a 2% reduction, the first half of the year, and no material impact in the second half of the year. Importantly, organic revenue is a driver of the increase to our updated guidance, as we still expect the inorganic contribution to remain at about 2.5% for the full-year.For operating margin, we now expect fiscal year '21 to be 15.1%, a 40 basis point expansion over fiscal '20 results. We now expect our annual effective -- our annual adjusted effective tax rate to be in the range of 23% to 24%. This compares to an adjusted effective tax rate of 23.9% in fiscal '20.For earnings per share, we now expect full-year diluted EPS for fiscal '21 to be in the range of $9.07 to $9.16. We now expect adjusted full-year diluted EPS to be in the range of $8.71 to $8.80 or 17% to 18% growth over adjusted fiscal '20 results.For the full fiscal '21, we now expect operating cash flow to be in the range of $8.65 billion to $9.15 billion, property and equipment additions to be approximately $650 million, and free cash flow to be in the range of $8 billion to $8.5 billion. Our free cash flow guidance reflects a very strong free cash flow to net income ratio of 1.4 to 1.5.Finally, we continue to expect to return at least $5.8 billion through dividends and share repurchases as we remain committed to returning a substantial portion of our cash to our shareholders.With that, let's open it up, so that we can take your questions. Angie?Angie Park -- Managing Director and Head of Investor RelationsThanks, KC. I would ask that you each keep to one question and a follow-up to allow as many participants as possible to ask a question. Operator, would you provide instructions for those on the call.