  OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the Q3 2021 Welltower Inc. earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to Matt McQueen, general counsel. Please go ahead.Matt McQueen -- General Counsel Thank you, and good morning. As a reminder, certain statements made during this call may be deemed forward-looking statements in the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. Although Welltower believes any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, the company can give no assurances that its projected results will be attained. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are detailed in the company's filings with the SEC.

 



 And with that, I'll hand the call over to Shankh for his remarks.Shankh Mitra -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Matt, and good morning, everyone. I hope that all of you and your families are safe and healthy. I'll walk you through our high-level business trends and capital allocation priorities. John Burkart, our COO, will walk you through the detailed operating environment in SHO and MOBs. Tim will walk you through the triple net businesses, earnings, guidance, and capitalization. This is John's first call as he's beginning to dig into the business. So please go easy on him. Despite mediocre bottom-line results, we cannot be happier with the overall results of the quarter.

 



 Just six months ago, many industry participants and observers were cautioning if the COVID pandemic would result in apartment impairment of demand for senior housing. And even most people who believe that the demand would come back were worried that with every surge of the virus, the business will take a significant step back. As it has been our experience that these surges drive revenue down, cost up, resulting in a significant hit to the bottom line. For the first time since the beginning of pandemic, we bought this trend. And despite witnessing a significant search of the delta variant after we spoke three months ago, we still posted the strongest sequential revenue growth in the company's history. Occupancy went up 210 basis points in the quarter relative to our guidance of 190 basis points free delta, and rate growth accelerated, resulting in a 3.5% sequential increase in top-line revenue across our same-store shop portfolio. Importantly, year-over-year revenue growth inflected positively in the U.S. and U.K. portfolios for the first time since the beginning of pandemic. This trend accelerated into September when we observed a year-over-year revenue increase for the Intacta portfolio led by U.S. and U.K., which reported year-over-year revenue growth over 2%. This is particularly impressive in context of a massive delta surge. Let's reflect on why that might be the case. With nearly all resident vaccinated and staff vaccination rates approaching 90%, which is substantially higher than general population, prospective residents, and their families recognized that our communities are much safer environment than alternative settings. You can see that in our data. In the U.S., despite a tenfold increase in the daily case counts across U.S.

 



 in July and August, the number of cases within our SHO portfolio was just 10% of peak levels observed during the prior COVID surges. A similar trend was experienced across our Canadian and U.K. portfolios for -- over the same time. This helped us build significant top-line momentum in our business as we received the dual benefit of occupancy and rate growth, which we believe will continue into next year. In fact, I believe this trend will meaningfully accelerate into next year as we feel significant momentum in the rate environment. Despite this great top-line performance, our bottom-line performance was mediocre and impacted by a perfect storm across the expense stack. We had a confluence of extraordinary costs, including agency labor as COVID surged, heightened R&M, insurance costs, utility costs, and other sundry costs all hitting at the same time. There was also an extra day in the quarter, which resulted in a mismatch of revenue and expenses as the majority of our operators charge rent on a monthly basis. Additionally, we saw a meaningful rise in paid time off as many employees took advantage of the easing travel restriction during the summer. The rise of COVID also resulted additional call-offs from our team members at the last minute, which drove a significant spike in the use of agency liver, which cost two to three times. This situation was further complicated by the vaccination mandate, which the system is currently working through. The only good news on the expense overall is that we began to see this situation normalize in October. While it is too early to comment on exactly how long it will take for this situation to fully normalize, we need to unpack what logically will stay with us in the medium to long term and what will dissipate. In our opinion, base wage increases are sticky and they will likely to be here as unit cost of labor. We firmly believe Welltower's operating partners will be able to overcome this hurdle through rent increases as they offer a premium product within a premium micro market. The alternative of one-on-one care just got significantly more expensive. We are beginning to see the green shoots emerge as operating partners have been -- have seen expansion of labor pool with supplemental unemployment benefits rolling off and children having gone back to school. John will provide more details on this topic, but we believe the usage of agency lever will dissipate going forward. Our guidance for Q4 will suggest that we do not expect this situation to completely reverse, primarily because of three factors: One, we have a mismatch of revenue growth and expense growth as a significant portion of our annual increases happen on Jan 1. Two, after you hire people, it takes an extended period of time to go through pre employment and training process before new employees can hit the floor. And three, delta wave, which peaked in late September is still with us even in November. However, none of this has changed my view that Welltower stabilized shop margin post-COVID will be higher than that of pre-Covid margins. Even on a near-term basis, I do not believe the earnings power of this portfolio's 2022 exit run rate or 2023 run that has changed. I want to repeat that one more time. Even on a near-term basis, I don't believe the earnings power of this portfolio's 2022 exit run rate or 2023 run rate has changed. The based operators will rise from this difficult time stronger with significant higher market share, while many others will find this business too hard to figure out. We are engaged in, frankly, starkly different conversations with the management team of operators in this industry more broadly. While everyone is fatigued from the events of the past 18 months, many of our partners are working with John to rethink how technology, operational excellence, revenue optimization, and data analytics can fundamentally change this business. Think of some very basic questions. Unit labor is going up, but how many units do we need? Price needs to go up, but how do you differentiate price on units with a view of Central Park versus a brick wall? Many operators within the industry are hoping things will get better on their own. Unfortunately, hope is not a great strategy. Our intense operational focus translates directly into our capital allocation strategy. Let me restate what that is. We want to own the right assets in the right micro market with the right operator focused on right acuity and price point, and we want to own that asset at the right basis, either will buy at a discount or replacement cost or will build at an extremely targeted way at replacement cost. While bidding tents are pretty thin primarily with a few first time or relatively new capital, we remain extraordinarily active in off-market, privately negotiated transactions where we bring unmet certainty to close with operator and cash capital. As most of the situation are debt maturity driven, nothing is more important to the seller than the certainty of close with a firm handshake. And as you know, our reputation is we don't negotiate and we don't reiterate after we have a form and shape. This approach has resulted in one of the most active quarter in the history of our company. We closed $2 billion of investments at a significant discount to replacement cost with expected IRRs in the high single digits to low double digits. We continued our momentum subsequent to the end of third quarter with another $1.3 billion transactions that we have signed purchase and sale agreement and that we have described in our press release. While they are all very important transactions, let me highlight three different flavors of the deal. We are excited about a $580 million transaction to buy eight rental and six entrance fee communities in great micro markets. We would recall that we bought a handful of Sunrise CCRCs from SNH in 2018. This transaction is very similar in asset quality and location standpoint but at a materially better price. And the previous owner has spent significant amount of capital, over $50 million in the last five years. We should be able to achieve a high single-digit, unlevered IRR as our operating partner, watermark leases up the communities. However, we think we can push this return into double-digit unlevered category as we execute a higher and better use strategy similar to what we have -- where we're embarking on our 85 Atria portfolio, 85 property Atria portfolio. For example, there is an extraordinary piece of land in a highly desirable residential corridor, Bellevue, Washington, that is entitled for high-density residential as of right. We can build a great vertical campus of senior or wellness living there or sell it to a multifamily developer. For many of these communities, their excess land, while we intend to build additional cartage style units which are already sold out in this location and get the flavor. In a separate transaction, we bought five Class A senior housing communities in Southeastern and Mid-Atlantic region with an extraordinary partner -- with a extraordinary operator and development group for 472 million. The average age of these communities is three years, and we expect to generate a high single-digit unlevered IRR. We also negotiated a long-term exclusive development contract with this team. I cannot wait to disclose the details of this group and our growth plan with them on our next call. But here's the teaser. This team has executed flawlessly, even during this challenging Q3 without any agency labor. That gives you a sense of their operating prowess. In a similar vein to new buildings, we bought three brand-new communities in the Midwest from a multifamily developer with new perspective, our existing operator. On average, these buildings are two years old. We feel our future pipeline is robust as we are on a two-year line with several other granular transactions. We are also building significant momentum around redevelopment and real estate value add as John Burkart has executed a strategy at FX for over two decades. My team historically has focused on operator-oriented value-add as we frankly didn't have the right experience after somewhat underwhelming experience from our vintage transaction many years ago. Now, with John and Mike Fey, our global head of development in one team, redevelopment and real estate value add will be another avenue for growth going forward. Stay tuned for more. On the relationship side, I cannot be more pleased to announce that we started two new development projects with Cisco, the second phase of Cardinal and Carnegie. Cisco is one of our best operators in our portfolio, occupancy incredibly bouncing already back to high 90s. I cannot be more proud to be partnering with Andy Colberg and his team to find a few more A++ micro markets where a cardinal model will be fantastically successful. We signed a long-term exclusive development contract with Cisco and look forward to grow this partnership over the next decade. From the success of this wonderful new addition to the exclusive pipeline agreements quarter-after-quarter, I hope that you, as our investors, now share the same belief that we truly have built a deep and wide mode around the real estate business through predictive analytics platform that is unique and unprecedented in the real estate industry. With that, I'll pass it on to John for a deep dive in operational trends. John?John Burkart -- Chief Operating Officer Thank you, Shankh. My comments today will focus on the performance of our outpatient medical and seniors housing operating portfolio. Starting with our outpatient medical. During the third quarter, our outpatient medical segment delivered 3.1% same-store revenue growth over the prior year's quarter leading to same-store NOI growth of 3.4%. The increases were driven by increased property level expense recovery and a reduction in bad debt. Occupancy in our same-store portfolio ended the quarter at 94.7% a 30 basis point reduction from the prior year's quarter. We continue to see record retention rates with the third quarter exceeding 90%. And with increasing construction costs and rising market rates, we will continue to push renewal rates and accept a reasonable level of increased turnover and related frictional vacancy as we strive to optimize top and bottom-line performance and maximize the value of the portfolio. Now turning to our senior housing operating portfolio. I'm pleased to report that year-over-year revenue growth in our SHO portfolio turned positive in September, marking the first monthly increase since the onset of COVID-19. The strong demand-based recovery in seniors housing was led by our U.S. portfolio, which year-over-year revenue turned positive in August and our U.K. portfolio, which turned positive in September. The occupancy recovery, an improvement in RevPAR, which began in Q1 reflect the need-based nature of senior housing and a recognition that these communities are active, safe, and social, three key elements to quality senior living. The U.S. continues to lead the recovery, growing occupancy 600 basis points from the trough in mid-March through September 30th, followed by the U.K. at 540 basis points. Our Canadian portfolio remains behind the U.S. and U.K. in the recovery, but posted an occupancy gain of 70 basis points in the third quarter compared to a decline in Q2. While the delta variant has impacted staffing and related costs, it has clearly not slowed to the demand-driven recovery in occupancy and our operators' ability to drive rate growth. Year-over-year same-store NOI for the SHO portfolio decreased 14.9% as compared to Q3 2020, driven by a 200 basis point decrease in average occupancy and increased expenses in part due to the delta spike and related impact on staffing. While still down versus last year, same-store NOI has improved markedly from the decline of 44% in the first quarter, a trend which should continue going forward. The increased labor costs during the quarter were driven by a host of macro factors, which led to temporary labor shortages affecting virtually all industries. The result was increased compensation in the form of wages, overtime, bonuses, and the use of agency labor as our operators have been squarely focused on both meeting the increased demand for their active safe and social communities and a refusal to compromise on the quality of care. The use of agency labor, which can be two to three times more expensive than permanent employees was particularly impactful during the quarter as employees who had COVID were exposed to COVID or even had a cold -- had to call in sick, leaving agency staffing as the only option. As Shankh alluded to, these extraordinary labor expenses are starting to abate although I expect we will still see some continued pressure for several months. I'm hearing green shoots as our operators are making comments such as the peak labor challenge has passed, or we've seen a substantial pickup in applications, our new hires outnumber the employees leaving two and a half to one. And even we are currently fully staffed at almost all of our communities. Going forward, obviously, I don't know how COVID will impact the economy, but we do know that the operators are increasing their rates substantially to cover the increased labor costs. Similar to the multifamily business, there can be timing issues or delay between expenses hitting the bottom line when the revenue flows through to the bottom line. We are seeing that right now with elevated maintenance expense, which in part relates to preparing units for occupancy due to increasing demand. Additionally, rental rates and care service reimbursements are typically adjusted annually and require 60 to 90 days notice similar to multifamily. Therefore, we continue to move forward -- therefore, as we continue to move forward in this demand-driven recovery, we expect to see the impact from these rate increases in 2022. Additionally, despite similar occupancy improvement across all states, which withdrew early from the -- additionally, despite a similar occupancy improvement across all states, we've seen a divergence in the impact of agency expense between states, which we grew early from the federal unemployment programs versus those which maintain supplemental benefits through the early September. More specifically, states opting out of these programs early saw roughly two-thirds of the incremental sequential increase in agency expense as compared to those states which maintained supplemental benefits. Finally, during the last 90 days, I've been fully immersed in the various aspects of Welltower's senior housing business, including volunteering at sites, meeting with the leadership of various operators, and, of course, touring numerous properties. My experience has been consistent with my expectations, and that has found that the operators deliver a very high level of care to our residents and provide a top-quality living experience. While the focus on care has been and continues to be very high, I believe that similar to the multifamily industry 20 to 30 years ago, there was an opportunity to modernize our senior housing business and improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the operations. These efforts will further improve the resident experience, employee engagement, and the financial performance of these communities, including the potential for significant margin expansion. Without giving away my entire playbook, renovating and reamenitizing certain communities, implementing revenue management across the portfolio, and engaging in a digital transformation are just a few examples of what I'm thinking about. Being at the beginning of this coming demographic demand wave and see an array of growth and optimization opportunities across all our businesses make this a very exciting time to be at Welltower. Now I'll turn the call over to Tim.Tim Lordan -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, John. My comments today will focus on our third quarter 2021 results. The performance of our triple-net investment segments in the quarter, our capital activity, and finally, a balance sheet, and liquidity update in addition to our outlook for the fourth quarter. Welltower reported net income attributable to common stockholders of $0.42 per diluted share and normalized funds from operations of $0.80 per diluted share, versus guidance of $0.78 to $0.83 per share. Turning to our triple net lease portfolios. As a reminder, our triple-net lease portfolio coverage and occupancy stats are reported a quarter in arrears. So these statistics reflect the trailing 12 months ending 6/30, 2021. Importantly, our collection rate remained high in the third quarter. having collected 92% of triple-net contractual rent during the period across our senior housing triple net and long-term post-acute portfolios. In our senior housing triple-net portfolio, same-store NOI declined 80 basis points year over year as a negative year-over-year impact of leases moving to cash recognition began to dissipate. We expect same-store NOI growth to turn positive next quarter. Trailing 12-month EBITDAR coverage was 0.83 times. Looking forward, we expect coverage at the bottom next quarter near current coverage levels before starting the recovery in Q1. Over the first seven months of the recovery, we've observed occupancy and EBITDAR trends within our senior housing triple-net portfolio that are in line with our U.S. and U.K. operating portfolios. As these recovery trends have strengthened, the solvency risk for our operators has decreased in tandem. And our continued strong cash rent collection, along with the value of the collateral that sits behind many of our lease agreements, continues to provide us confidence that Welltower's real estate position remains strong. Next, our long-term post-acute portfolio generated negative 1% year-over-year same-store growth and trailing 12-month EBITDA coverage of 1.25 times. In the quarter, we transitioned 11 more Genesis assets to new operators, bringing total year-to-date Genesis transitions to 48 properties. We also completed the disposition of 21 of these transition assets, bringing total year-to-date dispositions to 30 former Genesis assets, including our nine PowerBack assets sold in the ProMedica joint venture in the second quarter, with another 14 scheduled for disposition in the coming months. Long-term post-acute in-place NOI concentration is now 5.4% of total portfolio in-place NOI. And lastly, health systems, which is comprised of our ProMedica Senior Care joint venture with the ProMedica Health system. We had same-store NOI growth of positive 2.8% year over year and trailing 12-month EBITDAR coverage was 0.24 times. The drop in sequential coverage was driven largely by the timing of HHS stimulus as the majority of HHS revenue received by ProMedica was received in 2Q '20, and this was not repeated in 2Q '21. HHS funds 2Q '21 EBITDA was up relative to 2Q '20 as revenues grew both on a year over year and sequential basis. Our June trailing 12-month coverage also includes results of the previously announced sale of 25 assets held by the joint venture, 21 of which have already been sold to date, with the remaining four are expected to be completed in the coming months. These assets have contributed more than $30 million in negative EBITDA for the trailing 12 months period ending 6/30 2021. And thus, their disposal alone will create considerable coverage accretion on a go-forward basis. I'd also like to remind everyone that our lease is fully backed by a senior claim and the substantial real estate value held in the joint venture and also the full corporate guarantee of the ProMedica Health system. Turning to capital market activity. We continue to enhance our balance sheet strength and position the company to efficiently capitalize a robust and highly visible pipeline of capital deployment opportunities by utilizing our ATM program to fund those near-term transactions. Since the beginning of the third quarter, we have sold 11.5 million shares via forward sale agreement, an initial weighted average price of approximately $84.36 per share for expected gross proceeds of $966 million. Since the beginning of the year, we have sold a total of 29.5 million shares of common stock via forward sale agreements, which are expected to generate total proceeds of 2.4 billion, of which 12.7 million shares were settled during the third quarter resulting in $1 billion of gross proceeds. As of the end of the quarter, we had approximately 11.8 million shares remaining unsettled, which are expected to generate future proceeds of $1 billion. Rent in the second quarter at 6.97 times net debt to annualized adjusted EBITDA, up slightly from an HHS adjusted 6.88 times at the end of the last quarter. The uptick in leverage was a product of $1.7 billion of net investment activity completed in the quarter. If we run rate the impact of the investment activity completed in the quarter, pro forma net debt to EBITDA decreased to 6.82 times. As a reminder, we ended the quarter with approximately $1 million one-sale equity raised on a forward basis, along with 309 million expected disposition proceeds and loan payoffs. Our efforts to strengthen our balance sheet and improve our liquidity profile, coupled with the recovery underway in our senior housing sector have been recognized by S&P and Moody's with both rating agencies recently rating our credit outlook to stable. The upgrades validate the prudent measures Welltower has taken to mitigate risk through the pandemic and to appropriately capitalize our recent investment activity. On a forward-looking basis, as both Shankh and John have noted, we continue to be pleased with the momentum of the recovery of the senior housing operating portfolio. With portfolio occupancy ending the quarter at 76.7%, 210 basis points higher than at the end of the prior quarter, but still over 1,000 basis points below pre-Covid levels, the portfolio also sits 1,400 basis points below peak occupancy levels achieved prior to last decade supply wave, setting the stage for a powerful EBITDA recovery as occupancy upside and strong rate growth is coupled with significant margin expansion of a very depressed base. Lastly, moving to our fourth quarter outlook. Last night, we provided an outlook for the fourth quarter of net income attributable to common stockholders per diluted share of 0.20 to $0.25 and normalized FFO per diluted share of 0.78 to $0.83 per share. This guidance does not take into consideration any further HHS or similar government programs in the U.K. and Canada. So when comparing it sequentially to our third quarter normalized FFO per share to be better to use an as adjusted $0.79 per share for 3Q, which excludes 5 million in out-of-period Canadian benefits that we received in the quarter. On this comparison, the midpoint of our fourth quarter guidance, $0.85 represents a $0.015 sequential increase from 3Q. This $0.015 increase is composed of $0.035 of accretion from strong investment activity in the third quarter and a sequential increase in senior housing operating portfolio NOI driven by an expected 140 basis point increase in sequential average occupancy, offset by $0.02 of dilution from increased sequential G&A and increased share count from share settled in the third quarter. And with that, I'll hand the call back over to Shankh.Shankh Mitra -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Tim. I want to make three quick points before Q&A. First, despite our historic amount of capital deployment over the last few months, I'm very optimistic about the momentum into the year-end and next year. A recent prominent trend that we are starting to see that deals are bouncing back to us as buyers from buyers who need property level financing as debt market has become very skittish after recent disruption from Delta and labor challenges. We are working on three such transactions right now. Second, with the significant rise of labor and other costs, operators are left with two choices if they were to survive as a business, either to cut services or corners or to increase prices. We believe families understand from looking at prices of virtually all goods and services from fast food to apartment rents that there is an unprecedented upward pressure in cost. After speaking with vast majority of our operators, I can assure you that Welltower's operating partners do not plan to diminish the level of services and care provided to our residents. So for the industry in general, recent increase in expense, it would be difficult to continue to provide quality services without an appropriate balance in revenue. As such, rent levels will need to be increased. The industry should not cut corners and should never lose focus on the quality of their services. Please remember, the simple mantra that there is no mission without margin. Third, our frantic pace of new hiring continues through the summer and fall for both early career as well as experience professionals. In fact, we have added 125 new colleagues since the beginning of COVID, representing a 25% increase in our overall headcount. We're rounding up on our campus recruitment program as we speak, and I'm delighted that this year class will be the biggest in the history of the company. With that, operator, please open the call up for questions. 