  OperatorWelcome to the Wynn Resorts third quarter 2021 earnings call. [Operator instructions] This call is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time.  I will now turn the line over to Craig Billings, chief financial officer. Sir, you may begin.Craig Billings -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, operator, and good afternoon, everyone. On the call with me today are Matt Maddox and Brian Gullbrants in Las Vegas. Also, on the line are Ian Coughlan Linda Chen, Ciaran Carruthers, Frederic Luvisutto, and Jenny Holaday. I want to remind you that we may make forward-looking statements under safe harbor Federal Securities laws, and those statements may or may not come true.

 



 I'll now turn the call over to Matt Maddox.Matt Maddox -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Craig, and thank you all for joining us today. So first, I'd like to address my decision to leave the company. I've been at Wynn for 20 years and been the CEO for the last four. And I made a commitment in 2018 to this company and to the board of directors and what was likely one of the messiest transitions in corporate history that I'd do everything I could to keep the culture, to make the -- to get the company on firm footing and to ensure that we would emerge better than we were before. Now, along that journey as we were making lots of progress in getting things stable, we bumped into a pandemic. And that was the time really when Wynn was able to shine. We became the beacon in the hospitality. People looked at us on what to do.

 



 We paid all of our staff during the shutdown. We invested in our culture. We knew that by doing those things and continuing to be exactly who we are, that it would pay off over the long term, not just for our people and for our customers, but for our shareholders. I'd like to thank the unwavering commitment and support of the board of directors during these four years. After we made this decision, they did ask me if I would remain on the Wynn Macau board to ensure stability and to assist with the concession renewal process there, which I agreed to do through 2022 and also the Wynn interactive board to make sure that we create lots of value for the Wynn Resort shareholders, which I also agreed to. I'm very happy to say that the board was -- is 100% behind and has picked the exact right person to replace me as I transition out in Craig Billings. Craig has been my right-hand man for five years now. He's been through the good, the bad, all of it, and he knows what to do. He understands culture. He's not a guy that's going to build a big corporate infrastructure. He makes decisions fast and he feels the brand and the company really couldn't be in a better position going forward. And in fact, if you look at that, I think the proof is in this quarter. If we just jump to the results and get the business here, in Las Vegas, we made $183 million of EBITDA. And that's not a whole bunch of cost savings that are going to go away over time and can you sustain the margin, etc. Only $15 million to $18 million of that $183 million came from cost savings. The rest of it, we're taking market share.

 



 Over the last four years, we've opened a 400,000 square-foot convention facility. We built a new golf course. We have changed out 40 of our 60 retail stores to become the shopping destination. We restructured our club so that margins went from 7% to almost 30%. We've raised our prices in our hotels seeing straight flow through. Every area we're taking share, casino included. We are not only outpacing all of our results, but we're taking share from the market. I knew coming in that we needed to cater to a demographic that was in more than 30 to 50 on top of our current demographic in the baby boomer generation. We've opened lots of new restaurants. In fact, one of the new ones, Delilah. If you call right now, you can't get in until February. I've never seen anything like it. And while that's one restaurant, it's an example of all the changes that we've made, that have really set the foundation for Wynn Las Vegas to take off like a rocket ship. And I think one of the most important aspects of a successful business is culture. People talk about that, but we all know in our business, only people make people happy. And if your employees believe that their future will be better because of the place they work and that their employer is going to take care of them when times get tough, you've harnessed the power of the universe. And that's what we have going on right now. Look, I'll give you an example. Hospitality is experiencing extreme labor shortages right now throughout North America. It's a fact. People are talking about it, but not at Wynn. We had four open servers in our restaurants, positions, open positions. Last month, we had 1,066 people apply. Sure, big tip job. You might expect that. We had 22 open positions for casino cleaners last month. They clean the bathrooms, the casino, the restaurants. They make the place sparkle. We had 2,015 people apply for those 22 spots. That is the sign of a good business. That's when you know you're going to win over the long term because your customers understand that loyalty and people want to be here. And so, I feel very good about where Wynn Las Vegas is in terms of its culture, its employees, the product and its future. Looking on for Boston Harbor, same thing. Record results, $64 million of EBITDA. And we did the very similar that we did in Las Vegas during the shutdown, was we looked at things that weren't working. We had a buffet that was losing $12 million a year. So we ripped it out, while we were shut down, and we built probably the world's best sports bar that once Massachusetts legalizes sports betting, it will be the best sports book on the East Coast hands down. We put in new food and beverage offerings. We reconfigured the entire casino. We changed out our casino loyalty program, and our database has been growing exponentially. We have over 418,000 people in the database. And at the trajectory that it's growing now, that's probably going to double over the next two years. So Encore Boston Harbor, again, is only at the beginning of its growth and the North American assets really couldn't be in a better position. There was a little bit of concern that maybe the stimulus money or pent-up demand, etc., was causing some of this? And that may be true for the third quarter and what we experienced in the summer, but it's certainly continuing. In October, Wynn Las Vegas had its best month on record, highest EBITDA, highest margin and we held below our normal range. Same at Encore Boston Harbor. The group business is coming back. We've seen groups taking up over 30% of our room nights in August and September. And the way that we're running these facilities now and the way that we're yielding and being unrelenting on price because people like the quality, the flow-through is happening. Just last weekend, our average rate was $780 in Las Vegas, and we're at 99% occupancy. And that is continuing into the future because we're taking market share and Las Vegas itself is growing. Turning to Macau. We've had, as everyone in the market has had fits and starts there as to the business. But what has been very encouraging over the last month has been the consultation process with the government. It's been open, it's been transparent, it's been productive, and we feel very good about the future of Macau and our position in Macau. Looking at Wynn Interactive. We launched lots of new products this quarter that we're very proud of. We made great progress in Arizona with first-time depositors. And we're seeing good customer feedback and our retention is quite strong. However, the market is really not sustainable right now. Competitors are spending too much to get customers. And the economics are just not something that we're going to participate in, in the short term. So while we built the brand, we launched the product in the third quarter, we're going to be focused on building a long-term business that's sustainable, that is not losing lots and lots of money. So we are shifting our strategy to think about the future, think about the long term, think about cash preservation. And we remain very confident that we'll create significant value for the Wynn Resort shareholders with our digital strategy. With that, I'm going to go ahead and turn it over to Craig. Congratulations, Craig.Craig Billings -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Matt.Matt Maddox -- Chief Executive Officer And I'll let him go through some more details.Craig Billings -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you. Like everyone in the company. I've admired your leadership over the course of the past four years. More than anyone, you know the dedication and talent of the thousands of folks who make up the Wynn team, and I'm honored to have been asked to lead that team. Turning to the quarter. At Wynn Las Vegas, we generated $183.4 million of adjusted property EBITDA on $476 million of operating revenue. Overall, our hotel occupancy reached 83% in the quarter, with 93% occupancy on weekends. Importantly, we stayed true to our luxury brand and have resisted dropping rate with overall ADR reaching $392 during the third quarter of '21, nearly 30% above Q3 2019 levels. Our other non-gaming business saw broad-based strength across F&B and retail, which was also well above pre-pandemic levels. In the casino, our Q3 '21 slot handle was 31% above Q3 2019, and table drop was 18% above Q3 '19, despite still suppressed international play due to COVID-related travel challenges. The team in Las Vegas has done a great job of controlling costs without negatively impacting the guest experience, delivering a record adjusted property EBITDA margin of 38.5% in the quarter. Opex per day was $3 million in Q3 '21, approximately $250,000 per day below Q3 2019 levels despite the 19% increase in revenue. As new high-margin business like groups and convention returned to the property, we expect opex to increase modestly, but we remain committed to maintaining the cost structure that appropriately balances margins and our exacting service standards. In Boston, we generated another record quarter with adjusted property EBITDA of $64.6 million in Q3 on a record EBITDA margin of 33.6%. We remain very disciplined on the cost side there, too with opex per day, excluding a $3 million benefit from a few onetime items of $950,000 in Q3 '21, a decrease of over 25% compared to $1.3 million per day in Q4 '19 and a modest increase relative to 2Q '21. Our Macau operations delivered $10.2 million of EBITDA in the quarter on $312 million of operating revenue, while business in the quarter was challenging due to the evolving COVID situation, we remain disciplined on costs. Our opex, excluding gaming tax and the reversal of certain performance-based incentive accruals in the third quarter was approximately $2.1 million per day. We continue to be well positioned to drive strong operating leverage as the business recovers. Turning to Wynn Interactive. In Q3, the business generated approximately $645 million in total turnover, disproportionately weighted to September. In late August, we launched a number of key product improvements, which have been well received by customers. On a normalized basis, Wynn Interactive is now run rating over $170 million of gross revenue. During the quarter and since, we have achieved several other key milestones for the business, including launching day one in Arizona, where we drove over 26,000 first-time depositors through September 30, securing a number of additional market access agreements, obtaining a license to operate in the state of New York and becoming an official sports betting partner of the NFL. While sports betting remains an exciting, high-growth market and will potentially be a $30 billion to $40 billion TAM over time, the marketplace is proving to be very competitive with multiple operators deploying meaningful marketing dollars, driving high cost per acquisition and significant customer bonus offers. In light of this dynamic, we are intentionally pivoting our approach to scaling, taking a more measured and long-term focus to grow a healthy and sustainable business, as Matt mentioned. Thus, we expect our Q3 and Q4 EBITDA burn, driven heavily by our branding campaign and preopening user acquisition in Arizona will decline materially beginning in Q1 2022, as we focus on cost per acquisition that is commensurate with customer lifetime values. We continue to believe in our team, our product and the longer-term opportunity. And there's certainly a path to grow our business in ways that create value for Wynn Resorts shareholders. But the current combination of large-scale brand spend, performance marketing spend and customer bonuses that we see in the marketplace does not drive unit economics that meet our return requirements. Turning to the balance sheet. Our liquidity position remains very strong with global cash and revolver availability of over $3.7 billion as of September 30. In Macau, we had approximately $1.8 billion of available liquidity as of September 30. And in the U.S., we had total available liquidity of approximately $1.9 billion as of September 30. As previously announced, during the quarter, Wynn Macau, Limited entered into a new $1.5 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility that matures in 2025. The arrangement includes broad participation by our group of supportive existing lenders, including local and international banks. Borrowing under the new facility, along with $200 million of cash on hand, we are used to refinance and retire our existing senior secured credit facility. Finally, our capex in the quarter was $103 million, and we remain prudent with respect to capex, while we gain further confidence in the recovery. As a reminder, we are limited in what we can say about Wynn Interactive due to the live S-4 that we have on file. With that, we'll now open up the call to Q&A. Operator? 