  OperatorGood day. Thank you for standing by, and welcome to WestRock Company third-quarter fiscal 2021 results. [Operator instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Mr. James Armstrong, vice president of investor relations. Sir, please go ahead.James Armstrong -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



 Good morning, and thank you for joining our third-fiscal-quarter 2021 earnings call. We issued our press release this morning and posted the accompanying slide presentation to the investor relations section of our website. They can be accessed at ir.westrock.com or via a link on the application you're using to view this webcast. With me on today's call are WestRock's chief executive officer, David Sewell; our chief financial officer, Ward Dickson; as well as Pat Lindner, president, commercial, innovation and sustainability. Following our prepared comments, we will open the call up for a question-and-answer session. During the course of today's call, we will be making forward-looking statements involving our plans, expectations, estimates and beliefs related to future events. These statements may involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those we discuss during the call. We describe these risks and uncertainties in our filings with the SEC, including our 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020.We will also be referencing non-GAAP financial measures during the call. We have provided a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in the appendix of the slide presentation. As mentioned previously, the slide presentation is available on our website. With that said, I'll now turn it over to you, David. David Sewell -- Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thank you, James, and good morning. I would like to start today with a summary of WestRock's performance in the third quarter, as well as provide some perspective on our progress and the work underway since I joined the company. Then I'll turn it over to Ward, who will provide additional detail on our financial performance and outlook for the remainder of the year. We delivered very strong performance in our fiscal third quarter with demand for fiber-based packaging continuing to be robust. We generated record revenue of $4.8 billion, an increase of 14% year over year. Adjusted segment EBITDA was up 15% to $811 million, and adjusted EPS rose 32% to $1 per share. This was terrific performance in a challenging inflationary environment and positions us well for the future. We had robust sales growth across all of our businesses, with packaging sales up 15% during the quarter. Demand continued to be strong in the key markets we serve, including e-commerce, food, beverage and industrial. North American per day box shipments were up 9% year over year. We are implementing the previously published price increases across our major paper grades. These pricing gains, combined with our volume growth and mix improvements, outpaced inflation and drove 15% adjusted EBITDA growth year over year and adjusted EBITDA margins of 16.8%. We continue to generate strong free cash flows that we used to strengthen our balance sheet while also investing in our business and delivering value to shareholders. Overall, net leverage at the end of Q3 is 2.54 times, down from 3.13 times at our peak. Last quarter, I talked about the key strategic priorities for WestRock: leveraging the power of the enterprise, leading in sustainability, accelerating innovation and executing a disciplined capital allocation program. And I would like to take a minute to walk through some of our progress in each of these areas and our path ahead.

 



 We have been moving quickly in my first four months on the job. During this time, I've continued to visit our facilities and spend time with our customers. These visits have reinforced my belief in the unique opportunity we have to provide value through our broad portfolio of paper and packaging solutions and help our customers meet their most challenging needs for sustainable packaging solutions. We have initiated a detailed review across the business, looking at how to further enhance our focus on attractive end markets where our differentiated portfolio is rewarded. We are still in the early stages of this process but our recently announced team realignment is a significant step forward in fully leveraging the power of our enterprise. We are strengthening our focus on commercial excellence, innovation and sustainability across the enterprise and combining these functions. Bringing these critical activities together provides focus, integration, and alignment to the disciplines that will enable us to grow our company and lead in providing sustainable and innovative solutions for our customers. We are focused on growing our packaging business and maximizing our opportunities across the portfolio. We have combined the former MPS and our food and beverage packaging business into one team, unifying these commercial teams and operations to better serve our customers and maximize the productivity of our global operations. We have also integrated the sales teams across our consumer paperboard and containerboard businesses and combined our consumer and containerboard mills into one system. During the third quarter, we continued to implement our disciplined capital allocation strategy and further strengthened our balance sheet. Over the past three quarters, we've reduced adjusted net debt by $1 billion, raised our dividend by 20% and completed the investments in our strategic capital projects. So what's ahead for WestRock? The WestRock team is relentlessly focused on leveraging the power of the enterprise to improve margins and returns, while continuing to deliver excellent free cash flow. We will invest in our converting systems to support growth in packaging and in our mill system to improve our overall cost structure. These investments will further enhance our packaging capabilities to serve those markets where our customers value our differentiation. This also means working to reduce our exposure to markets where we don't see this potential, such as export containerboard and low-margin SBS businesses. We also remain disciplined in our capital allocation. We are working to ensure the strength and flexibility of our balance sheet as we invest to grow our business. We remain committed to maintaining our investment-grade credit profile and consistently growing our dividend. We will invest in our future through capital projects and tuck-in M&A opportunities that clearly align with our strategy and provide attractive returns on invested capital. And we will make opportunistic share repurchases to return value to shareholders. The significant progress we have made in reducing our leverage ratio provides additional optionality as we consider our capital allocation priorities going forward. We will be balanced in our approach, always seeking to maximize returns, while maintaining the financial strength and flexibility required to execute our strategy. As we strive to lead in sustainability, we announced our commitment to set a science-based target to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. As we work to partner with our customers to improve their sustainability, we are also focused on improving our own. Sustainable fiber-based packaging is critical to realizing the full potential of the circular economy, and we are working to accelerate our innovation pipeline to help our customers meet demand for sustainable packaging. Our new EverGrow product is a great example of leveraging the power of the WestRock enterprise with capabilities that no other packaging company can bring to the customer. This product leverages our design capability, consumer and corrugated packaging and our machinery expertise, and creates a sustainable fiber-based curbside recyclable alternative to plastic produce packaging. It has great shelf appeal, protects the produce and can be recycled into new packaging. You can use the QR code on this page for a closer look at this exciting new packaging. And with that, I'll now ask Ward to provide detail about our financial performance in the third quarter. Ward?Ward Dickson -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, David. We executed well in the third quarter, and our results reflect this. As David mentioned, we generated revenue of $4.8 billion, adjusted segment EBITDA of $811 million and adjusted EPS of $1 per share. These results exceeded the high end of our guidance range we outlined last quarter. Demand was strong with record net sales that increased 14% compared to the prior year. Our revenue grew across all of our businesses, and we continue to focus on improving our business mix. The implementation of published price increases and improved business mix drove $320 million in year-over-year earnings improvement and exceeded cost inflation by more than $100 million. Cost inflation was driven by higher transportation, energy, chemical and recycled fiber costs. Operating costs were higher year over year due to the nonrecurring nature of some of the cost actions taken last year as part of the pandemic action plan. In addition, Q3 was our peak maintenance outage quarter in FY '21. We generated more than $550 million in adjusted free cash flow in the quarter and used the majority of that cash to reduce debt. Our net leverage is approaching the high end of our 2.25 to 2.5 times leverage target. Our packaging businesses continue to grow with sales increasing 15% year over year. This revenue increase is due to both strong demand and the implementation of published price increases. As you can see on this slide, our packaging sales were 71% of our total sales in the third quarter, while paper sales were 29% of total sales. Packaging volumes were up year over year, with strong demand in food and beverage, retail, e-commerce and distribution. Demand in markets such as cosmetics and spirits also improved as global economies continue to recover. External paper sales increased 10%, with price increases more than offsetting lower volumes. We are focused on growing our integrated packaging, domestic containerboard and paperboard businesses. We are also working to reduce our volumes in lower-margin specialty SBS and export containerboard markets. For reference, the combination of the adjusted EBITDA margins in our lower-margin specialty SBS and export containerboard markets is below 10% as compared to WestRock's 16.8% total company average. As we actively manage our mix, we will improve our profitability going forward. We look forward to updating you on our progress. We believe it's important to also discuss our results on a sequential basis to highlight current trends. We reported significant improvement in earnings with revenue up 8.5% and adjusted segment EBITDA up 27% quarter over quarter. Increases in pricing and improved mix enabled us to outpace inflation by approximately $100 million sequentially. While we had the sequential benefit from the ransomware and weather impact in the second quarter, third quarter was our peak maintenance-outage period. Inventories in both of our business segments remained tight. Turning to the segment results. Our corrugated packaging segment reported revenue of $3.2 billion and adjusted segment EBITDA of $557 million. Adjusted EBITDA margins for our North American corrugated business were 19.3% and our Brazil adjusted EBITDA margins were 23.2%. As I mentioned before, demand remains strong across a broad set of end markets. Corrugated box shipments increased 3% sequentially. Sequential cost inflation was driven by higher recycled fiber costs, which were up $22 per ton versus Q2, along with increased transportation, energy and chemical costs. Corrugated packaging, pricing and mix outpaced inflation by $89 million from Q2 to Q3. Inventory levels remained low as we came out of our peak mill outage quarter. We have only 11,000 tons of planned maintenance outage downtime in the fourth quarter. Finally, the Florence mill continues to increase production and operate well, and we expect the mill to be at full-production levels at the end of the fourth fiscal quarter. Demand is very strong in the Brazilian market, and we expect margins to improve in the fourth fiscal quarter as the Tres Barras mill continues to ramp up. Turning to consumer packaging. The segment reported revenue of $1.7 billion and adjusted segment EBITDA of $269 million. Adjusted segment EBITDA margins were 15.5% in the quarter and were up 210 basis points sequentially. Sales mix continues to improve, driven by strong demand in higher-margin food and beverage packaging and paperboard sales. Packaging sales increased in North America, Europe and Asia and paperboard sales were up in all substrates sequentially. Our backlogs remain very strong and are currently at six to seven weeks across our grades. Our mill system performed exceptionally well with strong production and high operating rates. On price/mix, we saw the benefit of the flow-through of published price increases. Our sales mix improved as we sold less pulp and had higher sales of containerboard and CNK from the reconfiguration of our Evadale, Texas mill. In Q3, we produced 44,000 tons of kraft liner and 18,000 tons of CNK at this mill. Cost inflation has increased at higher-than-normal levels throughout the year. Many of our commodity input costs have increased significantly, including OCC, which is up -- July is up $77 per ton since the end of FY '20. However, we have been successful in implementing previously published price increases across our system, which have offset this inflation. In the fiscal third quarter, the spread between price and inflation turned significantly positive. The April containerboard published price increase should be fully implemented in our system at the end of August. We are also implementing published price increases in kraft paper and realizing higher pricing in export containerboard. Consumer price flow-through will continue accelerating into fiscal-year 2022. We generated more than $1.1 billion in adjusted free cash flow in the first three quarters of this fiscal year. Following the KapStone acquisition, our adjusted net debt peaked in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 at $10.5 billion. We've made outstanding progress in reducing this debt quickly and exited the third quarter with $7.9 billion in adjusted net debt. We are quickly approaching the high end of our two and a quarter to two and a half times net leverage target. We continue to reduce debt and strengthen our balance sheet. We recently announced the redemption of $400 million of our senior notes that mature in March of 2022. The redemption will occur in September using cash on hand, which will reduce our debt even further. Turning to fiscal-fourth-quarter guidance. we expect higher prices, stronger volumes, minimal scheduled maintenance downtime and improved productivity. This will be partially offset by sequentially higher recycled fiber, virgin fiber and energy costs. As a result, we expect adjusted segment EBITDA to be in the range of $870 million to $920 million, and adjusted earnings per share in the range of $1.15 to $1.29. And now I'll turn it back over to David. David Sewell -- Chief Executive Officer We have great opportunities to grow our company and improve margins while providing value to our customers, teammates and shareholders. We are making rapid progress on our strategic priorities. First, we are leveraging the power of the enterprise. This quarter, we made several commercial and operational leadership changes that further align our teams to our strategy. This new structure will enhance market alignment, enable greater agility and deliver efficiencies. And we are working to determine how we grow faster in high-value markets and minimize our exposure in export containerboard and low-margin specialty SBS markets. Second, we are striving to lead in sustainability and accelerate innovation. We remain excited about the growing opportunity to partner with our customers to improve the sustainability of their packaging. As I mentioned earlier, we have committed to setting a science-based target to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions and are making excellent progress on the commercialization of our plastic replacement solutions. And finally, we will be disciplined in capital allocation. As we achieve our leverage target, we have more opportunities to utilize our strong cash flows to create shareholder value. The future is bright at WestRock and I want to thank our 50,000 team members for their incredible work. This is a team that is truly committed to solving our customers' most difficult challenges. I'm confident in our ability to successfully achieve our goals. And as we provide differentiated solutions that customers value, we will continue to deliver excellent performance. With our complete and differentiated portfolio, we have multiple levers to create value and grow sales and earnings. We are excited about the opportunities ahead. With that that concludes my prepared remarks. James, we are now ready for Q&A. James Armstrong -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you, David. As a reminder to our audience, to give everybody a chance to ask a question, please limit your question to one with a follow-up, as needed. We'll get to as many as time allows. Operator, may we take our first question?  