  OperatorGood afternoon, and welcome to the Seagen third quarter 2021 financial results conference call. [Operator instructions] Please note this event is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to Peggy Pinkston, vice president of investor relations. Please go ahead.Peg Pinkston -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you, operator, and good afternoon, everyone. I'm pleased to welcome you to Seagen's third quarter 2021 financial results conference call. This afternoon, we issued a press release with our results and the press release and supporting slides are available on our website in the investors section, events and presentations page. Speakers on today's call will be Clay Siegall, president and chief executive officer; Todd Simpson, chief financial officer; Chip Romp, executive vice president, Commercial, U.S.

 



 ; and Roger Dansey, chief medical officer. Following our prepared remarks, we'll open the line for questions. We aim to keep this call to one hour and so ask that you limit yourself to one question to give everyone an opportunity to participate in Q&A during our call today. Today's conference call will include forward-looking statements regarding future or anticipated events and results, including the company's 2021 financial outlook, anticipate [Audio gap] including data readouts, regulatory submissions and approvals.Actual results or developments may differ materially from those projected or implied in these forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause difference include the difficulty in forecasting sales, revenues and expenses, impacts related to the COVID-19 pandemic and the uncertainty associated with the pharmaceutical development and regulatory approval process. More information about the risks and uncertainties faced by Seagen is contained under the caption risk factors included in the company's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2021, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the company's subsequent reports filed with the SEC. And now I'll turn the call over to Clay. Clay Siegall -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Peg. Good afternoon, everybody, and welcome to our third quarter call. We look forward to providing updates today on recent commercial, regulatory and clinical achievements. We reported net product sales of approximately $1 billion for the year to date and $366 million for the third quarter, reflecting growth across our expanded portfolio of approved medicines.

 



 We continue to demonstrate robust financial strength fueled by product sales, royalties and multiple strategic collaborations. Our strong balance sheet allows us to advance and expand our pipeline both internally and through external business development efforts that you will hear more about shortly. Our first strategic priority is to maximize the global potential of our products through exceptional commercial execution, clinical development and strategic partnerships. We've expanded our commercial portfolio from one product to four in less than two years, which is a remarkable achievement by our team. Last month, FDA granted accelerated approval to tisotumab vedotin, or TIVDAK, a tissue factor-targeted antibody drug conjugate, which we are codeveloping with our partner, Genmab. TIVDAK is the first and only FDA-approved ADC for patients with recurrent or metastatic cervical cancer with disease progression on or after chemotherapy. Upon its accelerated approval in September, TIVDAK became Seagen's fourth commercial product and marks an important milestone for women with recurrent or metastatic cervical cancer. We are focused on strong commercial execution and early launch feedback has been positive. We are also conducting a broad clinical development program intended to expand TIVDAK's future potential and support global regulatory applications. Although the initial indication represents a modest market, we have already presented promising data investigating TIVDAK in combination with other therapies in earlier lines of cervical cancer, which may represent important clinical advancements and much larger market opportunities. TUKYSA, our best-in-class HER2 tyrosine kinase inhibitor has become an important option for the treatment of second and later-line HER2-positive breast cancer patients with and without brain metastasis. TUKYSA is approved in 36 countries. And in addition to the U.S., we have commercially launched in Germany, France, Switzerland and Austria. One and a half years after U.S. approval, we are pleased with TUKYSA's, uptake, healthcare provider feedback and inclusion in key treatment guidelines. We continue to engage with European authorities to secure broader reimbursement for TUKYSA, which could take up to two years, depending on the country.

 



 Our strategic collaboration with Merck will help further accelerate TUKYSA's global reach in regions outside of the U.S., Canada and Europe. We believe TUKYSA has broad potential in HER2 cancers. And to that end, we recently completed enrollment in the Phase II MOUNTAINEER trial in advanced HER2-positive metastatic colorectal cancer, which could potentially support registration under FDA's accelerated approval pathway. TUKYSA broad clinical development program also includes evaluation in HER2-positive breast cancer, gastric cancer and other HER2 amplified or mutant tumors. PADCEV is a first-in-class ADC that has quickly become standard of care in previously treated metastatic urothelial cancer. Earlier this year, FDA granted PADCEV a second indication, making it the first and only FDA-approved therapy for patients with locally advanced or metastatic urothelial cancer who have received immunotherapy and cannot receive cisplatin. PADCEV also received regular U.S. approval, enabling us to the impressive overall survival data, a key benefit. We have also been able to leverage with ADCETRIS and TUKYSA. Outside of the U.S., PADCEV recently received approval in Japan, and we and our partner, Astellas, continue to make progress with global regulatory submissions across Europe, Asia Pacific and the Americas. We have positioned PADCEV strategically to benefit from changing urothelial cancer market dynamics, and we are advancing a robust clinical development program. Notably, we recently completed enrollment in Cohort K of the EV-103 trial evaluating PADCEV in combination with KEYTRUDA as first-line treatment in patients with metastatic urothelial cancer who are unable to receive cisplatin-based chemotherapy. The results of this cohort could potentially support registration under FDA's accelerated approval pathway. Lastly, ADCETRIS, the foundation of care in multiple CD30-expressing lymphomas is commercially available in 76 countries, along with our partner, Takeda, and is a key part of our core business. A decade after approval, ADCETRIS maintained solid performance with record quarterly sales and will be featured in multiple abstracts at ASH in December. We continue to progress a comprehensive clinical development program to maximize ADCETRIS' potential to benefit patients. Our second strategic priority is to advance our programs toward securing approvals for new products. In August, we added a late-stage asset to our pipeline through an important license agreement with RemeGen for dacitimab vedotin or DV outside of RemeGen's territory of Asia, excluding Japan and Singapore. DV is a novel ADC and that is active across a broad range of HER2-expressing solid tumors and is being developed as monotherapy and in combination with PD-1 inhibitors. DV has already received conditional approval in China for third-line gastric cancer and their National Medical Products Administration accepted the supplemental biologics license application for second and later lines of metastatic urothelial cancer. The deal represents a strong strategic fit as it harnesses our ADC technology, expertise, development experience and our expanded global infrastructure. These elements will help to maximize DV's potential value and global reach. We believe DV is an important and differentiated asset, and Roger will go into further detail. Our third strategic priority is to expand our deep and diverse early stage pipeline through innovation, encompassing ADCs, immuno-oncology agents, corporate development and strategic partnerships. Importantly, we are submitting at least two INDs for additional ADCs, including those targeting B7-H4 and PD-L1, further bolstering our early stage pipeline. Across our early and late-stage pipeline, we are advancing 13 programs in a range of solid tumors and hematologic malignancies, including four novel programs that are expected to enter the clinic next year. Next, I'll turn the call over to Todd, who will discuss our financial results. Then Chip will provide an update on our commercial performance. After that, Roger will provide further detail on our clinical development activities and pipeline. Todd?Todd Simpson -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Clay, and thanks to everyone for joining us on the call this afternoon. Our financial results reflect significant advances made across the business. Today, I'll summarize our financial results for the third quarter and year to date and then discuss our outlook for the remainder of 2021. Total revenues were $424 million in the third quarter and $1.145 billion for the year to date in 2021. Product sales totaled $366 million in the third quarter, representing 37% growth over the third quarter of last year. This was driven by growth in product sales across our portfolio. In addition, third quarter results for PADCEV included $7 million in sales to another company for a combination clinical trial that they are conducting. Given the growing interest in the use of our drugs in combination settings, we are pleased to see this and wanted to highlight the impact on PADCEV sales growth this quarter. Lastly, TIVDAK was launched late in the quarter, bringing a fourth product to our commercial portfolio. Royalty revenues were $41 million in the third quarter and $105 million for the year to date in 2021. Growth over 2020 reflected increasing sales of ADCETRIS by Takeda as well as higher royalties on sales of Polivy by Roche and BLENREP by GSK. Collaboration revenues were $17 million in the third quarter and $24 million for the year to date in 2021. This included product cost of sales and royalties for each of our brands, the PADCEV gross profit share to Astellas, and noncash amortization of acquired technology costs for TUKYSA. R&D expenses were $459 million in the third quarter and $924 million for the year to date in 2021. These are increases over 2020 as third quarter expenses included the $200 million upfront payment due to RemeGen for the licensing of disitumab vedotin as well as continued investment across our early and late-stage pipeline. SG&A expenses were $180 million in the third quarter and $505 million for the year to date in 2021. These are increases over 2020, reflecting investments to support ongoing TUKYSA launches across Europe and more recently, the launch of TIVDAK in the U.S. I'll now provide several updates to our financial outlook for the remainder of 2021, beginning with product sales. We are increasing our 2021 product sales guidance for all three brands. ADCETRIS sales are now expected to be in the range of $700 million to $710 million, PADCEV in the range of $330 million to $335 million and TUKYSA in the range of $315 million to $325 million. Chip will provide more context on market dynamics later. We are increasing our 2021 guidance for royalty revenues to a range of $140 million to $150 million, primarily reflecting stronger sales of ADCETRIS by Takeda in its territory. And lastly, we are increasing our 2021 collaboration revenue guidance to a range of $25 million to $30 million. Turning now to expenses. We are increasing R&D expense guidance to $1.19 billion to $1.24 billion, primarily as the result of the $200 million upfront amount due under the RemeGen collaboration. We are also increasing our cost of sales guidance to a range of $295 million to $315 million, primarily reflecting higher sales of PADCEV. And lastly, we are narrowing our SG&A guidance to $675 million to $725 million. Noncash expense guidance remains underchanged. We ended the quarter with $2.4 billion in cash and investments. This does not reflect the $200 million payment to RemeGen made in the fourth quarter. Our financial strength allows us to continue investing in our pipeline and business, and we're pleased with the progress so far this year. Now I'll turn the call over to Chip for an overview of our commercial performance.Chip Romp -- Executive Vice President, Commercial U.S. Thank you, Todd. Performance across the commercial portfolio was strong in Q3. ADCETRIS, PADCEV and TUKYSA, all delivered growth in the quarter. And we are pleased with the approval and launch of TIVDAK, our fourth product. ADCETRIS third quarter sales were $185 million, a 13% increase over Q3 2020. We continue to focus on the landmark five-year ECHELON-1 progression-free survival data in frontline Hodgkin lymphoma. These are meaningful data to physicians and patients and solidify the ADCETRIS regimen as the best option for frontline Stage three or four patients. August marked the 10-year anniversary of the first ADCETRIS approval, and I would like to thank the dedicated commercial teams that work diligently to ensure this important product gets to appropriate patients. Moving on to PADCEV. Third quarter sales were $95 million, a 54% increase over the third quarter of 2020. Physician adoption of checkpoint inhibitors for post-platinum maintenance continues to increase, and this has generated more addressable patients for PADCEV. We are also promoting to the additional indication for patients who are ineligible for cisplatin containing chemotherapy and continue to see incremental uptake. Transitioning to TUKYSA. Third quarter sales were $87 million, representing a 104% increase over the third quarter of 2020. This marks our fifth consecutive quarter of sequential growth with contributions from the U.S. and Europe. In patients with brain mets, TUKYSA is the most utilized product in second and later lines in the U.S. With uptake, the demonstrated overall survival benefit from the HER2CLIMB trial, along with favorable clinical guidelines gives us confidence as we seek reimbursement in additional European countries. Finally, we are excited that TIVDAK has launched, and we are pleased with early reaction, continuing to work closely with our partner, Genmab. We are utilizing our well-established support [Audio gap] navigate TIVDAK's eye care requirements. TIVDAK provides an important new medicine for patients in the second and third-line setting, where previous options have typically offered low objective response rates and poor outcomes on TIVDAK as we get further into the launch. Now I'll turn the call over to Roger.Roger Dansey -- Chief Medical Officer Thank you, Chip, and good afternoon, everyone. I'm happy to share recent clinical development updates for our approved medicines and our pipeline. I'll begin my remarks with TIVDAK, which is approved for the treatment of adult patients with recurrent or metastatic cervical cancer with disease progression on or after chemotherapy. Approval was based upon data from the innovative 204 trial as well as other supported studies. A global Phase III trial in cervical cancer, innovaTV 301 is currently enrolling a similar population and is intended to serve as the confirmatory trial in the United States and to support global regulatory applications. Our next goal is to bring TIVDAK into earlier lines of metastatic or recurrent cervical cancer. And for that purpose, we are conducting the innovaTV 205 trial in the first and second line setting. Combination data from innovaTV 205 were recently presented at ESMO. The combination of TIVDAK and carboplatin in the first-line setting resulted in a confirmed overall response rate of 55% with a complete response of 12% and the duration of response of 8.3 months. In the second-line setting, the combination of TIVDAK and KEYTRUDA resulted in an ORR of 38% with a median DOR of 13.8 months. We are encouraged by these data which will inform a TIVDAK-based combination approach for frontline cervical cancer. In addition, the recent accelerated approval of KEYTRUDA in the first-line setting further defines the treatment landscape in which a TIVDAK combination will need to be tested. Turning now to TUKYSA. In the evolving HER2 treatment landscape, we continue to progress our broad development program in breast and GI malignancies as well as other solid tumors. In breast cancer, the Phase III trial, HER2CLIMB-02 is evaluating TUKYSA plus KADCYLA versus KADCYLA alone in the first and second line metastatic setting. As a reminder, this trial is enrolling patients with active brain metastases with similar eligibility to HER2 client. In high-risk adjuvant breast cancer, enrollment continues in the randomized COMPASS HER2 RD trial, which is being run by the Alliance Cooperative Group. This study is evaluating to TUKYSA plus KADCYLA versus KADCYLA alone. In GI cancers, as Clay mentioned, we have completed enrollment in MOUNTAINEER, which is assessing TUKYSA and Herceptin as treatment for patients with advanced HER2-positive colorectal cancer. We anticipate results next year. And if the data are compelling, MOUNTAINEER could potentially support accelerated approval in the United States. Additional studies are evaluating TUKYSA in combination with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in first-line GI cancers as well as in a basket trial for solid tumors with HER2 alterations. Finally, we are conducting a study of TUKYSA in combination with in HER2 for HER2-positive breast cancer. I will turn now to PADCEV, where we remain focused on moving into earlier lines of urothelial cancer. In the first-line metastatic setting, we have completed enrollment of EV-103 Cohort K, which is testing the combination of PADCEV and KEYTRUDA as treatment for patients who are ineligible for cisplatin therapy. This trial is intended to support an application for accelerated approval in the United States, and we expect to report top line results in 2022. We are also enrolling patients into the Phase III EV-302 global trial, which includes both cisplatin eligible and ineligible patients and is assessing PADCEV plus KEYTRUDA compared to platinum-containing chemotherapy. EV-302 is intended to be a confirmatory trial as well as supporting global marketing applications. In muscle invasive bladder cancer, we, together with Astellas and Merck are advancing 2 Phase III trials, both of which are testing PADCEV in combination with KEYTRUDA. The KEYNOTE-B15 or EV304 trial is enrolling cisplatin-eligible patients. And the KEYNOTE-905 or EV-303 trial is enrolling cisplatin ineligible patients. Additionally, we have now opened the EV-104 trial of single-agent PADCEV in non-muscle invasive bladder cancer. In this study, PADCEV administered intravesically in BCG nonresponsive patients. Nectin-4 is highly expressed in this disease state and preclinical data support this as a potential opportunity for PADCEV. We are also evaluating PATV a basket trial of high Nectin-4 expressing solid tumors, including lung, breast, head and neck, gastric and esophageal cancer. This study is enrolling, and we await initial data to inform our next steps. Now on to ADCETRIS. At the upcoming ASH meeting in December, we expect to have several presentations. Notably, we plan to present data for the first time from an ongoing Phase II study assessing ADCETRIS in combination with nivolumab, adriamycin and dacarbazine as frontline treatment for advanced Hodgkin lymphoma. We continue to advance our clinical development program, including ECHELON-3, the Phase III trial in relapsed disuse large B-cell lymphoma, which compares ADCETRIS plus REVLIMID and RITUXAN to REVLIMID and RITUXAN. Our newest entry into late-stage development is acitimab vedotin, which has already received conditional approval as monotherapy in China for gastric cancer, the antibody, which has a high affinity for HER2 and block signaling also demonstrates enhanced internalization when compared with trastuzumab. This is an important characteristic for an antibody drug conjugate. The ADC also delivers our proprietary vedotin payload the same as in our three commercial ADCs. Initial data in metastatic urothelial cancer was impressive and has already garnered breakthrough therapy designation from the FDA. Additionally, PD-1 inhibitor combination data we presented at ASCO this year, demonstrating high response rates, and these will also inform our clinical development plans. We are in active discussions with the FDA on our urothelial cancer development strategy. With regard to breast cancer, our partner RemeGen has generated initial encouraging monotherapy data in HER2 low breast cancer, and we are evaluating the potential here for future development. Turning now to ladiratuzumab vedotin, or LV, which is being developed with our partner, Merck. At ESMO this year, we presented initial efficacy data with a weekly dosing regimen of LV in patients with triple-negative breast cancer. Data demonstrated that weekly LV results in a confirmed ORR of 28% in the second and third-line setting. We continue to evaluate the optimal dose and schedule of LV, both as monotherapy and in combination with KEYTRUDA to optimize efficacy and safety. I'd like to now briefly mention our early stage pipeline. We are advancing seven programs in Phase I clinical trials across a range of solid tumors and hematologic malignancies, including the ADC's SGN-CD228A, B6A and STMV. We expect IND submissions for at least two more novel ADC programs this year, targeting B7-H4 and PD-L1. At SITC in November, we will present posters on these programs, which will highlight robust antitumor activity in preclinical models. We also have four effector function-enhanced antibodies, utilizing our SEA technology, including SEA-CD40, CD70, BCMA and TIGIT. Later this year at ASH, we will be disclosing initial results of SEA-BCMA in subjects with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma. With regard to SEA-CD40, as previously discussed, we completed enrollment of a cohort of patients with pancreatic cancer. We expect to report clinical data from this cohort early next year. We have also initiated a basket trial to assess SEA-CD40 in other solid tumors, including melanoma and non-small cell lung cancer. In closing, we continue to reach important development milestones and make meaningful progress with our pipeline, and we look forward to providing you with further updates on future calls. I'll hand the call now back to Clay.Clay Siegall -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Roger. Seagen has a resilient core business and solid foundation, which fuels our ability to continue expanding and evolving our capabilities, technology and business. Throughout this year, we have achieved multiple important milestones. We have a strong portfolio of approved medicines and a proven commercial engine, which allows us to compete in the global marketplace. We have robust clinical development capabilities and a deep pipeline of tomorrow's potential first and best-in-class therapies. Strategic partnerships, our international infrastructure and substantial financial power enables our ability to develop, advance and launch exceptional oncology therapies. The future for Seagen is exciting, and we remain passionate and committed to improving the lives of cancer patients worldwide. Operator, please open the line for Q&A. 