  OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Qualcomm third-quarter and fiscal 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded, July 28, 2021. The playback number for today's call is 877-660-6853. International callers please dial 201-612-7415. The playback reservation number is 13720943. I would now like to turn the call over to Mauricio Lopez-Hodoyan, vice president of investor relations. Mr. Lopez-Hodoyan, please go ahead.Mauricio Lopez-Hodoyan -- Vice President of Investor Relations Thank you, and good afternoon, everyone. Today's call will include prepared remarks by Cristiano Amon and Akash Palkhiwala. In addition, Alex Rogers and Don Rosenberg will join the question-and-answer session. You can access our earnings release and a slide presentation that accompany this call on our investor relations website. In addition, this call is being webcast on qualcomm.com, and a replay will be available on our website later today. During the call, we will use non-GAAP financial measures as defined in Regulation G, and you can find the related reconciliations to GAAP on our website. We will also make forward-looking statements, including projections and estimates of future events, business or industry trends or business or financial results. Actual events or results could differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements.Please refer to our SEC filings, including our most recent 10-K, which contain important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. And now, to comments from Qualcomm's chief executive officer, Cristiano Amon. Cristiano Amon -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Mauricio, and good afternoon, everyone. Thanks for joining us today. This is an amazing time to be part of Qualcomm. The need for our technologies and products has never been more evident. We are seeing demand across virtually every industry because our products and technologies are essential ingredients that enable digital transformation in the cloud economy. We are leading and expect to continue to lead in mobile. In addition, we also expect to lead the evolution of the connected intelligent edge by transforming connectivity and processing in cars, the enterprise, the home, smart factories, next-generation PCs and tablets, XR, wearables and many more. This is the foundation of our revenue diversification strategy. The strong performance in our business has led to fiscal third-quarter revenues and earnings per share that exceeded the high end of our guidance. Most importantly, we are on track to realize approximately $10 billion in combined revenues across IoT, RF front-end and automotive in fiscal year '21, validating the positive financial impact of our revenue diversification strategy. Let me provide you now with some additional details. The foundation of our IoT strategy is edge connectivity and processing for the growing cloud-based economy. In consumer, we're seeing strong demand driven by a consumer electronics upgrade cycle and growth in emerging product categories such as XR and wearables. In edge networking, we had another great quarter with continued momentum driven by the enterprise transformation of the home and the second wave of enterprise demand driven by return to the workplace. We're also seeing rapid adoption of Wi-Fi 6 and increased demand for both 4G and 5G mobile broadband devices. In industrial, our product offerings are purpose-built for key verticals, such as transportation and logistics, warehousing, video collaboration, smart cameras, retail and more. We are at the forefront of enabling this new ecosystem and also making 5G for industrial applications a reality. We are becoming the connected intelligent edge partner of choice. As demand for automotive solutions increase, we're pleased to report that our automotive revenue design win pipeline has reached approximately $10 billion. And based on our third-quarter results, our annualized automotive revenue run rate is now over $1 billion. This reflects continued traction across global automakers and Tier 1 customers. Our automotive telematics and connectivity platforms, digital cockpit and C-V2X solutions are at the intersection of key automotive industry trends such as the continued growth of connected vehicles, the transformation of the in-car experience and vehicle electrification. As the digital chassis becomes one of the most important assets of automakers, we remain well positioned for continued growth as a leading technology partner for the industry. In RF front-end, we believe we are on track to become the largest smartphone RF front-end supplier by revenue. Looking forward, we expect to have technology leadership across virtually all handset RF front-end components while continue to lead in modem to antenna system performance. Now, I will provide an update on two key drivers for our handset revenues. First, we continue to be positively impacted by the growth in 5G and changing OEM landscape, resulting in the expansion of our addressable handset opportunity. Our Snapdragon 8 series mobile platforms have shown significant design win momentum. More than half of our 5G smartphone design wins to date are using our 8 series and total design wins for Snapdragon 888 increased more than 20% quarter over quarter. We're also seeing strong traction with our Snapdragon 7 series mobile platforms with nearly 40 new devices shipped or announced during this last quarter alone. Based on our design win traction and performance of our customers, we have increased confidence in growing our handset revenues. Snapdragon premium and high-tier solutions remains synonymous with Android flagship mobile experiences. Second, we're still on track to materially improve supply by the end of the calendar year. We're securing incremental capacity across both leading and mature nodes and optimizing the allocation of our products across the global supply chain. We're also making progress with our multi-sourcing initiatives. In fiscal Q3, the Snapdragon 778G, the first of several products from our multi-sourcing initiatives was commercialized in record time and is now shipping in volume. Additional products from our multi-sourcing initiatives will be commercialized in the coming months. I would like to thank our employees, our suppliers and our customers for helping us navigate the challenging supply environment. In our licensing business, our third-quarter results reflect the strength of our patent portfolio and the stability of our licensing program. We are a global 5G IP leader with more than 150 5G license agreements signed to date, up from more than 130 last quarter. We continue to develop and patent new essential innovations for future releases of 5G and we expect 5G to have a longer life cycle than prior generations due to its broad application across multiple industries. I would now like to turn the call over to Akash.Akash Palkhiwala -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Cristiano and good afternoon, everyone. We are pleased to report another exceptional quarter in a challenging environment as we continue to execute on our priorities including 5G adoption, revenue diversification and operating leverage. Our third-quarter results were above the high end of our guidance with non-GAAP revenues of $8 billion and non-GAAP EPS of $1.92. These results reflect 63% year-over-year increase in non-GAAP revenues and more than doubling of EPS, driven by strength across QCT and QTL including a partial recovery from the impact of COVID in the year ago period. QTL revenues of $1.5 billion and EBT margins of 71% were above the midpoint of our guidance. These results reflect the impact of a stronger mix offset by lower-than-expected units in China and India. QCT revenues of $6.5 billion and EBT margins of 28% were above the high end of our guidance. EBT of $1.8 billion nearly tripled versus the year ago period on revenue growth of 70% and 12 points of EBT margin expansion. Handset revenues increased 57% year over year to $3.9 billion, driven by the adoption of 5G products in premium and high-tier devices across all major OEMs. Combined, RF front-end, IoT and automotive revenues accounted for approximately 40% of total QCT revenues within the quarter and grew 1.6x faster than handset revenues year over year. RF front-end revenues of $957 million more than doubled year over year on the strength of our broad product portfolio and customer traction. As a reminder, our RF front-end revenues include power amplifiers, trackers, antenna tuners, filters, diversity and millimeter-wave modules and excludes revenue from RF transceivers. IoT revenues grew 83% year over year to $1.4 billion, an increase of approximately $100 million versus guidance. The outperformance was driven by demand across consumer edge networking and industrial platforms. Automotive revenues of $253 million grew 83% year over year on the adoption of connected cars and expansion of digital cockpit revenues. Our increasing design win pipeline now puts us on track to exceed the 2024 revenue target outlined at the last investor day. Turning to our guidance for handset units and fourth fiscal quarter. For calendar 2021, we're maintaining our forecast for high single-digit growth for global 3G, 4G, 5G handsets, including 450 million to 550 million 5G handsets. Given the strong adoption of 5G in developed regions in China, we have a bias toward the high end of our 5G forecast. In the fourth fiscal quarter, we are forecasting revenues of $8.4 billion to $9.2 billion and non-GAAP EPS of $2.15 to $2.35. In QTL, we expect revenues of $1.45 billion to $1.65 billion and EBT margins of 69% to 73%. In QCT, we expect revenues of $7 billion to $7.5 billion and EBT margins of 29% to 31%. At the midpoint, this implies year-over-year revenue growth of 46% and EBT dollar growth of 114%. The strength of our QCT forecast reflects sequential growth across all revenue streams, including premium and high-tier device launches and operating leverage benefit from extending our mobile technology and investments across IoT and automotive. Lastly, we anticipate non-GAAP combined R&D and SG&A expenses to grow 2% to 3% sequentially. Based on the midpoints of our fourth-quarter guidance, I would like to emphasize some key metrics for fiscal 2021. We expect non-GAAP EPS of $8.24, nearly doubling relative to fiscal 2020. Within QCT, we expect year-over-year revenue growth of $10 billion and operating margin expansion from 17% in fiscal '20 to 28% in fiscal '21. With our continued focus on diversification, we are forecasting RF front-end, IoT and automotive combined revenues to grow from $6 billion in fiscal '20 to $10 billion in fiscal '21. We expect to exit the fiscal year with a strong product road map, expanded design win pipeline and increased customer traction. Before I finish my prepared remarks, I'd like to highlight a couple items. As part of our ongoing ESG efforts, we recently started purchasing 100% renewable solar energy for our San Diego headquarters, which will significantly reduce our annual greenhouse gas emissions. Lastly, we'll be hosting our investor day in New York on November 16, where we will provide an update on our long-term strategy and financial outlook. Thank you, and I'll now turn the call back to Mauricio.Mauricio Lopez-Hodoyan -- Vice President of Investor Relations Thank you, Akash. Operator, we are now ready for questions. 