  OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the UnitedHealth Group first-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are on a listen-only mode. After the speakers' presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator instructions] And now I'd like to introduce your host for today's program, Andrew Witty. Please go ahead, sir.Andrew Witty -- Chief Executive Officer

 



 Good morning, and thank you for joining us to discuss our first-quarter results and positive outlook as we continue to execute on UnitedHealth Group's long-standing mission and strategies. The exceptional dedication of the people of Optum and UnitedHealthcare again defined this period. They've adapted swiftly and creatively to demand in unrapidly changing circumstances, implemented new ideas, and importantly remain focused on serving people exceptionally well. As a result, adjusted earnings per share were $5.31, reflecting strong execution at both UnitedHealthcare and Optum. In light of our strong start to the year, balanced with continued respect for the potential pandemic-related effects we have previously described, we are increasing our full-year adjusted earnings outlook to a range of $18.10 to $18.60 per share. I'll touch briefly on two highlights among many in the quarter that illustrate the increased momentum our colleagues at UnitedHealth Group are driving. People served with our employer and individual offerings grew nearly 100,000 in the quarter. Even within the context of a challenged U.S.employment environment. And this underscores the growing consumer orientation affordability and breadth of our products. Optum inside revenues increased 14% and operating income increased 45% compared to the year-ago period, as more normal activity levels among healthcare system customers returned, leading to expansion in how we help them advance clinical and operational excellence. Significant innovation and automation in the Optum in-site businesses drove strong productivity gains. We have the right capabilities assets and strategies in place and we remain restless to innovate, evolve, and further integrate our offerings to serve more people more effectively both directly and with our many external partners throughout the healthcare environment. To achieve this, we've been sharply in our focus in three key areas. First, delivering even greater value to those we serve throughout the healthcare system by better harnessing the collaborative capabilities of Optum and UnitedHealthcare. We believe we can develop new products and services which support people more effectively by bringing to bear greater application and adoption of the combined offerings of these two distinct and complementary organizations.

 



 OptumCare's work supporting Medicare Advantage patients illustrates this well and I'll speak more to this shortly. The second area of focus increase in the application of our technology and related resources to improve care for people and the operational health systems. There are benefits for everyone in helping to make the healthcare system work more like an actual system. Improving the natural flow accessibility and use of information is essential to that goal, all within a secure and protected framework. We can help care -- we can help care providers and payers better serve patients by more effectively simplifying key administrative processes and by providing timely access to relevant information. The third focus is making healthcare work better for consumers. We're ambitious to meet the rising expectations of healthcare consumers and we will continue to improve our offerings include and in such critical zones as greatly simplified intuitive and satisfying consumer digital experiences and advanced healthcare bank and payment services that enable people to fund, price, and pay for care digitally. You'll hear more -- more from us about these approaches in the months ahead. But today, I'd like to focus on the first unlocking greater value for customers at the intersection of Optum and UnitedHealthcare including through our ability to develop new useful service offerings. One of the most effective ways of doing so is through stronger alignment of the high-quality clinical services of OptumCare to address the needs of patients we serve for our nearly 90 health plan customers. A key foundation is increasing the clinical outcome accountability of our OptumCare practices. Of the 4 million patients who OptumCare serves in some form of accountable arrangement today, 2 million are being served under fully capitated arrangements. And this demonstrates strong growth and progress. But OptumCare served 20 million patients in total, which is one reason why we view the potential of OptumCare as only beginning to be harnessed. These accountable arrangements drive measurably better patient outcomes and experiences all at a lower cost. For example, seniors served by OptumCare physicians under such arrangements spend on average one-third fewer days in the hospital and have 40% fewer days in skilled nursing facilities than seniors in traditional Medicare.

 



 We expect the growth in the number of OptumCare patients served under accountable arrangements to accelerate. A further example of using our combined expertise to advance more beneficial service offerings is the recent opening of a first-of-its-kind Optum-integrated care facility in Riverside County, California. While we have long offered and continue to actively develop our senior-focused clinics, this new clinic and community center offers a comprehensive range of primary care-led services including a pharmacy all under a single roof, and importantly it is especially orientated around supporting Medicaid, Medicare, commercial and individual members of all ages. This comprehensive health center provides improved care access with modern onsite services including annual wellness visits, chronic disease management support, coordinated care with trusted specialists, and laboratory imaging and pharmacy services. The adjacent community center includes a full-service gym and meeting rooms for health education. We see Optum and our payor partners as uniquely positioned to be able to offer these types of impactful venues and look forward to learning from the community and expand in these services. To sum up, we continue to organize and apply the unique capabilities of this organization in ways that enable us to execute on the goals we established for 2021 and beyond and to continue to deliver on our 13% to 16% long-term earnings growth objective. Now, I'll turn it over to our president and chief operating officer, Dirk McMahon, to give more color on initiatives to drive greater performance across the organization. Dirk McMahon -- President and Chief Operating Officer Thanks, Andrew. As Andrew noted, we continue to drive growth by supporting more affordable, simpler quality care across Optum and UnitedHealthcare. These are themes you've heard us cover before and we continue to see the benefits of this approach for people -- for the people we serve. Let me turn those themes into some specific examples across Optum and UnitedHealthcare that illustrate how our approach is working. The first is health. We've been simplifying the consumer experience over the past year. We've driven greater engagement with seniors by increasing the adoption of digital tools. Monthly active users of our digital offerings have risen double digits with similar increases in online transactions. This has led to greater adoption of our digital therapeutic offerings. In the first quarter, high-risk chronic disease patients in our home monitoring program logged over 1.5 million biometric measurements such as glucose level, enabling 99% medication compliance and an NPS of 84%. We've also made it easier for people to get and maintain behavioral health support by expanding traditional and virtual provider networks and combine them with modern digital therapeutic services. Behavioral health needs have increased significantly during the pandemic and as a result, we've seen substantial adoption in our digital behavioral platform that provides on-demand emotional support, logging a rise of over 100% and utilization. Always accompanying our work to simplify healthcare is Optum and UnitedHealthcare's sharp focus on delivering high-quality care. We've talked to you before about the advances we are making to integrate patient-specific health data and plan information directly into the physician's workflow. Clinicians can seek gaps in care and act to close them during the patient's visit and in addition -- during the patient's visit -- in addition to other steps that facilitate more efficient care and better outcomes. We now support over 8 million of these insight-enabled digital interactions each month with rapidly expanding physician adoption. Delivering high-quality care has been central to our response to the COVID pandemic. Our most recent effort to help members access vaccines is a prime example. We launched a vaccine locator tool helping people find and sign up for vaccination. And we've made millions of outbound contact to engage members and help them get the information they need. Lastly, making care more affordable remain central for the people we serve and the health system overall and is essential for increasing access. For instance, through our medication sourcing program, high-cost providers now source drugs at a network specialty pharmacy including OptumRX, or charge market rates only for the drug. Early work on this has generated substantial savings for our customers. Our work to make healthcare simpler higher quality and more affordable drive strong growth for our business. At the end of January for example, UnitedHealthcare was awarded an Oklahoma Soonercare Medicaid contract to serve nearly 200,000 people. Oklahoma previously operated under a fee-for-service program. The award affirms the value we bring the state partners and consumers and reflects our commitment to expand access to care for all Americans. We look forward to working with our new partners in Oklahoma and sharing with you on future calls new examples as our work on simplicity, quality, and affordability continues to create improvements and new growth opportunities. With that, now I'll turn it over to our chief financial officer, John Rex.John Rex -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Dirk. Before I review the performance of our businesses, as in recent quarters, I'd like to provide an update on the care patterns we're seeing as the pandemic continues to evolve. Over the course of the first quarter, total care activity, including COVID-19-related care, ran marginally below seasonal baseline. Pacing of elective care activity through the quarter generally trapped and in opposite directions with the rise in decline of COVID incidence rates, which were much higher in the early part of the quarter than in the latter part. To put this in perspective, February and March showed COVID-related care at about half the level experienced in January. Since the quarter's end, we have again begun to see a rise in COVID-related care, while at this time, not approaching the January level. Outpatient care activity was moderately below seasonal baseline for the full quarter, running in counterpoint to the COVID incidence patterns over the three months and reflecting a well-below average influenza, and respiratory illness season. And total in-patient activity was modestly above seasonal baseline, with over 55,000 COVID-19-related admissions during the quarter compared to 65,000 in the fourth-quarter 2020. Moving to business unit performance. OptumHealth's first-quarter revenue and earnings increased 35% year over year. Revenue per consumer served grew 31% over the year-ago quarter. The growth in this metric continues to reflect the expanding number of people served under value-based care arrangements and the increasing acuity of the care services we offer. OptumInsight's revenue grew 14% in the quarter and earnings 45%, due to growth in our services and technology offerings and improved productivity. The revenue backlog at $20.8 billion grew $1.6 billion over the first quarter 2020, as more normalized business activity started to return among our provider and payer customers. OptumRx revenue and earnings were relatively consistent year over year and in line with our expectations. Adjusted scripts declined modestly from the year-ago quarter, a period during which we provided advanced medications to the people we serve as the pandemic began. Pharmacy care and specialty services continue to grow strongly, in particular, home infusion, and our community behavioral health pharmacies. Turning to UnitedHealthcare. First-quarter operating results reflected strong execution and continued membership growth. In addition to the growth in commercial and Medicare Advantage offerings noted earlier, people served in managed Medicaid programs grew by nearly 1.1 million over the year-ago quarter. Of the 900,000 new seniors we expect to serve within Medicare Advantage this year, about 775,000 are in individual and group, and 125,000 in dual special needs offering. Of importance to the senior customers we serve, our house calls clinicians have been considerably more able compared to this time last year to provide their vital services. We conducted nearly 600,000 home visits in the quarter as more seniors and caregivers were vaccinated and comfortable having in-person visit. That's up by a third compared to first-quarter 2020 and about four times higher than what was achieved in the second-quarter 2020. Our liquidity and capital positions remain strong, with first-quarter cash flows from operations at $6 billion or 1.2 times net income. As we look forward toward the combination with Change Healthcare, we intend to maintain our long-standing capital policy. These include our approach to returning capital to shareholders via share repurchase and an advancing dividend, with ample capacity to continue building upon our strategic growth platform. We now expect adjusted earnings per share in the range of $18.10 to $18.60, an increase of $0.35 from the outlook we offered at our investor conference. This outlook continues to include an estimated $1.80 per share of unfavorable COVID-19-related effects. The substantial majority of which we still expect to occur in the latter part of the year, largely as carriers more freely able to be delivered to people. Now I'll turn it back to Andrew.Andrew Witty -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, John. The story you heard about this quarter is the story you've heard for many years, and will continue to do so about UnitedHealth Group, a focus on better serving people and organizations in healthcare, using the combined capabilities of Optum and UnitedHealthcare to improve care, cost, and experience, and an unwavering attention to executional excellence in all that we do. Operator, let's open it up for questions. One per caller, please. 