
OperatorGood morning and welcome to Newmont's Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to Eric Colby, Vice President of Investor Relations and Communications. Please go ahead.Eric Colby -- Vice President of Investor Relations and CommunicationsGood morning and thank you for joining Newmont's Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. Today we have Tom Palmer, Rob Atkinson, and Nancy Buese. They will be available to answer questions at the end of the call, along with other members of our executive team. Please note our cautionary statement on Slide 2 and refer to our SEC filings, which can be found on our website.

 



I'll now turn it over to Tom, on Slide 3.Tom Palmer -- President & Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Eric. Good morning and thank you all for joining our call. In May, Newmont celebrated its 100th birthday, marking a major milestone in our Company's long history of creating value and improving lives through sustainable and responsible mining. And while our organization has certainly evolved, our strategy remains clear. We are focused on delivering value to all of our stakeholders from our world-class portfolio of long-life, responsibly managed assets located in the best gold mining jurisdictions. Turning to Slide 4 for a summary of our quarterly performance. During the second quarter, Newmont produced 1.45 million ounces of gold and over 300,000 gold equivalent ounces from copper, silver, lead, and zinc, as we build momentum for a strong second half of the year.We generated operating cash flow of nearly $1 billion and free cash flow of $578 million, of which 97% is attributable to Newmont. In May, we completed the acquisition of GT Gold, consolidating our position in the highly prospective Golden Triangle District of British Columbia. And last week, we announced the approval of our Ahafo North project, expanding our existing footprint in Ghana and adding more than 3 million ounces of gold production, over a 13-year mine life. This project is expected to deliver an internal rate of return of over 30% at current gold prices, and offers exciting exploration opportunities throughout the land package. Supported by our leading portfolio of operations and projects, we continue to apply a disciplined approach to our capital allocation priorities. Even after the redemption of our 2021 senior notes in April and the completion of the GT Gold acquisition, we have $7.6 billion in total liquidity. We have sustained a net debt to EBITDA ratio of 0.2 times, maintaining our financial flexibility, while we continue to reinvest in our business and return cash to our shareholders.

 



Yesterday, we declared a second-quarter dividend of $0.55, maintaining an industry-leading dividend yield of over 3.5%. Second [Phonetic] in our established framework, our second-quarter dividend demonstrates our confidence in the strength of both our portfolio and our operating model to generate sustainable long-term value. In June, we published two important ESG focus reports that touched every part of our business and operations. The first, with our 17th Annual Sustainability Report, which continues to provide a transparent and detailed look at our ESG performance, focusing on the issues and metrics that matter most to our stakeholders. /The second was our first Climate Strategy Report which focuses on our approach to achieving our science-based climate targets and aligns with the reporting guidelines from the task force on climate-related financial disclosures. These reports outline the key sustainability strategies that are embedded in our business and our culture at Newmont.Turning to Slide 5. Newmont is broadly recognized for our robust and disciplined practices when it comes to sustainability reporting, both within our sector and among all corporate reporters. And our long history of taking a leading approach to environmental, social, and governance practices, has positioned us as the gold sector's recognized sustainability leader. Newmont's strong ESG performance creates long-term value for our stakeholders. And drives the period [Technical Issues] results through delivering labor, more efficient and reliable operations, greater productivity from well-managed resources, the ability to operate effectively in a broad range of jurisdictions, a proactive approach to managing risks and emerging issues, and most importantly, a reputation built on trust-based relationships, and a track record of delivering on our commitments. Earlier this month, we hosted a webcast to provide an overview of our ESG journey. What we have done well, where we have learned lessons and our plans to continued improvement. If you weren't able to join us, I would advise you to listen to the replay, which is posted on our website.Turning now to Slide 6. Newmont is the world's leading gold producer with an unmatched portfolio of world-class long-life operations. Among our 12 operating mines and two joint ventures, we have nine world-class assets, each of which delivers more than 500,000 gold equivalent ounces per year, and all-in sustaining cost of less than $900 per ounce, and with a mine life exceeding 10 years. And we believe that where we choose to operate matters. It is important to note that all of our world-class assets are located in top tier jurisdictions that we define as countries classified in the A and B ratings ranges by each of Moody's, S&P and Fitch. Newmont has the best portfolio of assets located in the most favorable gold mining jurisdictions, that when coupled with the quality of our people and our integrated operating model, positions us to generate sustainable returns for decades to come.Turning to Slide 7. Our portfolio will produce steady gold production of more than 6 million ounces per year through until at least 2030, balanced across each of our four regions. This profile is further enhanced by the production of more than 1 million gold equivalent ounces from silver, latent zinc at Penasquito, and copper at Boddington and Yanacocha. Combined we will deliver nearly 8 million gold equivalent ounces per year for the next decade, the most of any company in our industry. Moving to Slide 8. Our project pipeline is unmatched in the gold industry and is one of the best in the mining industry. There is significant value to unlock as we optimize and advance our longer-term projects and lay the pathway for steady production and cash flow well into the 2040s. We continue to advance our mid-term projects, including Yanacocha Sulfides, where we are preparing for a full funds approval in December of this year, with a multi-decade mine life that provides exposure to gold, copper, and silver. The Sulfides project generates profitable production and offers additional upside to extend mine life at this cornerstone asset. We are also executing the second expansion project at Tanami, through the development of a 1.6-kilometer deep production shaft and supporting infrastructure, this project supports the site's future as a long-life and low-cost producer, and it also provides a platform for us to further explore a prolific mineral endowment in the Tanami district.

 



And as mentioned previously, we are pleased to announce that funding for the development of the Ahafo North has been approved, and this project has now advanced into the execution phase. Turning to the next slide for some more detail. Earlier this month, our Board of Directors approved full funding for the Ahafo North project, expanding our existing footprint in Ghana and adding more than 3 million ounces of gold production over an initial 13-year mine life. Located approximately 30 kilometers north of our existing Ahafo South operations, the Ahafo North project will include four open-pit mines, and the construction of a stand-alone mill to produce approximately 300,000 ounces per year, at very attractive all-in sustaining costs. The project is expected to deliver an internal rate of return of about 30% [Phonetic] of current gold prices. Ahafo North is a significant gold mine by any measure. We have conducted extensive regulatory and community engagements, including meetings with traditional leaders and local government agencies, and public forums to ensure that we earn and maintain social acceptance throughout Ahafo North's lifecycle. We will work to create lasting value for host communities through enhanced local sourcing and hiring. One key aspect of the Ahafo North is our workforce planning, which includes a target to achieve gender parity in the workforce when operations begin. We are very excited about progressing Ahafo North and look forward to bringing you updates as we develop this new mine over the next two years.Turning to Slide 10. The global pandemic has and will continue to challenge all of us for some time to come. And our commitment to protect the health and safety of our workforce and host communities remains our top priority. We believe that the COVID-19 vaccine is critical in combating the spread of the virus. We are encouraging our workforce to get vaccinated as soon as they become eligible and we are working with our local communities and host governments to improve availability and deployment at all of our managed operations. These efforts are supported by our Global Community Support Fund, which is seeking to help with vaccine rollout, vaccine education, and awareness campaigns. We are seeing some of the higher speculation rates in the United States and Canada, largely due to the widespread and early availability in those countries. But until the vaccine is available to everyone around the world, our people and operations will continue to be affected by this virus. And recent outbreaks have shown just how difficult this pandemic continues to be, testing our protocols and the resilience of our people and systems.The impacts of the pandemic are also driving cost inflation around the globe. We are now expecting cost escalation of around 3% to 5% for materials, energy, and labor. And we expect these pressures to continue through until at least at the end of next year. We are currently working on our 2022 business plan. I'm sure that the higher cost through inflation and the application of our wide-ranging controls and safety protocols built into our assumptions going forward. However, despite the impacts from COVID, we remain in line with our guidance ranges. As a reminder, our guidance range is a plus or minus 5% from the midpoints we published in December 2020. We are on track to achieve the midpoint allowing for production and the midpoint to high-end for costs. Production remains back-half weighted for the year, with approximately 53% expected in the second half of the year. As a reminder, our cost guidance assumes a $1,200 gold price. At today's gold prices, you can expect an additional $20 to $30 per ounce for production taxes and royalties.As we look ahead, toward the second half of this year, we will remain diligent in supporting the vaccination efforts that is so urgently needed around the world. And we encourage everyone to get their vaccine as soon as they're eligible, ensuring that we are all doing our part to end this global pandemic.And with that, I'll turn it over to Rob Atkinson for a more detailed look at our global projects and operations. Over to you, Rob.Rob Atkinson -- Chief Operating OfficerThanks, Tom. Turning to Slide 12, I'll give an update on our regional performance starting with Africa. Akyem delivered another strong performance during the second quarter as higher ore grades from changes in sequencing, largely offset more tons mined due to challenges with some [Phonetic] availability. The site is well-positioned to deliver solid production throughout the year, expecting to reach its highest production during the fourth quarter. Ahafo continues to be a solid contributor delivering higher grade material from our underground operations to offset unplanned mill maintenance and power outages. At Subika, we continued to progress the development of our new underground mining method, sub-level shrinkage. And we expect to see steady increases in grade and underground ore tons mined in the second half of the year. In addition, we expect to reach higher ore grades from the open pit operations in quarter three and quarter four, positioning Ahafo to deliver a strong finish to 2021. And as for finalizing the permitting process with the Ghanaian ETA [Phonetic], our Board of Directors approved full funding of the Ahafo North project earlier this month. Spending will ramp up in the second half of the year and all critical path equipment orders have been placed in support of initial construction activities to ensure timely execution of the project. The development of this prolific ore body will leverage our proven operating model, with the project and resulting mine receiving functional and technical support from our existing world-class Ahafo South operation as we create the next generation of mining in Ghana.Turning to Slide 13. Tanami delivered solid results in the second quarter as higher ore grades more than offset unplanned mill maintenance and longer haul distances from the bottom of the mine. In late June, we detected our first positive COVID case at Tanami working closely with government representatives and other key stakeholders, we rapidly made the decision to place the site on clear maintenance beginning on June 26 to reduce the spread of the virus and protect the health of our workforce and communities right across Australia. I'd like to thank our team in Australia for their rapid response and courageous decisions during such an extraordinary and dynamic face of [Phonetic] circumstances. And I'm proud of the resilience and strength of our workforce as we continue to learn from and manage the impacts and consequences of this virus. Although our second quarter was largely unaffected, we are forecasting a 40,000-ounce to 50,000-ounce impact for the remainder of the year as a result of the care and maintenance period. We began ramping up out of care and maintenance on July 13, and today Tanami is now operating at 90%. And despite the impacts from COVID, we continue to advance Tanami Expansion 2. During the second quarter, we progressed the hoist structure and our work on the mine shaft, remaining on track to deliver significant ounce, cost, and efficiency improvements in the first half of 2024.Boddington achieved near-record quarterly mill performance, reaching nearly 11 million tons processed during the second quarter. And we continue to expand the use of the gold industry's first autonomous haul fleet. And today we are operating 20 trucks in the South Pit and we remain on track to deploy the entire fleet of 36 trucks, by the end of quarter three. The efficiencies from the Autonomous Haulage coupled with improved performance from the mill will continue to drive performance at Boddington. The improved mill performance helped to offset more tons mined from ongoing shovel reliability and geotechnical challenges in the South Pit which has the potential to impact our ability to reach as much of the higher grades as we have planned in the second half of the year.Turning to Slide 14. Penasquito delivered another consistent quarter as we continue to execute on our plan for potential enhancement. And the most recent improvements in metal recovery rates will continue to support planned delivery into the future. The work we've done to optimize Penasquito since we acquired the site in 2019, demonstrates our ability to successfully operate and enhance value at large, complex open-pit mines. The site is well-positioned to remain a strong performer throughout 2021 as we continue to realize higher than planned tons mined and improve recoveries in the Pyrite Leach plant. CC&V delivered lower tons mined due to unplanned fleet maintenance and the site continued to experience geochemistry challenges during the second quarter, resulting in lower grades and recovery. Mill performance was offset by higher leach pad recoveries and grade improvements are expected during the second half of the year, helping to partially overcome some of the challenges experienced in the first quarter and second quarter.At Porcupine, mill and ongoing equipment maintenance has resulted in lower tons mined and processed during the quarter. As we look toward the second half of the year, we expect underground development and grades will improve. And last month, our Full Potential program identified 20 initiatives at Porcupine, which will deliver efficiency improvements in the coming months. As mentioned previously, we continue to closely monitor the impacts from COVID at Musselwhite. In April, we made the decision to temporarily suspend operations for five days to reduce spread via virus, resulting in mill stoppages, reduced underground development, and more personnel at site in late April and early May.We expect that these challenges will persist in the second half of the year and we are continuing our full potential work at Musselwhite, focused on increasing development rates and driving productivity. Eleonore delivered another strong quarter as development rates and mill throughput continued to improve over the prior quarter and prior year, offsetting the impact of lower personnel at site due to COVID. In addition, the site continues to increase the use of tele-remote mucking equipment which has helped to increase tons mined and drawing [Phonetic] important improvements to safety and efficiency. Eleonore will continue to be a solid contributor during 2021 as we expect to sustain consistent production from stable tons mined and processed throughout the year.Turning to Slide 15. Despite heavy rainfall in the second quarter, Merian remains a strong performer in the South American region. The site continues to utilize an ore blending strategy to optimize mill performance. And during the second quarter, Merian delivered lower throughput as the site focused on processing harder, higher-grade ore. In the second half of the year, Merian will continue to transition from softer saprolite to harder ore, resulting in higher production from improved grades and steady throughput. Cerro Negro continues to improve productivity and performance as the site continues to manage through [Phonetic] the evolving pandemic. During the second quarter, Cerro Negro delivered higher ore grades and despite reduced personnel from COVID, the site continues to increase ore tons mined and processed, each quarter. Due to the pandemic, Cerro Negro has delivered low development rates over the past year, limiting access to higher-grade ore in the late 2021 and into 2022. However, the site is progressing future growth projects such as the development of San Marcos and exploration in Eastern District.Yanacocha has also experienced significant challenges due to the pandemic, impacting productivity through the year. Yet, despite the challenges from the virus, Yanacocha delivered higher grades and recovery from the leach pads, in addition to an increase in grades and more tons mined from the Carachugo open pit. As we look toward the second half of the year, in Yanacocha, we'll focus on optimal ore placement in the Leach plants, as the safest transition to Leach-only operations ahead of the development of Yanacocha Sulfides. The Yanacocha Sulfides project has the potential to expand Yanacocha's world-class operations well beyond 2040, adding profitable production from one of the largest and most prolific gold districts in South America for decades to come. And despite potential impacts from the elections in Peru and the impacts of COVID, the project is progressing well. The team there is focused on critical path activities such as advanced engineering and procurement, as we prepare for full funds approval in December of this year.And with that, I'll hand it over to Nancy, on Slide 16.Nancy Buese -- Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Rob. Turning to Slide 17 for the financial highlights. Newmont delivered strong performance in the second quarter, with over $3 billion in revenue, an increase of $700 million from the prior year quarter, driven by higher sales volumes and metal prices. Adjusted net income of $670 million or $0.03 per diluted share. Adjusted EBITDA of nearly $1.6 billion, an increase of over 60% in the prior-year quarter. And strong free cash flow of $578 million, also an increase of about 50% from Q2 of 2020. Yesterday, we declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.55 per share. An increase of $0.30 or 120% over the prior-year quarter. With a yield of over 3.5% at our current share price, Newmont is among the top 10% of the S&P's large-cap dividend payers. Turning to Slide 18 for a review of our adjusted earnings per share in more detail. Second-quarter GAAP net income from continuing operations was $640 million or $0.80 per share. Adjustments included $0.03 related to the unrealized mark-to-market gains on equity investments. $0.02 related to reclamation and remediation adjustments at historical mining site, $0.02 related to tax adjustments and valuation allowance, and $0.02 of other charges. Taking these adjustments into account, we reported second-quarter adjusted net income of $0.83 per diluted share, an increase of almost 160% or $0.51 over the prior-year quarter.As a reminder, due to our status as a US GAAP filer, our adjustments to net income do not include $19 million of incremental costs incurred this quarter as a result of the COVID pandemic. Adjusting for these costs would have resulted in approximately $0.02 of additional net income per share in the second quarter and we expect these costs to continue throughout the year as we prioritize the health and safety of our workforce and local communities. Turning now to Slide 19. Under our conservative $1,200 gold price assumption, Newmont expects to generate $3.5 billion of attributable free cash flow over a five-year period. In addition, for every $100 increase in gold prices above our base assumption, Newmont delivers $400 million of incremental attributable free cash flow per year. Newmont is the only company in the gold mining industry with the ability to generate these levels of attributable free cash flow, allowing us to balance steady reinvestment in the business, continue to strengthen our balance sheet, and also provide superior shareholder returns through our industry-leading dividend framework and opportunistic share buybacks.Turning to Slide 20 for more about our dividend. Our dividend framework provides shareholders with a stable, safe annualized dividend of $1 per share at its $1,200 gold price, along with the potential to receive 40% to 60% of the incremental attributable free cash flow generated at gold prices above our plan. We will continue to review our dividend each quarter with management and our Board, evaluating our operational and financial performance and outlook, semiannually, to give us maximum flexibility in determining our dividend within the framework. The dividend declared yesterday was consistent with our first quarter dividend calibrated at an $1,800 gold price assumption and a 40% distribution of incremental free cash flow. Our second-quarter dividend demonstrates our confidence in our future outlook and our ability to maintain capital discipline.Turning to Slide 21. We continue to drive the business with our clear capital allocation priorities, which include reinvesting in our business through disciplined investments in exploration and organic growth projects, maintaining our financial strength and flexibility, and returning cash to shareholders. During the second quarter, we delivered on each of these priorities by progressing our profitable reinvestment in the business, particularly with the execution of the Tanami expansion, the approval of Ahafo North, and the advancement in Yanacocha Sulfides, investing in exploration with 55 drill rigs working around the globe, completing the GT Gold Transaction in May of this year, maintaining our industry-leading dividend established within our framework to provide stable and predictable returns, repurchasing 2.4 million shares, translating to approximately $150 million of our $1 billion share buyback program, and maintaining a strong balance sheet with a net debt to EBITDA ratio of 0.2 times, giving us the flexibility to reduce our debt outstanding by $550 million with available cash and still maintain cash balances of $4.6 billion at the end of the quarter.We are confident in our ability to continue delivering strong results and free cash flow to maintain our disciplined approach to capital allocation. The progress we made in the first quarter and second quarter enables Newmont to return over $1 billion to shareholders in the first half of this year, while we continue to reinvest in our business and support our operations with a strong and flexible balance sheet.With that, I'll hand it back to Tom, on Slide 22.Tom Palmer -- President & Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Nancy. And I'll wrap it up on Slide 23. I'm privileged to lead an organization with a proven track record and a long history of value creation. Capitalizing on the strength of our people, assets, and integrated operating model, Newmont is well-positioned to lead the industry with our commitment to create value and improve lives through sustainable and responsible mining. As our Company moves into its next 100 years, we remain focused on delivering value to all of our stakeholders from our world-class portfolio of long-life, responsibly managed assets, located in top-tier jurisdictions.With that, I'll turn it over to the operator to open the line for questions.