  OperatorGood morning. My name is Madison, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Biogen fourth quarter earnings call and financial update. [Operator instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Michael Hencke, head of investor relations. Mr. Hencke, you may begin your conference. Michael Hencke -- Head of Investor Relations Good morning, and welcome to Biogen's fourth quarter 2021 earnings call. Before we begin, I encourage everyone to go to the Investors section of biogen.com to find the earnings release and related financial tables, including our GAAP financial measures and a reconciliation of the GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures, that we will discuss today. Our GAAP financials are provided in Tables 1 and 2, and Table 4 includes a reconciliation of our GAAP to non-GAAP financial results. We believe non-GAAP financial results better represent the ongoing economics of our business and reflect how we manage the business internally. We have also posted slides on our website that follow the discussions related to this call. I would like to point out that we will be making forward-looking statements, which are based on our current expectations and beliefs. These statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, and our actual results may differ materially. I encourage you to consult the risk factors discussed in our SEC filings for additional detail.Today, we will be discussing Aduhelm. Aduhelm is indicated for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. Treatment with Aduhelm should be initiated in patients with mild cognitive impairment or mild dementia stage of disease, the population in which treatment was initiated in clinical trials. There are no safety or effectiveness data on initiating treatment at earlier or later stages of the disease then were studied. This indication is approved under accelerated approval based on reduction in amyloid-beta plaques observed in patients treated with Aduhelm. Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification of clinical benefit in a confirmatory trial or trials. Aduhelm can cause serious side effects, including amyloid-related imaging abnormalities, or ARIA. ARIA is a common side effect that does not usually cause any symptoms but can be serious. Aduhelm can cause serious allergic reactions. The most common side effects include ARIA, headache, and falls. Please see full prescribing information and patient medication guide at aduhelm.com. On today's call, I am joined by our chief executive officer, Michel Vounatsos; Dr. Priya Singhal, interim head of research and development; and our CFO, Mike McDonnell. We will also be joined for the Q&A portion of our call by Alisha Alaimo, president of our U.S. organization. [Operator instructions] I will now turn the call over to Michel. Michel Vounatsos -- Chief Executive Officer Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us. I will start by briefly reviewing our financial performance, and Mike will provide more details. For the fourth quarter, Biogen generated approximately $2.7 billion in revenue, representing a decrease of 4% year over year as we continued to experience the erosion of Tecifidera revenue in the U.S. due to the impact of generic entry. Fourth quarter 2021 non-GAAP earnings were $3.39 a share. We believe this performance reinforces Biogen's ability to execute well. However, given a number of challenges we have faced recently, we announced that we will implement cost reduction measures, which are expected to yield approximately $500 million in annualized savings, and Mike will provide additional details. Let me now say a few words regarding the proposed National Coverage Determination, or NCD, for the class of monoclonal antibodies directed against amyloid for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. As currently written, the proposed NCD calls for coverage with evidence development or a CED, which will provide reimbursement only for Medicare beneficiaries enrolled in an approved randomized controlled trial. In reaching this proposed recommendation, the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, highlighted three key areas of focus for this class of therapies, all of which have implications for Aduhelm. First, CMS believes there are gaps in the data on the clinical benefit of these therapies. Second, CMS believes more information is needed about the potential risks of removing amyloid, principally ARIA. And third, CMS would like additional data to be generated on the underrepresented communities in which Alzheimer's disease is more prevalent. These are also areas of focus for Biogen with many important initiatives already underway. We have committed to constructive engagement with CMS to address their concerns, and we agree with CMS that additional data may be helpful to continue to characterize the benefit-risk profile for this class of therapies. Now that Aduhelm is approved by the FDA, we believe the most helpful data generation can really only be generated from greater drug utilization in real-world practice. We also agree with CMS that the final NCD decision should not lead to a duplication of ongoing activities. As currently postured, however, we believe the proposed CED requirements will be prohibitive for patients, overly burdensome, costly to companies, and duplicative of the data that will be generated from ongoing trials and the FDA's existing required post-marketing requirements. We believe the best way to address the concerns of CMS is to supplement the data from the Aduhelm Phase 3 studies. We generated data over 3,000 patients by taking a multipronged approach, leveraging the IV confirmatory study, ENVISION; our EMBARK redosing study, which has enrolled approximately 1,700 patients; the ongoing ICARE AD registry; the ongoing Phase 3 studies of other antibodies in the class; and other ongoing and anticipated real-world data generation efforts. We believe this extensive data generation opportunity will adequately address any open question regarding the clinical efficacy and safety of amyloid-beta lowering therapies. On this note, we expect to begin patient screening for the ENVISION study in May of this year with the primary completion date anticipated approximately four years later. This is expected to be a global placebo-controlled trial aiming to enroll 1,500 patients with MCI due to Alzheimer's disease or mild Alzheimer's disease with confirmation of amyloid-beta pathology. The planned primary end point will be CDR-Sum of Boxes at 18 months, with a planned long-term extension for up to 48 months. We believe this study, combined with the other studies I mentioned, should address the questions raised by CMS. Therefore, we will continue to advocate for an NCD that provides rapid and equitable patient access by providing coverage only for the patients identified as most appropriate for treatment in our FDA-approved label, which generally aligns to our Phase 3 clinical trial population. We also believe this multipronged approach will allow for more equal access in all communities. We have concerns that the restrictions of the proposed CED would unfairly exclude access for patients in underserved communities and geographically remote areas. In contrast, we expect both ENVISION and our ICARE AD registry, which seeks to enroll up to 6,000 participants, to obtain more representative data from those communities by aiming to enroll 16% to 18% of U.S. participants from Black and Hispanic population. In summary, we will advocate for a final CED that strikes a better balance between patient access for an FDA-approved therapy today and the desire for additional data that can only be gathered over time and with higher levels of drug utilization in the real world. We look forward to discussing this consideration with CMS and working toward a final decision that is in the best interest of patients. Beyond the NCD last quarter, we presented additional data from the Aduhelm Phase 3 clinical trial showing the effect on downstream tau Alzheimer's biology and the correlation between plasma p-tau reduction and less cognitive and functional decline. In addition, we published the Phase 3 ARIA findings in JAMA Neurology. As we look forward, we aim to expand both within and beyond neuroscience with a focus on four pillars to drive growth and value creation. First, we intend as a company to build on our strong foundation in neuroscience, where we currently have 26 programs in clinical development. Second, we have what we believe to be two compelling Phase 3 programs in lupus. This is a therapeutic area with a different risk profile, and we are continuing to evaluate additional opportunities in specialized immunology. Third, over the last several years, we have also built a very successful new business with our biosimilars. We recently announced an agreement to sell our stake in the Samsung Bioepis joint venture to Samsung Biologics, with Biogen remaining in our current role as the commercialization partner for the Samsung Bioepis anti-TNF portfolio and ophthalmology programs. We currently anticipate that this transaction will close in mid-2022. Once closed, going forward, we will have an expanded ability to pursue the biosimilars business on our own as we aim to bring more biosimilar products to more patients in more geographies. Mike will provide more details. And lastly, we are also focused on accelerating our efforts in digital health to support our commercial and pipeline programs while also creating opportunities for potential digital therapeutics. To this point, we have built a dedicated digital health portfolio, which includes the recently announced new collaboration with TheraPanacea with the aim of leveraging our significant database, but also machine learning, artificial intelligence to develop digital health solution that may improve patient care, accelerate drug development and further the understanding of underlying pathologies. Our progress across these four pillars provides us with the potential for two future waves of growth as we launch in new therapeutic areas and build new franchises. First, over the next few years, we believe we have a significant potential in Alzheimer's disease and depression, two large therapeutic areas with significant and unmet needs. In Alzheimer's disease, we have a deep pipeline of clinical and preclinical assets leveraging multiple modalities and targets, including both amyloid and tau. With Aduhelm and lecanemab, Biogen and Eisai have two out of the four potential anti-amyloid antibody therapies that are either approved or in late-stage development. In depression, we are collaborating with Sage Therapeutics on zuranolone, which we believe has the potential to provide a valuable new option for patients suffering from major depressive disorder and postpartum depression. We believe our second future waves of growth anticipated in the mid- to late 2020s will be driven by a number of diverse therapeutic areas, including stroke, Parkinson's disease, and lupus, with some of these programs already in Phase 3. These anticipated future waves of growth will be supported by our diversified pipeline, which today, includes 32 clinical programs, 10 of which are in Phase 3 or filed. Additionally, outside of our core business, we are pleased to have recently exercised an option for mosunetuzumab, a late-stage investigational bispecific antibody targeting CD20 and CD3 in development by Genentech for oncology and potentially other indications. Exercise of this option will provide Biogen with a profit share, while Genentech will lead strategy and implementation with an expected FDA filing in the near future. This builds on Biogen and Genentech's long history of productive collaboration, which began with rituximab. Our focus in 2022 will remain on execution and agility as we expect a number of important milestones. This includes the continued launch of Aduhelm in the U.S., the launch of Vumerity in the EU, and our expected entry into the U.S. biosimilars market with BYOOVIZ. We expect five data readouts, three of which are in Phase 3; and the completion of three regulatory filings in Alzheimer's disease, depression, and biosimilars. Before I turn the call over to Priya for an update on our progress in R&D, I want to first say how impressed I am by what I have seen from Priya, both as the Head of Safety and Regulatory Science and most recently as our acting head of R&D. Her ability to lead, her strategic thinking and her subject matter expertise give me the utmost confidence in her ability to advance our pipeline while we work to name a permanent successor. Please go ahead, Priya. Priya Singhal -- Interim Head of Research and Development Thank you, Michel, and good morning, everyone. First, I want to say what an honor it is to serve as Acting Head of R&D at Biogen. Biogen has a track record in developing life-changing therapies in MS and SMA. With a deep and diverse R&D pipeline, Biogen aims to bring impactful medicines to patients suffering from neurological and immunological diseases characterized by significant unmet need. As this is my first earnings call within this role, I would like to review a few areas that I'm especially excited about. First, we believe that Biogen has a unique opportunity to lead in Alzheimer's disease, not only because we are advancing an industry-leading Alzheimer's pipeline, but also because of the proactive focus we have placed on continued data generation for aducanumab. This includes ENVISION, the planned post-marketing Phase 4 study; the ongoing EMBARK redosing study; and obtaining real-world data through the ICARE AD registry. We believe data from patients treated with aducanumab in the real-world settings with greater drug utilization is the best way to complement the extensive clinical data generated on aducanumab to date in addition to the ongoing and planned clinical trials. We also continue to gain potential insights from the aducanumab Phase 3 clinical data regarding Alzheimer's disease biology and the treatment effect of aducanumab. On this particular point, Biogen recently presented additional data from the ENGAGE and EMERGE Phase 3 trials at the annual CTAD meeting last November. The important analysis of this data showed that in addition to reducing amyloid plaques in the brain, aducanumab treatment also resulted in changes in downstream tau Alzheimer's disease biology, specifically soluble phospho-tau, or p-tau, as seen in both CSF and plasma. In this analysis, we evaluated over 7,000 plasma samples from more than 1,800 subjects from the EMERGE and ENGAGE Phase 3 trials to investigate the effect of aducanumab treatment on plasma p-tau181. The result showed a time and dose-dependent reduction in p-tau181 over 78 weeks with aducanumab treatment in both Phase 3 trials. The reduction in plasma p-tau181 from baseline to week 78 in this analysis was significantly correlated with change in amyloid PET over the same time period and was also significantly associated with less clinical decline across all primary and secondary outcome measures, assessing cognition and function in both studies. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that aggregated forms of amyloid may mediate soluble tau phosphorylation. With regard to our AD pipeline, we are excited about lecanemab, our other anti-amyloid antibody in Alzheimer's disease that is being developed in collaboration with Eisai. In Phase 2, lecanemab did not utilize a titration period, demonstrated rapid and robust reduction of amyloid plaques, and showed an ARIA incidence of around 10%. We look forward to the Phase 3 readout expected in the second half of this year. Beyond our programs targeting amyloid, we are also pursuing a multi-modality approach focused on other targets in Alzheimer's. First, we have BIIB080, which is an ASO that we believe facilitates tau mRNA degradation and has demonstrated both a time and dose-dependent reduction of CSF phospho and total tau in Phase 1. We anticipate starting the Phase 2 study of BIIB080 by midyear. Second, we are also planning for the near-term initiation of a Phase 1 study for BIIB113, a small molecule inhibitor of O-GlcNAcase, or OGA, an enzyme believed to catalyze the removal of post-translation modification of tau protein. Evidence suggests that O-GlcNAcylation of tau attenuates aggregation. By inhibiting OGA, we aim to increase the O-GlcNAcylation of tau to potentially inhibit tau aggregation and thereby slow clinical decline. Having developed the first FDA-approved therapy to address a defining pathology of Alzheimer's, we believe that Biogen is uniquely positioned with the right expertise, experience, and access to modalities to lead in Alzheimer's disease. This is a complex disease requiring a multifaceted approach and continued investment as we work to build on the scientific learnings of Aduhelm and develop the next wave of potential Alzheimer's therapies. I would now like to talk about depression. I believe that zuranolone, with a novel mechanism of action, may provide an important new treatment option for patients suffering from major depressive disorder and postpartum depression. The reported clinical data generated to date from multiple clinical trials showed the following: First, in earlier studies, an improvement in depressive symptoms has been observed as early as day three. Second, zuranolone has displayed a consistent safety and tolerability profile with no observed evidence of weight gain, sexual dysfunction, euphoria, or increased suicidal ideation. Third, the SHORELINE Phase 3 open-label study showed that approximately 80% of patients who responded to the initial course of 50 milligrams of zuranolone needed at most one additional treatment total during their time in the one-year study. Fourth, in the WATERFALL Phase 3 study, zuranalone reduced depressive symptoms in patients suffering from MDD, both with and without elevated anxiety. Fifth, zuranolone has shown improvements in depressive symptoms in postpartum depression. For zuranolone, we look forward to two Phase 3 readouts this year: the CORAL study in MDD and the SKYLARK study in PPD. The next area I would like to highlight is stroke. Last year, we were excited by the results from the Phase 2 study of BIIB131, formerly known as TMS-007, in acute ischemic stroke. Administration of the current standard of care, pharmacological thrombolytic tPA, is limited to a short therapeutic window: within 4.5 hours following the acute onset of stroke symptoms. This short time window is meant to mitigate the risk of intracranial hemorrhage, which is the most concerning adverse event associated with tPA. In the Phase 2a study of BIIB131, acute stroke patients were randomized to receive BIIB131 or placebo out to 12 hours from their last known normal. The primary objective of the study was safety. And of the 52 patients who received BIIB131, none experienced symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage compared to one out of the 38 patients who received placebo. This was despite an extended treatment window where patients, on average, received BIIB131 at 9.5 hours after the onset of acute stroke symptoms. Additionally, BIIB131 showed a statistically significant improvement versus placebo on the Modified Rankin Scale, or MRS, a registrational end point of functional independence. Furthermore, the rate of recanalization or improvement of vessel blood flow in patients who had a visible vessel occlusion was approximately 58% at 24 hours in those who had received BIIB131 as compared to 27% of patients who received placebo. We believe BIIB131 may have the potential to be a best-in-class thrombolytic for the treatment of acute ischemic stroke by extending the time -- treatment time window out to 24 hours with an appropriate efficacy and safety profile. We are currently evaluating the next steps in the development for BIIB131. In addition to BIIB131, we also continue to advance a Phase 3 study for BIIB093 in large hemispheric infarction based upon the effects observed on mortality and cerebral edema in the Phase 2 study. I would now like to turn my attention to specialized immunology. We currently have two Phase 3 assets in SLE, including dapirolizumab pegol in collaboration with UCB; and BIIB059, our anti-BDCA2 antibody developed in-house at Biogen. These two assets represent potential first-in-class molecules in SLE. BIIB059 also has the potential to be a first-in-class biologic in cutaneous lupus erythematosus, or CLE. CLE is a skin-based autoimmune disease that can be associated with severe scarring and dyspigmentation. In the Phase 2 LILAC study, the CLE part of the study also met its primary end point by demonstrating a dose response of BIIB059 on the percent change from baseline in the CLASI-A score, a standardized scale measuring CLE disease activity, at week 16 in individuals with CLE. Furthermore, a higher CLASI-50 response rate, or number of individuals with a 50% or greater improvement from baseline in the CLASI-A score, was observed in patients who received BIIB059 at week 16. Based upon these results, we are currently planning to also initiate a pivotal study for BIIB059 in CLE this year. Next, I will touch upon ALS. ALS has been a very key focus area for Biogen for many years. And we remain encouraged by the data from the Phase 3 VALOR study tofersen, where despite missing the primary end point of a statistically significant change from baseline to week 28 in the ALSFRS, we believe there are trends favoring tofersen across multiple secondary and exploratory measures of biological and clinical activity. We are continuing to collect data in the VALOR open-label extension, and we are actively recruiting for the ATLAS presymptomatic study. Many SOD1-ALS patients have received access to tofersen through the global expanded access program, which is available in countries where local regulations permit it and where we hope to secure long-term access. Further, we are engaged with regulators to determine the next steps for the program. Aside from the areas I've highlighted, Biogen continues to grow and diversify the R&D pipeline, which now includes 32 clinical programs. New additions include the exercise of the option with Ionis on BIIB115, an investigational ASO with the potential for extended dosing intervals in SME, as well as the recent initiation of a Phase 1 study in Angelman syndrome, a rare genetic neurodevelopmental disorder that affects the nervous system and causes severe physical and learning disabilities with symptoms beginning in infancy. Importantly, I believe that 2022 will be a significant year for Biogen's pipeline given the number of important readouts expected, including the lecanemab Phase 3 in Alzheimer's disease, key readouts in neuropsychiatry for both zuranolone in depression and BIIB104 in schizophrenia and BIIB078 in ALS. In closing, I believe Biogen has assembled an extensive pipeline of programs informed by generics, a deep understanding of disease biology, specialized modality expertise, and digitalization. Therefore, I believe Biogen is uniquely positioned to shape the future of therapeutics in neurology and specialized immunology and make a difference in patients and their caregivers' lives. I will now pass the call over to Mike. Mike McDonnell -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Priya, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us. I'll focus my commentary on fourth quarter results along with some discussion regarding the full year 2021. Total revenue for the fourth quarter of $2.7 billion declined 4% versus the prior year at both actual and constant currency. Total revenue for the full year of $11 billion declined 18% versus the prior year at actual currency and 19% at constant currency. This decline was mostly driven by Tecifidera generic entry in the United States. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share in the fourth quarter was $3.39. Full year non-GAAP diluted earnings per share was $19.22. Total MS revenue inclusive of Ocrevus royalties in the fourth quarter was $1.8 billion. Global Tecifidera revenue in the fourth quarter was $486 million. U.S. revenue was $161 million. Outside of the U.S., Tecifidera revenue of $326 million increased by 13% versus the prior year, with 7% growth in underlying patients. Vumerity fourth quarter global revenue was $125 million as compared to $39 million in the fourth quarter of 2020. We expect Vumerity to continue to grow both in the U.S. and outside the U.S. Tysabri fourth quarter global revenue of $513 million increased 8% versus the prior year, benefiting from positive channel dynamics in the U.S., and we were pleased to see continued global patient growth. Moving to SMA, global fourth quarter Spinraza revenue of $441 million decreased 12% versus the prior year. In the U.S., Spinraza revenue of $150 million decreased by 6% versus the prior year, as we saw continued impact from competition. However, we were encouraged to see that discontinuations moderated somewhat versus Q3 of this year. U.S. Spinraza revenue increased 7% versus the prior quarter, inclusive of some favorable pricing and channel dynamics. Outside the U.S., Spinraza revenue of $291 million decreased 14% versus the prior year due to competition and pricing pressure. We continue to believe that Spinraza can return to growth over the medium to long term. Total Aduhelm revenue for the fourth quarter was $1 million. Moving to our biosimilars business. Fourth quarter revenue of $221 million increased 12% versus the prior year, with increased volume partially offset by pricing pressure. Our Q4 biosimilars revenue benefited from a one-time price adjustment of approximately $10 million. Last week, we announced that we have entered into an agreement to sell our equity stake in our biosimilar joint venture, Samsung Bioepis, to Samsung Biologics for aggregate consideration of up to $2.3 billion. We believe this represents an attractive financial return given that our cumulative investment in the joint venture was $727 million. It's important to note that we will continue to record revenue and costs associated with the commercialization of Benepali, Imraldi and Flixalbi with economics that will be substantially unchanged from what you have seen previously. So we are pleased with this transaction because we not only maintain the commercialization rights that we have, but we will also have an expanded ability to pursue additional biosimilars products on our own going forward. Closing of this transaction is currently anticipated in mid-2022, contingent on the effectiveness of the securities registration statement filed by Samsung Biologics and satisfaction of certain regulatory and other customary closing conditions. Total anti-CD20 revenue in the fourth quarter of $414 million decreased 1% versus the prior year. RITUXAN revenue of $153 million decreased 29% versus the prior year due to the impacts of COVID-19 and continued erosion from biosimilar competition. Ocrevus royalty revenue of $261 million increased 29% versus the prior year. As a reminder, the effective royalty rate for Ocrevus royalties resets each calendar year. Fourth quarter gross margin was 76% of revenue, down from 83% in Q4 of 2020. And the reduction in gross margin versus prior year was primarily due to a $164 million charge for Aduhelm inventory and purchase commitments in excess of forecasted demand. Moving now to expenses and the balance sheet. Q4 non-GAAP R&D expense was $700 million, which includes a $60 million opt-in payment to Ionis for BIIB115 and a cost of approximately $50 million for the exercise of our option with Genentech for the bispecific antibody mentioned earlier. We will share any operating profits and losses for this program in the low to mid-30% range in the United States. Non-GAAP SG&A was $785 million, including approximately $155 million related to Aduhelm. Eisai's reimbursement of U.S. SG&A costs of approximately $45 million is reflected in the collaboration profit-sharing line. Fourth quarter collaboration profit sharing reduced our net operating expense by $67 million, which includes reimbursement of approximately $140 million from Eisai related to Aduhelm commercialization, partially offset by $75 million of net profit-sharing expense related to our collaboration with Samsung Bioepis. During Q4 of this year, our effective non-GAAP tax rate was approximately 17%. During 2021, we repurchased approximately 6 million shares of our common stock for a total value of $1.8 billion. No shares were repurchased in the fourth quarter of 2021. As of December 31, 2021, there was $2.8 billion remaining under the share repurchase program, which was authorized in October of 2020. Our weighted average diluted share count was approximately 147 million shares for the fourth quarter. In 2021, we generated approximately $3.6 billion in cash flow from operations. Capital expenditures were $258 million, and free cash flow was approximately $3.4 billion. We ended the year with $7.3 billion in debt, $4.7 billion in cash and marketable securities, and $2.6 billion in net debt. In addition, our $1 billion revolving credit facility was undrawn as of the end of the year. Overall, we remain in a very strong financial position with significant cash and financial capacity to grow the business over the long term. Let me now turn to our full year guidance for 2022. We expect full year 2022 revenue to be between $9.7 billion and $10 billion. This financial guidance assumes minimal Aduhelm revenue in 2022, continued declines in RITUXAN revenue due to biosimilar competition, as well as continued erosion of Tecifidera revenue in the U.S. due to generic entry. This guidance also assumes the potential entry of Tecifidera generics in the EU as early as the first half of 2022 as the outcome of the ongoing challenges to Tecifidera market protection is difficult to predict. We expect the decreased revenue from these high-margin products to reduce our gross margin percentage as compared to 2021. We expect full year 2022 non-GAAP diluted EPS to be between $14.25 and $16. Our guidance assumptions are highly dependent on the final National Coverage Determination, which is currently uncertain. If the final NCD, which is expected in April, is not broader than the draft NCD, our anticipated results and guidance may be impacted. This guidance assumes that we will not have any write-offs of Aduhelm inventory in 2022, which is valued at approximately $225 million as of the end of 2021. This guidance also assumes reasonable levels of utilization of our manufacturing capacity dedicated to our Alzheimer's disease programs. If our manufacturing capacity is underutilized, we will incur incremental period costs, which are not reflected in our guidance. We expect non-GAAP R&D expense to be between $2.2 billion and $2.3 billion, and our non-GAAP SG&A expense to be between $2.5 billion and $2.6 billion. This non-GAAP SG&A expense estimate includes approximately $400 million in support of the launch of Aduhelm, of which approximately $145 million would be reimbursable by Eisai and reflected in the collaboration profit-sharing line. These R&D and SG&A expense estimates reflect the implementation of previously disclosed cost reduction measures, which are expected to yield approximately $500 million in annualized savings, of which approximately $350 million is expected to be realized in 2022. These savings are expected to be achieved through various initiatives, which may include downsizing of our global Alzheimer's infrastructure, the savings from which would be shared with Eisai; and operating efficiency gains across SG&A and R&D. These savings are expected to be offset by approximately $200 million in additional investments in our pipeline and strategic initiatives. In the event of a final NCD that is not broader than the draft NCD, we anticipate taking further cost reduction measures, which are not reflected in our guidance to further align our cost base with our revenue base. Some of the savings from these further cost reduction measures would be shared with Eisai. We expect our non-GAAP tax rate for 2022 to be between 15.5% and 16.5%. And we assume that we will utilize a portion of the remaining share repurchase authorization of $2.8 billion throughout the year, although this will depend on a variety of factors, including our business development activities. Foreign exchange rates as of December 31, 2021, are assumed to remain in effect for the year, net of hedging activities. We have not included any impact from potential acquisitions or large business development transactions as both are hard to predict or any impact of potential tax or healthcare reform. I will now turn the call back over to Michel for his closing remarks. Michel Vounatsos -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Mike. In summary, 2021 was an eventful year for Biogen. Aduhelm is now the first FDA-approved treatment targeting a defining pathology of Alzheimer's disease. But as we all know, this is a complex disease, which will require continued investment in research over the years to come. Aduhelm is an important first step, and we remain focused on advancing our leading portfolio with the goal of further addressing the remaining unmet needs for patients. We hope that over time, we'll be able to bring additional impactful treatment options, which will build on the scientific learnings from Aduhelm, similar to the waves of innovation we have seen in oncology. Before I conclude, let me touch on Biogen's strong commitment to corporate responsibility. Climate, health, and equity are deeply interrelated challenges that demand bold action, and that's why we are working to advance a healthier, more sustainable, and equitable world. Through our signature initiative, Healthy Climate, Healthy Lives, and other efforts, our goal is to create new ways of doing business that positively impact the way we live and the way we deliver for patients. We are proud that our leadership actions and transparency in this area has been recognized recently by the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index, Corporate Knights Global 100, and JUST 100. Through this work, we aim to create shareholder value by meeting the needs of our patients, employees, the environment, and the communities we serve. In closing, I would like to reiterate that we are committed to engaging with CMS and other stakeholders with the hope of finding an appropriate path forward for the patients and access of Aduhelm. We will now open the call for questions. 