

Operator
Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for joining DocuSign's fourth quarter and full year fiscal year '22 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this call is being recorded and will be available for replay from the investor relations section of the website following the call. [Operator instructions] And I will now pass the call over to Roger Martin, vice president of finance.
Please go ahead.
Roger Martin -- Vice President of Finance
Good afternoon, and welcome to the DocuSign Q4 2020 earnings call. I'm Roger Martin, DocuSign's VP of finance. Joining me on the call today are DocuSign's CEO, Dan Springer; and our CFO, Cynthia Gaylor. The press release announcing our fourth quarter results was issued earlier today and is posted on our investor relations website.
Now let me remind everyone that some of our statements on today's call are forward-looking. We believe our assumptions and expectations related to these forward-looking statements are reasonable, but they are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results or performance to be materially different. In particular, our expectations regarding the pace of digital transformation and factors affecting customer demand, including as a result of the pandemic, are based on our best estimates at this time and are, therefore, subject to change. Please read and consider the risk factors in our filings with the SEC, together with the content of this call.

Any forward-looking statements are based on our assumptions and expectations to date. And except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update these statements in light of future events or new information. During this call, we will present GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. Non-GAAP financial measures exclude stock-based compensation expenses, employer payroll tax on employee stock transactions, amortization of acquired intangible assets, amortization of debt discount and issuance costs from our notes, acquisition-related expenses, fair value adjustments to strategic investments, impairment of lease-related assets and, as applicable, other special items.
In addition, we provide non-GAAP weighted average share count and information regarding free cash flows and billings. These non-GAAP measures are not intended to be considered in isolation from, as substitute for or superior to our GAAP results. We encourage you to consider all measures when analyzing our performance. For information regarding our non-GAAP financial information, the most directly comparable GAAP measures and the quantitative reconciliation of these figures, please refer to today's earnings press release, which can be found on our website at investor.docusign.com.
I'd like to turn the call over to Dan Springer. Dan?
Dan Springer -- Chief Executive Officer
Thank you, Roger. Good afternoon, everyone. We have a lot to share with you today as we'll cover our performance for the quarter and for the entire fiscal year. We'll talk in more detail about some important sales wins and recent innovations that continue to bring our vision for the Agreement Cloud to life.
Finally, we'll look ahead to our focus areas for fiscal '23. I'd like to start by sharing a few observations about the quarter. Q4 total revenue grew 35% year over year to $581 million with an 18% non-GAAP operating margin. Billings grew 25% year over year in the quarter.
International revenue grew 55% year over year. We added nearly 60,000 new customers in the quarter, and that's a 31% increase year over year. And we continue to see strong net dollar retention of 119% in Q4, which is at the high end of our historical range. Looking at the year, we grew revenue 45% to over $2 billion and billings by 37% to over $2.35 billion.
We added more than 180,000 new customers, ending the year with over 1.17 million customers in total. These results reflect our team's unwavering dedication amid the macro challenges and the needed shifts in our business coming out of COVID. They also showcased continued tailwinds for the digitization of agreement workflows for businesses of every shape and size. We recognize, of course, that fiscal year '22 had two distinct chapters that contribute to our growth story.
During the peak of the pandemic, urgent need drove dramatic acceleration of purchases, and our sales focus was squarely set on meeting that elevated demand. This motion carried through the first half of fiscal year '22. In the second half of the year, there were more challenging macro conditions impacting our customers' priorities. We saw a diminished level of urgency in their buying patterns.
Customers turned their focus to investments and projects that were delayed during the heart of the pandemic. As we saw urgent demand wane, we have just begun to shift in our sales motion, back to a demand generation mode of cross-sell, upsell and departmental expansion. While we excel at demand generation for many years pre-COVID, ultimately, the shift in customer buying patterns coming out of the pandemic was quicker than we anticipated, and we didn't move fast enough as an organization. Our move from capturing high volumes of customer demand to reverting back to generating demand is now well underway.
We expect this work will continue through fiscal year 2023 as we make tangible progress moving through the year. At over $2 billion in annual revenue, we believe we're still very early in the first 10% of the $50 billion Agreement Cloud market opportunity. Digital transformation remains a high priority for businesses at every scale in every industry. Given our strong brand, a leading market position and product differentiation, DocuSign is uniquely positioned to lead and capture that market opportunity with eSignature and the broader Agreement Cloud.
As the pandemic subside and people begin to return to the office, they are not returning to paper. eSignature is clearly here to stay, and the movement toward the broader Agreement Cloud will only continue to gain prominence. We are confident we have massive market space to grow. When we think about the opportunity this year presents, it falls into two main buckets: the ways we're helping our customers succeed on our platform; and the innovation we're bringing to market.
Last quarter, we doubled down on our global go-to-market methodology and began driving our field org to focus on expanding opportunities. As our customers scale their usage across departments and new use cases, our field approach is also evolving. To that end, we've been bolstering our field leadership with strong leaders with GMs in EMEA, APJ and LATAM, along with recent additions across North America in the commercial and SMB segments. And we're very close to finalizing a new North American enterprise sales leader as well.
Importantly, we've begun a search for an executive to lead the global field organization at success and sales. This supports our goal of scaling our business to $5 billion and beyond. As part of this change, once we have secured and onboarded our new leader, Loren will transition from DocuSign. Now it's hard to think of a sales executive as having more impact on a company than Loren has had here in his 14 years, from director to North American leader to CRO.
He has really built the sales organization here. And as noted above, he's leading the way as we expand the sales leadership team for our next level of scale. He'll be staying with the company this year, and he remains focused on delivering for our customers and for driving our growth. Loren will be a big part of helping us to transition to the new sales and success leader in the coming months.
We are already encouraged from the results we're seeing from these efforts, as we are upselling eSignature to more departments and use cases, cross-selling our key add-ons like identity verification, notary and monitor, as well as cross-selling our CLM products. For example, last quarter, we expanded our relationship with one of the world's largest insurance and financial services companies, implementing new use cases for remote online notary for affidavit, citizenship verification and claims recovery; and DocuSign verify for loans and cash out statements. By deepening their adoption of the DocuSign Agreement Cloud, they shared that the efficiency gained by their employees and independent agents enabled them to realize tremendous savings in both time and operational expense, all while improving the self-service customer experience and maintaining strict regulatory compliance. We are hearing the same story across our key verticals with new customers as well.
Last quarter, one of the largest pharmacy chains in the U.S. adopted eSignature and our AI-powered CLM products as part of their ongoing digital transformation initiative. The Agreement Cloud was to answer to replacing the manual processes across their agreement systems, which were described to us as painful and time-consuming. From that initial order, we're now seeing 75 different use cases across departments and an opportunity to deliver nearly 10 million envelopes annually.
Around the world, DocuSign's value prop is just as strong. Last quarter, for example, we welcome Westpac New Zealand, part of Australia's Westpac Group, to the Agreement Cloud. Like so many customers who start with DocuSign eSignature, our exceptional employee and customer experience opens the door to more use cases. For Westpac New Zealand, this led to the adoption of CLM, Gen plus send and a significant API integration, all within the first year of our relationship.
The second big opportunity this fiscal year is our continued innovation to drive stickiness and deepen our roots as a multiproduct company. More users are engaging with DocuSign every day as we work to make it even easier for them to adopt more of the advanced capabilities of the Agreement Cloud, eliminating paper, automating manual processes and connecting customers to the other systems they already use. A great example is the new DocuSign eSignature app for Zoom that enables organizations to reimagine their customer agreement process with virtual face-to-face signing experiences that our customers' customers really love. Through this new partnership, our customers can now securely share, review and complete agreements right from Zoom.
In the next few weeks, we'll launch a new eSignature capability called Joint Agreements for businesses with a network model. Joint Agreements allows for a single customer experience with co-management of agreements between multiple parties behind the scenes. This makes things easier for every party involved. We believe Joint Agreements will inspire large financial services firms to encourage the use of DocuSign by their networks, which often number in the tens of thousands of advisors or agents.
Next month, we're also planning to launch an important new feature called Delayed Routing for DocuSign eSignature. This allows users to add timing delays during the routing process of an envelope. This fine-tuning of the agreement process has become an increasingly popular customer ask, especially for situations where regulations require a delay like some franchising agreements that require a one-week delay for a review before they can be signed. In total, fiscal '22 results were very strong, and I'm proud of how we as a team are moving to adapt and recalibrate to address the rapidly shifting market dynamics that we're facing post-COVID.
Despite the temporal headwinds, we're continuing to focus on winning both new customers and existing customer expansions and on driving continued innovation. As a clear market leader, we've got long-term momentum on our side, a vision that's unchanged and a massive TAM. The changes we're making to our go-to-market strategy will, indeed, take a few quarters to play out. But we believe we're still just scratching the surface of our long-term opportunity and are better positioned than ever for future success.
Before handing it over to Cynthia to walk you through our Q4 results and the fiscal year '23 outlook in more detail, I want to take a moment to thank the DocuSign team and our customers. Together, you're inspiring us to continue pioneering. Just this week, DocuSign was named one of Fast Company's Top 10 Most Innovative Enterprise Companies. It's great to see others recognize our work, but more importantly, it's a true testament to our hardworking team and the positive impact our customers are helping us make on the world.
With that, Cynthia, over to you.
Cynthia Gaylor -- Chief Financial Officer
Thanks, Dan. And good afternoon, everyone. Overall, we had a solid finish to the year. While fiscal '22 unfolded differently than we initially anticipated with the first half stronger than expected and the back half slowing faster than anticipated, net-net, we achieved most of our financial and operating goals for the year.
We scaled to become a multibillion-dollar business and achieved record cash flow and operating margins, successfully balancing growth and profitability. We continue to build out our Agreement Cloud portfolio with the addition of multiple new products and capabilities to further digitize agreement workflows, and we helped 280,000 new customers begin their digital journey. With that, let me turn to the Q4 and fiscal 2022 results. For the fourth quarter, total revenue increased 35% year over year to $581 million and subscription revenue grew 37% year over year to $564 million.
For the full year, total revenue reached $2.1 billion, an increase of 45% over last year and subscription revenue hit $2 billion, an increase of 47%. Our international revenue continued to outpace our domestic growth at 55% year over year to $138 million in the fourth quarter, contributing 24% of total revenue. For the full year, international revenue grew over 68% to $481 million, representing 23% of our total revenue and reflecting our accelerated expansion across geographies. Fourth quarter billings rose 25% year over year to $670 million, leading to a four-quarter rolling average of 37%.
For the full year, billings increased 37% to $2.4 billion. With the addition of nearly 60,000 new customers in the fourth quarter, our total installed base grew 31% for the full year with over 1.17 million customers worldwide. We added 10,000 new direct customers in Q4 and 45,000 for the year, a 36% increase year over year, bringing our total to 170,000 direct customers. Customers with an annual spend greater than $300,000 grew 42% year over year in the fourth quarter to 852 customers.
We achieved 119% dollar net retention for the quarter, at the high end of our historic range. Non-GAAP gross margin for the fourth quarter was 81% compared with 80% a year ago. For the full year, gross margin was 82%, compared to 79% a year ago. Fourth quarter subscription gross margin was 85%, consistent with last year.
For the full year, subscription gross margin was 85% versus 84% a year ago. Q4 non-GAAP operating profit reached $104 million compared with $75 million last year. Non-GAAP operating margin was 18%, compared to 17% last year. For the full year, non-GAAP operating profit rose 132% to $419 million, and operating margin was 20% versus 12% in fiscal '21.
Non-GAAP net income for Q4 was $100 million compared with $77 million in the fourth quarter of last year. For the full year, net income was $411 million, up from $182 million in fiscal '21, a growth rate of 125% year over year. We ended the quarter with 7,461 employees, an increase of 33% over last year. We exited the year with $898 million in cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and investments.
Operating cash flow in the fourth quarter grew 41% year over year to $88 million or a 15% margin. This compares with $62 million or 14% in the same quarter a year ago. Free cash flow for the quarter was $70 million or 12% margin, compared to $44 million or 10% in the prior year, a 60% increase year over year. For the full year, operating cash flow grew 71% to $506 million or a 24% margin, compared to $297 million or 20% a year ago.
And free cash flow more than doubled, growing at 107% year over year to $445 million or 21% margin, compared to $215 million or 15% margin in fiscal '21. Additionally, we continue to invest for the health of our planet through our sustainability initiatives. Our products have helped save over 55 billion sheets of paper and 6 million trees so far, and we achieved carbon-neutral status this year. We are continuing our efforts to reach net-zero emissions no later than 2050 as part of the business ambition pledge by committing to setting science-based targets aligned with a 1.5-degree Celsius trajectory for a net-zero future.
Let me now turn to our guidance. As Dan mentioned, early in fiscal '22, we continue to benefit from macro tailwinds with strong residual customer demand. Today, while we see the lingering effects tapering from the heightened demand we saw a year ago, we expect to see a slower start to fiscal 2023 while we progress our go-to-market initiatives over the next few quarters. As we gain traction and execute against our strategy, we continue to win new customers and support existing customer success and expansion.
We expect to see the related growth contribution picking up as we move through the year. We have worked diligently to incorporate the above factors into our current outlook. With that, let's turn to guidance. Total revenue of $579 million to $583 million in Q1 or growth of 24% year over year and $2.47 billion to $2.48 billion for fiscal '23 or growth of 17% to 18% year over year.
Of this, we expect subscription revenue of $562 million to $566 million in Q1 or a growth of 24% to 25% year over year and $2.39 billion to $2.41 billion for fiscal '23 or a growth of 18% year over year. For billings, we expect $573 million to $583 million in Q1 or growth of 9% to 11% year over year and $2.71 billion to $2.73 billion for fiscal '23 or growth of 15% to 16% year over year. We expect non-GAAP gross margin to be 79% to 81% for both Q1 and fiscal '23. We expect non-GAAP operating margin to be 16% to 18% for both Q1 and fiscal '23.
We expect to see a de minimis amount of interest and other income, including undrawn revolver fees related to our credit facility. For fiscal '23, we expect a tax provision of approximately $4 million to $8 million. We expect fully diluted weighted average shares outstanding of 205 million to 210 million for both Q1 and fiscal '23. Additionally, our board authorized a $200 million open market share repurchase program.
This program underscores our confidence in the strong fundamentals of our business and allows us to flexibly leverage our balance sheet to efficiently deliver returns to our shareholders. Our primary focus will continue to be investing for long-term growth, particularly in sales capacity and enablement, marketing, product innovation and the scaling of our operations, as we are still in the early stages of this large and growing market opportunity. Before turning to Q&A, we would like to thank the DocuSign team, our customers and our partners for their tremendous efforts during last year's unprecedented journey. We are driving the next phase of our strategy to better enable our teams to help customers digitize their agreement processes and fully capture the potential of the $50 billion Agreement Cloud market.
In the near term, while we ramp and strengthen our demand-gen motion, we are confident in the opportunity that lies ahead for the Agreement Cloud and are encouraged about the broader market opportunity we're seeing on the horizon. We remain focused on delivering solid results for our shareholders. With that, thanks for joining us today. We look forward to seeing you at the customer and user conference Momentum in a few weeks on April 4 and 5.
And we will now open up the call for questions. Operator?
