
OperatorGood day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Raytheon Technologies First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. My name is. Debra, and I will be your operator today. [Operator Instructions].On the call today are, Greg Hayes, Chief Executive Officer and Neil Mitchill, Chief Financial Officer. This call is being carried live on the Internet and there is a presentation available for download from Raytheon Technologies website at www.rtx.com. Please note, except where otherwise noted, the Company will speak to results from continuing operations excluding net nonrecurring and or significant items and acquisition accounting adjustments, often referred to by management as other significant items. The company also reminds listeners that the earnings and cash flow expectations and any other forward-looking statements provided in this call are subject to risks and uncertainties. RTC's SEC filings, including its Forms 8-K, 10-Q and 10-K provide details on important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements.[Operator Instructions]

 



With that, I will turn the call over to Mr. Hayes.Gregory J. Hayes -- Chief Executive OfficerOkay. Thank you, Debra, and good morning everyone.Before we jump in, I would just like to take a couple of minutes to acknowledge the news that most of you saw yesterday of Dr. Kennedy's retirement as Executive Chairman of the Board effective June 1 of this year. As you all heard me tell the story, it was just over 2 years ago that Dr. Kennedy called me to suggest that we merge our two companies. You could see then that in combining their talent, technologies, and capabilities that we would have the breadth and scale to meet any industry challenge in aerospace and defense. Little did either of us realize then of course how quickly a global pandemic would put that value proposition to the test and yet here we stand today one year post merger and we have made substantial progress not only in integrating the two heritage companies but also managing through an unprecedented downturn in commercial aerospace, all the while identifying new technology synergies and establish an operational rhythm that allows us to meet many of the goals sooner than what we had expected just a year ago. So I want to thank Dr. Kennedy for his leadership, partnership, and stewardship throughout this merger and congratulate him on a distinguished 38-year career with Raytheon. We wish you well, Tom.

 



I would also like to officially welcome Neil Mitchill in his new role as Chief Financial Officer though most of you of course already know Neil, he is not new to the call. Toby O'Brien stepped down earlier this month and we thank him for all of his contributions as we formed Raytheon Technologies. Many on this call also know that Neil was our interim CFO at UTC prior to the merger and since then he has led the IR and Financial Planning functions. I am very pleased to have him as our CFO and I look forward to working together as we continue the integration and cost initiatives that will capture the full value of the Raytheon Technologies Company.Lastly, I would also like to welcome our new head of Investor Relations, Jennifer Reed. Jennifer, for the past year, has led our integration team. She was Vice President of integration. She was responsible for the financial and operational planning activities related to the merger and did a wonderful job and we will hear more about that later. So I think that complete s the HR section of the call. Let me move on to the numbers.Let's take a look at slide 2 please. So as I mentioned earlier this month had marked the one-year anniversary of the merger's closing and I am proud of the major accomplishments and progress made by our employees and business leaders, who came together from across our businesses to execute as a single team. Our ability to adjust to the unique circumstances and stay nimble in this very dynamic operating environment has served us and our investors and customers well.With that, let me take you through the performance and some highlights from the quarter. I am pleased to say that we have had a really strong start to the year and we are seeing continued momentum with signs of economic recovery and incremental improvements in domestic aerospace markets with international markets of course remaining challenged. As you saw from the press release this morning, we delivered strong quarterly sales, adjusted EPS and free cash flow, all of which exceeded our expectations from earlier this year. And while it is still earlier in the year, the rate of vaccine distribution and signs of travel recovery within key domestic markets, specifically the US and China are better than what we expected just 3 months ago. In the US, daily TSA traffic has averaged about 1.4 million people a day since the beginning of April, nearly double the levels of January of this year. So we're headed in the right direction with key metrics improving, but we continue to monitor recovery indications around the world and engage with our customers as they prepare for this recovery.

 



On the defense side, happy to say our backlog remains robust at more than $65 billion. These encouraging trends in commercial aerospace and our Q1 performance gives us confidence to raise the low end of our full year sales range by $0.5 billion to $63.9 billion, bringing our new sales range for the year to $63.9 billion to $65.4 billion. We are also going to raise the low end of our full year adjusted EPS range by a dime to $3.50, that is up from $3.40, so the new range that we expect for the year, somewhere between $3.50 and $3.70. We're going to also maintain our free cash flow outlook for the year of at least $4.5 billion, and Neil will give you a little color on all this later in the call.On the capital deployment front, after a better expected start to earnings and cash in Q1, we are also going to increase our share buyback plan by $0.5 billion. It will take it up to $2 billion for the year. During the first quarter, of course, we did resume our share buyback and we repurchased about $375 million of our stock, giving us a good start to our full-year commitment. You also probably saw yesterday that we increased our dividend by more than 7% yesterday to $0.51 from 47.5 cents. Since the merger last April, we have already returned over $3.2 billion to shareholders between share buyback and dividends, and we remain on track to return at least $18 billion to $20 billion to shareholders in the first 4 years following the merger.We also continue to execute well on our synergy programs during the quarter. We achieved nearly $200 million of incremental RTX merger synergies, bringing the total since the merger of up to $440 million. And given our strong synergy capture to date and the growing opportunities that we see in the pipeline, we are going to increase our cost synergy target by $300 million from $1 billion to $1.3 billion and I do not think we are done yet. Collins, importantly also achieved an incremental $40 million in acquisition cost synergies in the quarter, bringing their total acquisition related savings to $510 million since the deal closed in November of 2018.Lastly, we continue to strategically shape our portfolio with a focus on higher growth, higher technology businesses. We did close on the Forcepoint divestiture earlier this year that brought in about $1.1 billion in gross proceeds without the tax benefit and we will be continue to be disciplined in M&A as we evaluate both strategic acquisitions as well as strategic divestitures. And with that let me turn it over to Neil. Mr. Mitchill?Neil Mitchill -- Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Greg. I'm happy to be on the call today in my new capacity as CFO and I look forward to our continued partnership as we continue to capture the full value of RTX.With that, I am on Slide 3. Let me take you through our financial results. I am pleased with where we landed for the quarter exceeding expectations on our key metrics. And as we have mentioned previously, Q1 will be the last quarter of tough compares for our commercial aero businesses resulting from the onset of the pandemic last year. Q1 sales were $15.3 billion, above the midpoint of the outlook we provided in January. Adjusted EPS was $0.90 per share, ahead of our expectations, driven by better than expected operating profit at all four of our businesses as well as favorability in some corporate items.On a GAAP basis, EPS from continuing operations was $0.51 per share and included $0.39 of net non-recurring and or significant items and acquisition accounting adjustments. Free cash flow of $336 million exceeded our expectations, primarily due to better than expected working capital timing. Most notably, the timing of collections across the businesses. With that, let me take you through the segment results.Starting with Collins Aerospace on Slide 4. Sales were $4.4 billion in the quarter, down 32% on an adjusted basis and down 31% on an organic basis, driven primarily by the expected adverse impact of COVID-19 on the commercial aerospace industry. By channel, commercial OE sales were down 45%, again driven principally by the impact of the current environment. Commercial aftermarket sales were down 43% driven by a 39% decline in parts and repair, a 66% decline in provisioning and a 32% decline in modifications and upgrades. Sequentially, however, commercial aftermarket sales were up 11% driven by growth in parts and repair and modifications and upgrades. Defense sales were down 3% on an adjusted basis, but up 4% organically. Organic growth was driven by F-35 as well as growth in several avionics product lines. Adjusted operating profit of $332 million was down $952 million from prior year and better than our expectations for the quarter, driven by continued cost control and favorable sales mix. On a year-over-year basis, cost control as well as lower E&D and SG&A were more than offset by lower commercial aftermarket and OE sales volume. Looking ahead to the rest of the year, with a solid start in Q1 and improving trends on the commercial side, we are increasing the low end of Collins sales outlook from a prior range of down high to low single digit to a new range of down mid to low single digit. And based on our first quarter cost containment measures and those improving trends on the commercial side, we are also increasing the low end of Collins operating profit outlook by $75 million to a new range of down $200 million to up $25 million.Shifting to Pratt & Whitney on Slide 5. Sales of $4 billion were in line with expectations. Year-over-year sales were down 24% on an adjusted basis and down 25% on an organic basis, also driven by the expected adverse impact of the current environment on the industry, commercial OEM sales were down 40% driven by lower deliveries across most of Pratt's large commercial engine and Pratt Canada platforms. Commercial aftermarket sales were down 35% in the quarter, driven by an expected decline in shop visits, but growth in the GTF aftermarket volume was more than offset by the impact of a reduction in legacy large commercial engine shop visits of 38% and a 28% reduction in Pratt Canada shop visits. In our Military business, sales were up 1% on higher F-135 aftermarket, partially offset by lower volume across certain development programs. Pratt's adjusted operating profit of $40 million was down $475 million from the prior year. Significant aftermarket volume reductions in fixed cost headwinds more than offset continued cost containment measures, including reductions in G&A and E&D.Looking ahead, with a solid start in Q1 and improving trends on the commercial side of the business here too, we are also increasing the low end of Pratt's full year sales outlook from a prior range of flat to up mid-single digit to a new range of up low to mid single digits. And we are increasing the low end of Pratt's operating profit outlook by $50 million to a new range of down $75 million to up $25 million.Turning now to slide 6. First, I will remind everyone that the percentage of completion reset at the merger date continues to impact the compares for both sales and operating profit at the legacy Raytheon businesses. With that Raytheon Intelligence & Space sales were $3.8 billion, up 2% versus the prior year on an adjusted pro forma basis and better than our expectations for the quarter, driven by higher volume and sensing and effects, particularly airborne ISR. Operating profit in the quarter was $388 million, down $11 million year-over-year on adjusted pro forma basis and a little better than expected due to higher sales volume. It's worth noting that sequentially the ROS at RIS improved 110 basis points to 10.3%. RIS had bookings in the quarter of $3.7 billion resulting in a backlog of $19.2 billion. Significant bookings included approximately 1.4 billion on classified programs as well as several other notable awards. Our Q1 book-to-bill was 1.08. And looking ahead, we remain confident in our full-year outlook for RIS with sales growing low to mid single-digit and operating profit growing $125 million to $175 million versus adjusted pro forma 2020.Turning now to slide 7. Raytheon Missile and Defense sales were $3.8 billion, up 3% versus prior year on an adjusted pro forma basis and better than expected due to higher volume across multiple mission areas. Adjusted operating profit was $496 million, also better than expected and down $43 million year-over-year on an adjusted pro forma basis due to the absence of a favorable prior year contract settlement and the EAC reset impact that I mentioned. RMD's bookings in the quarter were approximately $2.5 billion resulting in a backlog of $27.7 billion. Significant bookings in the quarter included an award of approximately $520 million for AMRAAM for the US Air Force, the Navy, and international customers, and an award of about #250 million to provide Patriot engineering services support for the US Army and international customers.It is also worth noting that RMD's industry team was down-selected for the Next Generation Interceptor award and we expect to book that award in the second quarter for over $1 billion. Book-to-bill was 0.68 in the quarter as expected as we continue to deliver against the previously awarded multi-year production contracts.Before moving on, I would also like to make a comment on the previously disclosed ongoing DOJ investigation into cost accounting matters at legacy Raytheon companies former Integrated Defense Systems business or IDS, which is now part of RMD. As you will see in our upcoming 10-Q filing later today, the investigation includes potential civil liability for defective pricing for 3 contracts entered into between 2011 and 2013 by IDS. We provided for our best estimate related to this matter in connection with the finalization of purchase accounting during the quarter. Additionally, as part of the same investigation, we recently received a second subpoena relating to a different IDS contract from 2017. We do not currently believe the resolution of this matter will result in a material impact to our financial condition and we will continue to cooperate fully with the government's investigation. So turning back to RMD's full-year outlook, we continue to expect RMD sales to grow low to mid single-digit and operating profit to grow $25 million to $75 million versus adjusted pro forma 2020. And finally for your reference, we have included an updated outlook for each segment in the webcast appendix.With that, moving to slide 8. Let me update you on how we see the current environment as we look ahead at the rest of the year. Starting with our merger synergies. As Greg said, we are increasing our gross merger cost synergy target to $1.3 billion and that is due to higher expected synergy capture in our corporate office and segment consolidation as well as additional opportunities we have identified in the supply chain and footprint consolidation and in IT. And keep in mind, that is on top of $600 million of Rockwell Collins acquisition synergies. Additionally, we continue to see the benefits of the cost actions we took last year. We are making solid progress on the structural cost reduction actions we previously announced, all at the same time working additional opportunities to drive further cost out of the business.And moving to the commercial side of the business, the shape of the commercial aero recovery remains critical to our outlook. As Greg mentioned, we are encouraged by the pace of the vaccine distribution and we are seeing signs of increasing travel demand, particularly on many domestic routes. However, we continue to watch Europe and international border reopenings. While we have seen slightly better than expected results to start the year, particularly at Collins as customers prepare for a strong summer travel season as well as evidence of increasing future travel demand, we still need to see this demand translate to strong sequential growth in RPMs and ASMs as we head into the -- into and through the peak summer travel season. As such, the second quarter remains a critical period in determining the recovery profile for the rest of the year.Looking longer term, we continue to expect that it will take until at least 2023 for commercial traffic to return to 2019 levels. For the defense side of our business, we continue to expect both domestic and international program growth to remain robust as evidenced by our over $65 billion defense backlog. Our strength with international customers, our innovative technologies and our positions in high-growth areas, gives us confidence in our ability to grow these businesses, even in the current domestic budget environment.And finally, our financial strength is underpinned by the strength of our balance sheet and supports our capital deployment commitments.Moving to slide 9. Following our strong start to the year, we remain confident in our full year outlook and as Greg mentioned, we are bringing up the low end of our sales range by $500 million and bringing up the low end of our adjusted EPS range by $0.10 with about $0.06 coming from the segments and the remainder coming from improvement in some corporate items.Now, let me just give you a little color on Q2. At the company level, we see sales in the range of $15.5 billion to $16 billion, adjusted EPS in the range of $0.90 to $0.95 per share, and we see sequential improvement in free cash flow. It is also worth mentioning that we have included an updated outlook for some of the below the line items and an updated pension outlook that includes the impact of the latest COVID relief bill in the webcast appendix.So with that, I'll hand it back to Greg to wrap things up.Gregory J. Hayes -- Chief Executive OfficerOkay. Thanks, Neil. So no surprise here as we think about our 2021 priorities, first and foremost it is going to be to continue to support our employees, our customers, suppliers, and communities. All the while continuing to invest in new technology and innovation to drive industry leadership for the long term. Yeah, I am confident in the outlook for our company. RTX is well positioned to deliver strong sales, earnings growth, and cash flow for not just this year, but for the foreseeable future.Before we get to Q&A, just a note. We are going to have an Investor Day coming up on May 18, you will get a chance to hear from our business unit leaders, as well as our transformation initiatives from Mike Dumais. I look forward to sharing a lot of information also on our revenue synergies and our long term growth strategies with you at that meeting. So with that, let's -- let's turn it over to Q&A. Debra?. Debra we are ready for the Q&A.