
OperatorGreetings, and welcome to Juniper Networks' Second Quarter 2021 Financial Results Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Jess Lubert, Vice President, Investor Relations.Jess Lubert -- Investor Relations

 



Thank you, operator. Good afternoon, and welcome to our second quarter 2021 conference call. Joining me today are Rami Rahim, Chief Executive Officer; and Ken Miller, Chief Financial Officer. Today's call contains certain forward-looking statements based on our current expectations. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, and actual results might differ materially. These risks are discussed in our most recent 10-Q, the press release and CFO commentary furnished with our 8-K filed today and in our other SEC filings. Our forward-looking statements speak only as of today, and Juniper undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.Our discussion today will include non-GAAP financial results. Reconciliation information can be found on the Investor Relations section of our website under Financial Reports. Commentary on why we consider non-GAAP information a useful view of the company's financial results is included in today's press release. Following our prepared remarks, we will take questions. [Operator Instructions]With that, I will now hand the call over to Rami.Rami Rahim -- Chief Executive Officer

 



Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us on today's call to discuss our Q2 2021 results. We reported better-than-expected Q2 results, delivering a second consecutive quarter, which saw year-over-year revenue growth across all verticals and geographies. We also experienced record orders in Q2, which helped us grow backlog, both sequentially and year-over-year. Momentum is strong entering the second half of the year. I'm encouraged by the diversity of the strength we are seeing, which is spread across verticals, customer solutions and geographies. While the strength is due in part to improve trends with some of our large strategic customers, particularly in the Cloud and Service Provider verticals, we're also seeing strong momentum with new logos and an increased number of deals greater than $1 million, especially in the Enterprise vertical. I would call out three factors driving our momentum:First, our focus on leading the industry and delivering simplified operations and a superior user experience, what we call experience-first networking is resonating in the market; our AI and software management tools are second to none and deliver meaningful customer value that's enabling us to accelerate our success and take share, particularly in the Enterprise campus and the data center market, but also in Service Provider and Cloud verticals. By leveraging software control points like Mist, Apstra and Juniper Paragon to improve customer operations and experience, we're not only creating sticky new software revenue stream, but also creating platforms that pull through a broader suite of core Juniper infrastructure.Second, our teams are executing extremely well. Our internal alignment around customer solutions and investments in our go-to-market organization are enabling us to capitalize on our technical differentiation and benefit from improved end market conditions we're seeing. In addition, our customer satisfaction ratings are at record highs, reflecting the strong work of our engineering and services organization as well as our supply chain team, which continues to work tirelessly to meet customer demand in an extremely tight supply environment. Third, we are seeing improved end market conditions across verticals and geographies. As global businesses reopen and companies look to bring workers back to the office, many projects which were halted are resuming, and many new ones are starting as digital transformation and clarification initiatives accelerate. Enterprise, Cloud and Service Provider customers are all recognizing the strategic importance of the network and investing to support a more distributed workforce, which is increasingly reliant on high bandwidth applications such as real-time video collaboration.While the demand environment is strong, we, like others in our industry, are managing through significant supply chain challenges. Customers have become more aware of these challenges and many are either placing orders early or providing significantly greater visibility into future projects. This is particularly true with some of our large strategic customers especially in the Cloud and Service Provider verticals. We view these early orders and insight into our customers' longer-term plans as a positive development. Importantly, even excluding these accelerations, orders are estimated to have experienced mid-teens growth in the period with healthy momentum across verticals and customer solutions. Based on this trend, we now expect to grow our business approximately 6% in 2021 on a full year basis despite the challenging supply chain backdrop. I'm excited by the momentum we're seeing. The investments we're making are paying off, and I'm increasingly confident in our ability to not only grow our business this year, but to do so on a sustainable basis.

 



Our strategy is down, and we're investing and succeeding in several big industry opportunities that should provide attractive tailwind over the next few years. The first area we're winning is the Enterprise transition to AI-driven Cloud architectures. Mist was one of the first to deliver on this vision with wireless and since the acquisition, we have brought the same automation, insight and agility to the wired land and now the win. This unique client-to-cloud approach for AI delivers superior end user and operator experiences, which is enabling us to both land new full stack wins defined as Wi-Fi, wired and SD-WAN and expand our opportunity with large existing accounts. While marketing messages can sound similar, we believe Juniper with Mist AI has fundamental architectural advantages that will stand the test of time, including a purpose-built microservices Cloud architecture, six generation data science expertise, a unified AI engine across the land, wireless LAN SD-WAN and AI-driven support, led by the industry's only conversational systems market.This differentiation has enabled us to take share in key networking segments, which we believe will continue as the $20 billion campus in branch market transitions to AI-driven Cloud architectures in the years to come. We're also continuing to see success with our 400-gig offerings, both in wide area as well as data center use cases. We now maintain more than 200 wins that span across hyperscale Service Provider and Cloud major accounts, which is up materially on a quarter-over-quarter basis. We remain optimistic regarding our ability to not only protect our footprint, but also to capture new opportunities in these larger accounts. We continue to expect 400-gig deployments to begin later this year and present increasing tailwinds over the next few years. In addition, we're optimistic about our 5G metro opportunity. We believe the investments we're making in our Juniper Paragon automation suite as well as our ACF metro access and aggregation portfolio will position us to capitalize on this sizable and growing market.While it remains early, we're seeing healthy customer interest in our new metro portfolio, and we expect to continue to introduce new solutions over the next 18 months that should further enhance our ability to succeed in this market. Now I'd like to provide some additional insights into the quarter and address some of the key developments we're seeing from a customer solutions perspective. Starting with our automated WAN solution, while revenues slightly declined year-over-year due to the timing of shipments in the Cloud, we experienced strong orders with solid momentum in both our Service Provider and Cloud segment. We saw healthy demand across both our MX and PTX product families and improved adoption of our newer products as well as our automation software portfolio. Our 400-gig solutions are performing well and enabling us to not only protect our existing footprint, but also to secure several net new wins. While we are continuing to see strong customer demand for our automated WAN solutions, these products are currently the most impacted by supply chain challenges and therefore, the most difficult for us to predict.As a result, despite very strong orders, we now expect our results from this segment to return to within the range of our long-term model, calling for a minus 1% decline to a 3% growth during the year, with supply likely to be the biggest determinant of where we will ultimately fall within this range. Our Cloud-ready data center solutions experienced 28% year-over-year growth during the June quarter, an encouraging order trend from our Cloud, Enterprise and Service Provider customers. We saw strong momentum with new logos as well as an increase in average deal size in the period, including a meaningful increase in deals over $1 million. After exceeded expectations for a second consecutive quarter and it's creating a significant buzz in the market, this is leading to more software opportunities and full stack data center wins. Customer interest in our Cloud-ready data center portfolio is high, and we remain optimistic regarding the outlook of this business. For the year, we believe our Cloud-ready data center business is now tracking at the slightly above the high end of our long-term model, looking for 5% to 9% growth year-over-year. Finally, our AI-driven Enterprise solutions also grew 28% year-over-year.Our Mist AI differentiation continues to resonate in the market as new logos increased 130% year-over-year and Mist orders experienced another quarter of solid triple-digit growth. Our Mistified revenue from wireless LAN, wired assurance, Marvis Virtual Network Assistant and associated EX pull-through nearly doubled year-over-year, and we saw another quarter of record ES pull-through. I believe the missed pull-through opportunity will continue to grow, thanks to the recent introduction of the EX-4400, a groundbreaking new access switch that combines true Enterprise-grade scalability and performance with the ease of AI-driven Cloud operations. Mist also positively impacted our brand security business, which performed well in Q2, and we continue to make progress with 128 Technology, which we are integrating with our SRX Secure Branch Gateways under a common Cloud and AI umbrella. The pipeline of SD-WAN opportunities remains strong, thanks to these technology differences, coupled with the unique synergy potential of a unified client-to-cloud Enterprise portfolio from Juniper with end-to-end automation insight and action.In addition to strength with large Fortune 500 customers, we continue to see very strong momentum in the channel and success with smaller commercial accounts during Q2, which highlights the value of our AI-driven Enterprise offerings to customers of all sizes and across all verticals. We believe Mist AI continues to offer unique and market-leading differentiation resulting in the best user and operator experiences. I remain encouraged by the momentum we're seeing in this business and remain confident our AI-driven Enterprise solutions are likely to see double-digit growth in 2021. Our security revenue experienced strong results during the June quarter, and orders also exceeded expectations. Strength was especially notable in the high end of the market where we have historically been strong, although we saw growth across all customer verticals and most product families. Our connected security strategy is gaining traction in the market because the convergence of networking security provides us with a competitive advantage in the portions of the market where we are currently focused.We believe our technical strength in both security and networking will continue to provide tailwinds in future quarters and should enable our security business to achieve our growth objectives. Our software momentum is also strong. Our software and related services revenue grew 59% year-over-year in Q2 as we experienced growth with ratable subscription, solid uptake of our Flex software licenses and strong sales of certain perpetual on-box licenses. ARR grew 32% year-over-year in the period driven by a combination of mix subscriptions, ratable security software offering and the related services associated with these software offerings. We experienced record software orders in the quarter due to broad-based strength across verticals and use cases. We're seeing ongoing strength in ratable subscription offerings and improved adoption of our on-box select licenses, which are seeing traction across all of the customer verticals that we serve.Based on the momentum we're seeing, we remain confident in the long-term software and ARR targets we presented at our recent Investor Day. I'd like to mention that our Services team delivered another solid quarter and continued growth on a year-over-year basis due to strong renewals and service attach rates. Our services team continues to execute extremely well to ensure our customers receive an excellent experience. I would like to extend my thanks to our customers, partners and shareholders for their continued support and confidence in Juniper. I especially want to thank our employees for their hard work and dedication, which is essential to creating value for our stakeholders.I will now turn the call over to Ken, who will discuss our quarterly financial results in more detail.Ken Miller -- Executive Vice President, Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Rami, and good afternoon, everyone. I will start by discussing our second quarter results and end with some color on our outlook. We ended the second quarter of 2021 at $1.172 billion in revenue, and non-GAAP earnings per share of $0.43, both above the midpoint of our guidance. Revenue was up 8% year-over-year, with growth across all verticals and geographies. We experienced record levels of product orders during the second quarter with significant strength across all verticals and customer solutions. We believe some of this strength is attributable to industry supply chain challenges that are causing certain customers to place orders early in an effort to secure supply when needed. These early orders resulted in an increase in backlog and provide us with improved visibility into the second half of 2021. Even after adjusting for these early orders, total product orders are estimated to have grown mid-teens year-over-year, exceeding our expectations, with year-over-year growth across all verticals and customer solutions.Looking at our revenue by vertical. On a year-over-year basis, Service Provider grew 2%; Cloud grew 12%; and Enterprise grew 12%. All verticals grew on a sequential basis. From a customer solution perspective, automated WAN solutions declined 3% year-over-year, while PTS product family posted year-over-year growth, our MX offerings declined year-over-year. While our automated WAN revenue declined due to the timing of shipments, orders grew year-over-year. Cloud-ready data center revenue increased 28% year-over-year as we experienced strong demand for our QFX product family across all customer verticals and geographies. And finally, AI-driven Enterprise revenue increased 28% versus last year. Our Mist and EX product families both grew year-over-year. As Rami mentioned, total software and related services revenue was $173 million, an increase of 59% year-over-year. And our annual recurring revenue, or ARR, grew 32% year-over-year.Total security revenue which includes security products as well as services related to our security solutions was $172 million, an increase of 11% year-over-year. Security product sales grew 21% year-over-year. In reviewing our top 10 customers for the quarter, four were Cloud, five were Service Provider and one was an Enterprise. Our top 10 customers accounted for 33% of our total revenue as compared to 30% in Q2 2020. Non-GAAP gross margin was 60%, which was above the midpoint of our guidance, primarily due to higher revenue and lower service delivery costs. If it weren't for elevated logistics and other supply chain-related costs, we would have posted non-GAAP gross margin of approximately 60.5%.Non-GAAP operating expenses increased 9% year-over-year and 2% sequentially, slightly above the high end of our guidance range, primarily due to higher variable compensation related to better-than-expected order momentum. Non-GAAP operating margin was 15.8% for the quarter which exceeded our expectations and the midpoint of the guidance looking for 14.6%. We exited the quarter with total cash, cash equivalents and investments of $1.8 billion. The sequential increase was due to strong free cash flow generation, which was partially offset by our capital return program. Cash flow from operations was $257 million. From a capital returns perspective, we paid $65 million in dividends, reflecting a quarterly dividend of $0.20 per share and repurchased $110 million worth of shares in the second quarter. Turning to our guidance. As I'm sure you are all aware, there is a worldwide shortage of semiconductors impacting many industries.Similar to others, we are experiencing ongoing supply constraints, which have resulted in extended lead times and elevated costs. We have invested to strengthen our supply chain and have increased inventory purchase commitments over the course of the last year. We continue to work closely with our suppliers to further enhance our resiliency and limit disruptions outside of our control to the best of our ability. Despite these actions, we believe extended lead times and elevated costs will likely persist for at least the next few quarters. While the situation is dynamic at this point in time, we believe we will have access to sufficient semiconductor supply to meet our full year financial forecast. Looking specifically at the third quarter. At the midpoint of guidance, revenue is expected to be up 5.5% year-over-year. We expect supply constraints to be particularly tight in the third quarter, which has been factored into our guidance.We expect our third quarter non-GAAP gross margins to be impacted by higher component costs related to supply constraints and higher expected service delivery costs. At the midpoint of guidance, earnings are expected to grow faster than revenue in the period despite the expected pressure from supply constraints. Moving on to our expectations for 2021. We have updated our full year revenue growth and profitability expectations to account for our better-than-expected Q2 results, and current expectations for the second half of 2021. We now expect full year revenue growth of approximately 6%, a point of which is expected to come from recently acquired assets. Our revised top line outlook is 150 basis points higher than the midpoint of our previous expectation of 4% to 5%. From a vertical perspective for 2021, Cloud is expected to grow faster than our long-term range of 1% to 5%. Enterprise is expected to grow toward the high end of our long-term model range of 5% to 9%, and Service Provider is expected to be flat to slightly up versus last year toward the high end of our guidance range.While non-GAAP gross margin can be difficult to predict, we now expect non-GAAP gross margin to be approximately 59.5% for 2021, down from our previous expectation of approximately 60% due to the elevated freight and costs related to supply constraints we are now experiencing. We continue to expect full year non-GAAP operating margin to be flat to slightly up versus 2020 levels. On a full year basis, we expect non-GAAP earnings to grow faster than revenue. In closing, I would like to thank our team for their continued dedication and commitment to Juniper's success, especially in this challenging environment.Now I'd like to open the call for questions.