  OperatorGood afternoon, and welcome to Marvell's Technologies fourth quarter and fiscal year 2022 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] Please note this event is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Ashish Saran, vice president of investor relations. Please go ahead.Ashish Saran -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, and good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to Marvell's fourth quarter and fiscal year 2022 earnings call. Joining me today are Matt Murphy, Marvell's president and CEO; and Jean Hu, our CFO. I would like to remind everyone that certain comments made today may include forward-looking statements, which are subject to significant risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from management's current expectations. Please review the cautionary statements and risk factors contained in our earnings press release, which we filed with the SEC today and posted on our website, as well as our most recent 10-K and 10-Q filings. We do not intend to update our forward-looking statements. During our call today, we will refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation between our GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures is available in the investor relations section of our website.With that, I'll turn the call over to Matt for his comments on our performance. Matt? Matt Murphy -- President and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thanks, Ashish, and good afternoon, everyone. Let me start with a recap of the exceptional results Marvell delivered in fiscal 2022, an absolutely pivotal year for the company. We saw a substantial increase in design wins, the completion of two significant acquisitions and strong revenue growth with great momentum in all our businesses. Our 5-nanometer technology platform, along with the rest of our data-centric IP portfolio, proved to be a key enabler for winning new opportunities in all of our focus markets. Our sales and product teams did a tremendous job securing new sockets and drove a record level of design wins in fiscal 2022, a big step up from the prior year. Fiscal 2022 was also a breakout year for our cloud optimized silicon platform, winning a sizable number of important sockets, which we expect will drive significant revenue for the company going forward. We remain focused on extending our leadership in process technology and advanced packaging. Our engineering teams are driving the architecture and design of our complex analog and mixed-signal IP to three nanometers. They are also advancing chiplet and 3D packaging technologies to support the integration of multiple advanced process nodes inside a single package. During the year, we completed the integration of Inphi, a transformational acquisition that substantially increased our participation in the fast-growing cloud data center market. The Marvell and Inphi team share very similar values founded on engineering excellence, innovation and a passion for our customers' success. The teams have integrated exceptionally well across the company and are jointly taking our capabilities to new heights. Inphi's position at the core of cloud data centers has given the team unique insights into next-generation network architectures. The Inphi team has developed deep relationships with Tier 1 cloud customers, which has been instrumental in unlocking additional opportunities for the combined company, including the success of our cloud optimized silicon platform. The transaction, which was accretive to non-GAAP earnings within the first full quarter after close has been a resounding success, delivering revenue in fiscal 2022 above our deal model. We further complemented our cloud business with the Innovium acquisition, adding their leading cloud optimized switches to Marvell's feature-rich enterprise and carrier switch portfolio.

 



 The Innovium team is fully integrated and are leveraging Marvell's 5-nanometer technology platform and extensive SerDes IP to accelerate the road map for our next-generation 51.2T switches. This development is closely aligned with our electrooptics DSP road map to provide customers with a complete solution optimized for power and performance. The combined Marvell and Innovium Ethernet switch portfolios are proving very attractive to data center customers, among them, a new design win at a Tier 1 cloud customer in Asia. We are also engaged with multiple additional customers and are looking forward to further expanding our footprint in this fast-growing market. Moving on to revenue. In fiscal 2022, revenue grew 50% year on year to $4.46 billion driven by robust demand for our products. The organic Marvell business and the acquired Inphi business were both strong contributors to growth. Our results reflect our success in the cloud, 5G and automotive end markets, which collectively doubled in revenue from the prior year. Our enterprise networking end market also had a phenomenal year with revenue growing 43% year over year. Later in the call today, you will hear more details about the start of an extended period of infrastructure refreshes in the enterprise market. We expect that these, combined with share and content gains from our merchant products, will produce enduring growth in our enterprise business. And not only that, you will also hear me talk about a new driver of revenue growth in the enterprise networking market. Shifting gears to our fourth quarter. We delivered a record $1.34 billion in revenue, growing 11% sequentially and 68% year over year. Revenue exceeded the midpoint of guidance with all end markets growing sequentially and year over year. A particular note, cloud and enterprise networking delivered stronger than projected contributions. Cloud, 5G and auto collectively increased to 40% of total revenue in the fourth quarter. We exited fiscal 2022 with record bookings momentum and opportunities for accelerated growth across our business going forward. We continue to win in the market as our customers look to expand the scope of their engagements with Marvell. Our operations team continues to secure capacity, and we are tightly engaged with our strategic suppliers. Growth in demand continues to outstrip increases in supply. And as a result, our delinquency has continued to grow. We are working closely with our suppliers to secure additional capacity wherever possible. Let me now move on to discussing our five end markets, starting with data center. In our data center end market, revenue for the fourth quarter was $574 million, growing 15% sequentially and 113% year over year, exceeding our guidance. The majority of the growth was from cloud driven by robust demand from hyperscale customers. Let me note that our on-premise data center business also grew sequentially and year over year. In the fourth quarter, sequential and year-over-year revenue growth was broad-based with multiple product lines contributing to the excellent results. We expect the demand outlook from cloud customers to remain strong, and we are also looking forward to the ramp of new design wins. At our Investor Day, we discussed our expectations for $400 million in incremental revenue contributions in fiscal 2024 from new cloud optimized wins, doubling to $800 million in fiscal 2025. Development of these programs is well on track with several products slated to enter production later this year and start contributing meaningful revenue. Since that update, we have won multiple additional cloud optimized designs. Similar to the wins in prior quarters, these chips are for a variety of networking and compute offload or acceleration functions in cloud data centers. We are expecting revenue contributions from these new wins to start as early as fiscal 2024 and then ramp more substantially over time. Both of these wins are incremental to what we had discussed at our Investor Day. In aggregate, in fiscal 2022, we have won over a dozen cloud optimized programs across multiple Tier 1 cloud customers. A significant number of these designs are for custom DPU implementations, reflecting the increase in the attach rate of DPUs inside cloud data centers. We expect this trend to accelerate in next-generation architectures. We are confident that we are uniquely positioned to win these opportunities with our leading portfolio of compute, networking, security, storage and high-speed electro-optics IP, all of them delivered on our cloud optimized 5-nanometer platform. In our electro-optics business, we are continuing to innovate. We are aggressively driving the road map to improve power performance in leading-edge technology nodes with our next-generation products. We have begun volume shipments of our 800-gig PAM4 DSPs, enabling customers to start deployment of 800-gig optical modules in cloud data center and AI network applications. We are confident that we are the industry's first PAM4 DSP supplier to achieve this production milestone. Let me now discuss a new product line we just announced for the emerging active electrical cable market. This opens up another avenue of growth for us in the data center, leveraging our core DSP expertise. Today, our PAM4 products are primarily deployed in optical modules used in cloud data centers for long-reach switch-to-switch connections. In the same data centers, short-reach connections between switches, between server to top of rack switches and in AI interconnects have traditionally used passive electrical cables for speeds of up to 50 gig per lane. None of these requires advanced signal processing today. However, in next-generation cloud data centers, AI, ML and other data-intensive workloads are pushing these short-reach connections to higher 100 gig per lane throughput. At these speeds, passive electrical cables have significant reach and performance limitations. To overcome these challenges, the industry is turning to active electrical cables, referred to as ADCs, which require advanced DSPs. To meet that demand, Marvell has introduced the industry's first 400-gig and 800-gig DSPs for the ADC market based on our leading PAM4 service technology. Our unique business model allows us to work with both cloud customers, as well as all leading cable manufacturers to drive an open ecosystem. Our industry-leading DSPs have enabled major cable vendors to complete development of their first ADC solutions. We are also working with multiple cloud operators to take advantage of this new growth opportunity. On the storage side, our leading process technology platform and PCIe road map execution continues to drive new design wins for our data center SSD controllers. During the quarter, we secured designs with our PCIe Gen 5 controllers at two additional NAND OEMs, making a total of three who are adopting the Marvell solution. Looking ahead, our team is also pushing forward with our PCIe Gen 6 development, and our customers are very excited about our road map. Moving on to our expectations for the first fiscal quarter of fiscal 2023 from our data center end market. We project revenue to grow sequentially in the mid-single digits on a percentage basis and more than double year over year. We are expecting another strong performance led by cloud customers across a broad range of products. We are also projecting the start of a strong ramp of our 400-gig ZR data center interconnect products. In fact, we are expecting this ramp to drive our DCI revenue to a new record in the first quarter, eclipsing the peak we had achieved in the 100 gig cycle. Even at this very early stage of industry adoption, we are excited to see the rapid growth of 400 ZR, and we expect to see a lot more growth over time. Looking forward, we see ongoing growth in the data center, including revenue contribution starting from the new cloud-optimized product ramps to drive another step-up in our data center revenue in the second half of this fiscal year and beyond. Turning to our carrier infrastructure end market. Revenue for the fourth quarter was $241 million, growing 12% sequentially and 45% year over year. These results were driven by our 5G business, which delivered substantial revenue growth of over 30% sequentially, exceeding our guidance. We benefited from the broader rollout of 5G technology and product ramps at multiple base station customers. Marvell recently announced a collaboration with Dell on their new suite of telecom solutions to help service providers enable their transformation to open cloud-native networks. This offering includes a codeveloped Open RAN accelerator card using our proven OCTEON Fusion baseband silicon to deliver in-line 5G Layer 1 processing. We continue to see strong traction on our 5G technology platform, resulting in another key 5-nanometer design win for a radio ASIC at a Tier 1 base station customer. Following the strong step-up in the fourth quarter, we expect revenue from the carrier end market to continue to grow in the first quarter of fiscal 2023. We are projecting revenue to grow in the low single digits sequentially, while year-over-year growth is expected to remain strong at over 40%. Moving on to our enterprise networking and end market. Revenue for the fourth quarter was $263 million, growing 6% sequentially and 64% year over year, another strong performance from this large and growing Marvell business. As you heard in the opening remarks, this end market is going through an inflection. Hybrid work is here to stay, but the current networking infrastructure was never designed to support this flexible, seamless connect from anywhere, immersive and high video usage environment. Companies are now embarking upon an extended period of refreshing their infrastructure, becoming borderless, enabling new digital capabilities, massively increasing bandwidth, building redundancy and beefing up security. You will also remember from our prior discussions that we have been winning designs with our refreshed products over several years in this end market. These wins have typically come with higher Marvell content driven by new features such as multi-gig Ethernet and MACsec. As the upgrade cycle in the enterprise networking market gains momentum, we are beginning to see our customers starting to ship their new platforms where we have higher share and increased content. Looking forward, we expect enterprises will continue to modernize their networks. And as a result, we project ongoing growth to continue from this end market. Let me now discuss a new source of growth for Marvell in this end market, custom silicon. We have a very successful custom business in the carrier end market and are also building a large revenue stream from hyperscalers with our cloud optimized products. We are now enabling the enterprise networking market to take advantage of our advanced technology platform. I would like to point out that these designs frequently pull through additional Marvell content across a number of our product lines. Our pipeline of opportunities is growing, and we see custom silicon becoming another leg to the enterprise networking stool, adding to the ongoing growth from our merchant products. We expect revenue from custom products and enterprise networking to grow sharply to well over $100 million in fiscal 2023. In aggregate, we expect a very durable period of high growth from enterprise networking to strongly complement our cloud, 5G and auto pillars. Looking ahead to the first quarter of fiscal 2023, we expect growth to accelerate in our enterprise networking end market. We are projecting revenue to be up sequentially in the mid-teens on a percentage basis and year over year to grow over 70%. This growth outlook reflects our expectations of higher supply to support our product ramps and the ongoing enterprise infrastructure refresh cycle. Turning to our automotive and industrial end market, revenue for the fourth quarter was $79 million, growing 19% sequentially and 134% year over year. Strong revenue growth in this end market is being driven by higher adoption of our Brightlane Ethernet solutions in a growing number of vehicles from multiple OEMs. Looking ahead to the first quarter of fiscal 2023, we are expecting strong sequential growth to continue from auto and a flattish outlook for our industrial business. As a result, for the auto and industrial end market, we are projecting sequential revenue growth in the high single digits on a percentage basis, while year-over-year growth is expected above 80%. Moving on to our consumer end market. Revenue for the fourth quarter was $185 million, growing 2% sequentially and 11% year over year. Growth in this end market is being driven by our SSD controllers, shipping into consumer-oriented platforms such as game consoles. Looking ahead to the first quarter of fiscal 2023, we expect revenue to be flattish on a sequential basis and continue to grow year over year, approximately in the double digits on a percentage basis. In closing, we delivered record results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year 2022, growing revenue well above our long-term target model. We expect this momentum to continue. Marvell is uniquely positioned to benefit from the three most important growth opportunities in semiconductors: cloud, 5G and automotive. The transformation in the enterprise end market is also becoming another continuing growth driver for Marvell. We expect secular growth to continue from all our end markets, further supported by our large and growing pipeline of secured design wins, which will drive incremental revenue. We are also working to make sure that we grow in a responsible and sustainable manner. Over the past year, Marvell has taken meaningful action on evolving our environmental, social and governance strategy, setting new goals and increasing transparency. We've committed to achieving net zero emissions as a company and are setting a science-based target to put us on track to reach this goal. Building a more inclusive and diverse workforce is another important area of focus, and we have increased our outreach to traditionally underrepresented talent. I would encourage investors to visit our new ESG website to review the goals we've outlined and our progress to date. On behalf of Marvell's board and leadership team, I thank our valued employees for the outstanding results they've helped deliver in the fourth quarter and throughout fiscal year 2022. Ours is a highly resilient team that has stayed focused and outperformed through an extended period of challenges and uncertainty. This is an exciting time for our company as we've hit an inflection point in our growth cycle and are seeing strong momentum in our businesses across the board. I look forward to continuing to work alongside our exceptional Marvell team to address the numerous opportunities in front of us. With that, I'll turn the call over to Jean for more detail on our recent results and outlook.Jean Hu -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Matt, and good afternoon, everyone. I'll start with a summary of our fiscal year 2022 results. We are very pleased with our performance in fiscal 2022, delivering record revenue and profitability while continuing to aggressively invest to drive strong long-term growth from the data infrastructure market. Revenue grew significantly by 50% year on year to $4.46 billion. GAAP gross margin was 46.3% and the GAAP loss per diluted share was $0.53. Our non-GAAP gross margin was 64.9%, expanding by 160 basis points, reflecting the increase in value and differentiation we provide to our customers. Revenue growth and gross margin expansion, combined with strong operating leverage from our business model, drove robust growth in earnings for the year. Non-GAAP operating margin expanded by 860 basis points from 24.2% to 32.8%. And non-GAAP earnings per share grew 71% year on year to $1.57. Moving on to our financial results for the first quarter. Revenue in the fourth quarter was $1.343 billion, exceeding the middle point of our guidance, growing 11% sequentially and 68% year over year. Data center was our largest end market, driving 43% of consolidated revenue. Enterprise networking was next largest with 19% of total revenue, followed by carrier infrastructure at 18%, consumer at 14% and auto industrial at 6%. GAAP gross margin was 51.1%. Non-GAAP gross profit was $877 million or 65.3% of revenue, another record driven by rich product mix, reflecting our strong IP position and leading product portfolio. GAAP operating expenses were $652 million and they include the cost of share-based compensation expenses, amortization of acquired intangible assets, legal settlements and acquisition and divestiture-related costs. Non-GAAP operating expenses were $390 million, at the low end of our guidance range. GAAP operating income was $35 million. Non-GAAP operating profit was $487 million, up 115% from a year ago, growing significantly faster than revenue. We achieved a record of 36.3% non-GAAP operating margin, an improvement of 790 basis points from the prior year, reflect the strong operating leverage in our business model. For the fourth quarter, GAAP income per diluted share was $0.01. Non-GAAP income per diluted share was $0.50, up 72% year over year, exceeding the middle point of our guidance. Now turning to our balance sheet and the cash flow. During the quarter, cash flow from operations was $346 million. I'm pleased with our strong cash flow generation while investing significantly in working capital to support strong revenue growth. We returned $51 million to shareholders through cash dividends. As of the end of the fourth fiscal quarter, our cash and cash equivalents were $614 million, and our long-term debt was $4.5 billion. Our gross debt-to-EBITDA ratio was 2.6 times and net debt-to-EBITDA ratio was 2.3 times. We are confident that we are on track to achieve our targeted gross debt-to-EBITDA ratio of two times by the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2023, at which time we expect to restart share repurchase. Inventory at the end of the fourth quarter was $720 million. $39 million of this inventory balance is from Innovium due to purchase price accounting. We anticipate amortizing this step-up over the next two quarters. We have also increased our working process inventory to support the rapid growth in revenue we are forecasting. In summary, the Marvell team executed exceptionally well, delivering accelerated top line growth and strong earnings expansion significantly faster than revenue growth. Turning to our guidance for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2023. We are forecasting revenue to be in the range of $1.425 billion, plus or minus 3%. We expect our GAAP gross margin will be in the range of 49.6% to 50.6%. We project our non-GAAP gross margin will be in the range of 65% to 66%. We project our GAAP operating expenses to be approximately $672 million. We anticipate our non-GAAP operating expenses to be in the range of $430 million to $435 million. For the first quarter, we expect non-GAAP tax rate of 6%. We expect our basic weighted average shares outstanding will be 848 million. And our diluted weighted average share outstanding will be 863 million. As a result, we anticipate GAAP earnings per share in the range of a loss of $0.03 per share on the low end to an income of $0.05 per diluted share on the high end. We expect non-GAAP income per diluted share in the range of $0.48 to $0.54. Operator, please open the line and announce Q&A instructions. Thank you. 