
OperatorGood afternoon and welcome to the HP Inc. Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to turn the conference over to Beth Howe, Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Beth Howe -- Vice President and Head of Investor Relations

 



Good afternoon, everyone and welcome to HP's third quarter 2021 earnings conference call. With me today are Enrique Lores, HP's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Marie Myers, HP's Chief Financial Officer. Before handing the call over to Enrique, let me remind you that this call is being webcast. A replay of this webcast will be made available on our website shortly after the call for approximately one year. We posted the earnings release and the accompanying slide presentation on our Investor Relations webpage at investor.hp.com. As always, elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today.For more detailed information, please see disclaimers in the earnings materials related to forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. For a discussion of some of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, please refer to HP's SEC reports including our most recent Form 10-K. HP assumes no obligation and does not intend to update any such forward-looking statements. We also note that the financial information discussed on this call reflects estimates based on information available now and could differ materially from the amounts ultimately reported in HP's Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended July 31, 2021 and HP's other SEC filings.During this webcast, unless otherwise specifically noted, all comparisons are year-over-year comparisons with the corresponding year-ago period. For financial information that has been expressed on a non-GAAP basis, we've included reconciliations to the comparable GAAP information. Please refer to the tables and slide presentation accompanying today's earnings release for those reconciliations.With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Enrique.

 



Enrique Lores -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Beth. Good afternoon, everyone and thank you for joining the call. I hope that you and your families are safe and well. It's an important time for us to connect. The hybrid world taking shape is expanding our addressable market and create new opportunities to drive profitable growth. We have already started to capitalize on this, and have a long runway ahead. This is evident in our Q3 performance. We delivered another quarter of top and bottom line growth with EPS growing substantially faster than revenue. This reflects continued progress against our strategic priorities and strong and sustained demand for our products and services. In Q3, we delivered revenue of $15.3 billion, an increase of 7%. Our non-GAAP net earnings increased 71% to $1.2 billion. Non-GAAP EPS increased to $1 compared to $0.49 in Q3 last year, and we generated $1 billion of free cash flow, returning $1.7 billion to shareholders.Before I take you through the highlights, I want to first share three key points of context, as you think about our performance and outlook. First, as I mentioned, we continue to see strong demand for our products and services. The hybrid world is accelerating trends in our segments and our leadership across commercial and consumer categories positions as well even as demand continues to outpace supply.The second point is that we continue to ship as much product as we can, while navigating a complex operational environment. We are managing through component shortages. COVID-related factory lockdowns in Southeast Asia and congested ports and transportation disruptions. Even under these conditions, we delivered solid financial results.

 



And third, we are performing while transforming our business models and service offerings to capitalize on emerging growth opportunities. We have continued to make progress reducing our fixed cost structure evolving our business model and creating new growth businesses. And we are expanding our time in key segment to drive additional top and bottom line growth. In Personal Systems, it will be driven by our focus on peripherals and new compute models. In printing, we are expanding our services and subscription offerings. I will talk about all of these in more detail by looking at the progress we're making across our portfolio.In Personal Systems, demand for our products continue to be strong with our backlog increasing again quarter-on-quarter. PC penetration rates are growing across our markets, our devices become increasingly essential in today's hybrid world. While we delivered strong operating profit, PS revenue was less and we expected primarily because of our supply chain constraints. We expect industrywide supply shortages, particularly in ICs to continue into 2022. Even this, we have identified the necessary improvements we need to make and are accelerating their execution to drive stronger top line performance. We expect that it will take more than one quarter to show results. As we then supply our peers portfolio is extremely well-positioned for the hybrid world, and we see significant opportunities for market expansion. And our leading share in Commercial PCs positions us well as more businesses reopen.In the Commercial market, we launched our new all-in-one and expanded our ZBook portfolio of high performance PCs for creative professionals. This includes the ZBook Studio G8, the world's most powerful mobile workstation of its size. And our new ZBook Power brings ZBook performance to students SMB and the public sector. In Q3, we also launched our new Pavilion lineup that brings premium computing experiences into the mainstream. We will note a series of new displays that are purpose-built for home office and entertaining setups. And we continued to drive momentum outside of our core hardware businesses.This quarter, we completed our acquisition of HyperX, giving us a leading position in gaming peripheral, and a platform from which to accelerate our peripheral leadership more broadly. We also continue to advance our device as a service business, which grew 32% in the quarter. And we are investing to meet emerging customers' needs in the commercial space. This is highlighted by our recent agreement to acquire Teradici Corporation. Teradici software is widely used by leading organizations around the world to deliver superior remote computing solutions. We expect this deal will accelerate new compute models and services tailored for hybrid work environment.In Printing, revenue was up 24%, driven by a recovery in Commercial and strength in Consumers. But in Personal Systems, the rise of bot in hybrid place always things and is creating new opportunities for print innovation and growth. Specifically, we are expanding our services and subscription offerings, each of which deliver double digit growth this quarter. We continue to scale HP Plus an Instant Ink across North America and Europe, including the addition of HP plus on the LV and digit product family. We have seen positive response to HP Plus today, and HP's Instant Ink hit a major milestone by surprising 10 million subscribers. Our subscription services are providing a simple and seamless experience for today's hybrid workers paving the way for new offerings in the future.We also continued to evolve our hardware portfolio with success in our award-winning HP Laserjet 400 and 500 series. HP continues to be recognized as a best managed print vendor, helping F&B solution providers thrive in a competitive market, where quality and security are essential. Those things of our position in the commercial market is significant as more people return to the office.In our Industrial businesses, we drove very strong hardware revenue growth in the quarter. Importantly, our number of pages printed is at or above 2019 levels. We once again saw double digit growth in print impressions and square meters, as well as things in key categories like labels and packaging. And in 3D, we remain focused on driving high-value end-to-end applications in strategic vertical markets.This quarter, we launched the new arise or fertic solution. It leverages HP 3D printing and cloud-based software to help the millions of patients who suffer from foot pain. It is a great example of the opportunity we see to develop industries with highly personalized solutions. Our combination of innovation and execution enables us to continue making progress across our business and portfolio. And we remain committed to generating strong cash flow and to value-creating capital allocation. This includes our robust share repurchase and dividend program and disciplined organic and inorganic investments.In Q3, we returned $1.7 billion to shareholders, and have returned $6.8 billion over the past 12 months. We believe, our shares remain under value and are committed to aggressive repurchase levels of at least $1.5 billion in Q4. As part of our value creation strategy, we also remain focused on M&A, that can accelerate our growth in strategic areas. HyperX and Teradici are two great examples. We will continue to use in our liberals, returns based framework to evaluate and pursue deals that complement our strategy and accelerate new sources of value creation.As we drive our portfolio strategy and transformation agenda, we continue to prioritize making a sustainable impact. This quarter will release our 20th Annual Sustainable Impact Report, that highlights the work we are doing in climate action, human rights on digital equity and outlined new 2030 goals. Not only it is the right thing to do, it's also driving business success. In 2020, our sustainable impact initiatives help us win more than $1 billion in new sales for the second consecutive year. Aligned with this, we recently issued $1 billion in Sustainability Bond. We are allocating these profits to ESG [Phonetic] related initiatives consistent with our strategy and values.Looking ahead to Q4, our backlog remains significantly elevated. We expect robust demand to continue and we are taking decisive steps to address operational headwinds. Our portfolio is strong and resilient, and we remain on track to significantly exceed the full year EPS target we set in February. And today, we are raising our Q4 outlook. And more importantly, we plan to build on this performance and expect to grow full year EPS in fiscal year '22. Longer term, the hybrid world placed our strengths and creates attractive opportunities across our categories. We are well positioned to drive sustained performance, by the way innovate, improve and continue to reinvent for our customers, partners and shareholders. I look forward to our upcoming October Analyst Meeting to discuss our strategy and our plans to drive continued business success.Let me now turn the call over to Marie, who will take you through the details of the quarter and our fiscal year outlook. Marie, over to you.Marie Myers -- Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Enrique. Looking at our third quarter financial results, we delivered another solid quarter of revenue growth with operating profit and EPS growing substantially faster. We are continuing our transformation journey, while generating strong free cash flow returning significant capital to shareholders and investing for long-term value creation.Looking at the details of Q3, net revenue was $15.3 billion, up 7% nominally, and 4% in constant currency. Regionally, in constant currency, Americas increased 12%, EMEA increased 1%, and APJ declined 6%. Supply chain constraints affected both print and Personal Systems revenue. And this was particularly impactful in EMEA and APJ in Personal Systems. Across Personal Systems and Print, we continue to see strong demand for our products and solutions. Capitalizing on opportunities, we see as the hybrid world takes shape.The gross margin was 22.2%, up 5.5 points year-on-year. The increase was primarily driven by continued favorable pricing, including lower promotions as well as a reduction to previously estimated sales and marketing program incentives as well as currency, partially offset by higher costs. Non-GAAP operating expenses were $1.9 billion, or 12.4% of revenue. The increase in operating expenses was primarily driven by increased investments in go-to-market and innovation, as well as higher variable compensation due to the very strong performance this fiscal year as compared to 2020.Non-GAAP net OI&E expense was $78 million for the quarter. Non-GAAP diluted net earnings per share increased $0.51 to $1, including $0.25 related to the reduction in previously estimated incentives of which $0.12 were reinvested during the quarter, primarily an accelerating R&D incremental marketing and a hybrid work strategy. Non-GAAP diluted net earnings per share excludes net expense totaling $19 million, primarily related to restructuring and other charges, amortization of intangibles, acquisition-related charges, debt extinguishment costs, other tax adjustments, partially offset by non-operating retirement-related credits. As a result, Q3 GAAP diluted net earnings per share was $0.92.Before I get into the details of the segments, let me briefly address the reduction in previously estimated sales and marketing program incentives. Consistent with our policies, we review these estimates every quarter. We estimate incentives based on a number of factors like historical experience, customer behavior and market conditions. The change in estimate is a result of lower-than-expected incentives due to increased supply constraints, shifts in customer behavior and the evolving impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. As a result, it became clear that we had to make it unusually large change in estimate in Q3.Now let me turn to segment performance. In Q3, Personal Systems revenue was $10.4 billion flat year-over-year as supply chain challenges continue to constrain our growth. Demand for our products remain strong with backlog increasing again sequentially, despite substantially clearing the current backlog. Drilling into the details. Consumer and Commercial revenue was up 3%, and down 1%, respectively. By product category, revenue was flat for notebooks, up 1% for desktops, and down 9% for workstations. Total units were flat year-over-year. We also drove double digit growth in both consumer peripherals and services attach across consumer and commercial.Personal Systems delivered $869 million in operating profit and operating margins of 8.4%. The operating margin improved 2.9 points, primarily due to favorable pricing, including the reduction in estimated incentive and currency partially offset by higher costs including commodity cost, investments in innovation, in go-to market and variable compensation.In Print, our results reflected continued focus on execution and the strength of our portfolio. We are uniquely positioned as leaders in both consumer and commercial and have the hardware supplies and services to deliver value in a hybrid world. Q3 total print revenue was $4.9 billion, up 24% driven by strong growth in support, hardware and services. Total hardware units declined 4%, due to manufacturing and component constraints primarily in consumer printers. We expect these Q3 constraints to impact Q4 as well.Our customer segment consumer revenue was up 15%, with units down 8%, and commercial revenue and units were up 46% and 29%, respectively. Consumer demand remains strong. However, revenue particularly A4 laser was constrained by supply and factory disruptions. The commercial recovery continued with a double digit hardware revenue growth in office and triple digit increases in Industrial printing hardware. Given what we're seeing with the Delta variant and evolving hybrid models, we still expect the recovery to be gradual and uneven at times across segments and geographies.Supplies revenue was $3.1 billion, the 20% year-on-year growth was driven by inventory replenishment, stronger commercial demand and favorable pricing. Our contractual business is a key element of our print strategy in both consumer and commercial printing. In consumer, our Instant Ink business model continue to resonate well with customers with strong double digit revenue and subscriber growth. On the commercial side, we drove growth in managed print services revenue and total contract value with particular strength in new TCP bookings. Print operating profit increased $377 million to $857 million and operating margins were 17.6%. Operating margin grew 5.4 points driven primarily by favorable pricing, including the reduction in estimated incentives, higher volumes in commercial hardware, including graphics and 3D partially offset by unfavorable mix and higher costs, including commodity costs, investments in innovation and go-to market and variable compensation.Let me now turn to our transformation efforts and our cost savings initiatives. In the second year of our program, we continue to look at new cost savings opportunities and remain ahead of our $1.2 billion gross run rate structural cost reduction plan. Our hybrid work strategy is one example. It has enabled us to accelerate a location strategy while providing a more flexible workspace. Going forward, we are enabling HP's hybrid work strategy by monetizing our sites to be critical hubs for collaboration and innovation. This will also deliver savings in our real estate portfolio.In addition to our progress on our location strategy, we are making progress in our digital transformation. We are enhancing and leveraging our digital capabilities to transform the ways we operate and deliver value to our customers. In the third quarter, we completed the initial deployment over SAP S4 Hana system, one of the largest ERP implementations. Also as part of our end-to-end business planning and forecasting efforts, we also went live with our new cloud-based platform, which we believe will improve our forecasting agility is part of our digital transformation. The structural cost savings from our transformation efforts are a key enabler of reinvesting in our business for long-term growth and profitability.Shifting to cash flow and capital allocation. Third quarter cash flow from operations and free cash flow were $1.1 billion and $1 billion, respectively. In Q3, the cash conversion cycle was minus 29 days. Sequentially, the cash conversion cycle improved one-day as higher days payable outstanding more than offset the increased days of inventory due to growth in inventory across PS and print and the one-day increase in days sales outstanding. For the quarter, we returned a total of $1.7 billion to shareholders, which represented 178% of free cash flow. This included $1.5 billion in share repurchase and $230 million in cash dividends. Looking forward, we expect to continue to aggressively buy back shares at elevated levels of at least $1.5 billion in Q4.Looking forward to the fourth quarter, we continue to navigate supply availability and logistics constraints, pricing dynamics and the pace of economic reopening. In particular, keep the following in mind related to our overall financial outlook. For Personal Systems, we continue to see strong demand for our PCs, particularly in commercial. In Print, we expect solid demand in consumer and a mix shift as commercial continues to improve. For both Personal Systems and Print, we expect the component shortages, as well as some manufacturing, port and transit disruptions will continue to constrain revenue due to the ongoing pandemic and resurgence driven by the Delta variant.Taking these considerations into account, we are increasing our Q4 and FY '21 EPS. We expect fourth quarter non-GAAP diluted net earnings per share to be in the range of $0.84 to $0.90, and fourth quarter GAAP diluted net earnings per share to be in the range of $0.82 to $0.88. We expect full year non-GAAP diluted net earnings per share to be in the range of $3.69 to $3.75, and FY '21 GAAP diluted net earnings per share to be in the range of $3.56 to $3.62. For FY '21, we expect our free cash flow to be at least $4 billion.And now I would like to hand it back to the operator and open the call for your questions.