  OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Qualcomm fourth quarter and fiscal 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded November 3, 2021. The playback number for today's call is (877) 660-6853. International callers, please dial (201) 612-7415. The playback reservation number is 13723721. I would now like to turn the call over to Mauricio Lopez-Hodoyan, vice president of investor relations. Mr. Lopez-Hodoyan, please go ahead.

 



Mauricio Lopez-Hodoyan -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you, and good afternoon, everyone. Today's call will include prepared remarks by Cristiano Amon and Akash Palkhiwala. In addition, Alex Rogers will join the question-and-answer session. You can access our earnings release and a slide presentation that accompany this call on our Investor Relations website. In addition, this call is being webcast on qualcomm.com, and a replay will be available on our website later today. During the call today, we will use non-GAAP financial measures as defined in Regulation G, and you can find the related reconciliations to GAAP on our website. We will also make forward-looking statements, including projections and estimates of future events, business or industry trends or business or financial results. Actual events or results could differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements.Please refer to our SEC filings, including our most recent 10-K, which contain important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. And now to comments from Qualcomm's president and chief executive officer, Cristiano Amon. 

 



Cristiano Amon -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Mauricio, and good afternoon, everyone. Thanks for joining us today. As the pace of digital transformation of industries accelerates and as devices become connected and more intelligent, our broad portfolio of technologies and solutions is creating a significant long-term growth opportunity for us. As you can see from our results, the performance in our chipset business led to record fiscal fourth quarter non-GAAP revenues of $9.3 billion and record non-GAAP earnings per share of $2.55. Notably, this is our fifth consecutive quarter of greater than 100% year-over-year EBT growth in our chipset business. We also demonstrated revenue diversification with combined RF front-end, automotive and IoT fiscal '21 revenues exceeding $10 billion, an increase of 69% year over year. Going forward, our chipset business represents the largest growth engine for us as virtually all devices at the edge adopt mobile technologies. We have the relevant technologies required to continue to lead in mobile and the connected intelligent edge. And as the edge gains scale in connectivity and adopts own device artificial intelligence, we're well positioned to become a leader in AI processing. Let me now briefly highlight the strong momentum we continue to see in IoT across consumer, edge networking and industrial. In consumer, we're pleased that our XR platforms are powering over 50 commercial devices and gaining scale with the leading VR and AR ecosystems. Our early investments have established Snapdragon XR as a device platform of choice for connecting physical and digital spaces.

 



 And recent market developments position us as one of the key enablers of the metaverse opportunity. Additionally, the ongoing conversions of mobile and compute continues to drive demand for Snapdragon-powered premium tablets, 2-in-1s and laptops. We are pleased with the strong market validation of ARM-based personal computing in the industry transition to a new SoC architecture. We're more confident than ever in the connected computing opportunity, our upcoming solutions powered by our NUVIA CPUs and our collaboration with Microsoft. We're also seeing increased traction in consumer electronics. Our advanced technologies are powering category-leading devices such as the Peloton Bike+ in tread as well as the ASTRO, Amazon's recently announced household robot. In edge networking, we are a leader in current and next-generation high-performance Wi-Fi 6 and Wi-Fi 6E access point solutions. And we continue to see high demand for our products driven by home and enterprise upgrade cycles. We expect this trend to continue as productivity increasingly requires video collaboration as well as cloud processing and storage. 5G as wireless fiber is now a reality in gaining scale. In the United States, Verizon recently announced 5G home Internet service availability in 57 markets, including more than two million households covered on millimeter wave. In addition, T-Mobile is leveraging their 5G network to target seven million to eight million home broadband customers over the next five years. We're seeing demand increase globally, making 5G as wireless fiber one of the fastest-growing last-mile broadband technologies. In industrial, we have expanded our Qualcomm IoT services suite to more than 30 verticals. As an example, in retail, our solutions are powering digital signage, payment and self-checkout devices from companies like Square and Clover as well as solutions from Honeywell, Panasonic, Zebra and others to enable new customer experiences, help empower store associates and improve operational efficiencies. We also continue to lead the way on product innovation with new launches like the Qualcomm Flight RB5, the world's first 5G AI drone platform. In RF front-end, we expanded our product portfolio with our recently announced ultraBAW RF filter technology that support frequencies from 2.7 gigahertz to 7.2 gigahertz. This is the new industry benchmark for performance in this range. ultraBAW technology also supports Wi-Fi bands, including 5 gigahertz, the newly adopted 6 gigahertz band for Wi-Fi 6E and future Wi-Fi standards. This creates a new growth vector for RF front-end as we attach RF solutions to Wi-Fi. Our RF front-end portfolio, combining ultraSAW and ultraBAW technologies is now best-in-class from 600 megahertz to 7 gigahertz. And with the addition of millimeter wave, we are the only RF front-end provider with a comprehensive solution for all bands. As cellular expands beyond handsets, we're focused on extending our modem-to-antenna platform to automotive and IoT. In automotive, we're creating a leading horizontal and open platform with our Snapdragon digital chassis, which includes our telematics, digital cockpit, Car-to-Cloud service, ADAS and autonomy solutions. Taking the same approach we used to make smartphone the world's largest computing and developer platform, we're currently working with automakers and Tier 1s to create a joint road map to build multi-tier, multi-generation, scalable and upgradable platforms for long-term sustainable business. The strength of our digital chassis strategy is reflected in both our results as well as a strong design pipeline and is creating a platform for innovation for auto. We are also very excited about Arriver. Upon closing, Snapdragon Ride ADAS solutions will be complemented with Arriver's computer vision, drive policy and driver assistant assets, enhancing our ability to deliver on an open and competitive ADAS platform for automakers and Tier 1s at scale. In handsets, we're successfully executing on our strategy. Our premium tier Snapdragon solutions continue to gain traction with OEMs. In fiscal Q4, devices announced or shipped with our Snapdragon premium tier products increased by 21% year-over-year. Notably, all leading 5G Android smartphones OEMs by volume continue to power their flagship devices with Snapdragon. Snapdragon continues to be the preferred choice for premium and high-tier Android smartphones in all regions. As a result, we're benefiting from the changing OEM landscape in Android SAM expansion. Lastly, our licensing business achieved fiscal '21 revenues in excess of $6.3 billion. QTL remains the most successful licensing business in the industry, reflecting the strength of our innovation in cellular technology, the value of our extensive patent portfolio and our execution in securing long-term agreements with key OEMs as well as over 150 5G agreements to date. As we have noted throughout the year, we continue to see incredibly strong demand across all our technologies as the current environment is accelerating the scale of connectivity and processing at the edge. We still expect material improvements to our supply by the end of the calendar year, and our second sourcing initiatives remain on track. Before I turn the call over to Akash, I would like to highlight that we recently announced a goal to achieve net-zero global emissions for Scopes one, two and three by 2040. We also look forward to enabling a more sustainable future with 5G through its impact on greenhouse gas emissions reduction, energy and water use optimization, green jobs creation and more. I would now like to turn the call over to Akash.Akash Palkhiwala -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Cristiano, and good afternoon, everyone. We are pleased to announce record fourth fiscal quarter results with non-GAAP revenues of $9.3 billion and non-GAAP EPS of $2.55, reflecting year-over-year growth of 43% and 76%, respectively. For QCT, this was another record quarter with revenues of $7.7 billion and EBT margin of 32%, both above the high end of our guidance. QCT EBT of $2.5 billion grew by 143% versus the year ago quarter on revenue growth of 56% and 12 points of EBT margin expansion. We also delivered record revenues in each of QCT revenue streams: handsets, RF front-end, IoT and automotive. Handset revenues of $4.7 billion increased 56% year-over-year on strong demand across all major OEMs. RF front-end revenues of $1.2 billion grew 45% year-over-year and included the benefit of pull-in of demand in advance of certain holiday launches. IoT revenues were up 66% year-over-year to $1.5 billion as digital transformation continues to drive higher demand across our diversified customer base. Automotive revenues of $270 million grew 44% year over year on the ramp of digital cockpit launches and continued strength in telematics. QTL revenues of $1.6 billion and EBT margins of 72% were in line with guidance. These results reflect slightly lower-than-expected units, offset by favorable mix. Lastly, we delivered GAAP EPS of $2.45, $0.47 above the high end of our guidance, driven by record non-GAAP earnings and approximately $500 million of gains in our QSI investment portfolio. Now I would like to highlight some key achievements in fiscal '21. We are exceeding all targets we set at our 2019 Analyst Day, which is a year earlier than forecasted. We delivered year-over-year revenue growth of 26% in QTL and 64% in QCT, and more than doubled non-GAAP EPS to $8.54. In QCT, we had greater than 50% year-over-year growth in each of our revenue streams, and EBT margins expanded from 17% in fiscal '20 to 29% in fiscal '21. Within handsets, our Android revenues for our Snapdragon chipsets were approximately 40% higher than our primary competitor. With our focus on diversification, RF front-end, automotive and IoT accounted for 38% of total QCT revenues. Lastly, we returned 74% of our free cash flow to stockholders, including $3 billion in dividends and $3.4 billion in stock repurchases. Turning to our guidance for handset units in the first fiscal quarter. For calendar 2021, we are narrowing the range for 5G handsets to 500 million to 550 million units. We are now forecasting mid- to high-single-digit growth in global 3G/4G/5G handsets relative to calendar 2020. For the first fiscal quarter, we are forecasting revenues of $10 billion to $10.8 billion and non-GAAP EPS of $2.90 to $3.10. In QCT, we expect revenues of $8.4 billion to $8.9 billion and EBT margins of 32% to 34%. At the midpoint, this implies year-over-year revenue growth of 32% and EBT dollar growth of 49%. The sequential revenue growth is driven by handsets due to higher demand, primarily for our Snapdragon chipsets in Android devices. Following a record performance in the fourth quarter, we expect nonhandset revenues to remain in line sequentially. Consistent with our previous guidance, we expect QTL revenues of $1.6 billion to $1.8 billion and EBT margins of 74% to 78%. This forecast assumes sequential unit growth in line with historical trends. Lastly, we anticipate non-GAAP combined R&D and SG&A expenses to decrease 2% to 3% sequentially. As a reminder, operating expenses are typically higher in the second fiscal quarter as it includes calendar year resets for certain employee-related costs. Looking forward, fiscal '22 will be another exciting year for Qualcomm with year-over-year EPS growth expected to exceed 20%, driven by strength across all QCT revenue streams. In handsets, we are positioned to benefit from the $10 billion SAM expansion due to the changing OEM landscape. A portion of this benefit is reflected in our first quarter guidance, and we also expect it to contribute to the rest of fiscal '22. Before I finish my prepared remarks, I would like to thank our employees for their leadership and contributions in making 2021 successful. Finally, we look forward to seeing you at our Investor Day on November 16 where we will provide additional detail about our growth strategy. Thank you, and I'll now turn the call back to Mauricio.Mauricio Lopez-Hodoyan -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you, Akash. Operator, we are now ready for questions. 