  OperatorPlease stand by. We're about to begin. Good day, and welcome to the Lamb Weston third quarter 2022 earnings call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Dexter Congbalay, VP of investor relations of Lamb Weston. Please go ahead.Dexter Congbalay -- Vice President of Investor Relations

 



 Good morning, and thank you for joining us for Lamb Weston's third quarter 2022 earnings call. This morning we issued our earnings press release, which is available on our website lambweston.com. Please note that during our remarks we'll make some forward-looking statements about the company's expected performance. These statements are based on how we see things today. Actual results may differ materially due to risks and uncertainties. Please refer to the cautionary statements and risk factors contained in our SEC filings for more details on our forward-looking statements. Today's remarks include non-GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered a replacement for and should be read together with our GAAP results.You can find the GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations in our earnings release. With me today are Tom Werner, our president and chief executive officer; and Bernadette Madarieta, our chief financial officer. Tom will provide some comments on our performance, as well as an overview of the current operating environment. Bernadette will then provide some details on our third quarter results and updated fiscal 2022 outlook. With that, let me now turn the call over to Tom.  

 



Tom Werner -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Dexter. Good morning, and thank you for joining our call today. First of all, I want to thank all my colleagues for their continued dedication, and perseverance to keep Lamb Weston as an industry leader and a strong business partner. Our solid financial results in the third quarter are a direct result of how well our manufacturing, supply chain, and commercial teams have remained focused on improving our operations, and serving our customers during a challenging macro environment, which includes the impact of an exceptionally poor potato crop. We continue to be encouraged by strong french fry demand and feel good about our continued progress. Specifically, in the third quarter, we delivered solid sales growth and drove sequential, and year-over-year gross margin expansion. And we did this despite the impact of Omicron variant slowing restaurant traffic, and disrupting our production and distribution operations more than we expected. We benefited from our previously announced pricing actions to mitigate the significant cost inflation across our supply chain. We've also been driving improvements in our manufacturing operations as we focus on what's in our control. This includes mitigating some of the effects of the poor potato crop with product specification changes and portfolio optimization work that we've discussed previously. Factory labor remains challenging as we remain below preferred staffing levels, but we're making steady progress in a highly difficult labor market. We're addressing the labor gap by focusing on retention and new ways of attracting talent.

 



 We'll continue to push hard on our staffing initiatives, and are encouraged by the improvements we're seeing. However, it will take time to get all of our factory staff where they need to be. Like others, we're managing through freight challenges, including both costs increases and shipping delays. The freight challenges are impacting our top line as it limits our ability to service full demand. This is caused by a lack of containers for international and domestic shipments and truck driver shortages. This combined with higher fuel costs, has also increased our costs to deliver products. We're continuing to navigate through these and other operating challenges and remain on track to deliver our financial commitments for the year. Our capacity expansion investments in Idaho and China also remain on track and will have us well-positioned to support increasing customer demand over the long term. Let me provide some brief updates on the operating environment before turning the call over to Bernadette. Let's start with demand, in the US overall for our demand and restaurant traffic in our third quarter remained solid, although it weakened temporarily as the Omicron variant spread quickly.  Omicron's impact peaked in January and affected consumer traffic at both quick service and full-service restaurants. In addition, some restaurants closed temporarily or reduced operating hours due to staff shortages, which further impacted demand. Restaurant traffic, however, has rebounded to pre Omicron levels. The fry attachment rate in the US, which is the rate at which consumers order fries when visiting a restaurant, or other food service outlets, has been fairly consistent since the beginning of the pandemic and remains above pre-pandemic levels. Going forward, we expect restaurant traffic, and consumer demand for fries in the US to remain strong, although it may be more volatile in the near term as consumers face significant cost inflation. In contrast, for high demand and retail channels may continue to benefit if demand in out-of-home channels is affected. Outside the US, demand in Asia and Oceania remains stable. However, we have not been able to meet that demand due to the limited availability of shipping containers for export. While we expect overall demand in these regions to return to pre-pandemic levels, widespread COVID-related government restrictions in key markets such as China may lead to demand volatility in the near term. Demand in Europe, which is served by our Lamb Weston joint venture has also been fairly stable, although it was temporarily affected by the spread of Omicron during the quarter. As in the US, we expect demand in Europe may be volatile in the upcoming months as cost inflation and COVID variants temper restaurant traffic. So overall, we expect that demand in the near term will be choppy. We remain confident in the long-term resiliency, and growth prospects of the category in the US, and our key international markets. With respect to pricing, our price mix growth accelerated sequentially in the third quarter as we continue to execute on our previously announced product, and freight pricing actions in our food service and retail segments to offset inflation, and as we began to implement pricing actions in our global segment. Going forward, if we see further inflation, we're prepared to take additional pricing actions, as well as drive opportunities to improve product and customer mix. To that end. Last week, we began implementing another round of pricing actions in our food service and retail segments, and we expect to see the benefits of these actions gradually build over the next six months. In our global segment, contracts representing about one-third of the segment's volume are up for renewal this year. We've begun discussions with those customers and expect to have most of the contract terms agreed by early fall. With respect to this year's upcoming potato crop, we've agreed to a 20% increase in the contracted price per pound in our primary growing regions in the Columbia Basin, Idaho, Alberta, and the Midwest. This increase reflects our approach for annual price changes that reflected the cost of grow, plus an appropriate return for our growers, such that they are viable over the long term. We'll be in to see the impact of these higher contracted potato prices during the second quarter of fiscal 2023, as we begin to process the early potato varieties that are harvested in mid-summer. In addition, over the past few months, we've partnered with our growers to contract four acres that represent nearly all of our projected needs associated with this year's crop. The number of acres contracted assumes an average crop year. Planning of this year's potato crops started in March and typically concludes by the end of April, and we'll provide our usual crop updates during future quarterly earnings calls as growing season progresses. Finally, our hearts go out to all the people affected by Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Our exposure to Russia is indirect, as it runs through our 50% ownership in Lamb Weston Meijer. Last month, the Russia JV began winding down production of Lamb Weston branded products and paused construction of its previously announced capacity expansion. We continue to monitor the situation, and any decisions regarding that operation will be made in conjunction with our partner in Europe. So in summary, we feel good about our progress in the quarter, especially given the highly challenging operating environment, and we remain on track to deliver our financial commitments for the year. Our pricing actions and cost mitigation efforts enabled us to drive sequential and year-over-year gross margin expansion. We've agreed on contract price and acres to be planted for this year's potato crop, and we remain confident in the resiliency and long-term growth prospects of the category, although demand may be volatile in the near term. Let me now turn the call over to Bernadette to review the details of our third quarter results and our updated fiscal 2022 outlook.Bernadette Madarieta -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Tom, and good morning, everyone. Let me start by echoing Tom's comments thanking our employees. We appreciate your hard work and dedication. As Tom discussed, we feel good about the benefits from our pricing actions, and cost savings efforts to offset much of the significant cost inflation that we've been experiencing. And I'm confident in our ability to continue to manage through this volatile business environment. Specifically, in the quarter, our sales increased 7% to $955 million. Price mix was up 12% as we continued to execute our previously announced product and freight pricing actions in each of our business segments to offset input, manufacturing, and transportation cost inflation. Most of the increase in the quarter reflects these pricing actions, while mix was also favorable. Sales volume declined 5%, as we were unable to fully serve market demand due to logistics constraints, especially for our international shipments, as well as lower production run rates and throughput at our factories resulting from labor shortages. Increased shipments in our Foodservice Segment, and to our large chain restaurant customers in North America that are served by our global segment partially offset the volume decline. However, while volume increased on these channels, it was tempered by the Omicron variant's negative effect on restaurant traffic, on the availability of labor to keep restaurants open, and on our production facilities and supply chain. Gross profit in the quarter increased $24 million. Product and freight price increases, along with favorable mix, more than offset the impact of higher costs on a per pound basis, and lower sales volumes. We expanded gross margin by 110 basis points versus the prior year quarter, and 270 basis points sequentially to more than 23%. Looking at our costs, double-digit inflation drove the increase in cost per pound for the third straight quarter and accounted essentially for all of the increase in the quarter. There were four key areas that drove the increase in cost. First, commodities played the biggest role led by edible oils, ingredients for batter, and other coatings and packaging. Labor costs also increased due to competition for factory workers. Second, transportation rates continued to climb, due to the persistent disruption in global logistics networks. We also continued to use an unfavorable mix of higher-cost trucking versus rail to meet service obligations for certain customers. Third, we began to see higher potato costs resulting from the poor crop that was harvested last fall in our primary growing regions. The increase in potato costs reflects the impact of purchasing potatoes in the open market at a significant premium to contracted prices. Higher transportation costs for shipping potatoes from the Midwest and Eastern North America to our plants in the Pacific Northwest. Lower potato utilization rates and running production lines at lower speeds to accommodate low-quality potatoes. The increase in our potato costs, decrease in potato utilization rates, and how the crop is performing in storage are all in line with the expectations that we shared with you last quarter., and we believe we've secured enough potatoes to deliver our volume forecast until we begin to harvest the early potato varieties in July. As a reminder, we will continue to realize the financial impact of this year's poor potato crop through most of the second quarter of fiscal 2023. The final key area that drove the increase in cost are operational inefficiencies, explained by labor shortages, Omicron-related absenteeism, especially in January and into early February, and other industrywide supply chain challenges. This resulted in lower production run rates and throughput in our factories, leading to fewer pounds to cover fixed overhead. As I'll discuss later, we'll continue to see the impact of these costs in the fourth quarter. The effect of lower potato utilization and production run rates in the third quarter was largely offset by a range of cost mitigation efforts, including eliminating underperforming  skills, changes to product specifications, and increased productivity savings from our win is one, and other cost-saving initiatives. So in short, we're managing well through this highly inflationary and poor potato crop environment. We feel good about how we are controlling those things that we can control, which led to the year-over-year and sequential gross margin expansion. Moving on from cost of sales. Our  SG&A declined $9 million in the quarter, largely due to lower consulting expenses, associated with improving our commercial and supply chain operations as those projects ended. Overall, compensation and benefits expense and a $2 million decline in advertising and promotion expenses. The decline in SG&A was partially offset by higher information technology infrastructure costs, including costs to design the next release of a new enterprise resource planning system. Equity method earnings in the quarter were $30 million and included a $20 million unrealized gain related to mark-to-market adjustments associated with currency and commodity hedging contracts. The large mark-to-market gain in the quarter primarily relates to changes in the value of natural gas derivatives that Lamb Weston Meijer. As commodity markets, there have experienced significant volatility. Excluding the impact of these mark-to-market adjustments, equity earnings increased $1 million versus the prior quarter. Favorable price mix and higher sales volumes were largely offset by input inflation and higher manufacturing and distribution costs in both Europe and the US. Moving to our segments. Sales in our global segment were up 2% in the quarter. Price mix increased 8%, reflecting domestic and international pricing actions associated with customer contract renewals, and inflation-driven price escalators. It also reflects higher prices charged for freight. Volume fell 6%. International shipments, which have historically accounted for about 40% of the segment's total volume, were down nearly 20% versus the prior year quarter due to limited shipping container availability and disruptions to ocean freight networks. Sales volumes to North American, large QSR, and casual dining restaurant customers increased, but at a slower rate than previous quarters due to Omicrons' negative impact on consumer traffic. Global's product contribution margin, which is gross profit left advertising and promotional expenses, declined 8% to $73 million, higher manufacturing and distribution costs per pound, as well as the impact of lower sales volumes more than offset the benefit of favorable price mix. Moving to our foodservice segment, sales increased 34% with price mix up 22%, and volume up 12%. As expected, the rate of increase in food services price mix accelerated sequentially to 22% in the third quarter, from 8% in the second quarter. As the benefits of the product and freight pricing actions that we began implementing earlier this fiscal year to mitigate inflation continued to build. In addition, the increase reflects favorable product and customer mix. The ongoing recovery in demand from small and regional restaurant chains, and independently owned restaurants, as well as from noncommercial customers, drove a 12% increase in sales volumes. While our shipments to restaurants have essentially returned to pre-pandemic levels, our shipments to noncommercial channels have not yet fully rebounded. As with our sales to large chain restaurants in our global segment, the Foodservice Segment's volume growth was tempered by Omicron's negative impact on restaurant traffic and labor availability in those restaurants. In addition, manufacturing labor shortages in the effect of Omicron-related absenteeism limited our ability to fully serve demand due to lower production run rates, and throughput in our factories. Foodservices product contribution margin rose 52% to $107 million, with favorable price, volume, and mix more than offsetting higher manufacturing and distribution cost per pound. In a retail segment, sales declined 12%, with volume down 24% and price mix up 12. The volume decline reflected two factors. First, more than half of the decline was due to incremental losses of certain lower-margin private label products. And second, despite solid category growth, branded product volumes were down as labor and supply chain disruption limited our ability to service demand. The increase in price mix was driven by product and freight pricing actions across our portfolio to offset inflation, as well as favorable mix. Retails product contribution margin declined 5% to $32 million. Lower sales volumes and higher manufacturing and distribution costs per pound drove the decline, which was partially offset by favorable price mix and a $2 million decrease in A&P expenses. Moving to our liquidity position in cash flow. We ended the quarter with nearly $430 million in cash and $1 billion of availability on our undrawn revolver. Through the first three quarters of the year, we generated about $175 million of cash from operations. That's down about $200 million versus the first three quarters of the prior year, due primarily to higher working capital and lower earnings. Year to date, we've spent more than $225 million in capital expenditures, as we continued construction of our capacity expansions in Idaho and China. We've also returned nearly $230 million of cash to our shareholders, including $103 million in dividends and $126 million in share repurchases. After repurchasing $50 million of shares in the third quarter, we have just under $300 million remaining under our buyback authorization. Now let's turn to our updated fiscal 2022 outlook. We expect our full-year sales growth to be above our long-term target of low to mid-single digits. In the fourth quarter, we expect sales to be driven by price mix, as we continue to execute our previously announced product and transportation pricing actions to offset input and transportation cost inflation. However, we expect sales volumes will continue to be pressured, as export volumes remain constrained due to limited shipping container availability, supply chain volatility, and labor shortages, challenge run rates, and throughput at our factories. And as restaurant traffic and consumer demand may slow due to inflation and the persistent effect of COVID variants in the US and key international markets. In addition, please note that we'll be lapping a high volume comparison in the prior year. With respect to earnings for the full year, we expect our gross margin will be 19% to 20%. This update puts us at the high end of the 18% to 20% range that we provided in our previous outlook. We're comfortable to be at the higher end of that range. Because of our confidence in the pace, and execution of product and freight price increases that we're currently implementing in the market. We have more clarity on the net impact and margin from this year's poor potato crop, and we're making steady progress in stabilizing our supply chain operations and driving savings behind our cost mitigation initiatives. Based on our updated full-year estimate, we expect our gross margin in the fourth quarter to be 19% to 21%. That's down sequentially from the 23% we delivered in the third quarter and reflects in part our usual gross margin seasonality. It also includes the impact of significantly higher costs held in finished goods inventory that were produced during the third quarter. These costs were driven by incremental costs and inefficiencies associated with very high levels of Omicron-related factory worker absenteeism in January and February that resulted in broad-based production disruptions. Since we typically hold 50 to 60 days of finished goods, inventory will realize these costs during our fiscal fourth quarter as that inventory is sold. Below gross margins, we expect our SG&A expenses in the fourth quarter to step up to $105 to $110 million as we continue to invest in the design and build of our new ERP system. We expect equity earnings, excluding the impact of any mark-to-market adjustments, will remain pressure due to input cost inflation and higher manufacturing costs in both Europe and the US. For the year, we continue to expect interest expense to be approximately $110 million, excluding the $53 million of costs associated with the senior notes that we redeemed in the second quarter. Total depreciation and amortization expense of approximately $190 million, and an effective tax rate of approximately 22%. We've reduced our estimate for capital expenditures to $325 million from our previous target of $450 million to reflect the timing of expenditures related to our capacity expansion projects in Idaho and China. So in some, in the third quarter, we delivered solid sales growth and expanded our gross margins behind our pricing actions and our cost mitigation efforts. For the year, we're targeting the upper end of our previous gross margin range due to our confidence in our pricing execution to offset inflation, the more clarity that we now have on our potato costs, and the steady progress that we're making in stabilizing labor in our supply chain. Now, here's Tom for some closing comments.Tom Werner -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thanks for that. Let me just quickly reiterate our thoughts on the quarter by saying, I am proud of how our Lamb Weston manufacturing supply chain and commercial teams are continuing to take the right operating steps to manage through this challenging business environment. We're on track to deliver on our targets for the year, and we remain committed to investing to support growth and create value for our stakeholders over the long term. Thank you for joining us today. We're now ready to take your questions. 