  OperatorHello, and welcome to the AMD third-quarter 2021 earnings call and webcast. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. It's now my pleasure to turn the call over to Laura Graves, corporate vice president, investor relations. Please go ahead, Laura.Laura Graves -- Corporate Vice President, Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, and welcome to AMD's third-quarter 2021 financial results conference call. By now, you should have had the opportunity to review a copy of our earnings press release and accompanying slideware. If you have not reviewed these documents yet, they can be found on the Investor Relations page of amd.com. Participants on today's conference call are Dr. Lisa Su, our president and chief executive officer; and Devinder Kumar, our executive vice president, chief financial officer, and treasurer. This is a live call and will be replayed via webcast on our website. Before we begin, I would like to note that we will host our Accelerated Data Center Premiere virtually on November 8, with feature presentations by Dr. Lisa Su; and Data Center executives Forrest Norrod and Dan McNamara.This event will also be available on amd.com. Dr. Su will also attend Credit Suisse's 25th Annual Technology Conference on Tuesday, November 30. Ruth Cotter, senior vice president, worldwide marketing, human resources, and investor relations, will attend the Barclays Global Technology, Media and Telecom Conference on Tuesday, December 7. And our fourth-quarter 2021 quiet time is expected to begin at the close of business on Friday, December 10. Today's discussion contains forward-looking statements based on current beliefs, assumptions and expectations, speak only as of today and as such, involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations. Please refer to the cautionary statement in our press release for more information on factors that could cause actual results to differ. We will refer primarily to non-GAAP financial measures during this call.

 



 The full non-GAAP to GAAP reconciliations are available in today's press release and in the slides posted on our website. Now with that, I'll turn the call over to Lisa. Lisa? Lisa Su -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Laura, and good afternoon to all those listening in today. Our business performed extremely well in the third quarter as our leadership product portfolio and strong execution drove record quarterly revenue, operating income, net income, and earnings per share. We delivered our fifth straight quarter of greater than 50% year-over-year revenue growth, with each of our businesses growing significantly year over year and data center sales more than doubling. Third-quarter revenue grew 54% to $4.3 billion. Gross margin expanded by more than 4 percentage points and operating income doubled year over year. Turning to our computing and graphics segment. Third-quarter revenue increased 44% year over year to $2.4 billion, driven by our latest generation Ryzen, Radeon, and AMD Instinct processors. In client computing, sales grew by a strong double-digit percentage year over year and declined slightly sequentially.

 



 Ryzen 5000 processor shipments increased by a double-digit percentage sequentially, resulting in a richer product mix as we believe we gained revenue share for the sixth straight quarter. In desktops, we launched our Ryzen 5000 processors with integrated Radeon graphics for the channel to strong demand as third-party reviews highlighted the leadership computing and graphics capabilities and energy efficiency of these processors. In notebooks, Acer, Asus, HP, and Lenovo, all expanded their mobile offerings powered by Ryzen 5000 mobile processors as we continue gaining momentum in the premium consumer, gaming, and commercial markets. Commercial client growth year over year was based on new deployments across public sector and Fortune 1000 technology, energy, and automotive customers as the number of AMD-based commercial notebook designs available from the largest OEMs increased significantly year over year. We're also seeing strong growth in the workstation market. According to IDC, Threadripper PRO processors now powered the best-selling workstations in their category in both North America and EMEA as we continue winning high-volume deployments across key verticals including media and entertainment, engineering, architecture, and automotive. In graphics, revenue more than doubled year over year and grew by a strong double-digit percentage sequentially, driven by shipments of our next-generation AMD CDNA 2 data center GPUs and demand for Radeon 6000 GPUs in the channel. AMD RDNA 2 GPU sales grew significantly in the quarter as we ramped production and expanded our top to bottom portfolio with the launch of the midrange Radeon RX 6600 XT cards that deliver leadership 1080p gaming performance at their price point. Data center graphics revenue more than doubled year over year and quarter over quarter, led by shipments of our new AMD CDNA 2 GPUs for the Frontier exascale supercomputer at Oak Ridge National Laboratory. Frontier was architected specifically to deliver breakthrough HPC and AI compute performance and provide a blueprint for how supercomputing, enterprise, and cloud customers can enable exascale-level performance over the coming years by combining AMD CPUs, GPUs, and software. We are very pleased with the performance of our AMD CDNA 2 GPUs and look forward to providing more details on their leadership performance next month. Turning to our enterprise, embedded and semi-custom segment, revenue increased 69% year over year to $1.9 billion, driven by strong growth in EPYC processor and semi-custom sales. Semi-custom revenue grew sequentially and year over year as demand for the latest Microsoft and Sony consoles remains very strong. We expect semi-custom revenue to increase sequentially in the fourth quarter as we further ramp supply to address the ongoing game console demand. Turning to server. We delivered our sixth straight quarter of record server processor revenue as sales more than doubled year over year and grew by a significant double-digit percentage sequentially. Third-gen EPYC processors continue ramping faster than the prior generation and contributed the majority of our server CPU revenue in the quarter. In cloud, multiple hyperscalers expanded their third-gen epic processor deployments to power their internal workloads. And both Microsoft Azure and Google announced multiple new AMD-powered instances. Cloudflare, Vimeo, and Netflix also all recently announced new deployments powered by EPYC processors, with Netflix highlighting how they doubled their streaming throughput per server while also reducing their TCO. Enterprise growth was particularly strong in the quarter as the more than 100 third-gen EPYC processor platforms from Dell, HPE, Lenovo, Supermicro, Cisco, and others ramp into broader end customer deployments. We expanded our wins in the quarter with Fortune 1000 financial services, automotive, and aerospace companies and see significant ongoing growth opportunities as our enterprise server pipeline has more than doubled year over year. In supercomputing, we won multiple installations in the quarter, highlighted by Argonne National Laboratory selecting third-gen EPYC processors to power the new Polaris supercomputer that will be used to test and optimize software in preparation for future exascale class systems. Overall, we are very pleased with the momentum we have built in our data center business as server CPU and GPU revenue grew to a mid-20s percent of overall revenue in the quarter. Turning to our Xilinx acquisition. We are making good progress toward securing the required regulatory approvals and remain on track to close by the end of the year. The Xilinx acquisition provides significant benefits to AMD, including expanding our product portfolio with leadership adaptive computing and AI solutions and further diversifying our customer base into complementary markets, including wired and wireless communications, industrial and automotive. In closing, our record third-quarter results and the significant acceleration of our business in 2021 demonstrate that we have the right products and strategies to drive best-in-class growth and significant shareholder returns. We continue growing faster than the market, driven by our consistent execution and the investments we have made to build leadership products. Our supply chain team has executed extremely well in a challenging environment, delivering incremental supply throughout the year, supporting our strong revenue growth. We are also investing significantly to secure additional capacity to support our long-term growth. Our product portfolio and road maps have never been stronger, and I look forward to sharing more details about our next-generation server CPUs and GPUs at our Accelerated Data Center Premiere on November 8. Now I'd like to turn the call over to Devinder to provide some additional color on our third-quarter financial performance. Devinder?Devinder Kumar -- Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Treasurer Thank you, Lisa, and good afternoon, everyone. AMD had another excellent quarter. Our leadership products and growing data center momentum are driving record revenue, record profitability, and significant cash flow generation. Third-quarter revenue was $4.3 billion, up 54% from a year ago, driven by strong revenue increases across all businesses and up 12% from the prior quarter. Gross margin was 48%, up 440 basis points from a year ago, driven by strong revenue mix and competitive products. Operating expenses were $1.04 billion, compared to $706 million a year ago as we continue to invest in our long-term product road maps and scaling our business. Operating income more than doubled to $1.06 billion, up $530 million from a year ago, driven primarily by revenue growth. Operating margin was 24%, up from 19% a year ago. Net income grew to $893 million, up $392 million from a year ago. Diluted earnings per share was $0.73, compared to $0.41 per share a year ago. This includes a 15% effective tax rate, compared to 3% a year ago. Now turning to the business segment results. Computing and Graphics segment revenue was $2.4 billion, up 44% year over year, driven by significantly higher client and graphics processor revenue. Computing and graphics segment operating income was $513 million or 21% of revenue, compared to $384 million or 23% a year ago. The increase in operating income was primarily driven by higher revenue, which more than offset higher operating expenses. Operating margin was slightly lower year over year, primarily due to investments in R&D and go-to-market. Enterprise, embedded, and semi-custom segment revenue was $1.9 billion, up 69% from $1.1 billion the prior year. The strong revenue increase was primarily driven by significantly higher EPYC processor and semi-custom sales. EESC operating income was up significantly at $542 million or 28% of revenue, compared to $141 million or 12% a year ago. Operating income growth was primarily driven by higher revenue and richer product mix, partially offset by higher R&D and go-to-market expenses. Turning to the balance sheet. Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were $3.6 billion. We utilized $750 million to repurchase more than 7 million shares of common stock in the third quarter of 2021 as part of our ongoing stock repurchase program. Free cash flow was $764 million, compared to $265 million in the same quarter last year and $888 million in the prior quarter. On a quarter-over-quarter basis, free cash flow was lower as we made strategic investments in long-term supply chain capacity to support future revenue growth. Inventory was $1.9 billion, up $137 million from the prior quarter in support of continued revenue growth. Let me now turn to the fourth-quarter outlook. Today's outlook is based on current expectations and contemplates the current global supply environment and customer demand signals. We expect revenue to be approximately $4.5 billion, plus or minus $100 million, an increase of approximately 39% year over year and approximately 4% sequentially. The year-over-year increase is expected to be driven by growth across all businesses. The quarter-over-quarter increase is expected to be driven by higher server and semi-custom sales. In addition, for Q4 2021, we expect non-GAAP gross margin to be approximately 49.5%; non-GAAP operating expenses to be approximately $1.15 billion; non-GAAP interest expense, taxes and other to be approximately $170 million; and the diluted share count to be approximately 1.22 billion shares. For the full-year 2021, we now expect revenue to increase approximately 65% over 2020, driven by growth across all businesses, up from the prior guidance of 60%. In addition, we continue to expect gross margin to be approximately 48% for the full year. In closing, we delivered another outstanding quarter with very strong year-over-year revenue growth, significant financial momentum, and record profitability. Our leadership products position us well to drive future growth, significant cash generation and strong shareholder returns. With that, I'll turn it back to Laura for the question-and-answer session. Laura?Laura Graves -- Corporate Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you, Devinder. Operator, we're ready for our first question. 