  OperatorWelcome to the Wynn Resorts first quarter 2022 earnings call. All participants are in a listen-only until the question-and-answer session of today's conference. [Operator instructions] Please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up question. This call is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time. I would now like to turn the call over to Julie Cameron-Doe, chief financial officer. Please go ahead.Julie Cameron-Doe -- Chief Financial Officer

 



 Thank you, operator, and good afternoon, everyone. On the call with me today are Craig Billings and Brian Gullbrants in Las Vegas. Also on the line are Ian Coughlan, Linda Chen, Ciaran Carruthers, Frederic Luvisutto, and Jenny Holaday. I want to remind you that we may make forward-looking statements under safe harbor federal securities laws, and those statements may or may not come true. I will now turn the call over to Craig Billings.Craig Billings -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Julie, and afternoon, everyone. Thanks for joining us today. I'd like to start by welcoming our new CFO, Julie, who you just heard from, to the company and to her first earnings call with us. For those who don't know Julie yet, I think you'll enjoy getting to know her.

 



 Welcome. Before we get to the specifics of the quarter, I want to take a moment to thank our outstanding team of 27,000 colleagues globally for their unrelenting focus on delivering the industry's best design, development, and service. That dedication was again recently recognized by Forbes Travel Guide with 24 Five-Star awards, the most of any independent hotel company in the world. Turning now to the quarter and starting in Las Vegas. The team at Wynn Las Vegas had another great quarter despite the impact of omicron in January. The property generated $159 million of EBITDA with broad-based strength across casino, hotel, food and beverage, and retail, all well above pre-COVID levels. You may recall from the fourth quarter call that we expected the quarter to improve month over month and expected occupancy to reach the mid-80s in March. In fact, we actually hit 91% hotel occupancy in March, which contributed to an all-time record EBITDA result during the month. Encouragingly, March strength has continued into Q2, and our forward bookings also show no signs of a slowdown with our booking pace at pre-COVID levels on substantially higher ADRs. Now everyone on the call knows that Las Vegas as a market has experienced a rapid rebound over the past years. We certainly have been a beneficiary of that. But we're also benefiting from our own efforts of the past several years. Even during difficult times, we invested in our people and our products. We opened Delilah. We completed a refresh of the lounges adjacent to the Lake of Dreams. We opened Casa Playa and we remodeled the Wynn Tower rooms.

 



 We look at every inch of this market-leading property and ask ourselves, how can we make it better? How can we make it return more? It's a dedication to our craft that makes me incredibly proud and it's what drives enduring results. Turning to Boston. Encore had a strong quarter across the casino, resulting in $55 million of EBITDA in Q1, again, despite the impact of omicron in January. As we also discussed on the Q4 call, we expected the quarter to improve progressively month over month. And that's exactly what we experienced with EBITDA in March approximately 60% higher than January. That positive momentum has continued into Q2 with April EBITDA topping an already strong March. We spent a great deal of time during Q1 refining the plans for our upcoming development projects across the street from the property. Design and planning for that project is on schedule. We're excited for our next phase of growth in Boston. In Macau, the market continued to experience subdued visitation during the first quarter, particularly in the back half of the quarter, and this has continued into Q2 with marketwide GGR in April only reaching 11% of April 2019 levels. Our year-to-date results have reflected that enroll, drop, and hotel occupancy. Encouragingly, during periods where the market is accessible, we see demand return very rapidly with hotel occupancy in the 65% to 75% range during portions of the recent May holiday. Longer term, we remain excited about the prospects for Macau with so much latent demand in the region. The market is evolving, and we are prepared to adapt and grow our business as we embrace those changes. The concession process continues to move forward according to the pre-established timeline with the amended gaming law currently progressing through the legislative assembly. We continue to be pleased with the process and with the content of the amended law. At Wynn Interactive, we increased net gaming revenue by 23% sequentially despite materially lower user acquisition spend. The strategy we implemented late last year to manage the business with a long-term, shareholder-friendly view is working with our overall EBITDA burn rate declining to $31.5 million in Q1, better than the $40 million range we discussed on our call. With the Massachusetts Senate passing a sports betting bill several weeks ago and now in reconciliation with the House, we're looking forward to the potential for a significant catalyst for Wynn back in the commonwealth. Lastly, we have moved quickly into design on our project in the UAE. And I grow more excited about the opportunity with each iteration of that design. The island, which is really a blank canvas for us, presents amazing opportunities to do what we do best, from offshore large-scale water and light spectacles akin to the Lake of Dreams in Las Vegas to a room product that takes advantage of the unique aspects of the beachside setting, I'm confident we are going to deliver something special to a market that is accustomed to paying a premium for luxury experiences. With that, I will now turn it over to Julie to run through some additional details from the quarter.Julie Cameron-Doe -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Craig. First of all, it's a privilege to be here, and I'm delighted to be working with Craig again, as well as with this talented team. Turning back to the business. At Wynn Las Vegas, we generated $159.4 million of adjusted property EBITDA on $441.2 million of operating revenue during the quarter. Overall, our hotel occupancy was 77% in the quarter, with 62% occupancy in January, improving to 91% in March. Importantly, we've stayed true to our luxury brand and continue to compete on quality of product and service experience with our overall ADR reaching $432 during Q1 2022, 28% above Q1 2019 levels. Our other nongaming businesses saw broad-based strength across F&B and retail, which were also well above pre-pandemic levels. In the casino, our Q1 2022 slot handle was 49% of our Q1 2019 levels, and our table drop was 36% of our Q1 2019 levels despite still suppressed international play due to COVID-related travel challenges. The team in Vegas has done a great job of controlling costs without negatively impacting the guest experience, delivering adjusted property EBITDA margin of 36.1% in the quarter. This was up 1,100 basis points compared to Q1 2019 on a hold-adjusted basis. Opex excluding gaming tax per day was $3 million in Q1 2022, approximately $160,000 per day below Q1 2019 levels due to lower headcount and broad-based cost efficiencies in areas that do not impact the guest experience. We remain committed to maintaining a cost structure that appropriately balances margins and our exacting service standards. In Boston, we generated adjusted property EBITDA of $55.2 million in Q1 2022 with EBITDA margin of 29% driven by strength across the casino in both slots and tables. Consistent with our regional peers, omicron along with bad weather, temporarily disrupted our performance at Encore Boston Harbor in January. But as Craig noted earlier, we exited the quarter generating EBITDA in March that was 60% above January. We've remained very disciplined on the cost side with opex excluding gaming tax per day of approximately $1 million in Q1 2022. This was a decrease of over 20% compared to $1.3 million per day in Q4 2019 and flat relative to Q4 2021. Looking ahead, as we noted last quarter, we expect opex to increase modestly due to higher payroll related to contractual labor agreements coming into effect in Q2, which will add around $45,000 per day to our opex base. We are well-positioned to drive strong operating leverage as we continue to grow the top line over time. Our Macau operations delivered an EBITDA loss of $5.5 million in the quarter on $298.4 million of operating revenue as the COVID situation in the region has continued to suppress demand. While business in Q1 was challenging, we remain disciplined on costs and capex, a prudent approach which positions us to drive strong operating leverage as the business recovers over time. Our opex, excluding gaming tax, was approximately $2.1 million per day in Q1, a decrease compared to $2.2 million in Q4 2021, excluding nonrecurring items. Turning to Wynn Interactive. In Q1, the business generated approximately $727 million in total turnover. Top-line growth combined with decreases in marketing spend and other opex drove an improvement in our EBITDA burn rate to $31.5 million in Q1 2022 from $79.4 million in Q4 2021. Turning to the balance sheet. Our liquidity position remains very strong with global cash and revolver availability of $3.4 billion as of March 31. This was comprised of $1.5 billion of total cash and available liquidity in Macau and $1.9 billion in the U.S. Pro forma for the sale-leaseback transaction we announced in February, we have approximately $5 billion of consolidated global cash and liquidity. Finally, our capex in the quarter was $96 million primarily related to the Wynn Las Vegas room remodel and the theater renovation. With that, we will now open up the call to Q&A. Operator. 