
OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the Lilly Q1 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.I would now like to turn the conference over to our host, Mr. Kevin Hern. Please go ahead.Kevin Hern -- Vice President, Investor RelationsGood morning. Thank you for joining us for Eli Lilly and Company's Q1 2021 earnings call. I'm Kevin Hern, Vice President of Investor Relations. Joining me on today's call are Dave Ricks, Lilly's Chairman and CEO; Anat Ashkenazi, Chief Financial Officer; Dan Skovronsky, Chief Scientific Officer; Anne White, President of Lilly Oncology; Ilya Yuffa, President of Lilly Bio-Medicines; Mike Mason, President of Lilly Diabetes. And we'd also like to welcome Jake Van Naarden, CEO of Loxo Oncology at Lilly, who'll be joining us today and moving forward to answer your questions about discovery and early stage oncology efforts he's leading.Now, I'll turn the call over to Dave -- sorry -- we're also joined by Sara Smith and Lauren Zierke of the Investor Relations team.During this conference call, we anticipate making projections and forward-looking statements based on our current expectations. Our actual results could differ materially due to a number of factors, including those listed on Slide 3. Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially is contained in our latest Forms 10-K and subsequent Forms 10-Q and 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.The information we provide about our products and pipeline is for the benefit of the investment community. It is not intended to be promotional and is not sufficient for prescribing decisions. As we transition to our prepared remarks, a reminder that our commentary will focus on non-GAAP financial measures.Now, I'll turn the call over to Dave for a summary of our results from the first quarter of 2021.David A. Ricks -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerOkay. Thanks, Kevin. Lilly entered 2021 focused on expanding our reach to over 45 million patients by scaling our key growth brands around the world, continuing the advancement of our pipeline, following a very successful 2020 and increasing productivity in the SG&A line, while investing in research for sustainable long-term growth.We are pleased with the progress we've made on these objectives in our first quarter, while also delivering hundreds of thousands of doses of our COVID-19 antibodies to patients to help the continued fight against COVID-19. As we unpack this quarter's results, we'll attempt to give you a clear picture of the underlying trends in our core business.We recognize this quarter was noisy, catching the increased consumer stock-in from the Q1 2020 in our quarterly compare and increase COVID-19 therapy R&D spend in 2021. These items, coupled with the FX rate movement and a number of changes to US government purchase agreements for COVID-19 antibodies throughout the quarter, make for a longer earnings call and press release and we realize, for those keeping score on sell-side model accuracy, perhaps some disappointment. Nonetheless, underneath all that is a strong and growing core business for Lilly and a significant number of positive, even compelling, pipeline readouts in the quarter to support long-term growth across all of our core therapy areas. And we continue to expect top-line growth and margin expansion to accelerate throughout this year.This quarter, revenue grew 16% compared to Q1 2020 or 13% in constant currency. This performance was driven entirely by volume, which grew 17 percentage points. As previously highlighted in Q1 2020, we had roughly a $250 million COVID-19-related inventory build that is impacting the year-over-year comparison. When excluding COVID-19 antibody revenue and the Q1 2020 stocking benefit, our core business grew 7% for the quarter. Key growth products continue to drive volume and revenue growth and now represent 52% of our core business in Q1 2021.Our non-GAAP gross margin was 75.4% in Q1 and 78% excluding the impact of foreign exchange on international inventories sold. Our non-GAAP operating margin was 27.5% for the quarter and 30.1%, excluding the FX impact. While foreign exchange on international inventories sold has a modest effect on our results in 2019 and 2020, in the first quarter of 2021, we experienced over a 250-basis-point of negative impact on our gross margin and operating margin. Recall that is purely a non-cash accounting item.On the pipeline front, we achieved multiple milestones since our Q4 earnings call, including the Phase 3 initiation of pirtobrutinib, formerly known as LOXO-305, and for additional obesity studies in tirzepatide's SURMOUNT program. The FDA granted Emergency Use Authorization for the administration of bamlanivimab and etesevimab together as a treatment for COVID-19. Positive Phase 3 results from tirzepatide SURPASS-2, 3 and 5 trials in Type 2 diabetes and positive Phase 3 results for mirikizumab in ulcerative colitis and baricitinib in alopecia areata.About a decade ago, Lilly made the decision to enter into and invest in immunology with the Phase 3 initiation of ixekizumab, now known as Taltz. Since then, we have added Olumiant in rheumatoid arthritis in several new indications with first or best in category data for Taltz and Olumiant in rheumatology and dermatology. This year, we see further expansion of our immunology strategy with the successful completion of Phase 3 studies of mirikizumab in ulcerative colitis, the first IL-23p19 antibody medicine to demonstrate results in this setting.We're also excited about lebrikizumab's potential to differentiate from Dupixent on itch, sleep and safety, primarily in conjunctivitis, in what is an increasingly large and growing class with meaningful unmet medical need. And we anticipate multiple Phase 3 readouts for lebrikizumab later this year in monotherapy and in combination with corticosteroids. We look forward to potentially reaching increasing numbers of patients in difficult-to-treat immunology conditions in the coming years.We also entered into several business development deals, including the in-licensing of a RIPK1 inhibitor from Rigel Pharmaceuticals and the divestiture of QBREXZA, which along with lebrikizumab was part of the Dermira acquisition last year. We also distributed nearly $800 million in dividends this quarter, with the share -- dividend per share increasing 15% versus last year.Moving on to Slides 5 and 6, you'll see a list of key events since our last earnings call. We announced plans to host a webinar to provide an overview of the company's commitment in the areas of environmental, social and governance for the investment community, for media and the general public on May 4, 2021.Additionally, we announced two planned retirements of long-tenured executives and several additions to our leadership team. I'd like to thank Myles O'Neill, President of Lilly Manufacturing; and Melissa Barnes, our Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer, for their leadership and service to our company. We also extend a warm welcome to Edgardo Hernandez, who will be succeeding Myles; to Alonzo Weems, who will succeed Melissa; and to Diogo Rau, who will be joining Lilly next month as Chief Information and Digital Officer succeeding Aarti Shah, whose retirement was announced last fall.Finally, we announced the appointment of Anat Ashkenazi, our CFO. Anat has a deep experience having been the CFO of every part of our value chain. For the last four years, Anat has a large -- has led a large portion of our finance organization with all of our divisional CFOs reporting to him, as well as our accounting and financial reporting team, our corporate strategy group and our business transformation office. During this time, Anat worked closely with me, our Executive Committee and our Board of Directors, to develop and implement our annual business and long-term strategic plans. I have no doubt that Anat will perform extremely well as CFO of Lilly and expect no changes in our priorities, our strategy or execution, given her significant involvement in all those areas.Anat, welcome to our leadership team. And I'll turn the call over to you for our Q1 results.Anat Ashkenazi -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Dave. Slide 7 summarize our non-GAAP financial performance in the first quarter. As Dave mentioned, revenue increased 16% this quarter compared to Q1 of 2020 or 7% when excluding the COVID-19 antibody revenue in the Q1 2020 COVID-related stocking benefit, representing a good momentum for our core business. Last year, with the health and safety of our employees, patients and providers in mind, we shifted from in-person interactions to primarily virtual interactions and began 2021 with few sales reps in the field in the US.We feel good about our capabilities to work with providers virtually and are encouraged as we exited Q1 2021 with the majority of US reps back in the field. As we navigate the early stages of the recovery, we're focused on operational excellence in both virtual and in personal environment and are pleased with the volume and share growth in key brands, despite continued pandemic-related headwinds for several classes.As we look at gross margin, gross margin as a percent of revenue declined 490 basis points to 75.4%. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange on international inventories sold, gross margin as a percent of revenue was 78%, a decrease of 260 basis points, primarily due to the unfavorable product mix, driven largely by sales of COVID-19 antibodies and to a lesser extent by lower realized prices on revenue.Moving down to P&L, operating expenses grew 11% compared to the same quarter last year. Marketing, selling and administrative expenses increased 2%, while R&D expenses increased 21%, driven primarily by $220 million of investments in COVID-19 therapies. Net of the COVID-19 expenses, R&D increased 5%, driven by continued investments in our late-stage pipeline. Total operating expense growth was less than 3% compared to Q1 2020 when excluding the investments in COVID-19 therapies.Operating income increased 6% compared to Q1 of 2020. And operating income as a percent of revenue was 27.5% for the quarter, a decline of 250 basis points compared to prior year. This decline was driven entirely by the impact of foreign exchange on international inventories sold.Other income and expense was income of $35 million this quarter compared to expense of $73 million in Q1 of 2020, driven primarily by a benefit related to a favorable European patent settlement for ALIMTA. As we noted previously, beginning in 2021, we are excluding the gains or losses due to equity investments from our non-GAAP measures and have provided revised figures for 2020 in our investor workbook to enable year-over-year comparison on that same basis.Our effective tax rate was 10.8%, a decrease of 210 basis points compared with the same quarter last year. The effective tax rate for both periods was reduced by net discrete tax benefits with the larger net discrete benefit reflected in the first quarter of 2021. At the bottom line, net income and earnings per share increased 16%.On Slide 8, we quantify the effect of price, rate and volume on revenue growth across the world. US revenue grew 18% compared to the first quarter 2020, while revenue decreased slightly, excluding COVID-19 antibodies. Adjusting for the Q1 2020 stocking benefit, the core business grew 5% in the US. These results were driven entirely by volume led by Trulicity and Taltz, partially offset by a mid-single-digit price decline.Pricing was a 6% drag on US revenue growth this quarter, driven primarily by Taltz improved access and corresponding higher contracted rates, partially offset by a modest list price increase. Excluding the impact of Taltz' win at ESI, we experienced low-single-digit net price decline in the US in the first quarter of 2021. We noted on previous calls that we expected Taltz would experience price headwind in Q1, beyond general rate pressure with the improved access position. There were two pieces of the ESI impact. The first, existing patients already covered through medical exceptions were moved to the newly contracted rates, a one-time step down in prices as we move through 2021.In addition, we were pleased with the uptake for new patients at ESI at the contracted rate and we expect that that population will grow meaningfully over time. There is always a near-term impact when we have a significant step-up in access and this win nearly doubled our commercial access. We're encouraged by the volume growth we saw in the first quarter and believe Taltz will return to net sales growth in the second quarter, which should continue to accelerate as we move through the year as the volume growth from the major access upgrades outpaces the related pricing headwinds.Beyond Taltz, segment mix was not a major of US price performance in the first quarter as increased utilization in the more highly rebated government segments was offset by lower utilization in the 340B segment, primarily for the diabetes portfolio. While mid-term trends are stable at present, given the increase in variability and payer mix, we continue to expect quarterly variability in reported net price changes. We also expect Taltz price impact to moderate as we move through the year and overall low-to-mid single digit total net price decline in the US for the full year.Moving to Europe, revenue grew 15% in constant currency. Excluding COVID-19 antibody revenue and the impact of Q1 2020 COVID-related stockings, revenue grew 5% in constant currency, despite lockdowns in a number of European countries and driven primarily entirely by volume growth for ALIMTA, Trulicity and Taltz. We're pleased with the momentum of our business in Europe and are looking forward to continue strong growth in 2021.In Japan, revenue decreased 8% in constant currency, driven entirely by decreased volume for Cialis and Forteo. Net of the impact for those post-patent expiry products, Japan grew 5% in constant currency, driven by Verzenio, Jardiance in collaboration with BI and Olumiant.In China, revenue grew 26% in constant currency, driven by 32% volume growth, primarily from Tyvyt and, to a lesser extent, our diabetes portfolio. We're excited about the momentum in China as our business accelerated significantly in the past two quarters. Tyvyt continues its strong growth, Trulicity and Olumiant are now in the NRDL and we look forward to launch uptake for Verzenio. Revenue in the rest of the world decreased 1% in constant currency, driven primarily by continued erosion of Cialis.As shown on Slide 9, our key growth products continue to drive impressive volume growth. Despite the Q1 2020 COVID-related stocking benefit impacting year-over-year growth, these newer medicines delivered over 9 percentage point of growth this quarter, with COVID antibodies also contributing roughly 14 percentage points of growth. The strong volume growth was partially offset by post-LOE products as well as insulin. This volume growth was also meaningfully impacted by the Q1 2020 stocking benefits.Slide 10 highlights the contribution of our key growth products. In total, these brands generated approximately $3.1 billion in revenue this quarter and made up 52% of core business revenue. We are particularly encouraged by Trulicity's performance. Three years ago, Trulicity was the number two injectable GLP-1 in the US market at roughly 40% share of market. Weekly scripts [Indecipherable] class were approximately 180,000 and a new weekly injectable entrant had just launched. Since that time, Trulicity has become the most prescribed GLP-1 in the US with the 48% share of the injectable market in a class that is now twice the size at roughly 360,000 weekly scripts.Trulicity continues to have the highest insurance of any diabetes medication, oral or injectable, with the additional dose of 3 and 4.5 milligram, providing the potential for Trulicity to both extend the time of therapy for existing patients and compete for new patients as demonstrated by the new-to-brand share of market having increased more than 4 points since the launch of these additional doses in September 2020.As we start 2021, we are pleased with Trulicity's ability to outgrow the injectable class and establish all-time highs in new therapy starts as well as total market share. We see meaningful opportunity for continued robust class growth for GLP-1s as they are still less than one in 10 diabetes scripts and have significant opportunity for further penetration in the first injectable space as well.With more positive readouts from the tirzepatide in Type 2 diabetes this quarter, we remain focused on sustaining Trulicity leadership position, accelerating class growth and providing continued innovation in the incretin space.On Slide 11, we provide an update on capital allocation. In Q1, we invested nearly $3 billion to drive our future growth through a combination of business development, capital expenditures and after-tax investments in R&D. In addition, we've returned nearly $800 million to shareholders via dividend. We are focused on utilizing our cash flow -- our strong cash flow to develop the next wave of new medicines through both internal and external sources as highlighted by the recently completed in-licensing of the RIP kinase 1 inhibitor from Rigel Pharmaceuticals. We will remain active in assessing the in-licensing opportunities as well as bolt-on acquisitions where we believe we can create shareholders value and enhance our future growth prospects.Turning to our 2021 financial guidance on Slide 12, we are updating our GAAP and non-GAAP guidance. We continue to support healthcare professionals navigating the ongoing pandemic and driving broad vaccinations to enable return to normalcy for healthcare systems in the second half of the year. Despite some therapeutic class still at or below pre-COVID baselines for new therapy starts and the highlighted inventory impact on year-over-year growth, we are confident in the performance of our core business. We are increasing our full-year revenue outlook by $100 million to reflect the FX benefit realized on the top-line in the first quarter.We are, however, narrowing the range for COVID-19 antibody revenue from approximately $1 billion to $2 billion to $1 billion to $1.5 billion for the year based on the rollout of the vaccine across major markets, current antibody utilization rates, existing US government bamlanivimab supply and the transition to only supply bamlanivimab and etesevimab administered together in the US. We believe this update range contemplates a variety of potential scenarios. We recognize that situations across the globe can evolve quickly and we'll plan to adapt as required moving forward. The net impact of these changes is an updated revenue range of $26.6 billion to $27.6 billion.Our outlook for gross margin percent remains unchanged with the impact of COVID-19 antibodies diluting our total gross margin percent by approximately 100 basis points. For research and development, we're increasing our range from $6.5 billion to $7.7 billion to $6.9 billion to $7.1 billion. This reflects an increase of $100 million in COVID-19 antibody expense to support the advancement of a third antibody, LY-1404, as we continue to address the COVID-19 pandemic and approximately $300 million on the core business driven by investments in donanemab for the expansion of the Phase 3 TRAILBLAZER 2 study and the initiation of a new Phase 3 study, TRAILBLAZER-Alzheimer's 3 in asymptomatic Alzheimer's patients.Our investments in donanemab is consistent with our R&D strategy to continue to bolster our pipeline to ensure long-term growth and, based on the strength of the data, invest meaningfully in innovative molecules that we believe have the potential to deliver practice changing data that could significantly improve patient outcomes in areas of high unmet need. We're increasing our non-GAAP range for OID to an expense of $100 million to $200 million to reflect the ALIMTA patent settlement in Europe I noted earlier, while our GAAP range is now income of $150 million to $250 million, which reflects the impact of equity investment gains in the first quarter. We are lowering our effective tax rate to approximately 13% to reflect higher discrete tax items in the first quarter and the lower base rates.We're lowering our non-GAAP operating margin guidance to approximately 31%. The decrease in operating margin is driven entirely by the decreased investments in Alzheimer's for donanemab. Our longer-term margin expansion remains unchanged as we expect continued operating margin expansion to mid to high-30%s. Our GAAP operating margin is expected to be approximately 26%.Finally, the non-GAAP range for earnings per share is now $7.80 to $8. The increase on the lower end of the range reflects the net benefit for the core business related to the changes to OID and tax rate as well as increased revenue, offset by increased R&D for investments in donanemab. The reduction in the upper end of the range reflects the narrow revenue range and increased R&D expense for COVID-19 therapies.Our GAAP EPS is expected to be in the range of $7.03 to $7.23, which reflects an increase to acquired IPR&D related to completed business development transactions, other specified item related primarily to asset impairment, COVID-19 inventory charges and acquisition integration costs as well as the benefit from net gain on investments in equity securities. We're confident in our ability to achieve our 2021 revenue goals for the core business, while also delivering operating margin expansion and mid-teens EPS growth.As we move forward, I would encourage you to look at trends in our core business for the first half of the year, given the significant variability we saw across the period in 2020. As a reminder, revenue performance in the second quarter of 2020 was impacted by the reversal of largely all the $250 million COVID-related stocking benefit from Q1 of 2020 as well as an additional $250 million due to the significant decline in new patients prescription as healthcare utilization decreased and systems temporarily closed down the pace of a surge in pandemic.As we look at underlying volume and share trends across our key products, we are confident in our full year outlook for the core business. And the pipeline successes in the first quarter only furthers our conviction in our mid-term and long-term outlook for continued revenue growth and operating margin expansion.Now, I will turn the call over to Dan to highlight [Phonetic] our progress in R&D.Daniel M. Skovronsky -- Senior Vice President and Chief Scientific OfficerThanks, Anat. 2021 is clearly off to a very positive start for R&D at Lilly with strong pipeline progress already and more potential catalysts on the way.Before I get into the broader portfolio update, I'll spend a few minutes highlighting results from tirzepatide's first four top-line readouts from the Phase 3 SURPASS program, including the strong results from SURPASS-2, the head-to-head trial with semaglutide 1 milligram. This program is aptly named as we've seen tirzepatide surpass our expectations through these initial readouts, displaying significantly greater hemoglobin A1C reduction, weight loss and percent of patients reaching normal glucose levels than any GLP-1 on the market.On Slide 13, you can see impressive performance in the efficacy estimate analysis in glycemic control for tirzepatide with each dose demonstrating superiority in each trial across a range of patient populations, comparators and background medications. A clear highlight is the impressive A1C reduction of the 5-milligram dose across each of these different patient populations, while the higher doses provide additional glucose control up to and surpassing 2.5% A1C reductions.Moving to Slide 14, you can see how tirzepatide performed across all three doses in terms of patients achieving HbA1c below 5.7%, a normal glycemic level seen in people without Type 2 diabetes. We believe this is an exciting finding that may reset expectations for the impact diabetes medications could have for patients. Using the efficacy estimate analysis across SURPASS-1, 2 and 3, we see about half of the patients on the 15-milligram dose of tirzepatide achieve this remarkable level of HbA1c control.In SURPASS-5, which focused on patients on background insulin glargine, 62% of patients on 15-milligram tirzepatide achieved this level of A1C compared to only 3% of patients in the placebo group. Remember, this is a patient population on background basal insulin with an average duration of diabetes of over 13 years. Achieving this level of glucose control in such a population is something that prior to GIP/GLP-1 agonist like tirzepatide, we did not even contemplate as possible.On Slide 15, we show the efficacy estimate analysis for weight reduction across the four studies. Here again, we see levels of efficacy that previously were thought unobtainable with incretin therapy in Type 2 diabetes patients. As we and others have discussed, studies like AWARD-11 and SUSTAIN FORTE have begun to show the limit of what fully hitting the GLP-1 mechanism can accomplish for weight loss and A1C. There appear to be diminishing returns as doses of GLP-1 alone fully saturate the GLP-1 receptor-mediated mechanism and a flattening of the dose response curve occurs.And then you look at this slide, including importantly SURPASS-2 and you can see quite clearly that there's something different going on here. As the dual GIP/GLP-1 receptor agonist is beyond the flattening of the dose response curve of GLP-1 performance, which we believe evidences the power of adding in the GIP mechanisms.Highlights from these studies include the 15-milligram dose delivering 14% weight reduction in SURPASS-3, noting here a weight gain of 3% on insulin degludec comparator. The 15-milligram dose nearly doubling the weight reduction of semaglutide 1-milligram in SURPASS-2 and strong performance in the 5 and 10-milligram doses with statistically superior weight loss even as high as 11% on the 10-milligram dose versus placebo or active comparators.We're encouraged that in these 40 and 52-week studies, we haven't yet seen the weight loss curves plateau on the higher doses. It's really exciting to think about how tirzepatide could potentially perform with the longer duration of treatment that we'll see in future studies. We had a lot of confidence in the efficacy data coming out of Phase II, but there was a lot we didn't yet know about safety and tolerability. Recall, for example, that the primary Phase 2 trial had only about 200 patients on therapy and patients were only on therapy for 26 weeks.As we look at Slide 16, we've been pleased to see through these four SURPASS readouts that the overall safety profile was similar to the well-established GLP-1 receptor agonist class and the most commonly reported adverse events were GI-related and mild-to-moderate in severity. We're particularly encouraged by the potential impact of the optimized dose escalation scheme and, accordingly, by the tolerability profile observed in the Phase 3 program, which improved greatly in comparison to Phase 2, including the lower rates of nausea, diarrhea and vomiting that we've seen, consistent with what we saw in Phase 3 studies for other well-tolerated and highly used incretin therapies, including our own Trulicity. In addition, we're pleased with the discontinuation rates due to adverse events, which have ranged from 3% to 11% across doses in these studies.Stepping back from the data a bit, we're excited about the safety and efficacy results across all doses, but perhaps especially so for the efficacy of the 5-milligram dose, which has performed well in each study, including showing superiority to semaglutide 1-milligram in SURPASS-2 on both A1C reduction and weight loss. I think these data show that the 5-milligram dose could be a great first incretin that can potentially deliver best-in-class efficacy with tolerability that is as good or better than other leading incretins. So we have the low maintenance dose of 5-milligrams that if approved could potentially be appropriate for many patients with physicians knowing they could have higher doses available as they continue management of disease.Tirzepatide could provide patients with the opportunity to set treatment goals that might surpass what was previously thought possible in Type 2 diabetes, both in terms of getting patients to normal glucose control, which has never been contemplated as a potential treatment goal as well as for impressive weight loss, with the highest dose of tirzepatide having roughly doubled the weight loss of semaglutide 1-milligram in SURPASS-2.Today, Type 2 diabetes is largely a treat-to-fail disease. With these results, tirzepatide, if approved, could potentially provide doctors options to enable early control of glucose and weight. This has the potential to translate to improved levels of end-organ protection and a more meaningful reduction in disease complications that has yet been seen. We'll be testing this potential for tirzepatide in ongoing and planned studies in diabetes, obesity, heart failure and NASH. Accordingly we've now initiated SURMOUNT-2, 3 and 4 for tirzepatide in obesity and top-line results from SURMOUNT-1 are expected next year.Moving back to diabetes, the top-line readout for SURPASS-4, which is in a high cardiovascular risk population, we believe will provide an important contribution to our CV safety assessment, is the gating trial for global submissions in Type 2 diabetes. Completion of this trial has always been contingent on accruing a pre-specified number of CV events. We've achieved the necessary events, which triggers bringing patients in for final treatment and safety visits, before moving the trial to completion. Based on this update, we anticipate a top-line readout by the middle of this year.We look forward to disclosing the results of SURPASS-1, 2, 3 and 5 at the ADA 2021 virtual meeting, which will include a 90-minute ADA symposium featuring these results the morning of June 29. While we're excited with the progress of tirzepatide, we think innovation in the incretin space is not over. At ADA, we'll also be discussing pre-clinical and Phase 1 data for our glucagon GLP/GIP tri-agonist, also known as GGG, which we're pleased to announce will be moving into Phase 2 later this quarter.We've previously commented that in this space, we have a high bar for progressing molecules in development, one that has been raised recently by tirzepatide. While it's still early, we're advancing GGG to Phase 2 based on our belief that it could exceed the benefits seen with tirzepatide. With our GGG molecule, we expect to see even more weight loss than what can be achieved with tirzepatide, while preserving glucose lowering efficacy. In addition, due to glucagon's direct action on the liver, we'd also hope to see benefits in NASH. Consequently, our ambitious Phase 2 program is designed to evaluate GGG for obesity, Type 2 diabetes and NASH.In addition to our next-generation incretins, we're also very excited by our novel weekly insulin, basal insulin FC. Thanks to Lilly's work on Trulicity, weekly incretin therapy is now the standard of care in the GLP-1 space. And together with tirzepatide, we hope incretin-based therapies will become the standard of care in the first injectable space for people with Type 2 diabetes. For those people who need basal insulin therapy in addition to their incretin therapy, we'd like to make weekly insulin therapy possible, ultimately avoiding daily injections completely. We'll give an update at ADA on our novel weekly basal insulin. We plan to have an investor call on the morning of July 1 to discuss the data releases at ADA for tirzepatide, GGG and weekly basal insulin. While the progress in our diabetes portfolio is compelling, Lilly has continued to advance the rest of our pipeline this quarter.Slide 17 shows select pipeline opportunities as of April 23 and Slide 18 shows potential key events for the year. In addition to the progress on tirzepatide I just discussed, major developments since our last earnings call include progress with donanemab on multiple fronts. In terms of data, we presented detailed results at ADPD showing the donanemab met its primary endpoint significantly slowing cognitive decline compared to placebo on the integrated Alzheimer's Disease Rating Scale, a composite measure of cognition and daily function in patients with early symptomatic Alzheimer's disease. The data from secondary analysis showed donanemab consistently slowed cognitive and functional decline with ranges between 20% and 40% in all secondary endpoints with nominal statistical significance at multiple time points compared to placebo.On the clinical front, as we discussed in detail on our call last month, we expanded TRAILBLAZER-ALZ 2 to be a Phase 3 study and it's now enrolling quickly. And today, we're announcing that we will start a new Phase 3 study TRAILBLAZER-ALZ 3 in asymptomatic Alzheimer's disease. This trial is anticipated to begin enrollment later this year. Our goal here is to enroll patients who already have Alzheimer's brain pathology but don't yet have any clinical symptoms. The study will have development and progression of Alzheimer's disease symptoms as the primary endpoint and we anticipate it will take approximately three years from completion of enrollment to reach a sufficient number of events. We'll be testing if a short course of donanemab treatment at the start of the trial can prevent progression in a substantial fraction of patients over the subsequent several years. These types of trials are extremely challenging to enroll and conduct, but here we're buoyed by our expertise in biomarkers, including both PET scans and importantly our plasma P-tau217 assay.On the regulatory front, based on feedback from the FDA, we currently do not see a path forward for near-term submission and approval based on the first TRAILBLAZER-ALZ study alone. As you know, the unmet need in Alzheimer's disease is significant. So while we remain focused on speeding up enrollment and completion of our second pivotal study, TRAILBLAZER-ALZ 2, we are continuing to actively engage with the FDA and are fully exploring any opportunities for early submission.Another highlight this quarter was the initiation of pirtobrutinib's Phase 3 program with study start in chronic lymphocytic leukemia as monotherapy. We're also proud of the continuation of our work against COVID-19, including a planned transition from bamlanivimab alone to the administration of bamlanivimab and etesevimab together for the treatment of COVID-19 in the US, accomplished by first gaining Emergency Use Authorization for bamlanivimab and etesevimab administered together in February and then a request for verification [Phonetic] of the EUA for bamlanivimab alone, which FDA subsequently granted.We also submitted bamlanivimab and etesevimab administered together for regulatory review in Europe and we initiated the evaluation of bamlanivimab with VIR-7831 in collaboration with VIR and GSK as well as started trials with the new potentially broadly neutralizing antibody LY-1404 in collaboration with AbCellera, in case new combinations are needed to fight parities [Phonetic].We announced top-line Phase 3 results evaluating baricitinib on top of standard of care, which did not meet statistical significance on the primary endpoint for treatment of COVID-19 but did result in a significant reduction of death from any cause by 38% by day 28. And baricitinib received regulatory approval in conjunction with the remdesivir as a treatment for COVID-19 in Japan. Our work on tirzepatide, donanemab and peer to ibrutinib brings great potential for patients in the long-term and is highly prioritized at Lilly. Our work on COVID-19 is another clear highlight where we moved quickly to help address an unmet medical need in the midst of a pandemic. We're optimistic though that this need will wane in the coming years.Beyond these significant efforts, there has been progress across many other commercial stage and clinical stage assets. Starting in oncology, we're pleased with the approval of selpercatinib for non-small cell lung cancer and thyroid cancer in Europe.We're also pleased that the results of monarchE, our adjuvant breast cancer study, are now submitted in Japan along with Europe, China and the US. As you know, the primary endpoint for the study was invasive disease-free survival, which we hit at the interim analysis. As anticipated, this hazard ratio continues to strengthen over time as more events have accrued. Important secondary endpoints of the study include distant relapse-free survival and overall survival.For the US submission, the FDA has noted and we agreed that the OS data are immature and thus unreliable as we shared in the JCL publication last year. FDA has therefore asked us to see an updated OS analysis during the review cycle to determine that OS is trending in favor of Verzenio. Given the robust distant relapse-free survival data, we're highly confident that the overall survival data will eventually reflect and reinforce the survival benefit, but it takes time for these events to accrue, especially in the adjuvant setting.In immunology, we have positive Phase 3 readouts for baricitinib in alopecia areata, a disease with significant unmet medical need and we look forward to regulatory submission starting in the second half of this year. We also announced that the FDA extended the review period for baricitinib for atopic dermatitis by three months, another disease where we think JAK inhibition could potentially alleviate important unmet medical needs.With mirikizumab, we reported positive Phase 3 results in ulcerative colitis in the 12-week induction study, hitting the primary endpoint and all key secondary endpoints and we look forward to seeing the maintenance data early next year. We also have updates to the mirikizumab psoriasis program. While the OASIS program generated positive results with safety and efficacy similar to other IL-23p19s, we believe the psoriasis market is well served with highly effective treatment options, including Taltz.Lilly's immunology strategy is to focus our new molecules in indications on areas where patients have significant unmet needs, not merely adding new options or leveraging commercial presence to create a space where effective solutions like Taltz already exist for patients. Therefore, we will not pursue submission mirikizumab in psoriasis, but instead we'll focus our efforts on the ulcerative colitis in Crohn's disease indications where unmet medical need is higher and where we believe the potential of the IL-23p19 mechanism to create a new standard of care is greater.In addition to late-stage progress, our early stage portfolio continues to advance with the introduction of five new Phase 1 assets and the attrition of two. In addition to the progress we've made in just the first few months of the year, we anticipate important developments for the remainder of 2021, including the final readout for tirzepatide's Phase 3 Type 2 diabetes program SURPASS-4 noted earlier, Phase 3 results for Jardiance in HFpEF and for lebrikizumab in atopic dermatitis. Regulatory actions for Jardiance for HFrEF, Verzenio in the adjuvant setting for ER-positive breast cancer, baricitinib for atopic dermatitis and tanezumab for osteoarthritis pain, where we previously noted are disappointment in the outcome of the tanezumab advisory committee.The presentation of Phase 1 data for our oral SERD, the initiation of Phase 1 for BCL-2 inhibitor and for KRAS G12C inhibitor, along with the filing of an IND for a next-generation RET inhibitor later this year as we announced at AACR and the Phase 2 readout for zagotenemab, our anti-tau antibody for early Alzheimer's disease. We believe our continued pipeline success drives increasing visibility to meaningful long-term growth. We look forward to continued progress across our portfolio in the coming quarters.Now, I turn the call back over to Dave for some closing remarks.David A. Ricks -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Dan. Before we go to Q&A, let me briefly sum up the progress we've made to start the year. Amidst several moving pieces in a challenging healthcare environment, we are excited by the momentum we are seeing. Our business grew 16% in the first quarter with the core business growing 7% adjusted for COVID-19 antibody revenue and last year's COVID-19-related inventory stocking benefit.Our top-line growth continues to be strong, driven strongly by volume across our key growth products, which account for more than half of our core business. Net of the significant impact from foreign exchange on international inventories sold, our operating margin was in line with our expectations as we continue to expect operating margin expansion throughout the year and further expansion in years to come.We made significant progress developing new medicines with many more data readouts expected this year. Advances for tirzepatide, donanemab, pirtobrutinib, Verzenio, mirikizumab, Retevmo and Olumiant serve as a reminder of the breadth and depth of opportunities we have to sustain robust long-term growth. We've returned nearly $800 million to shareholders via an increased dividend, reflecting confidence in the ongoing strength of our business.I want to say thank you to my Lilly teammates, whose commitment to excellence and dedication to our purpose of bringing innovative new medicines to patients is inspiring and drove these accomplishments amid ongoing pandemic headwinds. While our people, healthcare providers and patients continue to face near-term challenges associated with COVID-19, our long-term outlook is as bright as ever.This concludes our prepared remarks. And now, I'll turn the call over to Kevin to moderate the Q&A session.Kevin Hern -- Vice President, Investor RelationsThanks, Dave. We'd like to take questions from as many callers as possible. So we ask that you limit your questions to two per caller.Tony, can you please provide the instructions for the Q&A session? And then we're ready for the first caller.