
OperatorGood day, and welcome to the Equity Residential First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]At this time, I'd like to turn the conference over to Mr. Martin McKenna. Please go ahead, sir.Martin J. McKenna -- First Vice President of Investor & Public Relations

 



Good morning, and thanks for joining us to discuss Equity Residential's first quarter 2021 results. Our featured speakers today are Mark Parrell, our President and CEO; and Michael Manelis, our Chief Operating Officer; Bob Garechana, our Chief Financial Officer, is here with us as well for the Q&A. Our earnings release as well as a management presentation regarding our results and outlook are posted in the Investors section of equityapartments.com.Please be advised that certain matters discussed during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain economic risks and uncertainties. The company assumes no obligation to update or supplement these statements that become untrue because of subsequent events.Now I'll turn the call over to Mark Parrell.Mark J. Parrell -- President, Chief Executive Officer & Trustee

 



Thanks, Marty. Good morning, and thank you all for joining us today. We are pleased to report that we are seeing significant improvement in our operations, driven by continued strong demand all across our portfolio. This, in turn, allowed us to extend the gains in occupancy we discussed on the prior earnings call. We are currently 96% occupied, 160 basis point improvement since December 31, 2020. We are especially encouraged by our numbers as we enter our primary leasing season, the period of peak demand in our business and by the continuing reopening activities in our cities. The improving pricing we noted on last quarter's call has accelerated over the past few months.Pricing trend, which is a leading indicator of where market rents are going and is computed net of concessions, is up 14% this year, and we have already recovered 60% of the pricing reduction we suffered as a result of the pandemic. In fact, on a pricing trend basis, collective pricing in our markets outside of New York and San Francisco is likely to recover completely by the end of May. The New York and San Francisco markets declined by more than our other markets, so they have further to go to regain pre-pandemic pricing, but momentum is strong in those two markets, and they are making good progress toward full recovery. To provide additional color on our operating trends, we posted to our website at equityapartments.com, a management presentation that provides some background on both current operations and our guidance expectations.After I give a quick overview of guidance changes and investment activities, Michael Manelis, our Chief Operating Officer, will provide more detail on our current performance and forward trajectory. After that, we'll take your questions. The encouraging trends, I just mentioned, led us to raise our guidance ranges for physical occupancy, same-store revenue, same-store net operating income and normalized funds from operations as disclosed in last night's release. The midpoint of our same-store revenue range was raised 100 basis points to negative 7%, the midpoint of our NOI range was raised 150 basis points to negative 12% and the midpoint of our NFFO range was raised by $0.05 to $2.75 per share. These improvements were almost entirely driven by stronger and earlier than anticipated recovery trends in both our residential and nonresidential operations across all our markets.We are well positioned heading into our prime leasing season, but our reported same-store revenue numbers will lag the recovery in our operating statistics as we work through the impact of lower rents and of concessions. In terms of the first quarter's numbers, the impact of the pandemic is readily apparent. We said previously that our reported same-store revenue numbers would get worse before they get better, and that's exactly what happened. Same-store revenues declined 10.5% for the quarter, which, while it was a bit better than we expected, is still among the worst revenue numbers in our history. We believe that our first quarter results will be our low point for the year and that they will improve from this point on. Turning to investments.

 



While no dispositions or acquisitions closed this quarter, we have been active in the transaction market, and we expect to have a considerable amount of activity to report on next quarter. As we've said on prior calls, in order to create the most stable, growing cash flow stream possible for our investors, we are broadening our portfolio over time to increase our exposure to suburban properties in our existing markets, where the resident demographic is similar to our existing affluent urban resident population. We are also working on increasing our investment in Denver and continuing to consider a select number of new markets, that have large and growing affluent resident bases, favorable long-term supply and demand characteristics and lower political risk. While asset prices are high in the locations in which we seek to invest, our funding source for these acquisitions comes from sales of existing properties, especially in California, where we are obtaining pricing that exceeds our pre-pandemic valuations.We expect to complete this transaction activity with minimal dilution and to stay consistent with our strategy of acquiring newer assets with modest capital expenditure burdens. The one piece of notable investment activity that did occur in the quarter was our $5 million investment and a fund that preserves affordable housing across our country. This for-profit fund is run by long time experts in the affordable housing preservation and finance area. Using our equity capital and that of other investors as well as government financing, the fund acquires and improves the quality of existing affordable housing communities that would otherwise be at risk of either physical neglect or where the affordable restrictions are about to expire. We have been clear on prior calls of our steadfast opposition to rent control and other short-sighted policies that do not help solve the affordable housing shortage. Economists consistently say that rent control, in fact, leads to disinvestment in existing housing and impedes the creation of new housing.We support solution-focused investment like this fund that preserve or create affordable housing and favor the elimination of overly restrictive zoning codes that limit housing production where it's needed most. Along with ongoing engagement with public officials in our markets, this investment demonstrates our commitment to being part of the solution with respect to the affordable housing gap. To sum up, we are encouraged by the progress being made on vaccinations as well as the reopening of cities. Recent announcements made by employers, particularly in the tech industry regarding return to office are welcome news. We believe that the new operating model for most companies will be a hybrid of in-office and work from home and that our portfolio will benefit from workers looking to live close to the office. The unique cultural and entertainment options that are becoming available again, as cities reopen, are also magnets to our affluent renter demographic, and will draw them back to the cities and to the lifestyle, many of them crave.Our customer base has stayed well employed during the pandemic and can afford our current rents and absorb future rent increases as market conditions improve. 2021 is indeed turning out to be a year of recovery for our company. As we have said before, equity residential same-store revenue growth coming out of recessions has typically recovered quickly with us posting strong numbers, and I see no reason that will not occur again once the lagging impact of concessions and some of the other factors I mentioned abate. All of this is, of course, premised on continuing progress in controlling the virus and an assumption that other economic conditions remain supportive. Before I turn the call over to Michael, I want to thank all of our investors for their continued support during these challenging times. We are well positioned to benefit from a return to normal as the pandemic subsides. We are optimistic about the future of our business and believe that our portfolio will thrive.I'll now turn the call over to Michael Manelis. Michael?Michael L. Manelis -- Executive Vice President & Chief Operating OfficerThanks, Mark. So with the first quarter now in the books and our spring leasing season ramping up, we continue to see strong performance build upon the early indicators we were seeing on our last call. The accelerated distribution of the vaccines have clearly had an impact on many of the states and cities where we operate as they push for return to a more normal environment. Our teams in our various markets are sharing positive news of neighborhoods that are starting to feel alive again as more and more companies get ready to reopen offices. Regardless of the ultimate outcome of work-from-home, we see our demographic is drawn to the amazing culture, food and art that our urban locations offer.They're excited about reopening of these experiences and feel a sense of urgency to return, especially knowing that these lower rents won't last for long. As you may remember from prior calls, we have focused our approach on maximizing revenues by balancing occupancy with rate and concessions, which has proved successful thus far. Our confidence in the recoveries of our cities, coupled with this disciplined approach, kept us from overreacting in one direction or the other and we are well positioned as the recovery takes off to sell our excess inventory at net effective rates that are currently 14% higher than the end of last year. In both the earnings release and in the accompanying management presentation, we have provided some key performance metrics. Let me highlight a few of the overall trends. So first, demand. Demand was strong through both the winter season and early spring with a continued trend of increased applications and move-in activity that is well above seasonal norms and has fueled a stronger-than-expected occupancy recovery.Occupancy is currently 96%. And as of two weeks ago, is now above the prior year comp period. And for the first time, beginning to approach 2019 levels. This occupancy strength is contributing to the improvement in our revenue growth recovery. Pricing trend, which includes the impact of concessions and is a good indicator of where market rents are headed, has improved across all markets during the first quarter and through April. We continue to test price sensitivity in every market by raising rates and reducing both the value and quantity of concessions being granted. In January, concessions averaged just under six weeks on about 1/3 of our applications. By March and into April, this has been reduced to about 20% of applications receiving on average four weeks, and we expect this to continue to decline into May.As stated in the management presentation, we have seen a 14% improvement in pricing trend from December 31 to April 23. Renewal rate negotiation pressure continues as we renew residents who signed leases at the onset of the pandemic before the declines and pricing trends occurred. Outside of Southern California and Denver, our other markets have pricing trend below prior year, which put pressure on renewal negotiations. This situation is improving weekly. And as Mark mentioned, we expect the other markets, excluding New York and San Francisco, to be positive by the end of May. April renewal rate achieved should be 200 basis points better than March, which was a negative 4.5%. The percent of residents renewing also continues to improve, with March and April, both achieving above 55%. These levels remain below our historical average for this time of year, but the gap is closing. Blended rates, which combines new lease changes and renewal rates achieved continue to improve with sequential improvement in new lease change expected for the next several quarters.As previously discussed, renewal rate achieved was pressured in Q1, but the pressure will continue to moderate as pricing trend improves and as the rate on expiring leases which were written pre and early onset in the pandemic narrows with current market rents. On Pages six through eight of our management presentation, we have provided color on pricing trends, physical occupancy, percent of residents renewing and leasing concessions for each market. So I will not repeat that here. But let me provide some brief market-specific commentary. I will start in Boston, where we are seeing an uptick in interest from students as many colleges have announced plans for campuses to open again in the fall. We may well benefit from limits on dorm occupancies as some students will need to find alternative housing. This market will face some headwinds from new supply, particularly in the city, where we are still dealing with some non-stabilized lease-ups from last year as well as a few new deals expected to deliver in the back half of 2021. New York is starting to see positive momentum.Demand is good, driven by both bargain hunters looking to upgrade and people returning to Manhattan in anticipation of office reopenings. Specifics around office reopenings remain unclear, but indications are that it will be a hybrid that has employees back in the office, at least part of the week by summer and early fall. In New York, concessions remain part of the marketing strategy, even while we are raising rates. This market held on to widespread concession use through most of the first quarter, but the last several weeks has shown concession use starting to decline. Unlike any of our other markets, New York has a more significant number of local operators not on yield management, who tend to use concessions more frequently. New supply is basically nonexistent in Manhattan, however, supply pressure on the Hudson Waterfront in New Jersey in the back half of this year may impact that submarket.Our migration data suggests that this market is beginning to return to normal as applications from outside the New York MSA and move-outs leaving the MSA, both continue to trend closer to normal pre-pandemic levels. Turning to D.C. During the pandemic, physical occupancy held up better in D.C. than any of our other East Coast markets. Absorption of new supply also has generally remained healthy that has slowed compared to 2019 levels. While demand in this market remains robust, we are facing some headwinds from new supply in 2021. D.C. has an excellent track record of absorbing new supply, but with more than 12,000 units being delivered this year, that track record will be challenged.Heading to the West Coast. Seattle trends are moving in the right direction, but the market has shown periods of price resistance. Tech companies continue to hire and are moving toward reopening offices. Amazon's recent announcement of its commitment to an office centric culture as their baseline is a very good sign for driving demand. The expiration of the H1B visa ban at the end of March should also be a good driver of demand as the tech sector was heavily reliant on this program for talent. On the supply front, new supply deliveries will rebound in 2021 with the largest concentration in the CBD down town submarket. San Francisco, one of the markets hardest hit by the pandemic is clearly on the road to recovery. Concession use in this market has shown a meaningful decline. Our communities located in the city of San Francisco are starting to feel vibrant again. Late in the first quarter, we saw a flurry of announcements from Bay Area tech firms with regards to return to office.Many of the tech firms, including Google, are taking a firmer than expected stance with regards to office attendance, as they recognize the importance of in-person work in both product creation and company culture. Schools are reopening with colleges planning for students to return to campus in the fall, and demand for our two and three bedrooms has clearly increased in the last several weeks. New supply will be elevated in 2021 with a large concentration in the South Bay, which may create some pricing headwinds for us. Southern California has been the strongest part of our portfolio during the pandemic. Los Angeles, despite being one of the most lockdown cities in the country, continues to have good demand. The city is opening back up, and the governor has set mid-June for a full reopening. The most encouraging sign in this market is the pickup in activity in the content creation sector. Television and movies that were filming in other states during the pandemic are returning to LA. 2021 new supply deliveries will be well spread out across the submarkets, with most of the expected pressure coming to us in the Mid-Wilshire, Koreatown submarket.Orange County and San Diego continue to be the real standouts in terms of performance. These markets have the highest occupancies and the best, albeit still negative, revenue performance. But we see same-store revenue growth in these markets turning positive in the second quarter. These markets should continue to benefit as the state opens back up, and travel and leisure activity picks up. New supply will be at normal levels and generally well spread out across the submarkets. While Southern California is generally one of our better performing areas, it has and continues to experience the highest levels of delinquency. We have mobilized our teams to assist our residents in applying for available federal rental assistance dollars, while California was ahead of most states in creating a rental assistant application process. The state is just beginning to process applications and to send out money. We will be aggressive in pursuing these California relief funds as well as other programs throughout the country.Finally, in Denver, demand remained strong across the market, although pricing pressure and widespread concession use is common downtown. Our two suburban Denver properties have little concession use and are seeing good demand and revenue growth, new supply will be elevated from 2020 levels, but good job growth should be a driver of the absorption of that supply. Across all of our markets, our focus will remain on increasing rates and continuing to reduce and eliminate concessions, our strategy of not chasing occupancy at any cost during the winter is paying off. So far, we have been able to grow our occupancy, while at the same time, recovering just over 60% of the decline in rate that we experienced from March to December of 2020. We believe that this approach will continue to benefit us as we move forward through 2021 and close that gap. Let me close by thanking the entire equity residential team for their continued dedication and hard work. I am confident that we have the best team in the industry, and they are demonstrating the power of working together as they lead the markets through the recovery phase and remain relentless in serving our customers and taking care of each other.Thank you. I will now turn the call over to the operator to begin the Q&A session.