  OperatorThank you for standing by. Good day, everyone, and welcome to The Boeing Company's fourth quarter 2021 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. The management discussion and slide presentation plus the analyst question-and-answer session are being broadcast live over the Internet. [Operator instructions] At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I'm turning the call over to Mr. Matt Welch, vice president of investor relations for The Boeing Company. Mr. Welch, please go ahead.Matt Welch -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you, John, and good morning, everyone. Welcome to Boeing's fourth quarter 2021 earnings call. I am Matt Welch, and with me today are Dave Calhoun, Boeing's president and chief executive officer; and Brian West, Boeing's executive vice president and chief financial officer. And as a reminder, you can follow today's broadcast and slide presentation through our website at boeing.com. As always, we have provided detailed financial information in our press release issued earlier today. Projections, estimates and goals we include in our discussions this morning involve risks, including those described in our SEC filings and in the forward-looking statement disclaimer at the end of this web presentation. In addition, we refer you to our earnings release and presentation for disclosures and certain -- and reconciliation of certain non-GAAP measures. Now I will turn the call over to Dave Calhoun.Dave Calhoun -- President and Chief Executive Officer Yes. Thanks, Matt. Just upfront, we're changing this format just a bit so that I can limit my remarks upfront to some observations and thoughts with respect to where we are in this rebuilding process. And then Brian will take you into more detail on the financial side. With respect to the environment, there's no doubt Omicron has paused the industry recovery. But it has not changed the outlook for the industry recovery, such that while it might be delayed a few more months, the bookings, and the customer discussions with respect to fleet plans, medium and long term, are still quite robust. And we are quite confident in that outlook. 2021 I would characterize for Boeing as a rebuilding year. We came from recovery to rebuilding. And I give our team a lot of credit for, frankly, making a lot of progress on that front. Number one, on the orders front and demand, particularly led by the MAX and the freighter market. I feel very good about where things are and the competitiveness of our product line with respect to that market. Supply constraints to date have not constrained us. On the other hand, I think in the medium to long-term future, it's something we all have to plan for. I've always viewed the unfortunate means by which we got here and the buildup of finished goods inventory, both with respect to the MAX and the 787. That's sort of a double-edged sword. I hate that we have a lot of inventory. On the other hand, it will probably serve us well in what is likely to be a robust recovery. With respect to fleet rebuilding, I would also just like to highlight the efficiency gains, and maybe even more importantly, the emissions gains that our customers enjoy when they replace their current fleet with these new aircraft are significant, and the pressures are severe. So I think that creates some additive pressure with respect to fleet renewals as we move forward. And I don't think either of those will let up. The MAX return to service. I'm quite proud of where we are on that. We have regulatory approval now in almost every jurisdiction in the world. You know that China, Indonesia, and Ethiopia all delivered prior to the end of the year. We delivered 245 airplanes in '21. We've flown safely over 800,000 flight hours, 99.3% service reliability. And we've now flown more post the MAX grounding than we did pre-MAX grounding. China is preparing for their MAX return to service and for delivery. And we have set up a plan that allows for that in the first quarter. But of course, they'll take them as the government returns the current fleet to service. Our customers are moving methodically and very well with respect to that return to service. 87, very unfortunate charge that we took here in the fourth quarter. It reflects everything we've learned about the rework process itself, the data required to restart deliveries and obtain ticketing, and then customer expectations regarding concessions as we move forward. With all that said, I still feel fantastic about the future of the 787 airplane for The Boeing Company. And anyway, as I think I point out every time we get together, these 87s today, the field -- the fleet and service is flying, is more utilized than any other wide-body airplane. It's -- 99% of it is in service today with respect to the pre-pandemic levels. And it's the most utilized wide-body out there, 98.99% reliability. So this is a great product line and a competitive product. And as soon as we begin delivery, we feel very good about the ultimate recovery. On BDS, we did hit a bunch of really important milestones. The MQ-25, we experienced our first refueling, and we began carrier tests. The T-7A production line, which is based on significantly improved development process and engineering modeling capabilities, is off to a very good start. And the efficiency associated with that development process is being realized. And then the tanker. The tanker today despite the charge, again, which we don't feel great about by any respect, but the tanker today is an incredible asset for our customer and now serves 70% of the missions that were intended in the development of the tanker. And our job is to continue to deliver the tanker and to do it more expeditiously as we move forward. The good news is our customer likes the performance of the airplane. And again, we intend to serve that need. Global Services, it is recovering like all the service businesses that surround aviation. It's on a great path. The team is doing a terrific job. We had a small write-off with respect to materials that ultimately would not be utilized in this recovery. But BGS is doing quite well, and this is experiencing the recovery. And then I feel very good about the free cash flow that we generated in the fourth quarter. As everybody knows, we have been focused relentlessly on improving our free cash flow situation. It has been our No. 1 metric. And to be able to achieve that, I think, is terrific news. Sustainability, it is the one issue every customer wants to talk to us about not with respect to 2050 or 2035, but they want to make sure that we have a program in place that will support them over that time frame. And it is very important to the every next order that we achieve. So believe it or not, the competition for today's airplanes is often built around the future plans that we have with respect to sustainability. And I love where we're going on that and the story we -- that we have for our customers. Innovation is strong in every way. I mentioned the MQ-25, the T-7A. Future capabilities with respect to the next development program, we've invested a lot. We continue to invest a lot. It's more important to me that we get our development tools where they need to be, demonstrate manufacturing capability and capacity where we need to be before we call out the spec on the next new commercial airplane. So I remain focused on that as a priority. And so far, so good. Talent, we were stable over the course of '21. Turnover was managed, I think, quite well and quite aggressively. And so I feel good about that and our ability to hire as we move forward. But I will also acknowledge that there are shortages out there in critical skills, and we have to be very competitive in order to get them. I'll highlight the priorities we have. I don't think any of them should surprise anybody. They may look boring with respect to words like stability, safety, quality management. But that is still our focus, and we're going to be relentless about it. This is a very important year as we begin the year and then exit the year where we can predict to customers and to all of you the deliveries of our airplanes and ensure the quality is what it needs to be, etc. And culturally, our team is getting closer to their work than they've ever been. We feel good about that, and we invest. We're investing heavily in the future capabilities of our company. So that's it with respect to my upfront comments. I'll turn it over to Brian. We can go through the quarter's performance and then a little more time for Q&A.Brian West -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Dave, and good morning, everyone. 2021 was a year of recovery for our business. We're optimistic about how we're positioned entering 2022 and have high confidence in the long-term strength of the company. We remain focused on solidifying our business for long-term success. The lessons we've learned and the changes we've implemented in the last two years will help us to do that. We're driving safety, quality, stability into every corner of our operations to enable future growth. And we made solid progress against our goals over the last three months. In particular, as Dave mentioned, we're proceeding to get 737 MAX airplanes ready to deliver in China as early as the first quarter and follow the lead of our customers and regulators on next steps. On the 787, while we can't predict when deliveries will restart, we have made meaningful strides in addressing many of the nonconformances we identified. We have work remaining to do, and we continue to hold detailed productive discussions with the FAA every step of the way. Looking to our financials. Despite some of the near-term challenges, we generated positive free cash flow in the fourth quarter and believe free cash flow will continue to materially improve this year and into 2023. With this backdrop, we think of 2022 in three parts. First, we'll focus on reaching key milestones so that we can resume 737 deliveries to Chinese customers and restart 787 deliveries. Then once we achieve these important milestones, we expect to see improvement in our performance metrics, including deliveries, revenue, margin, and cash flow. And we intend to come back to you with detailed plans for the rest of the year and beyond. Finally, as we move through the second half of the year, our financial performance should start to accelerate. And we think there is a significant opportunity ahead for our company return to sustainable growth. Net net, we're well positioned at the start of the year and encouraged by the hope of a return to normalcy in 2022. Before I get into the detailed financial results, I want to make a few points on the current environment on Slide 4. Let's start with the demand side. In the commercial market, we continue to see an overall broadening of the recovery starting with domestic traffic, which rebounded to around 90% of pre-pandemic levels in countries such as the U.S. and Brazil. In the U.S., domestic traffic nearly fully recovered at 94% of pre-COVID levels in November. December data suggests resilient traffic despite the rapid spread of the Omicron variant, but early 2022 bookings data indicate a more visible negative impact likely extending through February. Beyond that, we expect the recovery for the spring and summer seasons. Outside of the U.S., the recovery continues broadening in Europe and South America. However, further lockdowns have stagnated recovery in China, where we have seen traffic decrease considerably. Despite some near-term volatility, we're encouraged by airlines' plans for the spring and summer travel seasons. On the international front, traffic has improved throughout the year from more than 85% below 2019 levels to 60% as the year ended with a meaningful benefit from reopening of borders and lifting of travel restrictions. In particular, the transatlantic corridor showed improvement due to coordinated travel policies between the EU and the U.S. The commercial freighter market continues to be robust with 2021 cargo traffic 7% above pre-pandemic levels. We saw record freighter demand last year driven by both e-commerce growth and demand for faster, more reliable transport that airfreight can provide. And we're seeing the same steady recovery broadly in our commercial services business as well. Given this demand recovery, our customers are increasingly focused on their medium-term flight planning and continue to prioritize fleet modernization as an enabler to reduce carbon emissions and increase operating efficiency. New airplanes we deliver will be as much as 25% to 40% more fuel efficient with commensurate reductions in emissions compared to the airplanes they replace. And as oil prices remain high, our customers are keenly aware of these benefits. Overall, our projections for the three-phase commercial market recovery remain unchanged, and we still assume pass-through traffic will return to 2019 levels in the 2023 to 2024 time frame. We continue to see domestic traffic lead the recovery followed by intra-regional and then long-haul international routes. Long-term fundamentals that support demand for air traffic remain intact as we continue to project average traffic growth of mid-single digits over the long term. In the defense and space markets, we're seeing stable demand. We continue to monitor the federal budget process in the U.S. and see strong bipartisan support for national security, including Boeing products and services. While governments around the world remain focused on COVID-19, security spending remains a priority given global threats. On the supply side, with our production at relatively low rates and higher-than-normal inventory levels, the supply chain is currently not a constraint. However, as we look forward to the industry recovering and future production rate increases, our supply chain remains a key watch item due to raw material and labor availability as well as logistical challenges. We regularly monitor supplier health and have risk mitigation plans in place for critical components. As we prepare for future rate production increases, we will continue to prioritize operational stability across the value stream. Long term, the markets we serve are robust, and we remain confident in the fundamentals of our business and the growth of the industry. With that, let's turn to the financials on Page 5, Slide 5. Fourth quarter revenue of $14.8 billion declined 3%. And the core operating loss in the quarter was $4.5 billion, resulting in a $7.69 loss per share. We generated positive operating cash flow of over $700 million in the fourth quarter driven by 737 deliveries and favorable receipt timing in BDS. Let's now look to Commercial Airplanes on Slide 6. Commercial order activity picked up significantly in 2021 as airlines are positioning for the recovery, particularly in the narrow-body and freighter markets. In total for the year, we booked 909 gross Commercial Airplane orders, including 749 orders for the 737 MAX. We also booked a record number of orders on our freighter airplanes, and we ended the year with 11 straight months of positive net orders. We appreciate every order from our broad customer base, including United, Southwest, Alaska, UPS, and FedEx. We are also honored that Akasa, Allegiant and 777 partners recently selected Boeing to support their future fleets. We had over 4,200 airplanes in backlog at the end of 2021 valued at $297 billion. Fourth quarter revenue was $4.8 billion, essentially flat, primarily driven by higher 737 deliveries, partially offset by lower wide-body deliveries and less favorable mix. Operating losses of $4.5 billion were primarily driven by charges on the 787 program, resulting in a negative margin rate. 787 deliveries remain paused, and we had 110 airplanes in inventory at the end of the quarter. As you know, last year, we set out on a comprehensive program to ensure every 787 airplane in our production system conforms to our exacting specifications. We resolved many of the nonconformances, and we're finalizing our work on the remaining items. We also continue to focus on fulfilling the requirements and expectations of the FAA. And we'll follow their lead on the timing of resuming deliveries. While this effort has inevitably impacted our deliveries to customers and our near-term financial performance, we are fully confident it is the right thing to do for our future. In the fourth quarter, we determined that the activities required to resume deliveries and the rework that will be needed on each airplane and inventory will take longer than previously expected, resulting in further delays in customer delivery dates. We regret the impact these delays have had on our customers and are working closely with each of them to support their fleet planning needs. Consequently, we're producing at very low rates, and we'll continue to do so until deliveries resume, gradually returning to five airplanes per month over time. From a financial impact standpoint, we now anticipate 787 abnormal costs will be approximately $2 billion, with most being incurred by the end of 2023. This estimate increased by approximately $1 billion from last quarter due to the additional rework requirements and lower production rates continuing longer than previously expected. We recorded $285 million of these abnormal costs in the fourth quarter. Additionally, we recorded a $3.5 billion noncash charge in the quarter to write down unamortized deferred production costs, primarily due to estimated customer compensation for the longer delivery delays. It is important to keep in mind that from an economic standpoint, cash margins on the 787 remain positive. While the additional costs and customer considerations will put some downward pressure on cash margins in the near term, cash margins are expected to remain positive and significantly improve over time. We remain very confident in the future success of the 787, and it remains one of our most compelling programs. Importantly, none of the issues we're addressing have raised immediate safety or flight concerns or impacted the capabilities of the in-service fleet. We received gross orders for 21 airplanes last year, and we see a long runway ahead. We are working diligently to ensure that we are well positioned as demand recovers and accelerates in the future. Moving on to the 737 MAX program. The MAX is now approved to fly in over 185 countries. As mentioned, we continue to prepare airplanes for deliveries as early as the first quarter, subject to customer and regulatory approvals in China. We also delivered 245 737 MAX airplanes last year, and we've steadily ramped up production. And we are now producing at 27 airplanes per month on our way to 31 per month early this year. As you look to ramp both our production rate and delivery gains this year, we will continue to monitor the impact of Omicron on resource availability. We currently have 335 737 MAX airplanes in inventory and still anticipate delivering most of these airplanes by the end of 2023. Timing and pace of deliveries to Chinese customers are also critical assumptions to our delivery outlook. 737 abnormal costs and the liability for 737 MAX customer considerations are largely behind us. We expect the majority of the remaining $2.9 billion liability to be liquidated this year with less than 10% of the total estimate left to be negotiated. On the 777X, we continue to progress through our rigorous and comprehensive test program. We have flown over 1,800 flight hours through the end of 2021. We also completed engine and airplane performance testing, and the airplane continues to perform in line with our customer commitments. Our customers recognize the compelling economics and sustainability benefits this airplane offers. We remain engaged with the FAA and other global regulators throughout this process. We're working toward reaching type inspection authorization, or TIA, which is a pacing item for us to begin FAA certification flight testing. We are still anticipating delivery of the first airplane in late 2023. Also, we are currently offering the freighter version of our 777X airplane to customers. And we'll keep you updated as we progress on sales campaigns and conclude our launch timing evaluation. As a result of increasing freighter demand, we plan to increase the combined 777, 777X production rate from two to three per month this year and expect 2022 deliveries to be relatively in line with last year. Let's now move to Defense, Space & Security on Slide 7. Fourth quarter revenue was $5.9 billion, down 14%, and operating margin was negative 4.4%. These results were primarily driven by lower volume and less favorable performance across the portfolio, including a $402 million pre-tax charge on the KC-46 Tanker program. The charge is primarily driven by evolving customer requirements for a remote vision system as well as factory and supply chain disruptions, including the impact of COVID. On the commercial crew program, as previously shared, we and NASA anticipate the second uncrewed orbital flight test to occur in May. We received $7 billion in orders during the quarter, including an award for modernization of Airborne Warning and Control System to Royal Saudi Air Force. The BDS backlog increased to $60 billion. During the quarter, BDS also delivered on critical customer milestones. Overall, we remain optimistic about our defense business.,Now let's turn to Global Services results on Slide 8. Fourth quarter Global Services revenue was $4.3 billion, up 15%, and operating margin was 9.3%. Results were driven by higher commercial services volume and favorable mix. Earnings were impacted by a $220 million inventory impairment in the fourth quarter. We received $6 billion in orders during the quarter, taking the BGS backlog to $20 billion. We also delivered the 50th 767-300 converted freighter and announced plans to add 10 new converted freighter lines. Our services business has shown great resilience in part due to the balance of both defense and commercial offerings. Let's move to Slide 9 and cover the full year financials. Full year revenue of $62.3 billion improved 7% versus prior year. The core operating loss was negative $4.1 billion, an improvement of $10.1 billion. The resulting core loss per share was $9.44 primarily driven by the charge on the 787. Operating cash flow was negative $3.4 billion, an improvement of $15 billion. The end-year cash usage was driven by 787 inventory build, 737 customer considerations, and interest payments, partially offset by commercial deliveries, order activity, favorable timing of cash receipts at BDS and tax refunds related to the CARES Act. Now let's turn to Slide 10 to cover cash and debt. We ended the fourth quarter with strong liquidity, comprised of $16.2 billion of cash and marketable securities on the balance sheet and access to $14.7 billion across our bank credit facilities, which remain undrawn. Our debt balance decreased by $4.3 billion from the end of the third quarter to $58.1 billion, driven by the early paydown of the delayed draw term loan. We remain committed to reducing debt levels, and our investment-grade credit rating is a priority. Please turn to the next slide for a look at 2022 and key drivers of the business. As you look ahead, 2022 performance will be driven by the commercial market recovery, return to delivery for the 787 and 737 MAX in China, production system and delivery stability, and U.S.-China trade relations. Our efforts to stabilize our production system, including the supply chain and improve our delivery predictability, remain top priorities. These activities will be paramount to our success. Looking broadly across our enterprise, we're maintaining, in some cases, expanding key investments in our people, technology, manufacturing capabilities, and strategic partnerships. We're advancing our development of the MAX 7, MAX 10 and 777X programs, all while continuing to invest in digital capabilities to support our next commercial airplane program. In BDS, we're progressing on the MQ-25, T-7A, Commercial Crew and several other key development programs. As we invest, we continue to be laser-focused on our business transformation efforts to drive quality, productivity and cash flow. Now let's take a look at the key drivers of 2022 revenue and cash. We anticipate revenue increase primarily driven by higher commercial airplane deliveries on the 737 and 787 programs. That said, revenue will be impacted by 787 customer considerations and delivering 737 airplanes that were previously remarketed. We are forecasting stable revenue in our defense business and solid growth in our services business as the commercial market continues to improve. Moving to cash. We still expect to generate positive free cash flow in the year. The key driver remains higher 737 and 787 delivery volume. Keep in mind, the working capital benefit from delivering airplanes from inventory will be partially offset by a lower advances in progress payments balance. We still anticipate a significant burn down of our advances balance this year, which we expect to be more front-end loaded in line with customer discussions. Additionally, cash flow will remain impacted by timing of receipts and expenditures. As you may recall, we booked orders last year that filled near-term skyline positions, and those unique receipts may not continue at the same levels this year. From a phasing standpoint, we anticipate the first quarter to be our lowest quarter of the year for deliveries, revenue, earnings and cash flow. First quarter cash flow could look similar to the usage we saw in 1Q '21 driven by unfavorable receipt timing, excess advance payment burn-down, resource availability due to the omicron variant and normal seasonality. We remain confident that our free cash flow will improve in the second quarter and will meaningfully accelerate in the back half of the year as we achieve the key delivery milestones that I previously outlined. As you look to the future, we expect 2023 cash flow will be materially higher than 2022. We look forward to sharing more details on our plan as soon as we can. In closing, the business environment remains dynamic, but we've made important progress. We are confident that we're on the right path, we're taking the right steps to drive stability and making the right investments to ensure the business is well positioned for future growth. With that, closing comments?Dave Calhoun -- President and Chief Executive Officer Yes. No further comments. I'd like to turn it over to questions and give all our time to that. Thanks. 