
OperatorGood day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Twitter's Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to turn the call over to your host Krista Bessinger, VP, Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Krista Bessinger -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



Thank you. Hi, everyone, and thanks for joining our Q2 earnings conference call. We have Jack and Ned with us today.We published our shareholder letter on our Investor Relations website and with the SEC a couple of hours ago and hope that you've all had a chance to read it. As usual, we'll keep our opening remarks brief, so that we can get right to your questions. As a reminder, we will also take questions asked on Twitter. So please tweet us at @TwitterIR using the $TWTR.During this call, we'll make forward-looking statements, including statements about our business outlook, strategies and long-term goals. These comments are based on our plans, predictions and expectations as of today, which may change over time. Our actual results could differ materially, due to a number of risks and uncertainties, including the risk factors in our most recent 10-K and upcoming -- and 10-Q and upcoming 10-Q that will be filed with the SEC.Also during this call, we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures. We have reconciled those to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in our shareholder letter. These non-GAAP measures are not intended to be a substitute for our GAAP results. And finally, this call in its entirety is being webcast from our Investor Relations website and an audio replay will be available on Twitter and on our website in a few hours.

 



And with that, I'd like to turn it over to Jack.Jack Dorsey -- Chief Executive OfficerHello everyone, and thanks for joining us. With a strong Q2, total revenue at $1.19 billion with that revenue up 87% year-over-year driven by faster shipping cadence, strong sales execution and a broad increase in advertiser demand. Average monetizable DAU reached 206 million, up 11% year-over-year, in line with our outlook and historical seasonal trends. We intend to build an ecosystem of connected features and services focused on serving three core jobs; news, which is what's happening; discussion, conversation and helping people get paid.Every single person in the world has some need for at least the first two and pre-ponding the third. Building a model like this, isn't easier tasks as deliverness ensures resilience and ever-increasing global value. There are three trends relevant to Twitter and you our shareholders. AI, decentralization and the Internet, finally, having access to a global native currency in Bitcoin. All these will help our do our jobs better and we intend to lead the way in each.

 



With AI and machine learning, we increased relevance and discovery a long-standing issue on Twitter which we're improving every day from sign up to and ask questions. With decentralization, we increased the size of the corpus of conversation we have access to and improved conversational help by giving more people -- more power to individuals. And with the global currency, we can ensure people and companies can freely trade goods and services anywhere on the planet. The ecosystem model will enable an experience through an individual or company of any size can tweet, reply, move to an audio chat, build the following, write a newsletter, charge for content and eventually sell a service or good all in one simple flow. Each part of this cycle will possibly reinforce other parts and build upon itself. I've seen this work elsewhere and it will work even more for Twitter.Along the way we're going to try things that end up knocking effect [Phonetic]. We're going to be fast to recognize this and take action without hesitation, as we did with Fleets. There are better solutions to the problem we're trying to solve in the stories format everyone has adopted. Entirely new formats that are unique to Twitter and our model. This is what we're starting to create. Expect us to start and stop many more features than we have in the past.That's all from me for now. I want to thank you all for your continued trust and belief as we do our work. Ned?Ned Segal -- Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Jack. Before we get into Q&A, I'll cover a few topics. As Jack noted, Q2 was a strong quarter, particularly for advertising. We exited March with momentum across both brand and DR. In April trends continue to improve with ongoing strength throughout the quarter across all major products and geographies. A growing audience, better ad products, strong sales execution, global events and advertiser product launches all had a big impact on our performance. As a result, we exceeded the high end of our guidance range by 10% or approximately $110 million. In our guidance we equally weighted the slower start to the year that we saw in January and February in brand, with a strong return to brand spend that we saw in March, which was in hindsight too conservative. The impact of ATT on the second quarter was also more muted than we expected, although it's too early to assess the long-term impact.MDAU grew 11% year-over-year and 3% quarter-on-quarter, in line with historical seasonal trends and the outlook we provided in April. Within our global mDAU growth of 11%, our sequential growth in the US may get some attention. Here are some context. In the three years prior to COVID, reported quarter-over-quarter growth for US mDAU in the second quarter has ranged from $1 million up to $1 million down. So our performance this year is relatively consistent with this historical range, despite an atypical backdrop, which includes either new cycles in the US as well as the beginning of reopening across many communities, where consumer behavior likely has not yet normalized.While it's too early to tell how people's behavior may change and as some economies reopen, while others are still struggling, I remind you that sequential growth for US mDAU in Q3 over the last four years has ranged from flat to up $1 million, suggesting US mDAU could be flat on a sequential basis in Q3 of '21. The good news is that we're confident in our ability to accelerate growth longer term and in the near term, the same trends have been great for advertisers, with a return to global events, product launches and our better ad products all driving improved advertiser ROI and our ability to deliver strong results. And there are no changes to our thinking about mDAU over the course of the year. We continue to expect low double-digit year-over-year growth in Q3 and Q4, with the low point likely now behind us.Given the momentum we're seeing as we enter the second half of the year, we're updating our thinking on investment and revenue. Our expectations for 25% or more expense growth in 2021 and revenue growing faster than expenses, now appears too low. We are accelerating our investments and now expect that headcount along with total costs and expenses to grow 30% or more for the full year with a focus on engineering and products. As you'd expect, incremental headcount investments in 2021 will flow into our annual expense base in 2022.With regard to revenue, we continue to expect total revenue to grow faster than expenses in 2021, assuming the global pandemic continues to improve and that we continue to see modest impact from the rollout of changes associated with iOS 14.5. You also may have noticed in our shareholder letter that we purchased $334 million of Twitter shares in Q2, a little more than twice the amount we repurchased in Q1, reflecting a pullback in share price we saw in early May. We'll continue to be thoughtful and nimble as we move forward, likely varying our pace based on the operating environment, our capital needs and market conditions.In summary, we're pleased with our results and the momentum we see as we enter the second half of the year. And with that we are ready to take your questions. Operator?