  OperatorGood afternoon, and welcome to the Activision Blizzard first-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] Please note, this event is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to Chris Hickey, senior vice president, investor relations. Please go ahead.Chris Hickey -- Senior Vice President, Investor Relations Good afternoon, and thank you for joining us today for Activision Blizzard's first-quarter 2021 conference call. With us are Bobby Kotick, CEO; Daniel Alegre, president and COO; Armin Zerza, CFO; and Dennis Durkin. And for Q&A, Rob Kostich, president of Activision; Jay Allen Brack, president of Blizzard Entertainment; and Humam Sakhnini, president of King, will also join us. I would like to remind everyone that during this call, we'll be making statements that are not historical facts.

 



 The forward-looking statements in this presentation are based on information available to the company as of the date of this presentation. And while we believe them to be true, they ultimately may prove to be incorrect. A number of factors could cause the company's actual future results and other future circumstances to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. These include the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic the risk factors discussed in our SEC filings, including our 2020 annual report on Form 10-K and those on the slide that is shown.The company undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances up to today, May 4, 2021. We will present both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures during this call. We provide non-GAAP financial measures, which excludes the impact of expenses related to stock-based compensation, the amortization of intangible assets and expenses related to acquisitions, including legal fees, costs, expenses and accruals, expenses related to debt financings and refinancings; restructuring and related charges; the associated tax benefits of these excluded items; and significant discrete tax-related items, including amounts related to changes in tax laws, amounts related to the potential or final resolution of tax positions and other unusual or unique tax-related items and activities. These non-GAAP measures are not intended to be considered in isolation from, as a substitute for or superior to our GAAP results. We encourage investors to consider all measures before making an investment decision. Please refer to our earnings release, which is posted on www.activisionblizzard.com for a full GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation and further explanation with respect to our non-GAAP measures. There's also an earnings presentation, which you can access with the webcast and which will be posted to the website following call. And now I'd like to introduce our CEO Bobby Kotick. Bobby Kotick -- Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thank you, Chris, and thank you all for joining us today. For more than a year now, amid very challenging conditions, the teams at Activision Blizzard have played an important role in supporting and serving our community of 400 million players in 190 countries. Our teams have kept players connected using our platform to comfort, inspire and draw people together. Their hard work and dedication enabled us to deliver significantly better-than-expected first-quarter results. First-quarter net bookings increased year over year by 36% to $2.1 billion. Non-GAAP operating income grew 38% and non-GAAP earnings per share increased by 29%. Year-over-year performance was driven by our three largest franchises: Call of Duty, Warcraft and Candy Crush, with each delivering strong double-digit growth in net bookings. This over performance was well ahead of our expectations and confirms that our multiyear franchise strategy and continued execution is delivering value to our shareholders. With momentum continuing across our business, we're raising our financial outlook for the year. In the last 20 years, we've delivered 21% compound rates of return as compared to the S&P 500, which delivered 8% compounded rates of return. $1,000 invested in Activision in 2001 would be worth over $45,000 today as compared to $4,900 in the S&P 500. This performance is possible because of our deep library of franchises. We own some of the most enduring and popular global entertainment franchises, supported by the very best creative teams in our industry. Our strategy centers around our long-held view that wholly owned entertainment franchises offer the opportunity for limitless innovation. We continue to increase investment in creative and commercial resources for our franchises and potential new franchises to deliver new compelling experiences for players and superior financial returns for our shareholders. With free-to-play entry points across mobile, PC and console, Call of Duty experienced an increase of over 100 million players in a little over a year.

 



 Call of Duty is the template we're applying to our proven franchises, as well as our new potential franchises as we attempt to grow our audiences to 1 billion players. Our increase in live operations is reflected in last quarter's results and our forward outlook as we've seen our business shift from a seasonal focus with a holiday emphasis, to an always-on business model with far less seasonality. This quarter also marked the five-year anniversary of our acquisition of King and the Candy Crush franchise. With the Candy Crush team delivering more year-round content to over 200 million monthly players, King's business is delivering excellent results. Segment revenue grew over 20% year over year to reach a new record in the first quarter. It's especially noteworthy that of the top 10 mobile franchises worldwide, at the time we announced the acquisition of King, no other game has grown in-app revenues over the period or matched Candy's compound growth rate. King's advertising business continues to deliver spectacular results, too, with revenue growing 70% year over year in the first quarter. As we look ahead, demand for our content has never been stronger. We continue to ramp our investment in creative and development talent, especially with increased competition from Chinese companies and platform providers, and this will allow us to better serve our players. From the start of 2020 through the end of next year, we intend to hire more than 2,000 developers. We plan to triple the size of certain franchise teams compared to those team sizes in 2019. And we have aggressive hiring plans around the world, including new studios or major expansion in Poland, China, Australia and Canada. And as our shareholders expect, we remain laser-focused on finding and retaining the best talent in the industry and always aligning performance and reward. From the extensive shareholder outreach we conducted this past year reaching well over 60% of our shareholders, we are pleased that our companywide pay-for-performance compensation philosophy and ESG initiatives are aligned with the expectations of our shareholders. This quarter, we'll release our first ESG report, highlighting our commitment to the environment, human capital management, social good, the very best governance practices and their direct connection to the creation of shareholder value. While the report is new, our commitment to these practices and shareholder value creation is not. In particular, we've long appreciated that the creation of broadly appealing games requires diverse views, diverse voices and diverse skills and an environment that fosters inclusion. And importantly, our ESG report will include our commitments to help ensure that our scale serves our players, our employees, our communities and especially our shareholders and that those commitments are embedded into and across our business. Also in the service of our shareholders, I'm pleased to introduce Armin Zerza as our new chief financial officer. Armin's deep experience as a global finance and operations executive and his contributions as chief operating officer of Blizzard and chief commercial officer of the company, make him especially well suited to serve as our next CFO. In his six years with the company, Armin has been a central figure in the company's continued growth and record financial results. He has the commitment to profitable growth and operational excellence that our shareholders have always recognized us for. And Armin comes to the role with an incredible team assembled by Dennis and Thomas over the last decade. Dennis has been a key contributor in some of the most value-creating moments of our history, including the buyback of control from Vivendi in 2013 and our expansion into mobile through the acquisition of King. Dennis' contributions have meaningfully shaped our culture, leaving the company in a much stronger position than when he joined 10 years ago. Dennis, on behalf of Brian, Thomas and our board of directors, I thank you for your friendship, your partnership and your leadership.Dennis Durkin -- Chief Financial Officer and President of Emerging Business Division Thanks for the kind words, Bobby. I did want to take this opportunity to personally say thank you to you, Bobby, to the incredible people and teams at Activision Blizzard and to the board for all the wonderful support and partnership over the last nine years. It's truly been an incredible journey and one I will never forget. I'll also miss my interactions with all our great analysts and investors. I really appreciate all our dialogue over the years. You pushed us and made me and our business better. So thank you. While it's tough to go, I'm pleased to be leaving at a time when the business has never been stronger, and I can't wait to see the results as the company continues to execute against our strong pipeline. And I know that business is in good hands with Armin, who I've known for a long time. I know that he will continue to bring our disciplined and prudent approach and commitment to shareholder value creation that investors expect for Activision Blizzard. I'll sign off by saying one last thank you. I truly am grateful for it all. I'll now hand it over to Daniel to go through the highlights from the quarter. Daniel?Daniel Alegre -- Chief Operating Officer Thank you, Dennis, and I would like to add my own appreciation for all your contributions to the company. I will certainly miss our partnership, although I am thrilled to continue my close working relationship with Armin in his new role. As you've just heard, Activision Blizzard significantly exceeded its prior outlook for the first quarter, delivering very strong growth across our largest franchises. These results confirm that our strategy is working, creating new experiences for our franchises across platforms, alongside engagement and player investment opportunities that appeal to the broadest audience. It is incredible to see with the backdrop of ongoing challenges from working from home, our teams have risen to the occasion and they really continue to deliver exceptional results. Our increased investments in our largest franchises are enabling us to connect and engage people in more ways than ever before. Shelter from home has accelerated a trend we have been seeing where consumers around the world are turning to gaming for entertainment, connection and community. Our successful growth initiatives in our largest franchises, vibrant and active communities and our strong pipeline position us to continue driving strong results this year as regions start to reopen. Aligned with our overall strategy, we also continue to enhance our Battle.net platform as we build on our direct digital relationship with our players. In the first quarter, we rolled out the biggest front end upgrade to Battle.net in years, delivering improved navigation, enhanced social features and a rich storefront contributing to strong year-over-year growth in sales per visitor to the platform in the quarter. And as we look into 2022 and beyond, our teams continue to make great progress on a pipeline that includes Diablo IV, Overwatch 2 and multiple Warcraft mobile titles, which we expect to deliver substantial growth for the company. Now turning to our franchise and operational highlights across our business units. Starting with Activision, which had a record 150 million monthly active users in Q1. Our Call of Duty free-to-play Warzone and mobile experiences have transformed the franchise more than tripling the number of monthly players over the last two years and adding over $1 billion of operating income to Activision segment results last year. The franchise once again delivered fantastic year-over-year growth in reach, engagement and player investment in the first quarter. MAUs increased sequentially and grew over 40% year over year, both on console PC and mobile. Time spent grew even faster year over year, again, to a new quarterly record for the franchise. Now moving to console and PC. Since we integrated Warzone with Black Ops Cold War in December, we have continued to see a strong conversion to the premium game. Q1 premium sales were well above the levels typically seen in the first quarter and in-game player investment trends similarly remain robust. In-game net bookings on console and PC grew more than 60% year over year in the first quarter. And the first two seasons of Black Ops Cold War and Wars content were both in the top three seasons in Call of Duty history for in-game net bookings. And season three, which launched just two weeks ago, alongside a major refresh of the Warzone experience is sustaining this strong run rate, tracking the line with the first two seasons. On mobile, Call of Duty Mobile saw strong year-over-year growth in reach, engagement and player investment in the first quarter, benefiting from the team's ongoing enhancements to the game in the West and the launch of the title in China. The team continues to make great progress optimizing the game in the West with the March season concluding as the highest for player investment yet. And momentum has continued into the second quarter with the April season now the top grossing to date at this point after launch. And in China, Call of Duty Mobile brought tens of millions of new players to the franchise following its launch in late December. Player investment in China in the first quarter was on par with the rest of the world combined. Similar to the western launch 18 months ago, the team is now focused on refining gameplay and content for local tastes to build durable engagement and monetization in 2021 and beyond. With the 2021 season of Call of Duty League also off to a great start, enjoying strong year-over-year growth in average minute audience through the first two stages of competition, it is clear that there is ongoing momentum across the entire franchise. And there is so much more to come for Call of Duty. We continue to invest to grow our creative teams, successfully adding hundreds of developers to the franchise in the last year, and enabling us to deliver even more compelling experiences in coming quarters. And in particular, we are very excited for this year's premium Call of Duty release. Development is being led by Sledgehammer Games and the game is looking great and on track for its fall release. This is a build for next-generation experience with stunning visuals across campaign, multiplayer and cooperative modes of play designed to both integrate with and enhance the existing COD ecosystem. We look forward to sharing more details with the community soon. Now turning to Blizzard where the teams continue to make great progress on rich pipeline of premium releases and extending key franchises to mobile. MAUs were $27 million. In the Warcraft franchise, the World of Warcraft Shadowlands expansion continued to drive strong results following its record-setting release in November, with WoW net bookings growing sharply year over year. Shadowlands is building on the momentum seen since the 2019 introduction of classic drove a substantial increase in scale and an enhanced financial trajectory for a WoW. The team's work to deliver a high-quality expansion is being recognized by the community. First-quarter reach was sustained at a higher rate than we typically see following expansion launches accompanied by deep engagement. And Blizzard saw particularly high number of new players joining the WoW community in the quarter, boosted by its initiatives to enhance the onboarding experience. And World of Warcraft also saw strong participation in value-added services, further bolstering year-over-year growth in net bookings. Blizzard is building on this momentum with further content for the modern game and the upcoming introduction of the Burning Crusade, the expansion first launched in 2007 to WoW classic. The Burning Crusade was critically acclaimed at launch, and we expect the upcoming release to more deeply engage current subscribers, bring back lapsed classic fans and also bring entirely new players into WoW classic. With the expanded development team executing well against a strong pipeline, WoW remains positioned for much stronger annual financial performance as is typical outside of a modern expansion year. Now staying within the Warcraft universe, Hearthstone is seeing encouraging trends as the team executes on a strong pipeline of new in-game content, features and game modes. Hearthstone's latest expansion Forged in the Barrens was released at the end of the first quarter with the game on track to deliver expansion, over expansion, net bookings growth for a second consecutive release. And Blizzard expects to sustain this trajectory with more new content, including Mercenaries, an innovative new mode in the popular role-playing genre planned for the coming months. And the Diablo franchise is nearing the start of its reincarnation. Blizzard announced the launch later this year of Diablo II: Resurrected, the return of one of the most acclaimed titles in PC gaming history. The game received very positive feedback during early testing in April. An online viewership of the alpha test was the highest Blizzard has ever seen for a game test, illustrating the community's anticipation for this release. On mobile, after highly successful regional testing last December, Diablo Immortal has just entered its second phase of testing and is on track for global release later this year. We expect Diablo Immortal to broaden Diablo's reach ahead of the launch of Diablo IV on PC and console. Diablo IV development is progressing very well, with a significant expanded team focused on not only launching an epic new experience but also following this up with robust in-game content to sustain community. In Overwatch, the team is making good progress on Overwatch 2 and is looking forward to sharing more frequent updates with the community in the near future. April saw fans around the world return to celebrate our players and city-based teams in the opening weekend of the 2021 season of the Overwatch League. The league also signed a multiyear partnership with Bilibili eSports for exclusive rights to broadcast lead games to the platform's passionate and growing Overwatch League fan base in China. Now turning to King, which continued to benefit from strong execution on growth initiatives in the first quarter. MAUs were $258 million, exhibiting better seasonality than we typically see following the fourth quarter, led by its most important franchise, Candy Crush. For a number of quarters, King has been pursuing initiatives to broaden the payer base, deliver more frequent seasonal events and introduce compelling new features into Candy Crush, as well as portfolio titles. This work again delivered excellent results in Q1 with in-game net bookings growing high teens year over year and accelerating further relative to Q4. Candy Crush grew in-game net bookings very strongly year over year and was once again the top grossing gaming franchise in the U.S. app store. Farm Heroes, King's second largest franchise, also grew sharply year over year. King built on the strength to increase investment in growing the Candy and Farm audiences in key regions. We expect the ROI positive investment to contribute to King's operating income performance in the coming quarters. As King continues to execute against this strategy, in-game net bookings have remained strong into the second quarter, continuing to grow well year over year in April even against tough comparables from the start of lockdown in the year-ago quarter. Late in Q1, King launched Crash Bandicoot: On the Run, a new mobile title based on the beloved Activision franchise. The game has been downloaded over 30 million times to date, and the team is now focused on optimizing the game for retention and engagement. That said, we continue to assume limited contribution for the game in our full-year outlook. Along with the strong performance for in-app purchases, King again delivered significant growth in advertising across both direct and partner sales channels. As the mobile advertising backdrop continues to evolve, the team is expanding its partner network and it's growing its direct sales force, building advertiser awareness for its differentiated, brand-safe platform and positioning the business for ongoing growth throughout the year. In summary, we are executing well against our strategy. While the business is delivering strong results, we believe we are only at the beginning of unlocking the full potential of our portfolio. And we look forward to demonstrating further progress against this potential in the coming quarters and beyond. Now I will hand over to Armin, who will provide more color on our financial results. Armin?Armin Zerza -- Chief Commercial Officer Thanks, Daniel. I'm glad to be with you all for my first earnings call as CFO, and would like to echo Bobby's and Daniel's comments in thanking Dennis. He has been a fantastic mentor and partner over the years, and I wish him all the best for the future. Now let me review our record first-quarter results, as well as outlook for 2021 and the second quarter. Our first-quarter revenue and earnings per share were well ahead of our prior outlook, driven by better-than-expected performance for Call of Duty and Candy Crush. Net bookings grew 36% year over year to $2.07 billion, and segment operating income grew 59% to $853 million. Total segment operating margin expanded 6 percentage points year over year reflecting the high incremental margins associated with digital revenue streams. Now let me turn to our segment results. Each Activision, Blizzard and King contributed to top and bottom line growth in the quarter. Activision revenue was $891 million, growing 72% year over year. Growth was driven by Call of Duty: Black Ops Cold War and Warzone in-game revenues, premium sales and Call of Duty Mobile. Operating income more than doubled year over year to $442 million with an operating margin of 50%, 14 percentage points higher year over year. Blizzard revenue was $483 million, increasing 7% year over year with very strong growth for World of Warcraft, partially offset by product timing. Operating income was $208 million and business operating margin was 43%, probably consistent year over year. King revenue grew 22% year over year to $609 million. This is a new record, led by strong in-game revenue growth for Candy Crush. And advertising revenue grew 70% year over year. Operating income was $203 million, growing 30% year over year even after increased investment in user acquisition. And King's operating margin was 33%, 2 percentage points higher year over year. Finally, across our segments, in-game net bookings grew 40% year over year to $1.34 billion, representing 65% of overall net bookings with each of Activision, Blizzard and King contributing to the strong performance. OK. Now let's turn to our overall consolidated results and, unless otherwise indicated, I'll be referencing non-GAAP figures. As always, please refer to our earnings release for a full GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations. Now for the quarter, we generated quarter one GAAP revenues of $2.28, $260 million above our February outlook. This includes the net recognition of deferrals of $209 million, and net bookings of $2.07 billion were $316 million above our outlook, and we generated GAAP EPS of $0.79 and quarter one non-GAAP EPS of $0.98, which was $0.14 above our February outlook. These figures include the net recognition of deferrals of $0.14. Now turning to cash flow and the balance sheet. Our strong business fundamentals also drove substantial cash flow generation in the quarter. We delivered operating cash flow of $844 million significantly higher year over year, reflecting higher operating income, tax settlements in the year-ago quarter and changes in working capital. Our cash and investments at the end of March were approximately $9.5 billion, and we ended the quarter with a net cash position of approximately $5.9 billion. And as previously announced, this week, we'll pay an annual dividend of $0.47 per share, 15% higher year over year. Now let me turn to our outlook for quarter two and the full year. Regarding the fleet, our expanded teams are focused on delivering epic in-game and upfront content. This means that we'll continue to support our franchises with new in-game content, events and features all of which are critical elements of our business as we focus on keeping our communities engaged and drive year-round player investment. In terms of upfront releases, we will release WoW: Burning Crusade classic in the coming months, and we are looking forward to launching Diablo II: Resurrected and the latest premium release of Call of Duty in the second half of the year. And on mobile, we continue to plan for the launch of Diablo Immortal in the second half. Although as is customary, we do not include meaningful contribution from new mobile launches in our outlook. Now before I discuss the specifics of our outlook, let me provide some context. The year is off to a very strong start. Our growth initiative continues to deliver great results in the first quarter, and our momentum has continued across all of our key franchises into the second quarter. Competition for talent remains high. And in this context, we have been increasing our investment in creative and commercial talent to deliver even more compelling experiences across our portfolio through the remainder of the year. As a result, we feel great about our ability to continue delighting and engaging our communities. So while this is still early in the year, and we remain prudent in our assumptions, we are raising our outlook for full-year net bookings and earnings per share. From a phasing perspective, as discussed on the last earnings call, Call of Duty faces a difficult year-over-year comparison in Q2. Since premium sales a year ago benefited from the launch of Warzone, product timing and the introduction of shelter-from-home mandate. We also intend to take advantage of our strong business momentum to increase marketing around new content in Q2. We, therefore continue to expect total segment operating profit to be lower year over year in the second quarter, with stronger year-over-year performance in the second half of the year as we deliver against our second-half pipeline. Now let me get into the specifics. For quarter two, on a GAAP basis, we expect revenues of $2.14 billion, including the net recognition of deferrals of $285 million. We expect net bookings of $1.85 billion. We expect a GAAP operating margin of 39%, a tax rate of 21%, GAAP and non-GAAP share count of 785 million and EPS of $0.81. For quarter two, on a non-GAAP basis, we expect a tax rate of 18% and non-GAAP EPS of $0.91, including a net recognition of deferrals of $0.21. Now turning to the fiscal. On a GAAP basis for 2021, we now expect revenues of $8.37 billion, including net deferrals of $230 million. We now expect net bookings of $8.6 billion. We expect a GAAP operating margin of 36%, a GAAP tax rate of 22%, GAAP and non-GAAP share count of 787 million and GAAP EPS of $2.91. For 2021 on a non-GAAP basis, we expect a tax rate of 20% and non-GAAP EPS of $3.42, including net deferral of $0.28. So to close, in Q1, we continued to deliver strong results across our largest franchises, and our momentum has continued into Q2. We are making great progress on our pipeline, which includes key content that we expect to deliver another step change in financial performance in 2022, as well as unannounced initiatives that we expect to drive longer-term growth for the company. We have a combination of leading owned franchises, best-in-class developer and commercial talent and expertise across platforms and business models, all of which create a powerful platform for sustained financial performance. We remain focused on execution and operational discipline and committed to profitable growth to drive shareholder value over the long term. Now I'll ask our business leaders, Rob, Humam and Jay to join Bobby, Daniel and myself to answer your questions. Operator? 