  OperatorGood day. And thank you for standing by for 2021 Dentsply Sirona earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Ms. Andrea Daley. The floor yours.Andrea Daley -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Kris, and good morning, everyone. Welcome to our fourth quarter and full year 2021 earnings call. Joining me for today's call is Don Casey, our chief executive officer; and Jorge Gomez, our chief financial officer. I'd like to remind you that an earnings call press release and slide presentation related to the call are available in the Investors section of our website at www.dentsplysirona.com. Before we begin, please take a moment to read the forward-looking statements in our earnings press release. During today's call, we make certain predictive statements that reflect our current views about future performance and financial results. We base these statements and certain assumptions and expectations on future events that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Our Form 10-K lists some of the most important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ from our predictions.In today's conference call, our remarks will be based on non-GAAP financial results. We believe that non-GAAP financial measures provide investors with useful supplemental information about financial performance of our business, enable the comparison of financial results between periods where certain items may vary independently of business performance and allow for greater transparency with respect to key metrics used by management in operating our business. Please refer to our press release for the reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results. And with that, I'd like to turn the call over to Don Casey. Don Casey -- Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thank you, Andrea, and thank all of you for joining us this morning for the Dentsply Sirona fourth quarter and full year 2021 earnings call. There's a lot to cover today. Before getting into the discussion though, I want to thank our team at Dentsply Sirona. Looking at the challenges through the last two years, there have been a few constants. The first is that dentists have shown tremendous perseverance and creativity throughout the pandemic, underscoring the resilience of the dental industry. The other is our team at Dentsply Sirona. Every day they continue to demonstrate unwavering commitment to our customers and our mission of transforming dentistry. Across the entire company, our thoughts are also with the people and our colleagues in Ukraine. We have a great team there, and we will continue to support them however possible. Moving on today. We will cover four items, starting with an overview of 2021, then Jorge will cover our Q4 financials and provide our '22 outlook. I will finish by providing a strategic operating update. We are proud of our performance in 2021. Dentsply Sirona delivered robust organic sales and EPS growth as well as solid cash generation. There was also significant progress against our critical strategic initiatives. An excellent example of that progress were the two announcements we made last week.

 



 Those included a strategic collaboration with Google Cloud and the launch of a 3D printer later this year. Both of these represent important milestones and highlight our commitment to transforming digital dentistry. Moving now to Slide 6. As I mentioned, our financial performance through 2021 was strong with revenues reaching $4.25 billion. This represents a robust 24.6% increase on an organic basis versus 2020. That would also represent an organic growth rate of 4.9% versus 2019. Our operating margin was 20.5% with SG&A and R&D investments increasing over the year with the pace of the recovery. Adjusted EPS was $2.87, and on a full year basis, we generated strong operating cash flow of $657 million. To provide more details on our financial performance, I will now turn the call over to Jorge.Jorge Gomez -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Don. Good morning and thanks to all of you for joining us. Today, I will cover fourth quarter results, fiscal year '21 performance, our current outlook for '22, and an update on our capital allocation policy. As a reminder, my remarks today will be based on non-GAAP financial results, unless otherwise noted. Please refer to the reconciliation tables at the back of the press release and slides, both of which are posted in the Investors section of our website. In the fourth quarter, we delivered revenue of $1.088 billion with organic sales growth of 1.8% and reported growth of 0.6%. Our clear aligners, implants and CAD/CAM businesses posted a strong growth in the quarter. In line with our expectations, consumables declined versus last year. In the quarter, we also experienced more acute supply chain and COVID-related constraints, which we estimate to have suppressed our total company organic growth by approximately 2 to 3 points. We view this as a temporary headwind but anticipate that our supply chain will be -- will remain challenging for at least one or two quarters in 2022. Gross profit was $627 million or 57.7% of sales. Our margin rate increased 100 basis points year over year driven by benefits from portfolio optimization and efficiency improvements offset by inflationary cost pressures. SG&A expenses were $351 million or 32.3% of sales. SG&A as a percent of sales increased 290 basis points year over year, primarily due to commercial investments in growth areas, including clear aligners, implants and digital capabilities. Additionally, SG&A ran at a lower rate in the prior-year quarter as we were still ramping back up to our normal pace of operations. R&D spend was $59 million, an increase of 32.2% year over year. This increase reflects our focus on innovation and a $10 million onetime reclass of R&D expenses reflected as SG&A in the first three quarters of the year. The reclass was the result of further centralization of R&D processes and has no impact on our operating profit or net income numbers. Operating income was $217 million, down 13.7% versus last year due to increased investments in R&D and selling and marketing. Operating margin of 20% was below our target exit rate of 21% primarily as a result of weaker volume in the quarter. EPS was $0.76 versus $0.87 in the prior-year quarter. Turning to segment performance. In Q4, Technologies & Equipment organic sales grew 6.5%, while consumables declined 4.6%. T&E segment organic sales expansion was led by double-digit growth in clear aligners, CAD/CAM and implants. The T&E segment posted a strong growth despite difficult supply chain conditions. Up until the third quarter, the majority of our supply chain challenges were cost related due to inflationary pressures. In the fourth quarter, we started to face significant component shortages impacting the production of imaging equipment and treatment centers. We estimate this impact to have reduced the T&E segment growth rate by at least 4 points. We ended the quarter with a higher-than-normal backlog in imaging, and our team will continue to manage the supply chain situation as effectively as possible over the next few quarters. Similar to many other industries, the availability of electronic components in dental is inconsistent at the moment. On the consumables side, organic sales declined primarily due to the strong sales levels seen in Q4 2020 as office capacity and patient traffic were returning to pre-COVID levels. We expect the same difficult year-on-year comparison in Q1 '22. We also estimate that the price increase we implemented on October 1 pulled a portion of sales forward into Q3. Now, turning to financial performance by region during the fourth quarter. U.S. sales were $385 million. Organic sales increased slightly year on year. In the U.S., we had growth in implants, aligners and CAD/CAM. Our consumables performance was roughly in line with our expectations. European sales were $437 million with organic growth of 1.8% and product category performance, similar to the U.S. Rest of the world sales were $266 million, representing organic growth of 4% with growth across consumables and T&E. This region was unfavorably impacted, particularly in APAC, by increased government restrictions associated with COVID variants primarily in China. Now, turning to the full year 2021 performance. In '21, we delivered organic sales growth of 24.6%, near the top of our outlook range. Reported sales were $4.25 billion. Due to a weaker euro to U.S. dollar exchange rate, reported sales came in at the lower end of our outlook range. Fiscal year 2021 was a year of progress on our key growth vectors. Digital diagnostic devices such as Primescan, Axeos and Orthophos had a strong year. In three years, we scaled our clear aligners from having no presence in this space to a business that generated $274 million in 2021. In the fourth quarter, SureSmile exceeded our $100 million annual run rate goal. Byte came in short of expectations for the reasons we have indicated before, such as changes in consumer spending patterns and shifts in digital customer engagement tools. However, we believe Byte will contribute to our growth in aligners in the second half of 2022. Despite the challenges in DTC, we achieved sequential growth in total aligner shipments in Q4. Our implants business finished the year strong, and our intention is to keep improving our platform to achieve market growth rates consistently. Full year gross profit margin of 58.6% represent an expansion of 120 basis points since 2019. SG&A expenses for the full year were 34% of sales. This ratio remains below pre-COVID 2019 levels, reflecting the benefits from our efficiency improvement initiatives. We finished the year with R&D at 4% of revenue. R&D will continue to be core to our growth strategy. Turning now to profitability. Operating margin was 20.5%, in line with our expectations to deliver greater than 20% for the full year. Looking back, we have delivered over 200 basis points of operating margin expansion since 2019 and approximately 500 basis points since 2018. The effective tax rate was 23% versus 20.9% in the prior year. The increase was primarily due to geographic mix of pre-tax income and our continued business recovery from COVID. Turning to full year earnings. We delivered EPS of $2.87 versus $1.79 in the prior year. In 2021, we generated EBITDA of approximately $1 billion. EBITDA is an objective scorecard to measure improvements in operational execution and cash flow generation. Our operating cash flow was $657 million and free cash flow exceeded $500 million. We returned approximately $300 million in cash to shareholders, including dividends and share repurchases. We also completed acquisitions totaling $248 million and finished the year with cash on hand of $339 million. Now, let me provide an overview of our financial expectations for fiscal 2022. We expect organic sales to be in the 4% to 5% range. This equates to a net sales range of $4.3 billion to $4.4 billion. Our assumption for our biggest FX exposure is the euro to U.S. dollar exchange rate of 1.14, which is lower than the FY '21 average of 1.19. From a revenue perspective, market demand remains strong despite COVID variant challenges in certain markets. The R&D pipeline is generating new exciting products to meet the most pressing needs of our end customers and channel partners. We expect strong contributions to growth from clear aligners, CAD/CAM, implants and imaging. Our expectation is that operating profit margin will be over 21% in the second half of 2022 and exit the year at the 22% target margin rate in the fourth quarter. Our efficiency improvement and portfolio optimization initiatives will continue in 2022 while managing through supply chain challenges. We estimate the effective tax rate to be between 23% and 24%. Our estimate for share count is approximately 219 million. EPS is expected to be in the range of $3.05 to $3.25. We anticipate growth to be more heavily weighted to the back half of the year. We're projecting organic growth in the low single digits in the first half and mid-single digits or higher in the second half. Due to the revenue cadence, supply chain constraints and inflationary pressures, earnings in the first half are expected to be approximately 40% to 45% of the total annual projection. As a reminder, Q1 typically has the lowest quarterly sales of the year, and as a result, operating income margin also tends to be lower. This January, we observed slower patient traffic in certain markets due to COVID. During the first half of the year, we will continue to be impacted by the ongoing shortage of electronic components, particularly in the imaging and treatment center businesses. These shortages are now impacting the availability of electronic boards for Primemill as well. We are allocating the reduced quantity of boards first to fulfill spare parts needs of mills already owned by end customers and secondarily to units in production. The retail demand for Primemill is solid, and our dealer partners in the U.S. have sufficient inventory to meet that demand. In the short term, this trade-off will reduce our wholesale volume of Primemills but is the right thing to do for our customers. Finally, we are projecting our clear aligner franchise to grow sequentially each quarter in 2022. Byte will likely post a year-on-year decline in the first half but is expected to be a contributor to overall 2022 growth. I want to echo Don's words and express my support and sympathy to my colleagues impacted by the evolving geopolitical events in Eastern Europe. Our teams in the region are doing a terrific job and have grown our commercial presence substantially in the last several years. Our local sales in Russia and Ukraine represented about 3% of total company revenue in 2021. Given the fluidity of the situation, it is hard to measure the potential impact of the ongoing conflict on our financials. We will continue to monitor and assess options available to minimize the impact to our 2022 outlook. Switching gears to our capital allocation framework for 2022. First, reinvesting in the business for profitable growth continues to be our No. 1 priority. We plan to invest at least 4% of revenue in R&D and about 4% in capital expenditures. Our cash flow generation also gives us the ability to provide a consistent and meaningful return of cash to our shareholders. For the next two years, we plan to return at least 50% of our free cash flow through dividends and share repurchases. Similar to last year, today, we are announcing a double-digit increase to our dividend. The remaining balance to reach 50% or more of free cash flow returns will be accomplished through the use of opportunistic share buybacks throughout the year. Overall, we are confident that the progress we are making in key growth areas, combined with the resilience of the dental market, will allow us to continue to expand revenue and earnings over time. Additionally, the strength of our EBITDA generation enable the funding of our investment priorities and the funding of a very competitive cash flow yield to our shareholders. To close my remarks, I'd like to highlight two important sustainability initiatives we have underway. First, in collaboration with our strategic partners Smile Train and FDI, we are developing the first global standard for cleft treatment protocols that include digital clinical workflows. Second, we're sponsoring the 2022 World Oral Health campaign to promote the importance of oral health for every person's overall well-being. This awareness is aligned with our mission to empower millions of customers by creating innovative solutions for healthy smiles. With that, I will now turn the call back to Don.Don Casey -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Jorge. Moving on, I want to provide some perspective on our strategy and priorities going forward. In late 2018, we had outlined a program to accelerate growth, improve margin and to simplify the organization. Despite challenges, we have largely achieved the targets that we had laid out. Just as important, our team has also sharpened our strategy while improving our innovation capabilities. As Jorge said, going forward, we expect to build on those capabilities to deliver reliable 4% to 5% growth in revenue, continuous improvement in our margins and double-digit earnings growth. We believe our strategy of delivering superior integrated workflows in critical procedures will allow Dentsply Sirona to become the indispensable digital partner to the dentist. On Slide 24, we outlined that strategy, which calls for us to build on our large installed digital base, whether it's Primescan, Orthophos or Axeos. All of these offer dentists among the best-in-class diagnostic capabilities that are so essential as dentists globally look to enhance their ability to do more dentistry. These diagnostic capabilities feed into our outstanding treatment planning offerings in four of the essential dental workflows. Those areas include implants, clear aligners, restorations and endodontics. All of this helps make Dentsply Sirona a real leader in shaping the future. I'd like now to outline progress in each of these areas, starting with digital dentistry. There was strong progress within the CEREC franchise during 2021. In addition to a record number of DI cameras sold, we were able to launch major software innovations with CEREC 5.2 and SureSmile 7.6. There is also good progress on Primemill. Our higher-end CBCT imaging systems also saw robust demand. This stems from dentists looking to add more sophisticated diagnostic tools that will allow them to incorporate more complex procedures like implants and clear aligners to the practices. As Jorge mentioned, there are supply chain constraints impacting imaging. These challenges have slowed our ability to meet customer demand starting late last year, and we are seeing those challenges continuing in 2022. Another area that is important to accelerating our digital portfolio is in software development. We have spent significant resources over the last 18 months to overhaul our entire approach in this area. Instead of developing individual software for different devices and totally separate initiatives for all the treatment planning offerings, we are building a single platform that will support all of our devices and our extensive treatment planning portfolio. This creates advantages for the customer as we will have a single user interface and a single easy-to-learn operating system. For Dentsply Sirona, it gives us major cost and speed advantages while also allowing us to create scale around AI and machine learning. Our recently announced collaboration with Google Cloud will accelerate these efforts. Dentsply Sirona will bring its decades of experience in digital dentistry to the collaboration. Google will bring scale and expertise in multiple areas. The fruits of this partnership will give the dentist opportunity to digitize their entire practice while improving efficiency, cost, security and connectivity. We also announced the introduction of Primeprint last week and look forward to our virtual event this Friday to talk more about this amazing innovation. This medical grade, highly automated 3D printer is a great opportunity for the dentist to improve workflows and practice efficiency. It is very easy to use and lets the dentist delegate many of the tasks around 3D printing to their staff. Primeprint also offers complete integration with the CEREC system and will allow the dentist to produce things like night guards, surgical guides and full-scale models quickly and inexpensively. This launch will also come with a complete service package that will let the dentist have Dentsply Sirona or one of our many lab partners do the actual design work, saving the dentist time. Moving now to implants. We're really encouraged by the early results of our implant restage which centered around the PrimeTaper introduction. We are approaching implants as a single Dentsply Sirona brand building off our expertise in digital workflows. The reception of PrimeTaper has been excellent, and we've been happy to see supporting products like the value brand, MIS, OSSIX Biologics and Atlantis custom abutments driving positive growth as well. In the fourth quarter, the implant business grew double digits versus the prior year. As PrimeTaper moves into Europe and the rest of the world in early 2022, we look to see continued improvement performance across our implant franchise. There was also clear progress on clear aligners in 2021, and we are optimistic that progress will continue in 2022 and beyond. As Jorge mentioned, SureSmile hit its run rate objective of $100 million and grew 60% during the year. The Byte acquisition also provided important scale to our clear aligner business. While that scale has been important in areas like manufacturing and R&D, there have also been significant changes in the last year around the DTC aligner business. As the pandemic lifted, there have been increased competition for discretionary consumer spending. The iOS privacy change further altered the landscape. As we saw across a range of DTC brands in multiple spaces, this combination negatively impacted sales of many products, including Byte. We continue to believe, though, that Byte is reaching a large underserved population that is not accessing dental care today. We have a clear plan on how we can build off this need and drive growth going forward. Based on these plans, we expect Byte to grow sequentially across the quarters during the year. Clear aligners are an essential part of our digital strategy and increase our exposure to one of the fastest-growing areas in dentistry. We are committed to this market and believe we are well positioned to compete long term. Our resto business is also a key pillar to our overall strategy. Virtually every procedure finishes with a restoration, including implants and root canals. Our Class 2 restoration brands like Palodent have shown good momentum. Our new milling material, Tessera, also lets Dentsply Sirona compete more effectively in that space by offering Primemill customers a more competitive product. While we see good growth in these priority areas, that is offset by corresponding declines in parts of the portfolio like impression material as digital impressions take off. And finally, our endo franchise has a strong position in yet another critical workflow, root canal therapy. Our recent launch of ProTaper Ultimate is off to a solid start. The companion products and operation and sealers that were part of this launch are also making Dentsply Sirona a lot more competitive in important adjacencies. In order to provide increased investment in areas like R&D and demand generation, while improving margins, the team is committed to driving cost and efficiencies throughout the organization. We're focused on identifying and executing against additional opportunities for centralization and enterprise modernization. A few closing comments. While we report earnings on a quarter-to-quarter basis, our team is focused on creating value for the long term. Over the past few years, there has been sustained progress against developing a focused strategy that takes advantage of Dentsply Sirona's position in the market. All this has been done against the complexity and uncertainty of the pandemic. We have delivered progress on accelerating growth, driving margin and simplifying our organization. The company has a strong balance sheet and has improved our cash generation capabilities. There have been significant portfolio moves that have increased our exposure to segments where digital dentistry is critical and that grow faster than other parts of the dental market. There have also been portfolio moves that eliminated business that do not fit our future vision or growth aspirations. We expect that portfolio evolution to continue. We've also improved our innovation pipeline that can be sold across a truly global commercial footprint. All this will serve us well as we look to become the indispensable digital partner to dentists around the world. Looking over the past three years, the progress we've made is visible and steady. All this makes us confident that despite short-term ups and downs, Dentsply Sirona is well positioned. Indeed, our team is very excited about our mission and our future. And with that, I will open it up to questions. 