  OperatorWelcome to the first quarter 2022 Phillips 66 earnings conference call. My name is Erica, and I will be your operator for today's call. [Operator instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded. I will now turn the call over to Jeff Dietert, vice president, investor relations. Jeff, you may begin.Jeff Dietert -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



 Good morning, and welcome to Phillips 66 first quarter earnings conference call. Participants on today's call will include Greg Garland, chairman and CEO; Mark Lashier, president and COO; Kevin Mitchell, EVP and CFO; Bob Herman, EVP refining; Brian Mandell, EVP marketing and commercial, and Tim Roberts, EVP midstream. Today's presentation materials can be found on the investor relations section of the Phillips 66 website, along with supplemental financial and operating information. slide two contains our safe harbor statement. We'll be making forward-looking statements during today's call. Actual results may differ materially from today's comments. Factors that could cause actual results to differ are included here, as well as in our SEC filings. With that, I'll turn the call over to Greg.Greg Garland -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer OK, Jeff. Thanks. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. In the first quarter, we had adjusted earnings of $595 million or $1.32 per share.

 



 Our results were impacted by seasonally lower margins across our businesses. In March, we saw substantially improved operating earnings. In fact, March provided the majority of our first quarter earnings. Both gasoline and distillate inventories coupled with strong demand will provide momentum as we head into the summer driving season. We generated strong operating cash flow of $1.1 billion during the first quarter and returned $404 million to shareholders in dividends. In April, we repaid $1.45 billion of debt. And earlier today, we announced that we'll restart our share repurchases under our existing $2.5 billion authorization. In addition, we remain committed to a secure, competitive and growing dividend and plan to resume our cadence of annual dividend increases. Earlier this month, we announced that Mark Lashier will become President and CEO of Phillips 66 effective July 1. Mark will lead a company that has a solid strategy, strong leadership and outstanding employees. We're all confident that Mark will serve Phillips 66, our employees, communities and shareholders well as the right leader to position the company to thrive in the years ahead. And with that, I'll turn the call over to Mark to provide additional comments.Mark Lashier -- President and Chief Operating Officer

 



 Thank you, Greg. I'm excited to embark on this new role, building on the talents of our team and the strength of our assets as we continue to deliver shareholder value. We remain focused on operating excellence and advancing our strategic initiatives. We're committed to improving our competitive position across our business segments to drive future performance in any market environment. Business transformation efforts were initiated last year, and a cross-functional team is focused on opportunities to sustainably optimize our costs and organizational structure across the enterprise. We're targeting a sustainable cost reduction of at least $700 million per year, which equates to about $1 per barrel. We plan to provide regular updates on our efforts over the coming year. In Midstream, we completed the buy-in of Phillips 66 Partners and at the Sweeny Hub, we expect Frac 4 to start up in the third quarter. The total project cost for Frac 4 is expected to be approximately $525 million. CPChem is pursuing a portfolio of high-return projects, enhancing its asset base, as well as optimizing its existing operations. CPChem's total capital budget for 2022 is $1.4 billion, of which $1 billion is for growth projects with an average expected return above 20%. This includes growing its normal alpha olefins business with a second world-scale unit to produce 1-hexene, a critical component in high-performance polyethylene. CPChem is also expanding its propylene splitting capacity by 1 billion pounds per year with a new unit located at its Cedar Bayou facility. Both projects are expected to start up in 2023. CPChem continues to develop two world-scale petrochemical facilities on the US Gulf Coast and in Ras Laffan, Qatar. A final investment decision for the US Gulf Coast project is expected this year. We continue to progress Rodeo Renewed and expect to complete the final steps of the permitting process this quarter. Completion of the conversion project is expected in early 2024. Rodeo will initially have over 50,000 barrels per day of renewable fuel production capacity. In addition, the conversion will reduce emissions from the facility. The total project cost is anticipated to be approximately $850 million. Our emerging energy group continues to advance opportunities in renewable fuels, batteries, carbon capture and hydrogen. In March, our Humber Refinery made its first delivery of sustainable aviation fuel in the U.K. under a supply agreement with British Airways. Also, during the quarter, we entered into an agreement with H2 Energy Europe to form a joint venture to develop up to 250 retail hydrogen refueling stations across Germany, Austria and Denmark by 2026. During the first quarter, we added a 2050 target to reduce Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions intensity by 50% compared with 2019 levels. The new target builds on our 2030 target announced last year. Our targets reflect our commitment to sustainability while meeting the world's energy needs today and in the future. Before we review financial results, we'd like to recognize our employees' commitment to operating excellence. We're honored that our refining and chemicals businesses were recently recognized for their 2021 safety performance. The AFPM recognized three of our refineries, including Sweeny, Billings and Bayway. The Sweeny Refinery received the Distinguished Safety Award, which is the highest annual award the industry recognizes. In chemicals, CPChem received two AFPM awards for its sites in Borger and Conroe, Texas. Congratulations to all the people working at these facilities. Well done. Now, I'll turn the call over to Kevin to review the financial results.Kevin Mitchell -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Mark, and hello, everyone. Starting with an overview on slide four, we summarize our financial results for the quarter. Adjusted earnings were $595 million or $1.32 per share. The $158 million decrease in the fair value of our investment in NOVONIX reduced earnings per share by $0.27. We generated $1.1 billion of operating cash flow, including a working capital use of $115 million. We received distributions from equity affiliates of $585 million. Capital spending for the quarter was $370 million, including $221 million for growth projects. We paid $404 million in dividends. We ended the quarter with 481 million shares outstanding, including the 42 million shares issued for the PSXP merger. Moving to slide five. This slide highlights the change in adjusted results by segment from the fourth quarter to the first quarter. During the period, adjusted earnings decreased $703 million, driven by lower results across all segments. Slide six shows our midstream results. First quarter adjusted pre-tax income was $242 million, a decrease of $426 million from the previous quarter. Transportation contributed adjusted pre-tax income of $278 million, in line with the previous quarter. NGL and other adjusted pre-tax income was $91 million compared with $138 million in the fourth quarter. The decrease was primarily due to the impact of rising prices on inventory, partially offset by improved butane and propane trading results. The fractionators at the Sweeny Hub averaged a record 423,000 barrels per day, and the Freeport LPG export facility loaded 43 cargoes in the first quarter. Frac 4 is ahead of schedule and we expect start-up in the third quarter. DCP Midstream adjusted pre-tax income of $31 million was down $80 million from the previous quarter, mainly driven by unfavorable hedging impacts, partially offset by lower operating costs. The hedge loss recognized in the first quarter was approximately $50 million compared with a hedging gain of approximately $50 million in the fourth quarter. Beginning this quarter, we are showing our investment in NOVONIX as its own subsegment to separate it from our core midstream businesses. This investment is marked-to-market at the end of each reporting period. The fair value of the investment, including foreign exchange impacts, decreased $158 million in the first quarter compared with an increase of $146 million in the fourth quarter. Our initial investment in NOVONIX of $150 million had a fair value of $362 million at the end of the first quarter. Turning to chemicals on slide seven. Chemicals' first quarter adjusted pre-tax income of $396 million was down $28 million from the fourth quarter. Olefins and Polyolefins adjusted pre-tax income was $377 million. The $28 million decrease from the previous quarter was primarily due to lower polyethylene margins as inventories normalized, following supply disruptions last year. This was partially offset by higher sales volumes. Global O&P utilization was 99% for the quarter. Adjusted pre-tax income for SA&S was $32 million, in line with the previous quarter. During the first quarter, we received $299 million in cash distributions from CPChem. Turning to refining on slide eight. Refining first quarter adjusted pre-tax income was $140 million, down from $404 million in the fourth quarter. The decrease was mainly due to lower realized margins, as well as lower clean product volumes driven by planned maintenance. Realized margins for the quarter decreased by 9% to $10.55 per barrel. Favorable impacts from higher market cracks were more than offset by higher RIN costs, lower Gulf Coast clean product realizations and secondary product margins, as well as inventory impacts. The higher RIN costs were primarily due to the fourth quarter recognition of the reduction in the 2021 compliance year obligation of approximately $230 million. Pretax turnaround costs were $102 million, down from $106 million in the prior quarter. Crude utilization was 89% in the first quarter and clean product yield was 84%. Slide nine covers market capture. The three to two to one market crack for the first quarter was $21.93 per barrel compared to $17.93 per barrel in the fourth quarter. Realized margin was $10.55 per barrel and resulted in an overall market capture of 48%. Market capture in the previous quarter was 65%. Market capture is impacted by the configuration of our refineries. Our refineries are more heavily weighted toward distillate production than the market indicator. The configuration impact was relatively flat quarter on quarter as lower clean product yield offset higher distillate cracks. Losses from secondary products of $3.05 per barrel were $1.17 per barrel higher than the previous quarter due to rising crude prices. Our feedstock advantage of $1.01 per barrel improved by $0.83 per barrel from the prior quarter. The other category reduced realized margins by $6.42 per barrel. This category includes RINs, clean product realizations, freight costs and inventory impacts. Moving to marketing and specialties on slide 10. Adjusted first quarter pre-tax income was $316 million compared with $499 million in the prior quarter. Marketing and other decreased $199 million from the prior quarter. This was primarily due to lower marketing margins, mainly resulting from rising spot prices, as well as seasonally lower demand. Refined product exports in the first quarter were 134,000 barrels per day. Specialties generated first quarter adjusted pre-tax income of $113 million, up from $97 million in the prior quarter, mainly due to higher finished lubricant margins. Slide 11 shows the change in cash during the first quarter. We had another strong quarter for cash generation. This was the fourth quarter in a row that cash flow from operations allowed us to return cash to shareholders, invest in our business and strengthen the balance sheet. We started the quarter with a $3.1 billion cash balance. Cash from operations was $1.1 billion, which covered $370 million of capital spend and $404 million for the dividend, while also increasing our cash balance by $188 million. Our ending cash balance was $3.3 billion. In early April, we repaid $1.45 billion of maturing debt. This concludes my review of the financial and operating results. Next, I'll cover a few outlook items. In Chemicals, we expect the second quarter global O&P utilization rate to be in the mid-90s. In Refining, we expect the second quarter worldwide crude utilization rate to be in the low 90s and pre-tax turnaround expenses to be between $230 million and $250 million. We anticipate second quarter corporate and other costs to come in between $230 million and $250 million pre-tax. Now, we will open the line for questions. 