
OperatorHello. Thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Brown-Forman Corporation First Quarter Fiscal 2022 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Sue Perram, Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Sue Perram -- Director, Investor Relations

 



Thank you, and good morning, everyone. I would like to thank each of you for joining us today for Brown-Forman's first quarter fiscal 2022 earnings call. Joining me today are Lawson Whiting, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Leanne Cunningham, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. This morning's conference call contains forward-looking statements based on our current expectations. Numerous risks and uncertainties may cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or projected in these statements. Many of the factors that will determine future results are beyond the company's ability to control or predict.You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, and the company undertakes no obligation to update any of these statements, whether due to new information, future events or otherwise. This morning, we issued a press release containing our results for the first quarter fiscal year 2022, in addition to posting presentation materials that Lawson and Leanne will walk through momentarily. Both the release and the presentation can be found on our website under the section titled Investors, Events and Presentations. In the press release, we have listed a number of the risk factors that you should consider in conjunction with our forward-looking statements.Other significant risk factors are described in our Form 10-K and Form 10-Q reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. During this call, we will be discussing certain non-GAAP financial measures. These measures, a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and the reasons management believes they provide useful information to investors regarding the company's financial conditions and results of operations are contained in the press release and investor presentation.With that, I would like to turn the call over to Lawson.

 



Lawson E. Whiting -- President and Chief Executive OfficerWell, thank you, Sue, and good morning, everyone. I'm pleased to share our first quarter results with you as we delivered another quarter of solid growth. As we've seen for many months now, the pandemic has created ups and downs and twists and turns that have produced a lot of volatility, a lot of uncertainty and even changes in our seasonality. As we indicated on our last conference call, in this quarter we benefited from the reopening the on-premise channel, the return of tourism and the lapping of softer comparisons during the early months of the pandemic. And once again, I do want to extend my appreciation to the 4,700 Brown-Forman employees that delivered the results that we will review with you today.They're actively engaged in building an environment where we can bring our best selves to work, which enables us to maximize our collective and individual potential and increase our productivity, our creativity and our innovation. So above all, I would like to say thank you to the people of Brown-Forman. The last 18 months have been an exercise in endurance and you have demonstrated nothing but excellence. You are our greatest asset. So now let's turn our attention to the headlines of our first quarter most notably, our continued momentum on the top-line growth with very broad geographical growth, the overall health of our brand portfolio with many brands contributing to solid organic growth. We really don't have a tail anymore that would be a drag on our growth rate.And unfortunately, we continue to see pressure on our gross margin. I'll start with the top line, where our overall underlying performance was a plus 18%. When factoring in the 3% underlying top line growth we achieved in Q1 of fiscal '21, our two-year average growth rate, which we calculated by adding the growth in the first quarter of 2021 with the growth rate this quarter and then divided by two, but it was nearly 11%. The gains this quarter were driven by Jack Daniel's Tennessee Whiskey returning to growth with underlying net sales of plus 21% or 6% on a two-year average basis. As we shared with you last fiscal year, JDTW was negatively affected by the restrictions and closures in the on-premise due to its huge presence in this channel when compared to other spirits brands.

 



So last fiscal year was a tough year for JDTW, but as we shared with you, we believe that the disruptions were circumstantial and temporary. The first quarter performance in fiscal '22 reaffirmed that belief as the sales growth was strong. Also earlier this week, we were excited. We announced the launch of a Jack Daniel's 10-year-old Tennessee Whiskey, the distillery's first aged-stated whiskey in more than a 100 years. It's already getting some really rave reviews. But I mentioned it just because it is one example of our continued focus on brand innovation and a celebration both of our world-class whiskey-making expertise and the brand's really storied history.The rest of the Jack Daniel's family also delivered solid results, led by double-digit underlying net sales increase from the Jack Daniel's Flavors and Jack Daniel's RTDs continue to grow on top of extremely high comparisons. And on a two-year average basis, we've delivered 20%, an increase in underlying net sales growth as consumers continue to look for convenient ways to enjoy mixed cocktails and spirits-based beverages at home. In addition to Jack, the rest of our brand portfolio remains well-positioned to continue to benefit from the growth in the American Whiskey and Tequila categories as well as the premiumization trend. Our premium bourbons grew underlying net sales 36% in the first quarter, led by Woodford Reserve and Old Forester.And our Tequila portfolio produced 23% underlying net sales growth with our full strength tequila growing underlying net sales by nearly 50%, which more than offset a decline in new mix as the brand lapped the exceptional growth in the first quarter of fiscal 2021, driven by the temporary interruption in Mexico's beer supply chain. Given the strength of our brands, we're able to focus on value growth and revenue growth management initiatives. As a part of these initiatives, we recently increased prices in the U.S. on Woodford Reserve, Old Forester, el Jimador, Herradura and Chambord and we informed our distributor partners that we are increasing the price of Jack Daniel's over the next few months.We also delivered broad-based growth across geographies. The U.S. delivered another strong quarter with 16% underlying net sales growth. Our developed international markets also grew underlying net sales in the double digits and the reopening of the on-premise channel as well as a rebound in tourism were substantial contributors to growth. In aggregate, we also experienced strong growth in our emerging international markets as well as travel retail as we cycle the effect of easy comparisons and more markets return to growth and recover from the pandemic. We continue to focus on delivering strong top line growth and have a solid start to our fiscal year.Our underlying gross profit increased 17% for the quarter, just slightly behind our top line growth rate. Having said that, we've been facing some challenging cost headwinds for several years now and then you combine those headwinds with the impact of tariffs, and it has resulted in our gross margin contraction. In the first quarter, gross margin was down 70 basis points year-over-year, but we believe the rate of decline is slowing. As the on-premise reopens and premiumization trends continue, we're seeing a reversal of the mix headwinds we experienced last year related to channel, size and portfolio. But this positive price/mix was more than offset by the continued cost pressures largely related to agave.Over the past couple of years, we have projected agave cost would begin to decline late in calendar 2021 or early calendar '22. While the price of agave has stabilized below its peak, demand for tequila has increased, given the continued growth in the U.S. and a faster than expected rebound in Mexico. So the relief in agave costs will be lower than expected this year. Also, as noted in our June call, we're still experiencing many challenges in our supply chain. This is particularly true for key packaging materials, most notably glass, and transportation constraints such as shipping container availability. Leanne will talk more about this in just a few minutes.Before I move on from gross margins, I'll share that we remain cautiously optimistic that the U.S. can reach a resolution on the underlying trade disputes with the UK and EU by the end of the year, which would result in the removal of tariffs on American whiskey. While we've been hopeful for some time about this, we believe there continues to be a reason for reason for this optimism. The EU and the U.S. have publicly stated their commitment to this time line.And moreover, the UK is conducting a review of its retaliatory tariffs, which we hope will highlight that American whiskey bears a disproportionate share of this overall tariff burden. In summary, we had a strong start to the year and remain optimistic for continued improvement in the operating environment, yet we also acknowledge the potential for volatility due to the impacts of the evolving pandemic as well as the related impacts of the global supply chain imbalances.In the last 18 months, our resilience and agility has been tested time and time again. And through it all, we have persevered because our priorities have remained the same, keeping our people and our business healthy. This will remain our focus and guide as we navigate future uncertainty. We continue to believe we will emerge stronger and better. History has already told us that Brown-Forman is resilient in the face of adversity. Our people respond brilliantly under pressure, and our values will guide us to the right decisions.So with that, I'll turn the call over to Leanne, who will provide more detail on our first quarter fiscal '22 results.Leanne Cunningham -- Senior Vice President, Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Lawson, and good morning, everyone. As Lawson reviewed, our headlines for the quarter, I will provide additional details on our business results and our outlook for fiscal 2022. Starting with our top line; compared to fiscal 2021, our reported net sales were up 20% for the quarter. Additionally, we had strong double-digit underlying top line growth, reflecting an increase in distributor inventory levels in the United States, partially offset by the sale of Early Times, Canadian Mist and Collingwood brands during the first quarter of fiscal 2021.The increase in distributor inventory is due to the lapping of the reduction related to the buildup in the early stages of the pandemic, which was in our first quarter of fiscal 2021, as well as a build ahead of price increases Lawson mentioned. Although, even with the increase in the quarter, we believe distributor inventory levels are still below their pre-pandemic levels due to the various supply chain challenges. From an underlying net sales growth perspective, we experienced broad-based growth across all of our geographic clusters of the United States, developed international markets and emerging markets as well as our travel retail channel.The U.S. business, which represents half of our underlying net sales, remained strong, growing underlying net sales 16%. Jack Daniel's Tennessee Whiskey was the single largest contributor to growth, followed by our premium bourbon and tequila brands. The reopening of the on-premise, which continues to approach pre-pandemic levels as well as the Kentucky Derby's return to its same spot on the first Saturday in May, fueled volume gains. In addition, net sales benefited from continued portfolio premiumization mix and favorable channel and size mix.In the off-premise channel, we continue to experience solid growth compared to the same period two years ago, even as the on-premise continue to reopen. The on-premise recovery accelerated during the quarter, as vaccination rates increased and restrictions were eased or removed. If you look at OpenTable trends through mid-August, they are only slightly below their pre-pandemic levels. In the e-premise channel, our market share, which is slightly above 2%, has grown 4 times since the start of the pandemic. Even as the on-premise reopens and consumers begin to return to in-store shopping, e-premise remains an important channel to consumers.On a global basis, as this channel continues to develop, we are supporting its growth with the creation of the recently announced Integrated Marketing Communications group and we are excited about the talent joining Brown-Forman as a part of this team. Developed international markets collectively delivered strong underlying net sales growth, up double digits for the quarter, with broad-based growth across the markets. The Jack Daniel's Family of Brands experienced strong growth, driven by the reopening of the on-premise, as well as a rebound of tourism in markets such as Spain and Czechia, which supported Jack Daniel's Tennessee Whiskey double-digit volume growth.Jack Daniel's RTDs continued to grow with higher volumes in Germany, where we continue to be a category leader. Jack Daniel's Tennessee Honey grew volume high single digits, led by gains in Korea and Czechia and collectively, the super premium brands, Gentleman Jack and Jack Daniel's Single Barrel, grew volume double digits. The newest member of the Jack Daniel's family, Jack Daniel's Tennessee Apple, continues its international rollout launching in the Netherlands, Lithuania, Hungary, Slovakia and Italy and is off to a strong start in those markets.Collectively, our emerging markets continue to rebound with very strong double-digit underlying net sales growth, driven by strong underlying growth from Jack Daniel's Tennessee Whiskey, particularly in Turkey, Brazil and Chile. Jack Daniel's Flavors more than doubled in both Chile and Brazil as we benefit from the launch of Jack Daniel's Tennessee Apple, while Herradura grew triple digits in Mexico, as Q1 volumes surpassed pre-pandemic levels. Finally, as expected, our Travel Retail business experienced a strong rebound, though volumes remain below their pre-pandemic levels, as international airline travel and the cruise business have yet to fully recover.Lawson shared the details on our gross margins, so I will now turn to our operating expenses. Similar to the fourth quarter of last fiscal year and as expected, we significantly increased our A&P spend, which grew over 40% on both a reported and underlying basis. We continue to support the momentum behind our iconic brands by investing in world-class advertising to drive our sales. In the first quarter, we did lap the impacts of the early stages of the pandemic, where on-premise activations were canceled, consumer events such as The Kentucky Derby, summer festivals and sponsorships were rescheduled or canceled, and in the month of July last year, we paused on certain social media platforms.From an absolute dollar perspective, our level of investment in Q1 more closely reflects the normal seasonalization of our spend. Our underlying SG&A investment increased double digits, driven by the timing of compensation-related expenses, non-income tax items and the cycling of lower discretionary spend during the same period last year due to the impacts related to the COVID-19 pandemic. In total, we grew underlying operating income 15% for the first quarter. On a reported basis, operating income declined 25%, due to the sale of Early Times, Canadian Mist and Collingwood brands last year. This, combined with an increase in our effective tax rate, resulted in a 41% diluted EPS decrease of $0.40 per share.And finally, to our fiscal 2022 outlook; even with the volatility and resurgence of COVID-19, we remain confident in our top line growth momentum. We believe our portfolio is well-positioned to capitalize on, the reopening of the on-premise channel, the recovery of countries heavily reliant on tourism, some degree of business and personal travel resuming and the growing premiumization trends. In aggregate, we expect strong growth in our emerging markets as well as Travel Retail, which will cycle the effect of easy comparisons, as they begin to stabilize and recover. Further, we do not expect the non-core business mainly used barrel sales, to have a material impact on our business this fiscal year.Turning to gross margins, currently, we are managing through the impact of global supply chain disruptions, including glass supply and challenging cost headwinds. Similar to others, we are experiencing greater-than-expected logistics cost, higher input costs on items such as grain and aluminum, agave costs that are below their peak and stable, though, easing at a slower pace than previously forecasted, due to higher demand within the category. In addition, with the rebound and recovery of our markets and channels, coupled with strong consumer demand for our brands, we are currently managing through glass supply constraints.We have deployed a number of risk mitigation strategies and are working actively with our suppliers and distributor partners to optimize our supply chain to meet the consumer demand. While we expect these disruptions to persist throughout the fiscal year, we believe that the impact will become less significant in the second half of the year. As a result of these factors, we now expect our gross margin to be flat or slightly down for the fiscal year versus the slight improvement we originally anticipated.We expect our operating investments, advertising and SG&A to be in the mid-single-digit range, as we continue to invest behind our brands to support top line growth, and progress various strategic initiatives, including three new RTCs, the expansion of our emerging brands team in select international markets, focused on growing our super-premium portfolio, and increasing our digital marketing and e-commerce capabilities. Similar to last fiscal year, we do expect the seasonality of our results to be volatile during the year, particularly in operating income.Despite these challenges and excluding any potential impact from changes in tariffs, we continue to expect both our underlying net sales and underlying operating income to grow in the mid-single-digit range. Lastly, we expect our fiscal 2022 effective tax rate to be in the range of 22% to 23%. In summary, and as Lawson stated, we have had a strong start to fiscal 2022. While uncertainty and volatility will likely continue to be a significant part of our business environment this year, our brands are strong, our top line has momentum. And we remain-well positioned with a strong balance sheet and cash flows.This concludes our prepared remarks. Please open the line for questions.