  OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Gilead fourth quarter and full year 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] After the speakers' presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Jackie Ross, VP of investor relations. Please go ahead.Jackie Ross -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Gigi, and good afternoon, everyone. Just after market close today, we issued a press release with earnings results for the fourth quarter and full year 2021. The press release, slides and supplementary data are available on the Investor section of our website at gilead.com. The speakers on today's call will be our chairman and chief executive officer, Daniel O'Day; our chief commercial officer, Johanna Mercier; our chief medical officer, Merdad Parsey; and our chief financial officer, Andrew Dickinson. After that, we'll open up the call to Q&A, where the team will be joined by Christi Shaw, the chief executive officer of Kite. Before we get started, let me remind you that we will be making forward looking statements, including those related to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on Gilead's business, financial condition and results of operations; plans and expectations with respect to products, product candidates, corporate strategy, business and operations, financial projections and the use of capital; and 2022 financial guidance. All of these involve certain assumptions, risks and uncertainties that are beyond our control and could cause actual results to differ materially from these statements. A description of these risks can be found in the earnings press release and our latest SEC disclosure documents.All forward-looking statements are based on information currently available to Gilead, and Gilead assumes no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements. Non-GAAP financial measures will be used to help you understand the company's underlying business performance. The GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations are provided in the earnings press release available on the Gilead website. With that, I'll turn the call over to Dan. Daniel O'Day -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thank you, Jackie, and good afternoon, everybody. As we head into 2022, Gilead is coming off a year of positive clinical momentum and strong financial performance, mitigating the impact of the pandemic on some parts of our business. Higher sales of Veklury more than offset the impact of COVID-19 on HIV and HCV. Veklury continues to play a critical role in helping to treat people with COVID-19, with continued activity against the Omicron variant. The FDA recently expanded its use beyond the hospital for patients at high risk of disease progression. In addition, we just initiated the Phase 1 trial of GS-5245, a novel oral COVID-19 nucleoside that once metabolized works in the same way as remdesivir. Our full year revenue for 2021 was 11% higher than the midpoint of our initial guidance in February of 2021. It was also an important year for our transformation to becoming a business that is based on diverse, sustainable growth. In 2021, we received seven approvals or accelerated approvals in the US and Europe and submitted an additional six filings. Our approvals included three for Todelvy, with the FDA and MAA approval in second-line triple-negative breast cancer as well as an accelerated approval from FDA for metastatic bladder cancer; two for cell therapy, with Yescarta receiving accelerated approval in relapsed or refractory follicular lymphoma and Tecartus receiving full approval in adult acute lymphoblastic leukemia; and two expanded labels in virology, one for a pediatric label for Biktarvy in the US and an expanded label for Veklury in the EU for adults not requiring supplemental oxygen. Our 2022 plans include a significant increase in clinical development studies across our novel oncology portfolio. We are planning at least 20 additional trials, including seven Phase 3 for trials for Trodelvy. And these include the ASCENT-03 trial, which is evaluating Trodelvy in the front-line triple-negative breast cancer in the PDL1 negative population; the ASCENT-04 trial in collaboration with Merck to evaluate Trodelvy and Keytruda in front-line triple-negative breast cancer population in the PDL1 positive population; and the EVOKE-03 trial, which will be led by Merck, to evaluate Trodelvy and Keytruda in non-small cell lung cancer. You will also see ongoing momentum in our virology portfolio as we continue to expand our leadership in antiviral therapies. We are advancing our longer-acting HIV options with lenacapavir as the foundation and look forward to potential regulatory decisions in 2022. If approved, lenacapavir would be the only HIV treatment option administered twice yearly.

 



 In addition, we'll continue to drive progress across our broader virology portfolio, including hepatitis, COVID-19 and other emerging viruses. This is a really important time in Gilead's transformation journey. After the consistent work to execute on our strategy and expand our portfolio over the last 2 years, you will increasingly start to see this play out in tangible results. We're confident that Gilead has all the elements in place for a strong year and a strong decade. Johanna, Merdad and Andy will now take you through the details of our progress and our plans. Now let me hand first over to Johanna to talk about our commercial performance in the fourth quarter and the full year. And I'll be back to you in the Q&A. Johanna?Johanna Mercier -- Chief Commercial Officer Thanks, Dan. Good afternoon, everyone. As you can see on Slide 7, we had a strong end to the year with Q4 total product sales, excluding Veklury, of $5.8 billion, up 7% quarter-over-quarter, driven by favorable pricing and inventory dynamics. This also represented 8% growth year-over-year, driven by continued recovery in the HIV treatment market and favorable pricing dynamics. Veklury sales were higher than expected in Q4, reflecting the start of the Omicron surge, but lower than both the prior quarter and prior year and contributing to total product sales of $7.2 billion for the quarter. Moving to Slide 8, total fourth quarter Veklury sales were $1.4 billion, bringing total sales for 2021 to $5.6 billion. Gilead is proud of the role that Veklury continues to play in this pandemic. Veklury has demonstrated activity against the Omicron variant and has helped many patients with COVID-19 in the most recent surge. Although symptoms have generally been less severe, the volume of overall cases has meaningfully increased since the emergence of Omicron, and we have seen the total number of hospitalizations increase as well. While we would all prefer to put this pandemic behind us, we expect Veklury to continue to play a critical role in '22 and beyond. As you'd expect, hospitalizations remain a key indicator for in-patient Veklury sales, and we're seeing higher hospitalizations in geographies with lower vaccination adoption, including certain parts of the US as well as Eastern Europe. Additionally, I'm very pleased to highlight that the FDA recently approved the sNDA filing for the use of Veklury in the outpatient setting for patients at high risk of disease progression. This approval was based on data generated in the Phase 3 PINETREE study, further solidifying the credibility, importance and role of Veklury. Now Veklury will be able to help even more patients earlier and reduce risk of hospitalization for COVID-19. Next, as shown on Slide 9, total HIV sales were $4.5 billion in the quarter, up 8% sequentially, driven by favorable inventory and pricing dynamics as well as changes to our gross to net estimates in Q4 2021. For the full year, total HIV sales were $16.3 billion, down 4% year-over-year, primarily due to the Truvada and Atripla LOE, in addition to pandemic-related impacts and pricing dynamics. The expected impact from the LOEs, which amounted to $1.3 billion, was offset by continued Biktarvy growth. Excluding the sizable LOE impact, HIV total product sales for the full year grew 4% compared to 2020 despite the ongoing pandemic headwinds. We now expect the Truvada and Atripla loss of exclusivity impact to be minimal going forward as the headwind dissipates starting in Q2 of this year. In HIV treatment, we continue to see signs of market recovery although the US market declined 1% sequentially in Q4 following 2 quarters of sequential growth. On a year-over-year basis, the overall market in Q4 was up 1.5% in both the US as well as EU5 despite screening and diagnosis rates still below pre-pandemic levels. As you know, favorable dynamics play out in the fourth quarter of every year in HIV and 2021 was no different, with some year-end inventory stocking and favorable seasonal pricing as well as changes in our gross to net estimate in Q4 2021. As you think about 2022, I'll remind you of the normal HIV inventory buildup in Q4 and the New Year reset for patient copays and donut hole payments. Given these factors, along with the favorable pricing dynamics I just mentioned, we expect the sequential decline in Q1 '22 to be greater than Q1 '21. Nonetheless, we expect a strong year overall in HIV and expect continued growth in subsequent quarters. Back to Q4, Biktarvy had another record quarter with sales of $2.5 billion, up 11% sequentially and 22% year-over-year. On Slide 10, you can see that Biktarvy US treatment market share has increased over 5 share points in 2021, reaching 42%, which is the highest share that any complete regimen has ever achieved in this market. For the full year, Biktarvy sales were $8.6 billion, growing 19% from 2020, and Biktarvy remains the leading prescribed treatment for naive and switch patients in the US as well as number one in naive in EU5. Descovy revenue for the fourth quarter was $473 million, up 9% quarter-over-quarter, primarily as a result of favorable seasonal pricing and inventory dynamics as well as continued demand. We expect Descovy revenue to continue to be driven by PrEP as Descovy has maintained about 45% of overall PrEP market prescriptions in the US. We'll continue to ensure access to support physician choice and expect growing demand and market expansion to offset the impact of increased commercial contracting. Overall, while near-term growth continues to be impacted by local pandemic-related social restrictions, we're encouraged by the growing PrEP market. In Q4, the overall PrEP market grew 4% quarter-over-quarter and 31 % year-over-year. Looking forward, we believe lenacapavir, our investigational longer-acting PrEP offering, could potentially catalyze this market well beyond the 25% penetration rate in PrEP that we see today. Moving to Slide 11, it's clear that HCV continues to be part of our portfolio most impacted by the pandemic. Although there was some slight quarter-over-quarter recovery in market starts in the EU5, US market starts declined, resulting in flat total starts overall. While Gilead market share increased modestly on a sequential basis in both the US and the EU, this was more than offset by unfavorable pricing dynamics, resulting in Q4 total sales of $393 million, down 8% sequentially and 7% year-over-year. As you can see on Slide 12, our HBV and HDV franchise reported record quarterly revenues of $265 million, up 7% sequentially due to seasonal inventory and favorable pricing. The 9% year-over-year growth was primarily driven by Vemlidy demand. Total fiscal year sales for this franchise were $969 million, up 13% year-over-year. Hepcludex reported $12 million of sales in Q4 in Europe, with $37 million '21 sales since our acquisition in late first quarter. Hepcludex is currently available in Germany and France, in addition to a number of early access programs in countries such as Austria, Italy and Greece. In 2022 and as part of our comprehensive commercialization plan, we expect to finalize reimbursement for launch in a number of major European markets. In the US, we filed a BLA in November and FDA granted priority review for accelerated approval, with a PDUFA date set for the third quarter as well as an advisory committee meeting that will be scheduled in the coming months. Moving to oncology, first with Todelvy on Slide 13. Global sales were $118 million in the fourth quarter, up 17% sequentially and up 84% year-over-year, compared to full Q4 2020 sales. This reflects growing adoption of the second-line metastatic TNBC indication, which was noted as a preferred regimen in the NCCN breast guidelines updated in September. We're also starting to see stronger, unaided brand awareness, which is resulting in continued market share growth. In second-line TNBC, Trodelvy now captures approximately one in four new starts in the US. We've expanded our oncology footprint globally, including tripling our US headcount to further accelerate penetration of Trodelvy and prepare for a potential HR positive and HER2 negative launches. Additionally, EU approval for Trodelvy was granted in late November 2021, and we've already seen strong momentum in France and Germany since their launch. We plan to launch in a number of new countries following key reimbursement decisions this year. Now on Slide 14, on behalf of Christi and the Kite team, cell therapy Q4 sales of $239 million reflected 47% year-over-year growth, an 8% increase sequentially. For the quarter, Yescarta sales of $182 million were up 41% year-over-year, driven by continued demand in relapsed or refractory large B-cell lymphoma and follicular lymphoma. Tecartus sales of $57 million in the quarter reflected 68% year-over-year growth based on growing global demand for relapsed or refractory mantle cell lymphoma and early contribution for adult acute lymphoblastic leukemia in the US. As a reminder, FDA granted Tecartus approval in adult ALL in October. In just the first few months of launch, there has already been strong demand that we expect to continue in the coming quarters, given the high unmet need. Full year cell therapy sales of $871 million reflected 43% year-over-year growth, driven by continued LBCL and MCL demand globally as well as the new launches. The strong growth we've seen with these recent launches reinforces our belief that cell therapy adoption will continue its positive momentum as more physicians understand the benefits for appropriate patients and therefore increase referral rates to treatment centers. Merdad will elaborate later, so I'll just quickly mention the impressive data Kite presented at ASH in December, 43% overall survival rate after 5 years in third-line LBCL patients. The Yescarta data at ASH not only highlighted the long-term real-world safety and efficacy profile in third-line LBCL, but also in earlier lines of therapy. For ZUMA-7 data in second-line LBCL, FDA has set a PDUFA date of April 1, when we hope Yescarta will be granted approval. In the meantime, the Kite team is ramping up manufacturing capacity to meet the anticipated demand. Kite expects the new Maryland facility to begin commercial operations by Q2. Combined with the Amsterdam and El Segundo facilities, we expect to increase operational capacity by up to 50% by the end of this year. Christi is here with the team and available to take questions on cell therapy during a Q&A. In closing are oncology sales were $1.25 billion in 2021, and we expect robust growth in the coming years. And so with that, I'll hand it over to Merdad for pipeline updates.Merdad Parsey -- Chief Medical Officer Thanks, Johanna, and good afternoon, everyone. Building on what both Johanna and Dan have said, the Gilead team rounded out a very strong 2021 with further progress across our portfolio. In 2021 alone, we began enrolling patients in 13 oncology, 13 virology and 4 inflammation trials. And we have recently shared the initial details of the ambitious development programs we're targeting for 2022. As we look forward, we're confident that we have the foundation to continue to build a robust, diverse portfolio across our three focused therapeutic areas. First, on Slide 16, Veklury continues to play a vital role in the fight against COVID-19. Veklury was the first approved treatment for patients hospitalized with COVID-19, and we recently expanded indication labels in the US and EU. In December, the European Commission approved a variation to the Conditional Marketing Authorization for Veklury for the treatment of COVID-19 in adults not on supplemental oxygen. And last month, based on the data from the Phase 3 PINETREE study, the FDA expanded the approval of Veklury to include non-hospitalized patients at high risk for COVID-19 disease progression. These expanded indications speak to the activity of Veklury against the coronavirus variants we've seen so far, including Omicron. We believe there will continue to be a need for Veklury delivered intravenously, especially for higher risk patients. The potential for continued COVID-19 variants and infections highlight the need for more convenient oral formulations to expand the options for outpatients. As such, we've just initiated a Phase 1 trial of GS-5245, a novel oral COVID-19 nucleoside that once metabolized works in the same way as remdesivir. Pending data, the evolving pandemic landscape and discussions with regulatory agencies, we're hoping to initiate a registrational trial before the end of the year. Moving to HIV on Slide 17, we shared an overview of some of our long-acting development activities a few weeks ago to highlight the diversity of our portfolio and how it targets the entire HIV lifecycle. We continue to believe that our investigational agent lenacapavir is a unique and foundational asset, given its potential for extended dosing in addition to the compelling efficacy and safety profile highlighted in the CAPELLA and CALIBRATE studies. Next, on Slide 18, you can see our current clinical efforts with long-acting HIV therapeutics. As previously announced, the Phase 2 study evaluating the oral combination of lenacapavir with Merck's islatravir is on partial clinical hold, and Merck remains in discussions with the FDA on next steps for islatravir. In the meantime, we at Gilead continue to develop a number of other potential partner agents for lenacapavir in HIV treatment and look forward to sharing some more detail on these program at our Virology Deep Dive later this month. We remain confident and excited about lenacapavir's future potential to deliver options for people living with HIV or those who can benefit from PrEP. I want to be very clear that the recent clinical hold for the lenacapavir trials, which the FDA initiated in December, is not associated with the lenacapavir molecule itself. Rather, the hold reflects concern about the compatibility of certain vials with the lenacapavir solution. We continue to work with the FDA to remediate the concern and to agree on a path to resume these trials. We are hopeful this can be achieved quickly. As such, we continue to expect an FDA decision for lenacapavir in heavily treatment experienced individuals in the first half of 2022. If successful, lenacapavir will become the first available 6-month, long-acting subcutaneous injection for the treatment of HIV. Next, moving to Trodelvy on Slide 18, I'm pleased to confirm that we now expect to share both top line progression-free survival data as well as the first planned interim analysis of our overall survival from TROPiCS-02 in March. There's been a convergence of events for PFS and OS, such that we will be able to conduct and report a single analysis of these outcomes rather than have two analyses separated by a short interval. Gilead remains blinded to the data, and we are excited to be able to share this more complete view later this quarter. We are targeting an sBLA filing in the second half of 2022, depending, of course, on the readout. If the data are positive, we believe that Trodelvy could represent a very important treatment option for HR positive, HER2 negative patients who are hormone refractory and have very limited options. Reflecting our confidence in Trodelvy overall, we are expanding the number of clinical programs in 2022 to evaluate effectiveness in breast, lung and bladder cancers, with plans to initiate study start-up activities for at least seven Phase 3 trials. Three of these are expected to enroll their first patients in 2022, including two in front-line metastatic TNBC and another in front-line non-small cell lung cancer study that will be led by Merck. Going forward, we will separately disclose trial start-up activities versus FPI milestones. Additionally, in the first half of this year, we plan to add a combination of Trodelvy with other Gilead portfolio assets as a study or an additional cohort in an existing study. We look forward to sharing more details at our upcoming Oncology Deep Dive in April. This is another example of the versatility and tremendous potential that Trodelvy, along with the growing oncology portfolio, can generate. Next slide, onto magrolimab. Early last week, the FDA placed a partial clinical hold pausing enrollment and screening in trials and cohorts in the US evaluating magrolimab in combination with azacitidine following a review of a preliminary data set suggesting an apparent imbalance in investigator-reported SUSARs, or suspected unexpected serious adverse reactions, between treatment groups in our ongoing Phase 3 trial in high-risk MDS. A subsequent partial clinical hold has been placed on the Phase 2 multiple myeloma study and the fully enrolled Phase 2 DLBCL study. Importantly, patients currently enrolled in our magrolimab studies can continue treatment, and our compassionate use programs remain open. We are working with FDA to take a comprehensive look at the safety data, and we'll share the outcome as quickly as we can. In the meantime, we remain committed to the magrolimab development program and believe that it has the potential to address an important unmet medical need in these seriously ill patients. As you know, the patients in our ENHANCE Phase 3 trial have a very high unmet need, with a median overall survival of only 1 to 3 years on the current standard of care. Separate from and prior to the partial clinical hold, our Phase 1b single arm study in higher risk MDS no longer has a viable path to submission based on regulatory feedback. As such, we'll remain focused on our Phase 3 ENHANCE study and look forward to sharing the 1b data at an upcoming scientific meeting. Next, moving to cell therapy on Slide 21. On behalf of Christi and the Kite team, I'll share a brief update on the impressive data Kite presented at ASH last December. First, as you may recall, in 2020, we shared that Yescarta had a 4-year overall survival rate of 44% in third-line LBCL patients. At ASH in December, we presented 5-year data from ZUMA-1 in third-line LBCL patients, showing Yescarta demonstrated a remarkable and durable 43% overall survival rate, stable since our 4-year update. Additionally, 92% of the patients who remained alive at 5 years have not needed any additional cancer treatment since their one-time infusion of Yescarta. It's truly inspiring to see this type of durability for CAR T-cell therapies. As announced yesterday, the FDA approved a label update for Yescarta to include use of prophylactic corticosteroids across all approved indications. Adding prophylactic steroid use can improve the management of certain side effects without compromising the activity of Yescarta. For example, the FDA label now shows no grade 3 or greater cytokine release syndrome events occurred using the Cohort 6 protocol as compared to 13% in the original label. This label update compliments data published in 2021 showing 68% of patients had no CRS or neurologic events within 72 hours of the Yescarta infusion. As we look to earlier lines of treatment, the landmark ZUMA-7 trial evaluating Yescarta in second-line relapsed/refractory LBCL demonstrated a greater than 4-fold increase in median event free survival, or EFS, compared to standard of care through 2 years of follow-up. As you can see on the slide, the EFS curve for Yescarta is compelling. The sBLA was filed last quarter and we expect an FDA decision by April of this year. In terms of the first-line LBCL data, Yescarta demonstrated 89% overall response rate in high-risk patients and 78% complete response with a median follow-up of 15.9 months. Given these encouraging data, the Kite team is in discussions with regulatory authorities on a potential path forward in front-line LBCL. And finally, on Slide 22, we highlight key 2022 catalysts across the portfolio, many of which I have just mentioned. I'd also like to take a moment to highlight the three Arcus milestones in second half of this year. Last quarter, Gilead opted in to the three Arcus programs, which added four assets to our portfolio: domvanalimab, an Fc silent anti-TIGIT antibody; AB308, an Fc active anti-TIGIT antibody; etrumadenant, an adenosine receptor antagonist; and quemliclustat, a small molecule CD73 inhibitor. Together with Arcus, we expect to share ARC-7 Phase 2 PFS data in the second half of 2022, which will include data for the zimberelimab monotherapy, zim and dom doublet as well as the zim, dom and etruma triplet arm. We look forward to sharing data when available and are very excited to collaborate more closely with Arcus to accelerate future development plans. On Slide 23, you can see that Gilead's portfolio now encompasses 55 clinical stage programs, nearly doubling since 2019. Given the exciting potential of our portfolio across virology, oncology and early stage inflammation assets, this is just the beginning. Our teams are committed to advancing the most promising programs that will help transform patient outcomes, and we look forward to sharing our progress with you over the coming quarters and years. With that, I'll hand it over to Andy.Andrew Dickinson -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Merdad, and good afternoon, everyone. It was a strong close to 2021, driven primarily by strong HIV and Veklury revenue in the fourth quarter. For the full year and excluding the impact of the LOEs, HIV grew 4% year-over-year, driven by the continued outperformance of Biktarvy, which achieved record US market share of 42% and sales of $8.6B, up 19% from 2020. Oncology was another highlightfrom both a pipeline and a revenue perspective, with full year cell therapy sales of $871 million, growing 43% from 2020, and Trodelvy sales of $380 million in its first full year. By 2030, we anticipate our oncology franchise will represent at least a third of our total revenue. Before I get into the normal P&L review and 2022 guidance, I want to address the EPS results for this quarter up front. Slide 25 highlights two sizable expenses that occurred after we gave our last guidance update in October. First, and subsequent to the exercise of Gilead's opt-in to four Arcus assets in December, our fourth quarter results reflect a net charge of $625 million recorded in R&D. This charge reflects our $725 million option payment recognized in Q4, less $100 million that was previously accrued. This impacted our EPS by about $0.38 in Q4 and for the full year. Second, and as part of a legal settlement with ViiV and related parties, we have agreed to make a one-time $1.25 billion payment in addition to an ongoing 3% royalty for future sales of Biktarvy and the bictegravir component of any bictegravir-containing products in the United States. This royalty extends until October 5, 2027. The $1.25 billion payment is recorded in our fourth quarter results and reflected in our cost of goods sold. This charge constituted an approximately 17% impact to gross margin in the fourth quarter, and it impacted our EPS by $0.80 for Q4 2021 and the full year. Going forward, we expect the impact of this new royalty to be approximately 1% on our gross margin starting in the first quarter of 2022. Excluding these items and their combined $1.18 impact, our full year non-GAAP EPS would have exceeded the guidance range that we set back in October, helped by stronger than expected Veklury sales. Moving back to our quarterly review on Slide 26, fourth quarter revenue in our base business included HIV product sales growth of 7% year-over-year and 8% sequentially. Veklury sales were higher than expected due to start of the Omicron surge. Non-GAAP product gross margin was 70.5%, impacted by the legal settlement that I referenced earlier. And non-GAAP R&D was impacted by the Arcus opt-in, resulting in non-GAAP EPS of $0.69 per share. Our non-GAAP effective tax rate for the fourth quarter was 32.2%, reflecting tax expense related to uncertain tax positions and an increase in valuation allowance as well as the impact of discrete tax benefits related to legal settlements with tax authorities in 2020 that did not recur this year. For the full year, on Slide 27, total product sales of $27 billion grew 11%, driven by Veklury. Excluding Veklury, total product sales were roughly flat at $21.4 billion as growth in Biktarvy and oncology offset the $1.3 billion impact of the Truvada and Atripla LOEs in the United States. I touched on the main P&L impacts in the fourth quarter discussion, but I'll highlight that our non-GAAP effective tax rate for 2021 was 20.4% despite the higher effective tax rate in fourth quarter. Moving now to Slide 28, our 2022 guidance assumes that the recent Omicron surge represents the only major COVID-19 wave for 2022, and that our HIV business will continue to recover from the pandemic. With that in mind, we expect product sales in the range of $23.8 billion to $24.3 billion. Excluding Veklury, we expect product sales in the range of $21.8 billion to $22.3 billion, representing growth of 2% to 4% for our base business year-over-year. Relative to Q1, I'll remind you to expect HIV revenue to decline sequentially. This is a normal dynamic for HIV due to inventory and seasonal pricing impacts. And you'll recall last year, HIV revenue declined 14% sequentially in Q1 '21 from Q4 of 2020. For Q1 '22, we expect a larger sequential decline, given the favorable Q4 '21 changes to gross to net estimates that Johanna mentioned earlier. Nonetheless, we expect a strong year overall for our HIV business and continued growth in subsequent quarters. Looking beyond Q1, we expect the impact of the Truvada and Atripla LOEs will be largely behind us starting in Q2, and we look forward to accelerating growth in our HIV business during the remainder of the year. For the full year 2022, we expect Veklury sales of approximately $2 billion. This assumes, as I previously indicated, that Omicron will represent the only major surge for the year, with Veklury revenue heavily weighted in the first quarter. That said, the pandemic continues to be dynamic, and we will update you on our Veklury expectations on a quarterly basis, consistent with our recent practice. Moving to the rest of the P&L, we expect our non-GAAP product gross margin to be approximately 85% to 86%, consistent with our historic guidance and allowing for the 3% royalty associated with the legal settlement. For non-GAAP operating expenses, we expect R&D to decline or to decrease by a mid-single-digit percentage compared to 2021 levels. This decline is driven by the net $625 million charge related to the Arcus opt-in in the fourth quarter of 2021. Excluding this, we expect full year R&D expense to increase by a mid to high single-digit percentage compared to 2021 levels. We expect SG&A expense to be approximately flat on a dollar basis compared to 2021. Our non-GAAP effective tax rate is expected to be approximately 20% this year. Finally, we expect our non-GAAP diluted EPS to be between $6.20 and $6.70 for the full year, and GAAP diluted EPS to be between $4.70 and $5.20. On capital allocation, our priorities have not changed. We continued to invest in our business while, at the same time, we returned over $4 billion in 2021 to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. In addition, we repaid $4.75 billion of debt in 2021. For 2022, we plan to repay $1.5 billion of debt, of which we repaid $500 million this morning. With that, I will invite the operator to begin the Q&A. Thank you. 