
OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Humana First Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions]With that, I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Amy Smith, Vice President of Investor Relations. Thank you, and please go ahead.Amy Smith -- Vice President of Investor Relations

 



Thank you, and good morning. In a moment, Bruce Broussard, Humana's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Brian Kane, Chief Financial Officer, will discuss our first quarter 2021 results and our updated financial outlook for 2021. Following these prepared remarks, we will open up the lines for a question-and-answer session with industry analysts. Joe Ventura, our Chief Legal Officer, will also be joining Bruce and Brian for the Q&A session. We encourage the investing public and media to listen to both management's prepared remarks and the related Q&A with analysts. Additionally, we have posted supporting materials to our Investor Relations page related to the Kindred at Home transaction announced last night. This call is being recorded for replay purposes. That replay will be available on the Investor Relations page of Humana's website, humana.com, later today. Before we begin our discussion, I need to advise call participants of our cautionary statement. Certain of the matters discussed in this conference call are forward-looking and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially. Investors are advised to read the detailed risk factors discussed in our latest Form 10-K, our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and our first quarter 2021 earnings press release as they relate to forward-looking statements, and to note in particular, that these forward-looking statements could be impacted by risks related to the spread of and response to the COVID-19 pandemic.Our forward-looking statements should, therefore, be considered in light of these additional uncertainties and risks, along with other risks discussed in our SEC filings. We undertake no obligation to publicly address or update any forward-looking statements and future filings or communications regarding our business or results. Today's press release, our historical financial news releases and our filings with the SEC are also available on our Investor Relations site. Call participants should note that today's discussion includes financial measures that are not in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles or GAAP. Management's explanation for the use of these non-GAAP measures and reconciliations of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures are included in today's press release. Finally, any references to earnings per share, or EPS, made during this conference call refer to diluted earnings per common share.With that, I'll turn the call over to Bruce Broussard.Bruce D. Broussard -- President and Chief Executive Officer

 



Thank you, Amy, and good morning, and thank you for joining us. Today, we reported adjusted earnings per share of $7.67 for the first quarter of 2021, and reaffirmed our full year 2021 adjusted EPS guidance of $21.25 to $21.75. Our first quarter results reflect solid performance across each of the company's segments, fueled by strong individual Medicare Advantage and state-based membership growth, and improved profitability in the Group and Specialty and Healthcare Services segments. As we continue to navigate the pandemic, we also meaningfully advanced our strategy during the quarter. I want to congratulate our Medicaid organization on the significant contract award in Ohio, which when combined with recent additions of Oklahoma, South Carolina and Wisconsin, brings our Medicaid footprint to seven states. These additions affirm our capital-efficient organic growth strategy and further demonstrates the strength of our Medicaid capabilities built on our Medicare Advantage chassis. We also continue to deliver compelling dual Special Needs Plan membership growth. These net membership increased approximately 23% in the quarter, and we now serve more than 0.5 million D-SNP members. We remain committed to proactively addressing disparities in healthcare for underserved populations and recognize that Medicare Advantage and Medicaid plans are uniquely positioned to address the needs of these members.Data shows that Medicare Advantage is continuing to grow as the preferred option for those who are low income and for racial and ethnic minorities, with more than 28% of Medicare Advantage beneficiaries being racial and ethnic minorities as compared to 21% in traditional Medicare. Currently, 55% of Latino and 39% of African-American beneficiaries have actively chosen to enroll in MA, and there is growing diversity in enrollment because of the value provided to beneficiaries. The ability of MA plans to adapt to change and drive innovation and better clinical outcomes is why today nearly 27 million seniors have chosen MA over original Medicare. Our ability to drive innovation and improve clinical outcomes is enabled by our strong integrated care delivery platform. And in recent years, we have significantly expanded our Healthcare Services capabilities, from primary care to pharmacy to home care and more, in order to better serve our medical members and to significantly strengthen our payer-agnostic care offerings. These services help deliver on the promise of better quality and health outcomes, lower cost and a simpler, more personalized experience for the people they touch. These advancements also provide a solid foundation to ultimately serve individuals beyond our MA membership base, including original Medicare fee-for-service members, as we continue to evolve and expand beyond managed care to a broader clinical services orientation with the ability to manage risk and coordinate care outside of MA. During the quarter, we took the next step in this evolution, introducing CenterWell as the new brand to unite our broad range of payer-agnostic Healthcare Service offerings. The CenterWell brand speaks to how we put our members and patients at the center of everything we do.The first Humana-owned services to adopt the brand are Partners in Primary Care and Family Physician Group, named CenterWell Senior Primary Care. We are also accelerating our strategy around the home. And as I will discuss in a moment, the home will be the next service to adopt the CenterWell brand. We see the home coupled with our primary care strategy as the mix meaningful opportunity to improve access to quality, proactive care for a broader senior population. As such, we continue to invest in assets that allow us to better manage the holistic needs of our members and patients by expanding care in the home, including primary care, telehealth and emergency room care while also addressing social determinants of health. The home health industry is among the fastest-growing healthcare industry in the U.S. as a result of an aging population, the prevalence of chronic disease and growing physician acceptance of care in the home. This need has only been accelerated by COVID-19. However, we recognized for some time that the current volume-based fee-for-service model has limited the innovation in home health. Accordingly, in 2018, we acquired a 40% interest in Kindred at Home, embarking on a journey to test and learn innovative clinical models in the home with the goal of evolving home health to value-based payment models. Today, Kindred at Home employs approximately 43,000 caregivers providing home health, hospice and community care services to over 550,000 patients annually. They have locations in 40 states, providing extensive geographic coverage, with approximately 65% overlap with Humana's individual Medicare Advantage membership.Yesterday, we announced that we signed a definitive agreement to acquire the remaining 60% interest in Kindred at Home. As detailed in the press release we issued last night, the Kindred at Home transaction represents an enterprise value of $8.1 billion, including the value of Humana's existing 40% equity interest. This acquisition, which is expected to close in the third quarter of this year, is the largest in Humana's history and comes at a pivotal time in healthcare, when a worldwide epidemic has exasperated the existing disparities in healthcare for underserved populations and highlighted the power of telehealth and in-home care and addressing those disparities. Further, the pandemic has reinforced patients' increasing desire for convenient and personalized delivery channels, requiring innovative home care offerings. The acquisition of Kindred at Home will provide us with an extensive network of nurses, a critical distribution channel for delivering care in the home. However, we recognize the need for innovative home care offering at scale. Through our successful partnership with Kindred's management team and our private equity partners over the last few years, we have proved that altering the nurses' clinical interaction in the home improves care. We've demonstrated that we can reduce the cost of care and provide value to shareholders through additional referrals to Kindred, advancing effective clinical interventions in the home and supporting higher acuity patients by leveraging other home-based assets we've assembled. Created at home health episodes served by Kindred at Home has increased from 8% to 19% overall in markets with geographic overlap, reaching penetration as high as 49% in certain key markets. In addition, Kindred at Home continues to demonstrate superior patient outcomes, including reduced hospitalizations, admissions and ER utilization.

 



Management's successful transition of Kindred at Home to an independent home health and hospice company, the strong and growing core business as reflected in Kindred's solid historical EBITDA compounded annual growth rate of approximately 20% since 2017, our demonstrated ability to deliver savings to health plans through reduced hospitalizations and the ability to drive increased referrals to Kindred at Home provides us the confidence to accelerate our 100% ownership of Kindred. Full ownership allows us to move from market testing to full-scale implementation over time. We recognize the significant value we can deliver to members and patients by integrating this asset into our holistic approach to care. Fully integrating at home -- Kindred at Home will enable us to more closely align incentives to focus on improving patient outcomes and on reducing the total cost of care. This is critical to deploying at scale a value-based advanced home health model that makes it easier for patients and providers to benefit from our full continuum of home-based capabilities. By leveraging the best channel to deliver the right care needed at the right time, we believe we can deliver outcomes and value beyond what isn't possible in traditional fee-for-service models. As shown on the slide deck that we posted to our Investor Relations website this morning, home health utilizers are 5 times more likely to have an inpatient admission within 120 days of the start of their home health episode as compared to an individual MA member that does not utilize home health.This speaks to the significant opportunity we have to continue to improve outcomes and lower costs for this population. We look forward to sharing additional details about the value creation we plan to drive with our home health strategy at our Investor Day in June. While the acquisition includes the operations of Kindred's hospice and community care operations, our intent is to ultimately only maintain a minority interest in this portion of the asset. Our experience with hospice demonstrates the integration of palliative and traditional hospice care improves the quality of life for patients transitioning from restorative care to hospice. However, we have been successful delivering the desired patient experience and outcomes through partnership models, demonstrating we do not need to own a majority interest in a hospice asset long term. Kindred at Home will be integrated into Humana's Home Solutions business under the leadership of Susan Diamond. When combined, our Home Solutions' geographic scale and clinical breadth will provide the opportunity to offer care beyond Humana members. And as a result, we will transition to our CenterWell brand as CenterWell Home Health. Luckily, Kindred Care services will be integrated and coordinated with other care offerings, including CenterWell's Senior Primary Care and convenience VBID as well as our primary care and emerging care offerings in the home via our investment in Heal and DispatchHealth.Before turning the call over to Brian, I want to acknowledge that this will be his last earnings call at Humana and thank him for his invaluable contribution to Humana over the last several years. Among his many contributions, Brian brought rigor to his role in the creation of a strong financial capability, not only through sophisticated physical and ongoing operational discipline, but also by developing a deep bench of talent within our financial organization to drive this discipline forward. We wish Brian the very best in his next chapter. As previously announced, Brian will remain in his current role through June one and then serve in an advisory role through the end of the year. On June 1, Susan Diamond will assume the role of interim CFO while we complete our search for a permanent replacement. Given Susan's strong knowledge of our business and financial expertise, I have great confidence in her ability to lead the finance team as we recruit a new CFO. Susan will also continue to lead the Home Solutions business.With that, I'll turn the call over to Brian.Brian A. Kane -- Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Bruce, and good morning, everyone. Today, we reported adjusted EPS of $7.67, reflecting a positive start to the year across our segments, particularly in light of the impacts that the pandemic has had on our results, which we outlined on our fourth quarter 2020 earnings call in February. While the first quarter came in modestly ahead of our previous expectations, it is early and we are continuing to work through uncertainty related both to our revenue and claims due to pandemic. Specifically as it relates to revenue, given our significant exposure to Medicare Advantage, we are disproportionately affected by COVID's impact on Medicare Risk Adjustment, or MRA. Our risk-adjusted revenue is determined by 2020 dates of service, medical utilization and resulting documentation, which as previously discussed, was materially depressed last year. In particular, we are focused on monitoring the impacts on utilization from the late surge of COVID cases in 4Q, which occurred following the communication of high-level 2021 guidance on our third quarter earnings call. While the extension of sequestration helps mitigate any potential pressure against our estimates, I would remind investors that a critical indicator of 2021 revenue relative to our initial expectations will be the midyear MRA payment, which we expect from CMS anytime in the next one to three months.The mid-year payment, which effectively rolls forward the dates of service used for 2021 payment to year-end 2020 from mid-year 2020 and incorporates the impact on risk-adjusted revenue of our new members is meaningfully more uncertain this year given the 4Q dynamics I mentioned, as this payment requires significant estimation even in normal times. As it relates to benefits expense, non-COVID utilization is running largely in line with our previous expectations and, as anticipated, is still depressed relative to baseline. The first three months of in-patient admissions were down approximately 20%, 15% and 10% in January, February and March, respectively, relative to baseline, with the first few weeks of April, seeing non-COVID inpatient trends moderate to around 5% depressed. Separately, non-inpatient spend is also depressed, although it appears to be rebounding a bit faster than previously expected, with the caveat that the completion on non-inpatient claims is much slower, and therefore, there is significantly more uncertainty around these service categories in terms of exactly where we stand. Finally, COVID admissions, which tend to have higher unit costs than those of non-COVID, came down more quickly than expected in the quarter. The COVID case deceleration moderated in late March and seems to be holding flat in early April, as certain geographic locations have become hotspots. We expect utilization to continue to rebound at par as we move through the second quarter and to slightly exceed baseline toward the end of the year. Given that we remain in a period of heightened uncertainty, we are reaffirming our full year 2021 adjusted EPS guide of $21.25 to $21.75 as well as the benefit expense and operating cost ratios notwithstanding the favorable first quarter results.This represents adjusted EPS growth of 16% above the 2020 baseline of $18.50 at the midpoint of our guide, nicely above the high end of our long-term EPS growth target of 11% to 15%. I would note that we have been consistent in our expectation of adjusted EPS growth above our long-term target since we provided our initial 2021 commentary on our third quarter 2020 earnings call in November. Additionally, we expect our second quarter adjusted EPS to reflect a low 30s percentage of our full year adjusted EPS. As we look ahead to 2022, we are pleased that our members appear to be engaging in more routine interactions with their providers, which we anticipate will result in more normalized Medicare Advantage revenue next year as providers are able to ensure that our members are receiving an appropriate level of care and that their conditions are being documented. While it is, of course, too early to provide 2022 guidance, I would note that as we think about our Medicare Advantage bids for 2022, our intention is to reflect the continued uncertainty associated with COVID-19 in our premium and claims assumptions. In addition, I would like to reiterate that the appropriate baseline for calculating 2022 adjusted EPS growth is $21.50, the midpoint of our 2021 guidance range. I will now briefly discuss each of our segment's performance in the quarter. In the Retail segment, in addition to the revenue and claims dynamics I discussed, our Medicare Advantage growth remains comfortably on track and consistent with our previous expectations, with individual MA growing solidly above the market at an expected 11% to 12% increase.As Bruce indicated in his remarks, we experienced robust growth in D-SNP membership, adding 95,000 members in the first quarter, with an additional 12,400 added effective April 1. I also want to echo Bruce's congratulations to our Medicaid team on their state contract awards in Ohio and Oklahoma, along with our application approval in South Carolina during the quarter. An incredible achievement, demonstrating the strength of our Medicaid capabilities. In our Group and Specialty segment, consistent with our commentary on our last earnings call in February, medical membership declines on account of COVID were less severe than initially expected coming into the year. The segment performance continues to improve, and we continue to execute on the first phase of a multiyear plan to grow our group commercial and specialty products, bringing in strong new talent, increasing our local presence in certain key markets and deepening our partnerships with innovative companies. Our dental network expansion is proceeding ahead of plan. Our small group commercial medical pipeline volume is back in line with pre-COVID levels. And our Net Promoter Scores for our large group medical accounts were at a record high for first quarter performance. Finally, our Healthcare Services operations remain on track with our previous expectations. In our pharmacy operations, we continue to pursue pharmacy initiatives that we expect to further increase mail order penetration as the year progresses.I would note that this anticipated spend to accelerate growth, coupled with labor-related overtime and shipping costs due to weather-related disruptions in February, did modestly impact the pharmacy business results in the quarter. CenterWell's Senior Primary Care and Conviva are performing well and we continue to execute on our clinic expansion with Welsh, Carson. Kindred at Home is also delivering solid results. And as Bruce indicated in his remarks, we are accelerating our full acquisition of Kindred at Home. With respect to Kindred, last night we announced that we signed a definitive agreement to acquire the remaining 60% interest in Kindred at Home for a total enterprise value of $8.1 billion, including $2.4 billion associated with our current 40% equity interest. We do not anticipate a material impact to non-GAAP or adjusted earnings in 2021. We expect the transaction to provide modest additional financial flexibility as we set targets for 2022 earnings, although I would note that buying in Kindred has long been a part of our financial planning process, which has included providing capability to build out our clinical capabilities and value-based care model.In addition, we intend to exclude onetime transaction and integrated costs related to the acquisition from non-GAAP earnings. Key financial terms are outlined in the slides available on our website accompanying today's earnings call. The innovative partnership we created with Welsh, Carson and TPG will deliver significant strategic and financial value to Humana. Executing on the Kindred at Home transaction now versus waiting for the contracted sponsor put option that would likely not be exercised until mid-2022, given the asset's strong EBITDA growth, not only accelerates the strategic benefits as Bruce described, but importantly, allows us to acquire the nation's largest home health and hospice company for a multiple meaningfully lower than where comparable public companies are trading today. Additionally, we expect that we will be able to capitalize on a robust market for hospice assets by divesting a majority stake in that portion of the business at what we anticipate will be an attractive valuation. As to the EBITDA multiple we are paying for Kindred at Home, investors should consider the $5.7 billion purchase price for the remaining 60% interest, plus our initial investment of $1.1 billion for our 40% stake in 2018, which when grown at a reasonable 8% weighted average cost of capital for a present value of $1.4 billion, equates to a total cash purchase price of approximately $7.1 billion all in. When using a normalized full year 2021 estimated EBITDA for Kindred at Home, inclusive of hospice and community care, the transaction EBITDA multiple is approximately 11 times.It is important to note that the normalized EBITDA excludes expected home care and hospice investments in clinical capabilities and value-based care models, onetime costs including transaction and integration expenses and any potential synergies. The expected synergies will primarily result from the meaningfully enhanced clinical capabilities Bruce has described, which will materialize over time, in addition to the EBITDA benefit of in-sourcing further home health episodes from other home health providers. One other important note regarding the financial value created that I would mention, after adjusting for our intended divestiture of a majority interest in the hospice and community care assets at a reasonable market valuation, the implied transaction EBITDA multiple for acquiring the nation's largest home health business would be in the mid- to high-single digits, based on the roughly 50-50 split of the EBITDA between the home and hospice community care segments. As far as the transaction financing is concerned, we expect to fund the $5.7 billion purchase price, which again is net of our existing equity interest, with a mix of parent company cash and debt financing. The transaction is expected to close in the third quarter of 2021 subject to customary state and federal regulatory approvals. Immediately following the closing of the transaction, we expect our consolidated debt-to-capital ratio to be in the low 40s, with significant deleveraging expected post divestiture of the majority stake in hospice and community care. We expect the debt-to-capital ratio, including assuming a customary level of share repurchase, to return to a more normalized target leverage level during 2022, freeing up the balance sheet for further capital deployment.We anticipate maintaining our investment-grade credit rating as a result of this transaction. Before we open the line up for questions, I want to take a moment to thank our associates, shareholders and sell-side analysts for their support over the last seven years, as this will be my final Humana earnings call. I'm very proud of what the company has accomplished in a period of rapid transformation. And I know that under Bruce's leadership and with the support of the outstanding team across the organization, the company is well positioned to continue to execute on its strategic plan and deliver significant shareholder value in the years ahead. It's been a true honor to serve the millions of Humana members, and I'm grateful to have worked with so many talented colleagues. I remain fully committed to a seamless transition in the coming weeks and months. And I'm very excited that Susan Diamond will serve as interim CFO. Susan is someone I've worked with extensively over the last seven years and is one of the most talented people I know. With that, we will open the lines up for your questions. [Operator Instructions].Operator, please introduce the first caller.