  OperatorPlease note that today's call is being recorded. I would now like to turn the call over to John Campbell, director of investor relations. Sir, you may begin the conference.John Campbell -- Director of Investor Relations Thank you, Brad. Good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining our call today where our CEO, Charlie Scharf and our CFO, Mike Santomassimo, will discuss fourth-quarter results and answer your questions. This call is being recorded.

 



 Before we get started, I would like to remind you that our fourth quarter earnings materials, including the release, financial supplement and presentation deck are available on our website at wellsfargo.com. I'd also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today's call that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings including the Form 8-K filed today containing our earnings materials. Information about any non-GAAP financial measures referenced, including a reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures, can also be found in our SEC filings and the earnings materials available on our website.I will now turn the call over to Charlie. Charlie Scharf -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks very much, John, and good morning, everyone. I'll make some brief comments about our 2021 results, the operating environment and update you on our priorities. I'll then turn the call over to Mike to review fourth quarter results and some of our expectations for 2022 before we take your questions. Let me start with some 2021 highlights.

 



 We earned $21.5 billion or $4.95 per common share in 2021. Expenses declined 7% from a year ago, reflecting lower operating losses and progress on our efficiency initiatives. Revenue increased 6% as we benefited from strong gains from equity securities and gain from sales of our student lending, asset management and corporate trust businesses. We also have broad-based revenue growth across our businesses, including home lending, consumer and small business banking, credit card, auto, commercial real estate, banking and wealth and investment management. Credit quality improved significantly as the economy improved and our customers had high levels of liquidity. Our loan charge-off ratio declined from 35 basis points in 2020 to 18 basis points in 2021, and our allowance for credit losses declined by $5.7 billion. Deposits increased $78 billion or 6% and loans grew 1%, with declines in the first half of the year offset by a 5% increase in the second half. We also returned a significant amount of capital to our shareholders, including increasing our common stock dividend from $0.10 per share to $0.20 per share in the third quarter. And we repurchased $14.5 billion of common stock, predominantly in the second half of the year after the return to the SCB framework. Our results in the fourth quarter also showed continued broad-based momentum. We earned $5.8 billion or $1.38 per common share. We grew loans by $32.6 billion or 4% and deposits by $12.1 billion or 1% from the third quarter. Expenses declined 1% from the third quarter and 11% from a year ago, and we generated positive operating leverage over both periods. Most importantly, we continued to prioritize our risk and control work. And the strong economy continues to positively impact our customers and our results. Consumers continue to have more liquidity than prior to the pandemic, though we do see this declining as the median balances today are 27% higher than pre-pandemic levels but are down 10% from the third quarter.

 



 Consumer credit card spend also continued to be strong, up 28% from the fourth quarter of 2020 and up 27% from the fourth quarter of 2019. Holiday sales were strong with spending up 31% the three weeks leading up to Thanksgiving and that momentum continued post Thanksgiving. All spending categories were up in the fourth quarter compared to a year ago, with the largest increases in travel, fuel, entertainment and dining. Weekly debit card spend during the fourth quarter was up every week compared to both 2019 and 2020. This increase was driven by higher transactions but also higher spend per transaction, reflecting inflationary impacts and increased spending in higher cost categories such as travel. We are watching the impact from Omicron on consumer spending. And while there is some softening in restaurant, travel and entertainment in recent weeks, overall spending remained strong in the first week of January with credit card up 26% and debit card up 29% versus the same week in 2020. And we saw strong loan growth from the third quarter across our commercial businesses, including commercial real estate, asset-based lending, middle market banking and our markets and banking businesses. So I've been at the company for a little over two years now, and I thought I'd spend a few minutes giving you my thoughts on our progress. Overall, I feel great about what we've accomplished and continue to feel energized about the opportunities in front of us. I think about this along several dimensions: talent, leadership and culture, risk regulatory and control, financial and strategic progress and our work on ESG and broader reputational issues. I've spoken of the substantial talent changes we've made, but just to remind you, 11 of 18 members are new to the operating committee and two are new to their job since I arrived. Additionally, well over half of the senior-most people at our company, meaning those who are one level below the operating committee, are new to their roles and a significant proportion of them were hired from outside the company. This is a dramatic change in our leadership. And with it, we've changed how we run the company, how we prioritize our work and how we view our responsibility broadly. We began a process two years ago to change the culture and priorities of the company. And the most significant part of this prioritization was the building and implementation of an effective risk and control framework across the company. Our approach and our progress are entirely different than they were when I arrived. We are laser-focused on meeting our own expectations and those of our regulators. We have clear plans in place and clear owners for every regulatory deliverable we have. We have detailed reporting on how we're progressing on those plans. We review this reporting every single week at the operating committee level. The detailed involvement of the operating committee members is very different from what was happening before I arrived. Our ability to identify issues has also improved from two years ago. I continue to believe that we're making significant progress, and this is based on what we see in our internal reporting. It doesn't mean that we're perfect. The fact that we have multiple consent orders makes it complex. It takes time to build all of our capabilities. And it's certainly in the regulator's purview to look at issues that have been outstanding for a long time, like the OCC did in the third quarter. But I would point you to the comment made by the OCC in their recent consent order that highlights that we have taken steps to comply with their 2018 order, and we're committed to addressing remaining requirements. I remain confident in our ability to continue to close the remaining gaps over the next several years. Having said that, it continues to be the case that we're likely to have setbacks along the way, but that doesn't change the fact that we believe that the quality of the talent we now have and the processes we now have in place will enable us to get the work done. We're making progress increasing the earnings power of the company and have also begun to invest in a more holistic and aggressive way to drive stronger organic growth in all of our businesses. We're just now beginning to bring things to market that are differentiated and the number of significant opportunities are exciting. We're continuing to track to the financial return goals we've discussed: first, achieve a sustainable 10% ROTCE, subject to the same assumptions we've discussed in the past and then target 15%. We continue to believe that we will achieve the 10% during one of the quarters in 2022 on an annualized basis. To achieve this, we're aggressively focused on driving efficiencies and we're seeing net expense reductions after significant investments in our control build-out and our businesses. We are aggressively returning excess capital to shareholders now that we've returned to the SCB framework. We continue to manage credit well, and we're seeing early benefits from higher interest rates, growing loan balances and higher fees in certain businesses. We're doing this while devoting significant resources to building our franchise. We have fallen behind in providing competitive digital capabilities for our clients. This is changing. In the fourth quarter, we announced a rebuilt mobile banking experience for consumer and small business customers that is set to begin rolling out this quarter. It has a new modern look and feel and a simpler user experience that will help our customers more easily accomplish their banking needs. This platform is necessary to drive significantly higher digital adoption from our customers. Even with our existing capabilities, in the fourth quarter, our customers logged in 1.6 billion times using a mobile device, up 7% year over year. Teller transactions remained more than 30% lower than pre-pandemic levels. We also announced that later this year, we'll be adding an all-new virtual assistant, Fargo to the app. Customers will be able to get answers to their everyday banking questions, ask Fargo to complete the task for them, and Fargo will also provide personalized insights and recommendations to help customers better manage their finances. We will also be introducing the first phase of the redesign of our public website early this year. In addition, we're beginning to become more active on the wholesale side. For example, we announced that we're collaborating with HSBC to optimize the settlement of foreign exchange transactions through a blockchain-based solution, which will reduce settlement risks and associated costs. We're also approaching payments and credit cards very differently. We believe credit cards will remain important as both the credit and as a payment vehicle. We were also doing additional work around non-card payments and believe we must succeed here to be a key financial services provider. Two years ago, our products and capabilities supporting those products were not as competitive as necessary. In 2021, we launched two products including, Active Cash, which we believe is the best cash-backed product in the marketplace, and Reflect, which rewards customers for on-time payments. We improved the core experience, including investing in advertising, simplifying our digital application and enhancing our underwriting. These efforts have driven an increase in digital card activation, paperless statements and enrollment alerts. We are opening approximately twice as many accounts as we were prelaunch of these products, and importantly, we're not competing on credit. In fact, the quality of applications and the accounts for booking continues to be better than what we were booking historically. Away from card, we're beginning to invest in our broader digital payments across the platform, enhancing our capabilities, increasing limits and broadly reducing the friction and moving money. As evidence, Zelle momentum continued to accelerate with Zelle transactions up 46% from a year ago. We are also taking a very different approach in that we believe that for us to be successful. We must consider a broader set of stakeholders in our decisions and actions. This is not in lieu of shareholders. In fact, we believe it will enhance our returns to shareholders over time. We have taken significant efforts to support small businesses since the beginning of the pandemic and recently fulfilled our roughly $420 million Open for Business fund commitment to assist small businesses in recovering from the pandemic, by working with not-for-profits to offer capital, technical assistance and long-term programs. The fund was created by donating the gross processing fees we made from administering the Paycheck Protection Program loans in 2020. Additionally, we made significant climate commitments in 2021. In the fourth quarter, we joined the Net Zero Banking Alliance, an industry-led leadership group designed to foster collaboration and support banks in aligning their financing with the goal of achieving net zero greenhouse gas emissions. Climate change is one of the most urgent environmental and social issues of our time. And last year, we announced our goal to achieve net zero greenhouse gas emissions, including emissions attributable to financing by 2050. We expect to announce our first finance emission targets for the oil and gas and power sectors later this year. We made our first solar-plus-battery-storage tax equity commitment. Once it is operational, it will be one of the largest solar and battery projects in the company. Last year, we surpassed $13.3 billion in cumulative tax equity investments in nearly 600 wind, solar and fuel cell transactions. These investments have provided 13% of all utility scale wind and solar capacity in the U.S. over the past 16 years. We continue to be one of the top investors in affordable multifamily housing in the U.S. as well as an active lender for affordable rental housing developments. Additionally, we're committed to expanding affordable homeownership. For example, in the fourth quarter, we committed to invest $5 million through the Neighborhood LIFT program to help more than 300 low and moderate income residents in Houston with home payment down assistance -- I'm sorry, home down payment assistance. We've also supported our employees and in December, we announced that as part of our commitment to providing comprehensive benefits and competitive pay, we're increasing U.S. minimum pay hourly pay levels to a range of $18 to $22 effective at the end of this month. Just this week, we announced new efforts that will roll out over the course of 2022 to help our consumer customers avoid overdraft fees and cover short-term cash needs, building on other changes we've made over the last several years. The changes we announced include the elimination of transfer fees for customers enrolled in overdraft protection, the elimination of nonsufficient fund fees, early access to direct deposit by providing customer access to funds up to two days before their scheduled deposit, a 24-hour grace period for customers that overdraw their account to cover the balance before incurring an overdraft fee, and a new short-term credit product for customers to meet personal financial needs. This builds on existing features we already have in place, including Clear Access Banking, our no-overdraft checking account that we launched in September 2020, and we now have over 1.1 million outstanding customer accounts. Overdraft Rewind, which was introduced in 2017, which automatically rewinds overdraft fees when a covering direct deposit is received by the next morning, which were replaced by our expanded 24-hour grace period. Balance alerts that help customers avoid overdraft by sending more than 1.3 million alerts every day. Putting all of these changes in perspective, these fees are down significantly since the financial crisis. We have alternatives for both customers that do not want to overdraft and those that do. This is a competitive marketplace. We continue to review our capabilities and pricing with the goal of providing value to our customer. And let me make a few comments now as we look forward. While there is a risk with the continued growth of the Omicron variant or potentially other variants later this year, I expect to see continued strong economic trends in 2022. Consumers' financial condition remains strong. Modest debt growth, strong asset appreciation and higher deposit balances have left household balance sheets in excellent condition, which should help drive continued strong consumer spending. Corporate America has demonstrated the ability to adapt to the ever-changing pandemic conditions. Inventories remained unusually lean as businesses adopted a defensive posture and supply chains have been disrupted. This is expected to result in substantial gains in industrial production as they continue to restock. We're beginning to see loan growth and expect this to continue. In a moment, Mike will provide our thoughts on net interest income and expenses for 2022. I commented earlier that we remain on target to achieve a sustainable 10% ROTCE, subject to the same assumptions we've discussed in the past, on a run rate basis at some point this year. And that once we've achieved this goal, we'll discuss our plan to continue to increase returns. But at a high level, we continue to believe we can further improve our returns through a combination of factors including a modest increase in interest rates or further steepening of the curve; ongoing progress on incremental efficiency initiatives; a small impact from returns on growth-related investments in our businesses; continued execution on our risk and regulatory control framework; and moderate balance sheet growth once the asset cap is lifted. It's important to note we currently have the ability to grow loans even under the asset cap. The changes we made to the company and continued strong economic growth prospects make us feel good about how we're positioned entering 2022. We also remain cognizant that we still have a multiyear effort to satisfy our regulatory requirements with setbacks likely to continue along the way. And we continue our work to put exposures related to our historical practices behind us. As we look forward, we will continue to be aggressive in driving progress and improvement in our performance, embrace our responsibility to our customers and communities, and I remain incredibly optimistic about our future. I want to conclude by thanking our employees who continue to serve our customers through another challenging year. I appreciate their hard work and their resiliency while we made progress on making Wells Fargo better. I look forward to all that we accomplish in the year ahead. I will now turn the call over to Mike.Mike Santomassimo -- Chief Financial Officer Great. Thanks, Charlie, and good morning, everybody. Charlie summarized how we helped our customers, communities and employees last year on Slides 2 and 3, so I'm going to start with our fourth quarter financial results on Slide 4. Net income for the quarter was $5.8 billion or $1.38 common share. Our fourth-quarter results included a $943 million net gain on the sales of our Corporate Trust Services business and Wells Fargo Asset Management. There could be future gains related to these sales due to post-closing adjustments and earn-out provisions; an $875 million decrease in allowance for credit losses as credit trends continue to be strong; and a $260 million impairment of certain leased railcars due to changes in demand for these cars. We also had $2.5 billion or $1.9 billion after non-controlling interest of equity gains, primarily from our affiliated venture capital and private equity businesses, the third consecutive quarter of strong returns in these businesses. Our effective income tax rate in the fourth quarter was approximately 23%, including the discrete impacts related to business divestitures. Our CET1 ratio declined to 11.4% in the fourth quarter, reflecting share repurchases and an increase in risk-weighted assets primarily from loan growth in the quarter. We repurchased $7 billion of common stock in the fourth quarter, partially offset by $1.4 billion of new issuances, predominantly for the annual matching contribution for our 401k plans. As a reminder, the regulatory minimum for our CET1 ratio will be 9.1% in the first quarter of 2022, reflecting a lower G-SIB capital surcharge. Turning to credit quality on Slide 6. Our net charge-off ratio was 19 basis points in the fourth quarter. Commercial credit performance continued to be strong with net loan charge-offs declining $10 million from the third quarter to two basis points. Despite the challenges created by the pandemic, the commercial real estate portfolio has continued to perform well. Commercial real estate valuations and investment activity has rebounded off their lows across all property types, although there is still some risk in office and select hotel and retail segments. Consumer credit performance also remained strong with higher collateral values for homes and autos and consumer cash reserves remain above pre-pandemic levels. Consumer net charge-offs of $393 million increased $172 million from the third quarter. $152 million of the increase is related to a change in practice to fully charge off certain delinquent legacy residential mortgage loans. Nonperforming assets increased $145 million or 2% from the third quarter, driven by an increase in residential mortgage nonaccruals, primarily resulting from certain customers exiting COVID-related accommodation programs. Loans that were modified in 2021 upon exiting forbearance are reported as nonaccrual until they perform for a period of time. Overall, early performance of loans that have exited forbearance have been aligned with our expectations. After increasing during the first four quarters of the pandemic, commercial nonperforming assets have declined for four consecutive quarters, and we're back to pre-pandemic levels in the fourth quarter. Our allowance level at the end of the fourth quarter reflected continued strong credit performance, the ongoing economic recovery and the uncertainties that still remain. If the economic recovery continues, we would expect to have additional reserve releases. On Slide 7, we highlight loans and deposits. Average loans grew 2% from the third quarter with growth in both our commercial and consumer portfolios. We had strong growth late in the quarter and period-end loans grew $32.6 billion or 4% from the third quarter with broad-based growth across most of our commercial and consumer portfolios. I'll highlight the specific growth geographies over when discussing business segment results. Average deposits increased $89.9 billion or 7% from a year ago with growth in our consumer businesses and commercial banking, partially offset by continued declines in corporate, investment banking and in corporate treasury, reflecting targeted actions to manage under the asset cap. Turning to net interest income on Slide 8. A year ago, we provided our expectation for 2021 net interest income to be flat to down 4% from the originally reported annualized fourth quarter 2020 level, and we ended up being down 3% for the full year. Fourth quarter net interest income was down $93 million or 1% from a year ago and grew $353 million or 4% from the third quarter. The increase in the third quarter was driven by higher loan balances, including higher interest income from loans purchased from securitization pools or EPBOs. We also benefited from higher trading assets and a favorable funding mix. In the fourth quarter, we had $318 million of interest income associated with EPBOs, and at year-end, we had a total of $17.3 billion of these loans, down from $34.8 highlighted last quarter, we expect these balances to decline substantially by the end of this year. We also had $130 million of interest income in the fourth quarter from Paycheck Protection Program loans or PPP loans, and are outstanding decline to $2.4 billion at year-end. We've reflected the headwind from these portfolios running off in our 2022 net interest income waterfall that I will review later on the call. The net interest margin increased eight basis points from the third quarter three basis points of which was due to higher interest income from EPBOs. Now turning to Expenses on Slide 9. Noninterest expense declined 11% from a year ago. The decrease reflected progress we made on our efficiency initiatives, including reductions in personnel costs, consultant spend and occupancy expense. I will provide specific examples of the progress we made in our efficiency initiatives in 2021 later on the call before updating you on our expense expectations for 2022. We also had lower restructuring charges and operating losses in the fourth quarter compared with a year ago. Fourth quarter expenses included one month or approximately $100 million of operating expenses from our Corporate Trust Services business and Wells Fargo Asset Management prior to their sales on November 1. Now turning to our business segments starting with Consumer Banking lending on Slide 10. Consumer and Small Business Banking revenue increased 4% from a year ago, primarily due to higher deposit-related fees as fourth quarter 2020 included some COVID-related fee waivers. Fourth quarter 2021 also reflected an increase in consumer activity, including higher debit card transactions compared with a year ago and the benefit of strong deposit growth was largely offset by lower spreads. Charlie highlighted the enhancements and changes we're making to help our customers avoid overdraft fees. The impact from the fees that will be reduced, including the elimination of nonsufficient fund or NSF fees as well as overdraft protection transfer fees, is estimated to be approximately $700 million annually. Also, we expect that they may be partially offset by other fees due to higher levels of activity as well as the expiration of various fee-related waivers that were in place in 2021. In terms of new features to be rolled out in the latter part of the year, including a 24-hour grace period for overdrafts and a new short-term loan product, we will have to observe how customers respond. Home lending revenue declined 8% from a year ago, primarily due to lower mortgage banking income, driven by lower gain on sale margins and origination volumes. Even before the recent rate back up, we started to see a drop in application volume in December, and we expect originations to decline in 2022, which will put pressure on margins as the industry adapts to the lower volume. Credit card revenue was up 3% from a year ago, driven by higher point-of-sale volume, partially offset by higher rewards costs, including promotional offers on our new active Cash Card. Auto revenue increased 17% from a year ago and higher loan balances with the average balances up $6.8 billion. Turning to some key business drivers on Slide 11. Our mortgage originations declined 7% from the third quarter. We expect our first quarter originations to continue to decline due to lower refinance activity and the typical seasonal slowdown in the purchase market. We increased our nonconforming originations in the fourth quarter and have grown our nonconforming portfolio for seven consecutive months, reflecting the improvements in our capabilities, as well as the reintroduction of cash-out refinancing late in the first quarter of 2021. Turning to Auto. Limited vehicle inventories continued to constrain industry new car sales. However, we had our third consecutive quarter of record originations with volume up 77% from a year ago, with the majority of our originations coming from used cars. Originations also benefited from the enhancements we continue to make in our capabilities. Importantly, we are maintaining our underwriting standards and continue to be cautious about the increase in vehicle prices over the last year or so. Turning to debit card. Transactions were relatively stable from the third quarter and up 10% from a year ago with increases across nearly all categories. Credit card point of sale purchase volume continued to be strong, was up 28% from a year ago and 11% from the third quarter. While payment rates remain elevated, balances grew 5% from a year ago due to strong purchase volume and the launch of new products. New credit card accounts more than doubled from a year ago, driven by our new active cash card, and we're pleased by the quality of the accounts we've been attracting. Turning to commercial banking results on Slide 12. Middle market banking revenue increased 2% from a year ago. Results included higher deposit balances and modestly higher investment banking fees, partially offset by the impact of lower interest rates. Asset-based lending and leasing revenue increased 1% from a year ago, driven by higher net gains from equity securities and higher revenue from renewable energy investments, partially offset by lower loan balances. Noninterest expense declined 10% from a year ago, primarily driven by lower personnel and consulting expense due to the efficiency initiatives as well as lower lease expense. Loan balances started to increase late in the third quarter and now have grown for four consecutive months with growth accelerating in December. As with other portfolios, we are adhering to the same credit risk appetite. Increases in the middle market banking were driven by growth from our larger clients, a modest uptick in revolver utilization and strong seasonal borrowing. Growth in asset-based lending and leasing was driven by new client wins as well as increased levels from higher prices and some increases in inventory levels. Turning to corporate investment banking on Slide 13. Banking revenue increased 17% from a year ago. Investment banking had a strong quarter, with higher debt origination and advisory fees. Banking results also benefited from higher loan estate revenue grew 8% from a year ago, driven by higher loan balances and capital markets results in stronger commercial real estate financing activity. Loan originations returned to pre-pandemic levels, and we had a healthy pipeline as we started the new year. Markets revenue was relatively stable from a year ago. It was down 14% from the third quarter, primarily due to lower trading activity in spread products and equity derivatives. Average deposits in corporate and investment banking were down $23.7 billion from a year ago, driven by actions taken across all lines of business to manage under the asset cap. Average loans increased from both the third quarter and a year ago across all lines of business. On a period-end basis, loans grew every month since June and growth accelerated in December. Wealth and investment management on Slide 14. The revenue grew 6% from a year ago as higher asset-based fees and market valuations more than offset a decline in net interest income due to lower interest rates. The 5% increase in expenses from a year ago was primarily driven by higher revenue-related compensation, which was more than offset by higher revenue. This increase was partially offset by lower salaries expense, reflecting progress on efficiency initiatives. Client assets year ago, primarily driven by higher market valuations. Average deposits were up 7% from a year ago and average loans increased 5% from a year ago, driven by continued momentum in securities-based lending. Slide 15 highlights our corporate results. Revenue increased from a year ago, driven by strong results in our affiliated venture capital and private equity businesses and gains on the sales of our Corporate Trust Services business and Wells Fargo Asset Management. These businesses contributed $1.6 billion of revenue in 2021, excluding net gains on sale and $1.5 billion of noninterest expense. We expect approximately $200 million of these expenses associated with remain in 2022, with offsetting revenue so its P&L neutral. We also expect approximately $300 million of corporate overhead expenses related to these businesses to remain in 2022, which we expect to manage down over time. Turning now to our expectations for 2022, starting with Net Interest Income on Slide 16. As the last couple of weeks have demonstrated, it's challenging this early in the year to predict the rate environment, loan demand and other variables that impact net interest income for the full year. But let me highlight the key drivers of our net interest income for 2022. We are assuming the asset capital remain in place throughout 2022, moving left to right on the waterfall. As we have discussed previously, we have a headwind this year from the runoff of PPP and EPBO loans. However, our current outlook loans is for average balances to grow low to mid-single digits from the fourth quarter of 2021 to the fourth quarter of 2022, along with other balance sheet mix changes, this is expected to more than offset that headwind. This net result would increase net interest income approximately 3% in 2022 from the $35.8 billion we generated in 2021. Moving to rates and repricing. The recent forward curve includes approximately 325 basis point rate hikes this year beginning in May. Assuming these were to play out, net interest income has the potential to grow up to an additional 5%, resulting in approximately 8% net interest income growth in 2022 versus 2021. That said, the implied forward curve has changed a lot over the last one and a half months, so it's very hard to forecast with any certainty. Another way to view our asset sensitivity is from the disclosure we provided in our third quarter 10-Q filing. It showed that the estimated impact of an instantaneous 50 basis points increase in short-term rates would increase net interest income by approximately $2.7 billion over the next 12 months. Ultimately, the amount of net interest income we earn in 2022 will depend on a variety of factors, including the absolute level of interest rates, the shape of the yield curve, loan demand and cash redeployment. Now turning to expenses on Slide 17. We made progress last year on our efficiency initiatives and we continue to identify new opportunities. Our portfolio of initiatives that includes realized and identified potential gross saves has grown from approximately $8 billion to $10 billion, and we are continuing to work across the company. We expect to execute on our remaining identified initiatives over the next two to three years, and we'll continue to invest across our businesses. Importantly, similar to last year, we are excluding from our efficiency initiatives the resources needed to address our risk and control work, and we'll continue to add resources as necessary to complete this important work. We've been reducing expenses across our businesses, but let me highlight a few examples of the progress we made last year. We eliminated management layers and increased bank control with a 20% decrease in managers with low spending control. We completed approximately 270 branch consolidations in 2021, a continuation of the progress we've made the last few years with branches down 11% since 2019. We've also optimized branch our customers or how our customers are using our branches. Within our technology organization, we reduced non-engineering roles by approximately 40%, driven by accelerated adoption of the agile framework. And headcount across the company declined approximately 6% from a year ago, excluding divested businesses. In addition to reducing the number of branches, we also reduced our office real estate portfolio by approximately 7% and occupancy expense was down 9% compared with a year ago. This year, we expect to continue to realize savings from these initiatives, including an incremental 5% reduction in office real estate. Additionally, the investments we're making in technology should drive improvements in operations, consumer banking, consumer lending, commercial banking. Importantly, these efforts should not only reduce expenses but also improve the customer experience with enhanced fraud detection, more service self-service capabilities and faster underwriting decisions. Now turning to our 2022 Expense Outlook on Slide 18. Following the waterfall from left to right, we reported $53.8 billion of noninterest expense in 2021. This was largely in line with our most recent guidance, except for higher operating losses. We had approximately $500 million of expenses in 2021 related to business exits and restructuring charges and the civil money penalty associated with the OCC enforcement action in September. We also had approximately $1 billion of expenses in 2021 from the Wells Fargo Asset Management and our Corporate Trust Services business, which were sold and that will not continue in 2022. So we believe a good starting point for the discussion of 2022 expenses is the $52.3 billion. We are assuming a modest increase in equity markets this year and expect revenue-related expenses to grow by approximately $300 million. This includes expected increases in wealth and investment management and corporate investment banking, partially offset by expected declines in home lending, reflecting lower origination volumes. Higher revenue-related compensation is a good thing, and the associated revenue will more than offset any increase in expenses. We also expect approximately $500 million of wage and benefits-related inflationary increases in 2022 above and beyond the normal level of merit and pay increases, driven by higher personnel expenses, including the minimum wage increase that Charlie highlighted and other compensation changes. Through our efficiency initiatives, we expect to realize approximately $3.3 billion of gross expense reductions from 2022. This reduction is expected to be partially offset by approximately $1.2 billion of incremental investments primarily related to higher personnel in expenses in commercial banking, corporate and investment banking and technology, as well as increased spending on risk management. We also expect approximately $500 million in increased spending in other areas, including higher FDIC insurance assessments, higher travel and entertainment expenses, which were significantly lower in 2021 due to the pandemic. Accordingly, our full year 2022 expenses are expected to be approximately $51.5 billion, a net reduction of approximately $800 million versus the $52.3 billion. Embedded in our assumptions are approximately $1.3 billion of operating losses for 2022, which is the amount we had in 2021, excluding the $250 million associated with the OCC enforcement action. While we've made significant progress on working through legacy issues, as we've previously disclosed, we still have outstanding litigation and regulatory issues, and related expenses could significantly exceed the levels we had in 2021. We made substantial progress last year in executing our efficiency initiatives, but we still have significant opportunity to get more efficient across the company. We are focused on achieving net expense reductions while appropriately investing in our businesses. This remains a multiyear process, with the ultimate goal of achieving an efficiency ratio in line with our peers and based on our business mix. We'll now take your questions. 