  OperatorGood day and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the APA Corporation's fourth quarter 2021 earnings announcement. [Operator instructions] I'd now like to hand the conference over to Gary Clark, vice president of investor relations. Please go ahead.Gary Clark -- Vice President, Investor Relations Good morning, and thank you for joining us on APA Corporation's fourth quarter 2021 financial and operational results conference call. We will begin the call with an overview by CEO and President John Christmann. Steve Riney, executive vice president and CFO, will then provide further color on our results and 2022 outlook. Also on the call and available to answer questions are Dave Pursell, executive vice president of development; Tracey Henderson, senior vice president of exploration; and Clay Bretches, executive vice president of operations.

 



 Our prepared remarks will be approximately 25 minutes in length, with the remainder of the hour allotted for Q&A. In conjunction with yesterday's press release, I hope you've had the opportunity to review our fourth quarter financial and operational supplement, which can be found on our investor relations website at investor.apacorp.com. Please note that we may discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of the difference between these non-GAAP financial measures and the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in the supplemental information provided on our website.Consistent with previous reporting practices, adjusted production numbers cited in today's call are adjusted to exclude noncontrolling interest in Egypt and Egypt's tax barrels. I'd like to remind everyone that today's discussion will contain forward-looking estimates and assumptions based on our current views and reasonable expectations. However, a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from what we discuss today. A full disclaimer is located with the supplemental information on our website. And with that, I will turn the call over to John. John Christmann -- Chief Executive Officer and President

 



 Good morning, and thank you for joining us. At the beginning of each year, I'd like to look back and reflect on our progress and 2021 marked an important turning point for APA Corporation. While there is clearly much more to accomplish, I believe we made outstanding progress on six specific fronts last year. First, we demonstrated the robust cash flow capacity of our base business. We entered 2021 with a plan to generate around $350 million of free cash flow assuming $45 WTI. By being mostly unhedged and with the benefit of a $68 average WTI price tailwind, free cash flow exceeded our plan by nearly $1.5 billion and came in at $1.8 billion for the year. This represents the highest annual free cash flow in more than a decade and is one of the highest in the company's 67-year history. Keep in mind, these results do not include any free cash flow uplift that will come following the Egypt PSC modernization we completed in late December. The free cash flow capacity of our base business has significantly improved over the past few years. We have accomplished this improvement through multiple initiatives focused on portfolio enhancement, improved capital allocation and capital productivity, per barrel margin expansion and relentless overhead cost rationalization. Although we are getting some traction in the market, we believe our free cash flow capacity is still not fully appreciated. Second, we strengthened the company financially. By maintaining capital discipline and investing in a level slightly below our plan, we let the strengthening oil price flow directly through to the balance sheet reducing upstream net debt in 2021 by $1.2 billion. In one year, we accomplished what we thought would take multiple years and made great progress toward our goal of returning to investment-grade status. Third, we initiated a capital return framework for our shareholders. In the fourth quarter, on the back of a strengthening balance sheet, we implemented a robust long-term framework for returning capital to shareholders.

 



 Reducing debt was and continues to be important. However, we reached a point in 2021 where it became appropriate for equity holders to participate more directly and materially in cash returns. We feel our 60% return framework is a good balance, providing near-term cash returns to shareholders while still recognizing the importance of longer-term balance sheet strengthening. Thus far, we have returned capital under the new framework, primarily through share repurchases as we bought back nearly eight and a half percent of outstanding shares during the fourth quarter. We felt this was appropriate given the sizable gap in the free cash flow yield at which our stock was trading relative to our peer group. We are committed to returning capital under the 60% framework for the long term and anticipate a progressively larger dividend component as we see improvement in our relative share price performance, further strengthening of our balance sheet and reduced oil and gas price volatility. Fourth, we refreshed the economic foundation for our business in Egypt. At the end of December, we finalized our agreement to modernize the terms of our production sharing contracts in Egypt. We have a long history with Egypt, and this agreement sets the foundation for many years of a mutually beneficial partnership. The improved PSC terms return Egypt to the best long-term investment opportunity in our portfolio. In turn, this incentivizes increased capital spending and a return to long-term production growth. This is a tremendous outcome for both Egypt and for APA. Fifth, we continue to streamline our Permian portfolio. In 2021, we sold $256 million of noncore assets in the Permian Basin, and we plan to close on the sale of an $805 million mineral rights package in the Delaware Basin within the next week. You should anticipate continued noncore Permian asset sales. And finally, we made good progress toward a potential FID in Suriname. In November, we announced a successful flow test and pressure buildup at our Sapakara South appraisal well. With further information and analysis, we are increasing our estimate of the connected resource in place in a single zone at Sapakara South-1 to more than 400 million barrels. We look forward to additional appraisal that should further increase the estimated resource in place at Sapakara South. We also announced a follow-on discovery at Krabdagu, which lies approximately 18 kilometers to the east of Sapakara South. We will initiate flow testing at Krabdagu in the coming days, and we'll share more details at the appropriate time. 2021 was also a transformational year for Altus. This week, we plan to close the previously announced merger with privately held EagleClaw Midstream, which will significantly scale the business and reduce APA's ownership to a minority interest. The combination creates the largest and best-in-class gathering, processing and transportation company in the Delaware Basin with capacity for product delivery to the Gulf Coast. The outlook for the new company is strong, and their plan is to maintain and ultimately grow the $6 per share dividend. For APA, this transaction enables deconsolidation of the midstream business and its associated debt. It also provides APA an opportunity for near-term liquidity of almost one-third of our 12.9 million Altus shares. 2021 was also a year of significant progress on our ESG initiatives and safety performance. We firmly believe that being proactive with respect to ESG is one of the most important strategic imperatives facing our industry. Our collective ability to meet much needed energy demand while also reducing emissions will determine our long-term success and viability. APA is committed to being part of the solution and part of the future, and we plan to demonstrate that commitment through a strong bias for near-term actions that will make a real difference. In 2021, we set an ambitious goal of eliminating routine flaring in the Permian Basin by year-end, which we accomplished three months ahead of schedule. APA is the first among its publicly traded peers in the Permian to end routine flaring, and we applaud the numerous companies that are now taking measures to do the same. APA also seeks continuous improvement in our safety performance and protocols. In 2021, we achieved a significant improvement in the three key safety indicators that impact the annual incentive compensation of every employee in the company. I am proud of our teams for delivering these results. The task now is to build on these successes in the future. In summary, 2021 was a year of outstanding progress for APA. The achievements I just highlighted, along with several important ongoing initiatives, will improve our operational and financial performance and sustainability for years to come. Turning now to the fourth quarter results. APA generated $1.3 billion of adjusted EBITDAX, making it our best quarter of the year. Upstream capital spending was $334 million for the quarter and $1.06 billion for the full year, both of which were below guidance. U.S. production exceeded guidance again in the fourth quarter as we continue to deliver good performance from our Permian oil plays and at Alpine High. Our focus was on increasing efficiencies through longer laterals, optimize well spacing and enhanced completion design. The success of these initiatives was recently recognized by J.P. Morgan analyst, Arun Jayaram, who named APA as a top performer in his analysis of 2021 Midland Basin well performance. As we noted in prior calls, U.S. well connections in the second half of 2021 were significantly lower than in the first half due to the timing of our DUC completion program. Accordingly, we placed only 13 wells online in the U.S. during the fourth quarter, 11 of which were in the Southern Midland Basin. The remaining two completions were in the East Texas Austin Chalk. In October, a dedicated rig arrived in the Austin Chalk and initiated a drilling program that is expected to run through 2022. Internationally, gross production was up in the fourth quarter. However, adjusted volumes were below guidance due to unplanned downtime in the North Sea during the month of December. On the cost side, LOE increased again in the fourth quarter and was higher than our guidance. We have begun to see the impacts of inflation, particularly in fuel, chemicals, labor and steel costs. These pressures are showing up in all areas of spend. In yesterday's earnings materials, we set forth some high-level guidance on APA's three-year outlook which I would now like to provide a bit more color around. With the onset of the pandemic at the beginning of 2020 and the resulting oil price collapse, we cut capital investment to protect the balance sheet. As a result, our base production levels have been in decline for the last two years. With the stronger oil price environment and an improved financial situation, our overarching goal for the next few years is to return to pre-pandemic production levels and then invest at a pace that will sustain or modestly grow those production volumes. Our capital program for 2022 will be approximately $1.6 billion, a slight increase from our prior view. This includes some small changes to the timing of the rig count increases in Egypt and in the U.S. as well as an updated view of inflation. This amount also includes $200 million for exploration and appraisal activities, mostly in Suriname. In 2023 and 2024, capital increases a little further despite a mostly unchanged activity set as we expect continued inflationary pressures. Over the three-year period, we're planning on an aggregate capital investment of around $5 billion. Based on this planned level of capital activity, we should exit 2024 at production levels similar to 2019 after adjusting 2019 for divestments. Most of the growth will come from Egypt, with some modest improvement in the U.S. and declining volumes in the North Sea. At current strip pricing, we expect to generate approximately $6.5 billion of free cash flow over the next three years. By any measure, this is a strong free cash flow yield relative to market cap or enterprise value, and it would be even stronger, if not for the heavily backwardated strip pricing. I would remind everyone that these numbers assume no production volumes from Suriname but do include continued capital investment for exploration and appraisal. If we FID any discoveries on Block 58 during the next three years, planned capex would increase modestly since 75% of our appraisal and development spend will be funded by our partner. Additionally, this outlook does take into account the pending Delaware Basin minerals package sale, but assumes no further portfolio changes. Finally, our commitment to return capital to shareholders over the next three years will remain unchanged. We will return a minimum of 60% of our free cash flow to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. Before turning the call over to Steve, I'd like to wrap up with a few remarks about our ESG goals and initiatives. We have established several rigorous goals for 2022, which are designed to move the ESG needle as quickly as possible. We remain focused on our key pillars of air, water and communities and people. Our short-term incentive compensation plan for 2022 includes three specific ESG-related goals. We will reduce upstream routine flaring in Egypt by 40%. We will initiate new programs to promote and deliver increased supplier diversity, and we will implement a new workplace ecosystem that recognizes the changing dynamics of technology and work schedules for our employees. We have also established rigorous new safety compliance protocols and metrics as we pursue continuous improvement in the health and well-being of our workforce and for the communities in which we operate. As we look to the longer term, we will invest a minimum of $100 million over the next three years in ESG initiatives, much of which will be focused on global emissions reductions programs. To underscore our commitment to these efforts, for the first time, we have added an emissions-related goal to our long-term incentive compensation plan. By the end of 2024, our goal is to deliver emissions-focused projects that eliminate at least 1 million tonnes of CO2 emissions per year. To provide added transparency, we plan to have these projects and their associated CO2 reductions externally verified. And with that, I will turn the call over to Steve Riney.Steve Riney -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, John. So let me start with further details related to our fourth quarter results. As noted in our news release yesterday, under generally accepted accounting principles, APA Corporation reported fourth quarter 2021 consolidated net income of $382 million or $1.05 per diluted common share. These results include several items that are outside of APA's core earnings, the largest of which was associated with non-cash impairments, primarily on Altus Midstream's interest in the EPIC Crude Pipeline. Net of tax and noncontrolling interest, this reduced APA earnings by $123 million. The partial reversal of prior tax valuation allowances and other tax adjustments had a $42 million benefit to earnings. Please see our detailed table of non-GAAP financial measures in our financial and operational supplement for a full reconciliation of adjusted earnings. Excluding these and other smaller items, adjusted net income for the fourth quarter was $468 million or $1.29 per diluted common share. Lease operating expense in the quarter was above guidance as a result of increasing inflationary pressures and higher-than-expected emissions costs in the North Sea. In the U.K., the price of emission credits has nearly doubled since credit auctions were initiated in May of 2021. G&A expense was also significantly above guidance, primarily due to the fourth quarter strength in our stock price and the resulting impact on non-cash stock-related compensation expense. Costs were also impacted by a higher-than-planned incremental incentive compensation accrual in the quarter. Due to these higher costs as well as lower oil, gas and NGL prices in November and December, free cash flow for the quarter was $485 million below our guidance of $600 million, which we provided in early November. As John noted, the modernized production sharing contract in Egypt was ratified in late December. If you haven't already done so, please refer to the Egypt PSC modernization investor presentation on our website for more details related to the updated terms and their anticipated impacts. The new agreement became effective on April 1, 2021. From that date to the end of 2021, the true-up of revenue sharing net of some small closing-related costs was $245 million benefit to the APA-Sinopec joint venture. The agreement also included a signature bonus payable to EGPC of $100 million. Half of the signature bonus was payable upon signing and was offset against outstanding receivables. The other half of the signature bonus is payable to EGPC over the next five years. Given the timing of the PSC signing late in December, our fourth quarter operational results include no impact from the PSC modernization. Turning to Altus Midstream. The business combination with EagleClaw Midstream is expected to close shortly. As a result, fourth quarter 2021 should be the final quarter for APA to consolidate Altus Midstream's balance sheet. This will eliminate the consolidation of approximately $1.4 billion of Altus' debt and redeemable preferred equity. Depending on how you model them, this could have a significant impact on APA debt metrics and multiples related to enterprise value. Now, I would like to turn to the outlook for 2022. We are planning for a capital program of around $1.6 billion with $1.4 billion in development capital and $200 million of exploration and appraisal, mostly in Suriname. This level of activity should deliver companywide annual adjusted production similar to that of 2021. In Egypt, increased drilling activity in 2021 has already halted the decline in gross production volumes. With more drilling activity being added in 2022, gross production will turn to a growth trajectory through the year and into 2023. On an adjusted basis, you will see an immediate uplift in production in the first quarter given the revised terms of the modernized PSC. From that point, adjusted production should grow in line with gross production, excluding PSC-related impacts from changes in Brent oil price. In the North Sea, we anticipate a similar production level compared to 2021 as we will again have another lengthy turnaround season at Beryl. Additionally, the Ocean Patriot drilling rig is expected to be offline for approximately three months to repair damage incurred to its anchor system during a recent weather event. Production volumes in 2022 will be impacted by the reduced amount of rig activity. In the U.S., average production this year will be modestly below 2021 after adjusting for asset sales. However, we will exit 2022 in a position of sustaining to slightly growing U.S. production. There are three reasons for the decline compared to 2021. First, about 7,000 BOE per day of production is lost due to the Delaware minerals package sale that John mentioned earlier. Second, the DUC program largely completed in the first half of 2021, provided a significant production boost that will not be replicated in 2022. Finally, the underline drilling program in the U.S. will only get to a maintenance level of activity around midyear after we have added the fourth drilling rig. On the cost side, inflationary pressures are real in our sector, and we are seeing that across many forms of cost. In particular, LOE is rising with everything from labor and trucking to fuels and chemicals under pressure. Our guidance for 2022 costs include these impacts. That said, we see risks of further pressures on these and other costs as we look to 2022 and beyond, especially if the current price environment prevails. All of the details around our 2022 full year and first quarter guidance can be found in our quarterly supplement on our website. Our 2022 guidance around certain costs may be difficult to reconcile to 2021 actuals due to the impact of the Altus deconsolidation. Please reach out to Gary and his team for further support. From a free cash flow perspective, 2022 looks very robust. At current strip prices, we anticipate free cash flow well in excess of $2 billion. In addition to strong cash flow from operations, we also expect $805 million in cash proceeds from the Delaware Basin mineral rights sale, and we anticipate a sell-down of up to 4 million shares of our ownership in Altus Midstream during the three-month period following the closing of its combination with EagleClaw. All of that should provide a significant amount of available cash in the next few months. And first priority for that cash will be to pay off the revolver. Beyond that, remaining available cash will be used in some combination to buyback shares, further reduce debt and to fund the dividend. I would note that in January, we utilized the early call option feature on the $214 million of bonds that mature in April. So that debt effectively sits on the revolver today. Finally, I'd like to make a few remarks about steps taken on our new capital returns framework. In the fourth quarter, we returned well in excess of 100% of our free cash flow to shareholders, mostly through stock buybacks. We had to fund a portion of this on our revolver and had the confidence to do so given the robust price environment coupled with our expectation of significant near-term divestment proceeds. Obviously, we cannot repurchase shares this aggressively every quarter, but we feel it was a good decision at that time. While relative valuation for APA has improved, we continue to believe our stock is a good value on both a relative and absolute basis. We are committed to our capital returns framework, so the share buybacks will continue in 2022. And with that, I will turn the call over to the operator for Q&A. 