
OperatorGood day, everyone and welcome to the FedEx Corporation First Quarter Fiscal Year 2022 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions]At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mickey Foster, Vice President of Investor Relations for FedEx Corporation. Please go ahead.Mickey Foster -- Vice President of Investor Relations

 



Good afternoon and welcome to FedEx Corporation's first quarter earnings conference call. The first quarter earnings release, Form 10-Q and stat book are on our website at fedex.com. This call is being streamed from our website, where the replay will be available for about one year. Joining us on the call today are members of the media. During our question-and-answer session callers will be limited to one question in order to allow us to accommodate all those who would like to participate.I want to remind all listeners that FedEx Corporation desires to take advantage of the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. Certain statements in this conference call such as projections regarding future performance may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the act. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. For additional information on these factors please refer to our press releases and filings with the SEC.Please refer to the Investor Relations portion of our website at fedex.com for a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures discussed on this call to the most directly comparable GAAP measures. Joining us on the call today are Raj Subramaniam, President and COO; Mike Lenz, Executive VP and CFO; Brie Carere, Executive VP, Chief Marketing and Communications Officer.And now, Raj, will share his views on the quarter.

 



Raj Subramaniam -- President, Chief Operating Officer and DirectorThank you, Mickey and good afternoon, everybody and thank you for joining today's call. First and foremost, I would like to extend my sincerest thanks to our global team members who continue to deliver for our customers in an exceptionally challenging operating environment. We are extremely proud and grateful for the manner in which team FedEx continues to move the world forward. The execution of our strategies continues to drive high demand for our differentiated services despite the disruptive impact of the pandemic, the labor availability, industry capacity and global supply chains.As you look at our first quarter results, our performance was highlighted by double-digit increases in yield across all our transportation businesses driven by limited capacity, high demand and the revenue management strategy. The impact of constrained labor markets remains the biggest issue facing our business as with many other companies around the world and was the key driver of our lower than expected results in the first quarter. As Mike will share in more detail momentarily, we estimate that the impact of labor shortages on our quarterly results was approximately $450 million, primarily at FedEx Ground. Labor shortages I just had two distinct impacts on our business. The competition for talent particularly for our frontline workers have driven wage rates higher and pay premiums higher. While wage rates are higher, the more significant impact is the widespread inefficiencies in our operation from constrained labor markets.To illustrate this, I'd like to share a brief example from FedEx Ground. Our Portland Oregon hub is running with approximately 65% of the staffing needed to handle its normal volume. This staffing shortage has a pronounced impact on the operations, which results in our teams diverting 25% of the volume that would normally flow through this hub because it simply cannot be processed efficiently to meet our service standards. And in this case the volume that diverted must be rerouted and process, which drives inefficiencies in our operations and in turn higher costs. These inefficiencies included adding Incremental linehaul and delivery routes, meaning more miles driven and higher use of third-party transportation to enable us to bypass Portland entirely. Now that's merely one example.

 



Across the FedEx Ground network there are more than 600,000 packages a day being rerouted. We anticipate the cost pressures from network inefficiencies such as the one I just illustrated to persist through peak, as we navigate the labor market and impacts of new COVID waves. Overcoming these staffing and retention challenges is our utmost priority as they not only affect our cost structures and operational efficiency, but also having a negative impact on service levels. As such, we are taking bold action across the enterprise to hire and invest in our frontline team members as we prepare for the peak season ahead. These actions include targeted paid premiums particularly for weekend shifts, increased tuition reimbursement, sponsorship of a national hiring day on September 23 as we seek to higher 90,000 additional positions ahead of peak, detailed volume and demand planning with customers to drive additional sorts to alleviate congestion and expanding network capacity, which I will touch on shortly.Based on these actions combined with our expectations for improving labor conditions, we do anticipate gradual improvement in our operational efficiency as we turn into the new calendar year. During the first quarter, the team continued to execute on our strategy, even amid the challenging operating environment. As e-commerce drives higher demand, we continue to strategically invest in our network to boost daily package volume capacity, increase efficiencies and further enhance the speed and service capabilities of our networks.Our investments continued in Q1 as FedEx Ground expanded its physical footprint with a new state-of-the-art hub in Chino, California, which began operations in August. This fully automated hub includes large package sortation has the capability to process up to 30,000 packages per hour and strategically located to help address ongoing port congestion challenges. FedEx Ground also continue to see year-over-year improvement in last mile efficiency driven by 2.4% increase of packages delivered per hour compared to Q1 last year, thanks to route optimization technology.As we move into Q2, we are meticulously planning for peak season ahead, including close collaboration with customers to build solutions to enable them to succeed. We expect to have substantially higher ground capacity this peak season due to our investments in FedEx Ground's infrastructure. This includes the addition of more than a dozen new automated facilities and several other sortation equipment expansions in addition to the Chino hub that I already mentioned. Several key technology projects are also slated for completion this fall including the modernization of multiple sortation, transportation management and safety systems, which will help to increase Ground's network capacity by hundreds of thousands of ADV as well as its flexibility and resiliency. This brings the total capacity increase of more than 1 million average daily volume compared to last peak.Another significant opportunity in our growth strategy is the improvement in the profitability of our International Express operations. We reached a significant agreement with the social partners at our Liege Express operations regarding the intended European air network transformation. This is an important milestone in the completion of the air network integration, which remains on track for completion in spring 2022. That will bring the physical network integration of TNT into FedEx to a close and when combined with the benefits of our previously announced European restructuring, provides significant upside in our international profitability moving forward.In summary, we're taking bold actions in the short term to navigate through this highly uncertain environment. We remain committed to long-term shareholder return and we are very confident in our strategy for the following reasons. We have a differentiated portfolio of services to attack the fast growing e-commerce market. Our business model gives us the framework to be very successful in this regard.In fact, we are working strategically with several retailers to deliver a win win win solution, win for the retailer, win for the end consumer and win for FedEx. For instance, we recently partnered with a large retailer to create a common data platform that drives optimization of our combined assets and enhancement of visibility and predictability to the end customer. Further as a day definite residential volumes grow in our network, thus increasing opportunity to collaborate across our operating companies to improve efficiency by better utilizing our assets.Another upside for FedEx is International, as the completion of our physical integration in Europe provides an inflection point for profitable growth. And finally, we are in the early stages of unlocking value from digital innovation, we are confident that this will play a significant part in success of FedEx for years to come as we make supply chains work smarter for everyone. Our strategy is sound and positions us well for improved returns as we move through fiscal year '22 and beyond.With that, let me turn it over to Brie.Brie Carere -- Executive Vice President, Chief Marketing and Communications OfficerThank you, Raj and good afternoon, everyone. Our first quarter commercial results were very strong with 14% revenue growth and double-digit yield improvement in our transportation segments. These results reflect the positive backdrop for growth in the parcel market, including a very healthy pricing environment. For fiscal year '22, FedEx revenue was forecasted to past $90 billion. Further, we are forecasting that the US parcel market will grow to 101 million packages a day by calendar year 2022, which is year-over-year growth of 12%.These market projections are slightly lower than last quarter as e-commerce percentage as a percentage of retail declined, with our shift to in-store shopping and buy online pickup and store and spending and services of course increased. However, despite this moderate change in e-commerce growth, the secular trend of e-commerce growing as a percentage of retail will continue to drive healthy parcel market growth. We are forecasting a 10% annual growth rate of US domestic market volume through 2026.FedEx in the first quarter, total US domestic package volumes increased year-over-year by 1.5%. At Express, our total US domestic package volume grew 7% year-over-year. Total FedEx Ground volumes were relatively flat in the quarter, however, I'm very proud as we proactively managed our capacity for higher yielding commercial and home delivery services. In fact, FedEx Ground commercial volumes grew double digits in the quarter. In the first quarter of fiscal year '22 FedEx total US domestic residential package volume mix was 57% versus 62% a year ago. US B2B mix improved year-over-year in the first quarter of fiscal year '22 as B2B volumes continue to recover with inventory replenishment and manufacturing rebounding as the economy opens. B2C mix continues to remain higher, however than pre-pandemic level. In Q1, FedEx Freight revenue increased 23% driven both by increased volume and higher revenue quality, a huge shout out for the FedEx Freight team, great job team. FedEx Freight Direct continues to gain incredible momentum.Turning now to our revenue quality strategy. The continued constrained capacity in both the US domestic and international markets has led to a very favorable pricing environment. We are focused on protecting and growing volume in high yielding commercial segments including commercial ground and small and medium segments. We have an incremental opportunity to improve large customer yields through contract renewals and providing large customers an ability to procure incremental capacity at current market rates. As announced yesterday, effective January 3, 2022, FedEx Express, FedEx Ground and FedEx Home Delivery shipping rates will increase by an average of 5.9%. While FedEx Freight rates will increase by an average of 5.9% to 7.9%. We also announced other surcharge increases which can be found on fedex.com. These increases will help us continue to balance capacity with demand and mitigate the impact on the increased costs that Raj just outlined.Turning now to International, we are forecasting air cargo market to be more than $80 billion by calendar year 2025. At FedEx, we currently have single-digit market share and as such this remains a significant growth opportunity for us to continue to pursue. We expect air cargo capacity to remain constrained through at least the first half of calendar year 2022, a full recovery is not anticipated until 2024. Global air cargo capacity continue to recover in July. It is still down 10% compared to pre-pandemic levels. Capacity on international lanes remain scarce and we have seen European and APAC export demand recover to pre-pandemic levels. Globally, we continue our efforts to optimize our network and customer mix. We managed to a very high percentage of priority service on our international flights. With yield per package improvement of 11% for international parcel and yield per pound improvement of 18% for international freight.Exports from Asia are fueled by the strong demand from B2C and B2B recovery. B2B will further benefit from a shift in demand from ocean freight to air cargo as our customers replenish stock levels in time for the peak sales season. To provide access to reliable capacity in this constrained environment, we turned six previously adhoc intercontinental flights and the scheduled service and fiscal year quarter of Q1, four Trans-pacific and two for the Asia-Europe lane. We are seeing a strong recovery in Europe as well with the overall economic recovery back to pre-pandemic level. Our intra-Europe cross border B2B volumes have recovered to pre-COVID levels. Our growth is further accelerated by significant B2C parcel volume. E-commerce growth will be critical for both our Asian and European businesses.In Q1 we expanded FedEx International Connect Plus from Europe to six new global destination, increasing coverage to 82% of global GDP across a total of 300 lanes. And on September 1, we launched FICP and EMEA across 80 origin destination lanes. For businesses looking for a cost-effective solution with competitive transit, FICP provides a compelling e-commerce value proposition. We continue to gain new customers through FICP and have a very robust sales pipeline. In summary, while it continues to be a very dynamic market, we remain incredibly confident in our global growth potential and our world-class commercial teams to bring and market leading yields.And with that, I'll turn it over to Mike for his remarks.Mike Lenz -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Brie and good afternoon, everyone. Our first quarter FY '22 adjusted earnings per share of $4.37 was negatively impacted by approximately $800 million in year-over-year headwind. And while Raj covered the operational impacts of these challenges, I will detail the financial impacts to the quarter. With these headwinds the difficult labor market have the largest effect on our bottom line, representing an estimated $450 million in additional year-over-year cost, the majority of which impacted our FedEx Ground business.As we look into the impact of labor cost from the business, I want to break this impact into two components, higher wages and the impact of network inefficiencies. Of the $450 million we estimate that $200 million was incurred in higher wage and purchased transportation rates. This included higher wage rates and pay premiums for team members and higher rates paid for third-party transportation services.In addition to the higher wage rates, we estimate that network inefficiencies of approximately $250 million contributed to the total impact of labor shortages on the business. These costs include additional linehaul, higher usage of third-party transportation, cost to reposition assets in the network, over time and recruiting incentives all to address staffing shortages. On the labor impacts, our results for the first quarter also included the following headwinds, an additional $135 million in healthcare costs due to lower utilization a year ago, $85 million related to investments in the Ground network, which represents the cost of bringing online 16 new automated facilities and expansions at 100 facilities, which are critical to improving service and adding capacity to meet growth for peak and beyond.And at Express, we estimated $60 million in incremental air network costs due to the impact of COVID restrictions on our operations, including limitations on layover, supplemental crews to ensure service continuity and immigration restrictions. In addition and as a reminder, our prior year results at Express included a pre-tax benefit of our first quarter results did come in lower than our own expectations as difficult labor conditions persisted throughout the quarter. As a result of that variable compensation was not an expense headwind in the first quarter.With that overview of the consolidated results, let's turn to the highlights for the segments. An Express results declined due to the higher operating expenses from staffing challenges and COVID-related air network impacts I discussed. Profitability was also impacted by fewer charter flights compared to the third last spring during the early months of the pandemic. While we've covered the impacts to Ground results in detail, I would like to call your attention to an enhancement in our reporting included in the release and the 10-Q. As a result of business growth and our unmatched seven-day operating network at Ground, we are now providing additional product level disclosures for average daily package volume. Beginning with our first quarter we are breaking out ADV statistics for FedEx Ground Commercial, Home Delivery and economy services. Turning to Freight, we reported a record operating margin of 17.3% for the quarter as our continued focus on revenue quality and profitable growth drove average daily shipments up 12% and revenue per shipment increased to 11% as Brie highlighted previously.Now we pivot to capital spending. During the first quarter, we spent $1.6 billion in capital as we continue to invest in our strategies for profitable growth, service excellence and modernizing our digital and IT platforms. Our capital forecast for fiscal '22 remains at $7.2 billion and less than 8% of anticipated revenue includes the following key elements. First, more than 50% increase in capital spending at Ground year-over-year for capacity expansion and new facilities to capture opportunities from growing e-commerce business. And second, fleet modernization at Express with continued investment in 767 and 777 aircraft, which not only has a high financial return but it is an important part of the strategy to reduce our carbon footprint. In evaluating capital investments our return on invested capital on existing capital on new projects is a critical metric to managing our business and we have a rigorous approval process in place on all new capital projects.As we look at investments, we set the internal rate of return hurdle above our weighted average cost of capital, which varies based on the nature of the project. For example, an investment in replacement capital will have a lower hurdle rate than growth capital. Capital returns has always been an important metric to managing the business both historically and in the future. We ended our quarter with $7 billion in cash and are targeting over $3 billion in an adjusted free cash flow for FY '22, which puts us on pace to deliver over $7.5 billion in adjusted free cash flow for FY '21 and '22 combined, far exceeding our historical levels. We continue to focus on thoughtful capital allocation and strengthening our balance sheet in fiscal 2022. During the quarter, we repurchased 1.9 million shares totaling roughly $550 million and are targeting approximately 1 million additional shares for the balance of the year. In addition, we plan to make a $500 million voluntary contribution to our pension plan this year. We are lowering our fiscal 2022 guidance to reflect our first quarter results, which were lower than our expectations.As we look to the rest of the fiscal year, we expect certain factors to extend longer than we originally forecast in June. So for fiscal '22, we are now forecasting earnings per share of $18.25 to $19.50 before the mark-to-market retirement plan accounting adjustment and earnings per share of $19.75 to $21 before the mark-to-market adjustments and excluding estimated TNT integration expenses and costs associated with business realignment activities. And our effective tax rate projection is approximately 24% again prior to the mark-to-market retirement plan adjustments.While our outlook reflects more uncertainty moving forward it represents adjusted year-over-year EPS growth ranging from approximately 9% to 15.5% following our record fiscal 2021. As you all know we are navigating an inherently uncertain macro environment and managing several unknowns, the pace, shape and timing of global economic recovery given the dynamics of the pandemic including the spread and response to new and existing COVID variants. The uneven nature of global government restrictions, disruptions to global supply chains and to improvement in labor availability, current fuel price expectations and existing tax regulations.With respect to labor, we are assuming that the combination of these actions that we are taking that Raj outlined, combined with a steady increase in labor availability as we turn into calendar '22 will allow us to add team members which will drive improvement in our efficiency, productivity and cost structure. While we are not providing specific second quarter EPS guidance, I do want to highlight a few key assumptions within our outlook.Overall for the second quarter, we anticipate a similar level of headwinds in Q2 as we experienced in the first quarter as the challenges and impacts to our operations from the labor shortages are expected to persist in the rest of calendar 2021. Consistent with the [Technical Issues] first quarter we also expect headwinds in Q2 to be driven by our expansion at Ground, higher healthcare expenses, COVID-related air network inefficiencies at Express and the benefit in the prior year of reduced aviation excise taxes. That said, while these headwinds will persist in the second quarter, we expect strong performance in the second half of fiscal '22. We remain confident in our long-term strategies will allow us to realize the benefits of growth investments in the future.And next, we'll be happy to address your questions.