
OperatorWelcome to the Fiserv's 2021 First Quarter Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] At this time, I will turn the call over to Shub Mukherjee, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations at Fiserv.Shub Mukherjee -- Senior Vice President of Investor RelationsThank you and good morning. With me on the call today are Frank Bisignano, our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Hau, our Chief Financial Officer. Our earnings release and supplemental materials for the quarter are available on the Investor Relations section of fiserv.com. Our remarks today will include forward-looking statements about among other matters, the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, expected operating and financial results, strategic initiatives and expected benefits and synergies from the First Data acquisition. Forward-looking statements may differ materially from actual results and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. You should refer to our earnings release for a discussion of these risk factors. Please refer to our earnings release and supplemental materials for today's call. For an explanation of the non-GAAP financial measures discussed in this call, along with the reconciliation of those measures to the nearest to applicable GAAP measures. Unless otherwise stated performance, references are year-over-year comparisons and all references to internal revenue growth are on a constant currency basis.

 



And now I'll turn the call over to Frank.Frank J Bisignano -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Shub. Great to have you on the team. 2021 is off to a strong start with Q1 at or better than our expectations across a broad range of metrics. The strength of our results reflects our continued investment in technology, innovation, our client portfolio and our people through the COVID-19 pandemic. Let me provide a brief overview of our strong financial results in the quarter. You may have noticed that Q1 earnings presentation has been updated. If you're following along. I will provide some overview comments captured on the first three pages. And then Bob will provide more detail on a subsequent slides.Total company internal revenue growth was 4% for the quarter, including low double-digit growth in March. That performance was led by our Merchant Acceptance segment, which was up 8%, an exceptional result in light of the global pandemic and continued COVID restrictions, particularly in Brazil, India and a variety of countries in EMEA for much of the quarter. Adjusted operating margin grew 360 basis points resulting in an 18% increase in adjusted earnings per share. Free cash flow grew 8% to $821 million, a 100% conversion to adjusted net income. Our sales momentum remains quite strong as first quarter sales were up 42%, which strong results in our payments and international businesses and this momentum continues into the second quarter.

 



Yesterday, we announced a 20-year agreement with Caixa Economica Federal to become the exclusive provider of Merchant Acquiring Services. Caixa is one of Brazil's largest banks with more than 26,000 sales outlets and a broad presence throughout all of Brazil, making this one of the largest wins for our company in Latin America and one of the largest globally. Also this morning, we announced a new solution with PayPal to enable our merchant network across the Clover and Carat platforms to accept payments via PayPal and Venmo through QR codes presented at the point of sale. We believe this is an important offering for our merchants as consumer preferences continue to shift toward touch free transactions. The combination of robust sales and excellent pipeline is evidence that our formula of bringing the strength and breadth of Fiserv's offerings together with our integrated sales model is extremely well received in the client's office and we believe bodes well for the future.Now I'd like to update you on how our leading digital enabled merchant business is performing through Clover, our leading SMB platform, Carat our enterprise omni-channel commerce solution and Clover Connect, our rich ISV solutions set. We continue to drive innovation, expand partnerships and deliver leading solutions to our merchant clients. The momentum within the digital enabled segments of the merchant business continues to be excellent. Clover's gross payment volume grew 36% year-over-year to $141 billion annualized. To provide some more context around the strength of the Clover platform, GPV has grown 75% from $81 billion in Q1 2019 in Q1 to $141 billion in Q1 this year, despite the economic headwinds from the pandemic. Carat, our enterprise omni-channel solution, continued to perform very well. E-commerce transactions grew 24% compared to prior year. Omni-channel transactions such as order ahead and pickup in store were up over 122% year-over-year.We won a record 51 new enterprise level e-commerce clients in the first quarter, including Cost Plus World Market, a US specialty retailer for which Fiserv has been chosen to provide e-commerce gateway, point-of-sale hardware devices and value-added services like security tokenization. We had a very strong result sales internationally. The notable wins in EMEA include Selecta, Europe's leading self-service retailer offering coffee and convenience food solutions for which Fiserv has been chosen to provide acquiring services and unattended POS hardware. In LatAm, we extended our relationship with one of the largest e-commerce marketplaces in the region. In APAC, we won the Merchant Acquiring business where Australia's second largest bill payment provider.We also expanded our relationship with key brands such as state barn [Phonetic] where we are piloting a new digital payout experience for insurance claims. Recognizing our innovation to bring digital payments to all consumers, Fiserv was named one of the world's most innovative companies by Fast Company for our role in enabling the acceptance of US Department of Agriculture SNAP Online EBT payments during the pandemic. We continue to see great momentum in the ISV space with Clover Connect. In the first quarter, we signed 42 new ISV partners. Our continuing strength and expanding partner relationships is driving strong results in active merchants, which were up 38% in Q1 and ISV channel revenue growth, which was up 34%.

 



For example, during the quarter, Fiserv further cemented its lead in the mortgage servicing software vertical by signing a strategic partnership agreement with mortgage cadence, an accentured company, which provides more origination software to the mortgage industry. This is yet another example of a successful integrated cell continuing to fuel future growth in our ISV channel. Additionally, we are continuing to build and enhance our existing ISV relationships by leveraging our technology and market knowledge. In the quarter, we finalized an agreement with e-tail head [Phonetic] to move their large set of existing merchants to us and build upon the agreement we had in place for new merchants.Moving to our account processing business, we continue to expand our [Indecipherable] relationships across financial institutions of all sizes and types. We signed 10 new core account processing clients in the quarter, including five on the DNA platform. I'd like to highlight a few of our recent wins. As we mentioned on our last earnings call, we signed Republic First Bank, a commercial bank with more than $5 billion in assets and rated America's Best Bank by Forbes for a full service of Fiserv products including core processing, card services and output solutions in February. Additionally, we signed two de novo banks in the quarter, including Genesis Bank, a newly chartered bank focus as a minority depository institution. This win continues to show our commitment to supporting minority communities. Majority of these illustrative wins were competitive takeaways with a common characteristic. The client selected a leading core platform plus multiple surround digital solutions to support their goals of sustained growth and superior customer service. These wins also like the strength of our offering for a wide range of clients from de novo banks to large financial institutions.In our payment and network segment, we continue to leverage the power of our combined solutions to drive revenue synergies. In Q1, we signed a significant new agreement to provide statement and letter services to a major US healthcare services provider strengthening our position in this industry vertical. Further building on our digital momentum in Q1, we signed agreements to provide digital solutions to First Horizon Bank as well as 10 fed credit union in both cases leveraging our newly acquired Ondot capabilities. Through Ondot, we can enable our FI [Phonetic] clients to offer their cardholders personalized, real time digital experiences, driving cardholder engagement and spend. We expect continued adoption of these digital solutions across our client base.With that, let me update you on our integration efforts. Through Q1, we've already actioned nearly $1.1 billion of cost savings and are well on our way to fully action $1.2 billion cost synergy objective by the end of this year. With the majority of the integration work behind us, we are focused on driving further growth and sustainable value in the years ahead. On the revenue side, we're pleased with the level of synergy sales, which accelerated in the first quarter. As of the end Q1, we've already actioned $265 million in annual revenue synergies and our synergy sales pipeline is growing robustly. And we expect to meet or or exceed our $600 million target over the five years post-merger. Our bank merchant program continues to be a synergy opportunity and offers financial institutions of all sizes, the ability to offer their important merchant clients a modern suite of merchant acquiring capabilities, including the innovative Clover platform along with digital capabilities like loyalty programs and e-commerce solutions.In the first quarter, we added 34 new bank merchant clients, six with assets over $1 billion. Additionally, half of these wins were competitive takeaways. The pipeline remains robust through the rest of 2021. One final point on our digital initiatives before turning it over to Bob. As you've heard us discussed in the past, one of the most important strategic initiatives is to redefining the client experience by utilizing the latest technology to drive innovation and offer digital capabilities across our payments ecosystem. An example of that commitment to this area is the acquisition of Ondat Systems, a leading digital experience platform provider for financial institutions of all sizes, which closed in the first quarter. We also acquired Raduis8, a cloud-based platform that had hyperlocalized commerce capabilities to Carat thereby enhancing our beyond the buy button strategy. Last but not least, we announced the definitive agreement to acquire Pineapple Payments, a leading ISO focused on integrated payments.Now, let me pass the discussion to Bob for more detail on our financial results.Bob Hau -- Chief Financial OfficerThank you Frank and good morning everyone. If you're following along at our new slides, I'll cover some detail on each of our segments. We had a strong first quarter in light of continued pressure from the pandemic across the globe. Q1 represents the final period of pre-pandemic comparison points with the impact beginning to materialize in the final two weeks of March last year. Total company internal revenue growth was 4% in the quarter led by the Merchant Acceptance segment, which grew 8%. First quarter adjusted operating income was up a strong 15% to $1.1 billion and adjusted operating margin increased by a very strong 360 basis points to 31.4%. This margin improvement was driven by our rigorous cost synergy execution, which produced $129 million of incremental cost synergies in the quarter as well as strong operating performance. First quarter adjusted earnings per share increased 18% to $1.17 compared to $0.99 in the prior year. Free cash flow in the quarter was $821 million, up 8% over Q1 last year and 103% percent conversion to adjusted net income impacting Q1's free cash flow was an increase in accounts receivable driven by a strong rebound in March.Turning to each of the segments, internal revenue growth in the Merchant Acceptance segment was 8% in the quarter. Our results were once again driven by strong performances in our portfolio of SMB clients supported by our Clover platform, enterprise clients supported by Carat and another strong quarter from our ISV business. This result includes a meaningful headwind from our EMEA region, which experienced restrictions for much of the quarter in several important markets for us including the UK, Germany, Ireland and Poland. As Frank discussed, our Clover GPV continues to grow very nicely, up 36% in the quarter. The outlook for the SMB business looks strong as a sequential uplift that we witnessed in this business in the last few weeks of March has continued through April. Our integrated payments or ISV business continues to perform extremely well with continued strong revenue growth in the quarter. As we discussed at our Investor Day, we recently rolled out Clover Connect, a Clover integrated solution for ISVs. We believe that this solution will further extend our differentiation for ISVs and their merchant customers and continue to drive excellent growth in the future. Adjusted operating income in the Acceptance segment increased 37% to $387 million in the quarter and adjusted operating margin was up 650 basis points to 27.7% driven by the strength in the topline and continued cost synergies.The Fintech segment internal revenue grew 2% in the first quarter compared to the prior year as growth in high quality recurring revenue was again partially offset by lower periodic revenue most prominently termination fees, which created approximately 150 basis points of headwind to internal revenue growth in the quarter. The shift toward digital banking and the result in strong demand for our broader way of digital solutions continues. For example, total mobile subscribers across our leading digital platforms, Mobiliti and Architect, grew 12% in the quarter. Mobile deposits in Q1 grew 30% over the prior year, while self-service ATM deposits grew 65% over last year. We expect these trends to continue as users who have moved to mobile or ATM for check deposits may adopt these as preferred channels after experiencing their convenience and safety.Adjusted operating income was up a strong 21% in the quarter to $246 million. Adjusted operating margin in the segment increased a robust 510 basis points in the quarter to 33.4% on a combination of growth in processing revenue, operational effectiveness benefits and cost synergies. The Payments and Network segment saw internal revenue grew 2% in the first quarter as growth in our card services, output solutions Zelle and prepaid businesses including the benefit from revenue synergies was partially offset by headwinds in our bill-pay and credit businesses. Debit transactions grew a strong 16% year-over-year, slightly ahead of levels last quarter.We continue to see excellent transaction growth in solutions such as our account-to-account transfers and P2P. Both Zelle transactions and the number of clients live on Zelle more than doubled in the quarter versus a year ago. Our bill pay and credit businesses in particular given our retail private label mix saw headwinds from the pandemic that we expect to subside as we reach the second half of the year with better economic activity and better revenue comparisons. Adjusted operating income for the segment was up 2% to $585 million and adjusted operating margin was up 20 basis points to 41.4% in the quarter. The results were driven by positive impact of both revenue and cost synergies in part offset by the lower revenue in our higher margin credit processing and bill pay businesses.The adjusted corporate operating loss was $102 million in the quarter, in line with our expectations. The adjusted effective tax rate in the quarter was 17.2% flat versus prior year. We also expect our full year adjusted effective tax rate to be fairly consistent with the 2020 rate in the range of 21% to 22%. During the quarter, we continued our disciplined capital allocation strategy by repurchasing 5.2 million shares for $612 million and we have more than 16 million shares remaining authorized for repurchase. In addition, as Frank mentioned earlier, we completed the acquisition of Ondot Systems in January and increased our investment related to the Tegra118, our former investment services business. In connection with this combination with Wealthtech Holdings.Total debt outstanding was $21.2 billion at March 31 and the debt-to-adjusted EBITDA ratio remained at 3.6 times. We are on track to achieve our targeted leverage of less than 3 times in the second half of 2021 as we anticipate both strong adjusted EBITDA growth and debt repayment this year. As you heard us emphasize throughout our Investor Day in December, we're fully committed to our long-standing capital allocation strategy, which includes maintaining a strong balance sheet, making organic investment in innovative solutions and pursuing high value acquisitions like Ondot, Radius8 and Pineapple Payments. Importantly, share repurchase remains our benchmark for capital deployment.With that, let me turn the call back to Frank.Frank J Bisignano -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Bob. Given our strong Q1 performance and an improved economic outlook, we are raising the low end of our outlook range for both internal revenue and adjusted EPS growth. We now expect 2021 internal revenue growth to be in the 9% to 12% range versus 8% to 12% previous. We expect adjusted EPS to be in the $5.35 to $5.50 range, which is a 21% to 24% growth over last year. This is up $0.05 at the bottom end from our prior outlook. We continue to expect adjusted operating margin to expand by at least 250 basis points and free cash flow conversion to be greater than 108% for the year. The range for internal revenue and adjusted EPS growth outlook are grounded in our performance to date. The current state of the economy and our internal assumptions about the trajectory of economic recovery, both of which have improved versus February when we provided our prior outlook.To remind you, the low end of our original outlook in February assumed no material economic recovery from where we were at that time. Similarly, the 9% at the low end of our updated outlook assumes the same no material economic recovery for the remainder of the year. Regionally, we are seeing good economic progress in the US driven both by government stimulus as well as COVID vaccine distribution with uneven recovery outside the US as more pronounced COVID impacts persisted in parts of EMEA, LatAm and APAC. As we indicated during our last earnings call, given the timing of the pandemic impact last year, we expect more variability in quarterly growth in 2021. Given difficult comparisons, we expected Q1 performance to be below our full-year outlook range and at once. We expect Q2 growth rates will be above the full-year outlook range driven by our business momentum and an easier year ago comparison.I'm proud of the results we've delivered as we navigate the ongoing global crisis. Our business has shown incredible strength and resilience leading to what we expect to be our 36th consecutive year of double-digit adjusted earnings-per-share growth in 2021 and setting a foundation for even stronger results beyond. In addition to delivering on our financial results, we continue to focus on our community. During the quarter, we successfully completed our back to business grant program in the original six locations that were selected in 2020. We also held two additional programs in Milwaukee partnering with the Milwaukee Bucks to celebrate Black History month, March 2 event partnering with the Bucks and Nancy Lieberman during Women's History Month to award additional brands to minority women owned small businesses. Last, let me thank our more than 40,000 talented associates around the world for their commitment and courage as we stand together to deliver value for clients, our colleagues and for you, our shareholders.With that, operator, let's open the line for questions.