  OperatorGood morning. My name is Rob and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the PulteGroup fourth quarter 2021 earnings Call. [Operator instructions] Jim Zeumer, you may begin your conference.Jim Zeumer -- Vice President, Investor Relations and Corporate Finance Great. Thank you, Rob. Good morning and thank you for joining today's call. We look forward to discussing PulteGroup's outstanding fourth quarter earnings for the period ended December 31, 2021.

 



 I'm joined on today's call by Ryan Marshall, president and CEO; Bob O'Shaughnessy, executive vice president and CFO; and Jim Ossowski, senior VP, finance. A copy of our earnings release and this morning's presentation slides have been posted to our corporate website at pultegroup.com. We'll also post an audio replay of today's call later. I want to highlight that we will be discussing our reported fourth quarter numbers as well as our results adjusted to exclude the impact of certain reserve adjustments and tax benefits recorded in the period.A reconciliation of our adjusted results to our reported financials is included in this morning's release and within today's webcast slides. We encourage you to review these tables to assist in your analysis of our business performance. Also, I want to alert everyone that today's presentation includes forward-looking statements about the company's expected future performance. Actual results could differ materially from those suggested by our comments made today. The most significant risk factors that could affect future results are summarized as part of today's earnings release and within the accompanying presentation slides. These risk factors and other key information are detailed in our SEC filings, including our annual and quarterly reports. Now, let me turn the call over to Ryan Marshall. Ryan? Ryan Marshall -- President and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thanks, Jim and good morning. It's great to speak with you again and to have this opportunity to review PulteGroup's impressive fourth quarter and full year results. I am extremely proud of what our organization has been able to accomplish. For starters, I want to thank the entire PulteGroup team for the tremendous effort demonstrated throughout 2021. But particularly in the fourth quarter from sales to procurement and construction to our financial services team, you clearly showed what a proud and talented group of determined people can achieve. In a minute, Bob will review our fourth quarter results, but I want to highlight a few of our full year numbers to clearly demonstrate just how much success we've realized over the past 12 months. Even with all the challenges, the homebuilding industry faced in 2021, from supply chain disruptions and labor shortages to municipal delays and COVID waves, we grew our closings by 17% to almost 29,000 homes, benefiting from the very favorable demand and pricing conditions, we increased homebuilding revenues by an even greater 27% to $13.5 billion. We were then able to fully capitalize on this top-line growth by expanding gross margins by 210 basis points to 26.4% and driving a 43% increase in our reported full year earnings of $7.43 per share. Our financial discussions tend to focus on the income statement, but I would also highlight that over the past 12 months, we lowered our debt-to-capital ratio to a historic low of 21.3%, while raising our return on equity to 28%. I would also highlight that over the course of 2021, we continued our disciplined allocation of capital in alignment with our stated priorities. This allocation included investing over $4 billion in land acquisition and land development, increasing our dividend pay rate per share in 2021 by 17%, retiring $726 million of bonds and repurchasing $900 million of stock, reducing our shares outstanding by approximately 6%. There is a lot to be excited about with regard to PulteGroup's 2021 operating and financial results. In assessing our performance, we fully appreciate that we benefited from a very favorable supply and demand dynamics in the marketplace. On the demand side, we saw a strong desire for homeownership across all markets and buyer groups. At one end, we have maturing millennials driving extraordinary demand for first-time and first-move of product, while at the other end, we have empty nesters who are downsizing or retiring into their next stage of life. This demand strength drove an increase of 8% in our 2021 net new orders to almost 32,000 homes, including 6,769 orders in the fourth quarter.

 



 The reality is that these numbers could have been significantly higher, but COVID and other challenges impacted our availability of lots, labor and materials, which caused us to intentionally slow sales. As part of our response strategy to these resource constraints, we raised prices in 2021 and actively restricted new home sales through lot releases or similar practices. We continue to implement these actions in the fourth quarter as we raised prices in effectively all our communities. At the same time, we continue to restrict sales in more than half of our communities. The strong demand experienced in the fourth quarter has continued into January with no signs that higher interest rates are impacting the desire for new homes. As we look forward to the year ahead, we are well positioned to meet the strong demand. We entered 2022 with twice as many spec homes in the production pipeline compared to last year along with a land pipeline that will allow us to expand our community count throughout this year. We also have all the lots we need for our 2022 deliveries and expect to increase our full year gross margins by upwards of 250 basis points. In other words, we enter 2022 with tremendous momentum. While demand conditions are strong, the supply side of the equation has been extremely challenging, with no clear signs as to when things will get better. The limited supply of new and existing homes allowed prices to increase by double digits last year, but labor shortages and significant disruptions in the supply chain are limiting production and extending build cycles. Our suppliers and partners are working hard to provide needed resources, but key products that are under allocation must be ordered months in advance or are simply not available. The ongoing surge in COVID infection rates is impacting our suppliers and is also making it very hard for trades to field crews consistently and expanding their teams is an even bigger challenge. Unfortunately, we expect construction processes to remain difficult through much, if not all, of 2022. In response to these challenges, we continue to implement actions to help ensure we can complete high-quality homes and grow our deliveries until supply chain issues are resolved. These actions include increasing spec starts, ordering earlier, narrowing option packages and even warehousing inventory of critical building products. These efforts are time consuming and we lose some production efficiencies, but for the foreseeable future, they are required to get homes built. We've said in the past that scale, particularly local scale matters and this is certainly the case today. Let me now turn the call over to Bob for a review of our fourth quarter results. Bob?Bob O'Shaughnessy -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Ryan and good morning. As part of my review of our fourth quarter performance, I'll discuss our reported results and where appropriate, review our results adjusted for specific items in the current or prior-year quarter. Along with reviewing the company's fourth quarter results, I will also be providing guidance on key performance metrics for both the first quarter and full year 2022. Looking at the income statement. Home sale revenues in the fourth quarter increased 38% over last year to $4.2 billion. Higher revenues for the period were driven by a 26% increase in closings to 8,611 homes, along with a 10% increase in average sales price to $490,000. The higher ASP in the quarter reflects double-digit pricing gains from all buyer groups, while closings came in slightly above guidance, thanks to the tremendous effort on the part of our homebuilding and financial services teams. Consistent with comments made throughout 2021, favorable supply and demand dynamics for housing supported the strong price appreciation we experienced across all markets and from all buyer groups. The mix of closings in the quarter were a direct alignment with our long-term goals and included 34% from first-time buyers, 42% from move-up buyers and 24% from active adult buyers. Closings in the fourth quarter last year included 31% first time, 46% move up and 23% active adult. Net new orders in the quarter totaled 6,769 homes, which is a decrease of 4% from last year. The decrease in orders reflects a decrease in community count as well as the ongoing actions to manage sales to better align the pace of our sales and production that Ryan mentioned. Our average community count in the quarter was 785, which is down 7% from the prior year. Buyer demand was strong and order volumes were fairly consistent across all three months of the quarter as we didn't experience the typical seasonal drop-off in order volumes as we moved through the quarter. I would note that we continue to experience this strength in demand through January. By buyer group, orders by first-time buyers increased 12% to 2,207 homes, while orders by move-up and active adult buyers both declined 10% to 2,812 homes and 1,750 homes, respectively. The primary drivers of the lower order rates among the move up and active adult buyers was having fewer communities and our decision to restrict sales. We ended the fourth quarter with a large backlog of sold homes, which provides a strong base of production heading into the new year. On a unit basis, our backlog at year-end was 18,003 homes, which is an increase of 19% over last year. Backlog value at year-end was $9.9 billion, which is an increase of 45% over 2020. Even with the well-documented challenges within the supply chain, I can say that thanks to a lot of hard work by our teams, trades and suppliers, we're getting homes into production. As a result, we ended the year with 18,423 homes under construction, which is up almost 50% over last year. I'm also pleased to report that we've been able to increase our spec production as 23% of homes under construction are spec. This is up from 17% in the third quarter and it's getting us closer to our target of having between 25% and 30% spec. While it's great to see homes getting into production, it's important to note that the overwhelming majority of these units are in the early stages of construction. More specifically, 31% of our production pipeline is at the initial start stage with another 44% of the homes only at the framing stage. At the other end of the production pipeline, we have only 411 finished homes. This figure includes both sold and spec units. Given the number of homes under production and equally important, their stage of construction, we currently expect to deliver between 5,600 and 6,000 homes in the first quarter of 2022. In addition to the challenging production environment Ryan discussed, our Q1 delivery guide reflects the impact of limited finished spec inventory and the longer construction cycle times we're experiencing. For the full year 2022, we expect to deliver 31,000 homes. This estimate assumes no meaningful change in the state of the supply chain and in turn, our current cycle times. If the favorable demand conditions allow us to sell in an even higher year-over-year growth rate, we'll have to see if the supply of materials and labor will be equally supportive. Based on what occurred in 2021, we want to be confident we can deliver a high-quality and complete home at closing. If the supply of labor and materials does not allow for increased production, we'll continue to emphasize price over pace, restrict sales as needed as we focus on driving the best returns within each community. As we move through 2022, we are well positioned to meet buyer demand, given our expectations for sequential increases in our community count throughout the year. For the coming four quarters, we project our average community count to be 790 in Q1, 815 in Q2, 840 in Q3 and 870 in Q4. Given the land investments we've made, we expect this trend to continue and see further community count growth in 2023. As mentioned, strong demand and pricing conditions in 2021 resulted in higher prices across all buyer groups, which has resulted in our average sales price in backlog increasing by 22% compared to last year. Given the price of homes in backlog and the mix of homes we anticipate closing, we expect our average sales price to be between $500,000 and $510,000 in the first quarter. Our average sales price should move higher as we move through the year and we currently expect our full year average sales price to be approximately $515,000. As always, the ultimate mix of deliveries can influence the average sales price we realized in any given quarter. Driven by the strong price appreciation achieved throughout our markets, our homebuilding gross margin in the fourth quarter increased to 180 basis points over last year and 30 basis points sequentially to 26.8%. With 18,000 homes in backlog, we have good visibility on near-term gross margins, but we also know that input costs are moving higher and that we expect to continue to incur what are now commonly called scramble costs as we work to ensure product and labor availability. Based on what we can see today, we expect gross margin to be in the range of 28.5% to 29% in the first quarter and for the full year. This guide takes into consideration our current construction costs as well as the recent run-up in lumber prices. Based on these factors, we anticipate being toward the bottom end of the range in the first quarter, but toward the higher end of the range by the end of the year. Speaking of inflation, we are closely monitoring increases that are impacting the cost of labor and materials. As a result, we currently expect house cost inflation exclusive of land costs of 6% to 8% for 2022. More than ever, there are a lot of moving pieces, so we'll update our gross margin guidance if needed as we move through the year. For the fourth quarter, our reported SG&A expense of $344 million or 8.2% of home sale revenues includes a net pre-tax benefit of $23 million from adjustments to insurance-related reserves recorded in the fourth quarter. Exclusive of this benefit, our adjusted SG&A expense was $367 million or 8.7% of home sale revenues. In the comparable prior-year period, our reported SG&A expense was $280 million or 9.1% of home sale revenues, excluding a $16 million net pre-tax benefit from adjustments to insurance-related reserves recorded in last year's fourth quarter, our adjusted SG&A expense was $296 million or 9.7% of home sale revenues. Looking at 2022 overheads, we currently expect SG&A expense in the first quarter to be in the range of 10.7% to 10.9%, which would be flat to down slightly from last year. For the full year, we expect SG&A expense to decrease as a percentage of revenues to be in the range of 9.3% to 9.5% of home sale revenues as we realize incremental overhead leverage on the business. In the fourth quarter, our financial services operations reported pre-tax income of $55 million. Prior-year reported pre-tax income of $43 million included a $22 million pre-tax charge for adjustments to our mortgage origination reserves. During the fourth quarter, financial services pre-tax income was driven by increased loan production consistent with the growth in our homebuilding operations, offset by lower profitability per loan resulting from a more competitive market condition. Mortgage capture rate for the quarter was 85%, which is down slightly from last year's 86%. Our reported tax expense for the fourth quarter was $193 million, which represents an effective tax rate of 22.5%. Taxes in the fourth quarter included a tax benefit of $9 million, resulting from deferred tax valuation allowance adjustments recorded in the period. For 2022, we expect our tax rate to increase to 25%, driven by changes in certain underlying state tax rates and the fact that legislation to extend the energy tax credits beyond 2021 has not been passed. For the fourth quarter, we reported net income of $663 million or $2.61 per share and adjusted net income of $637 million or $2.51 per share. Prior-year fourth quarter reported net income was $438 million or $1.62 per share with adjusted net income of $415 million or $1.53 per share. PulteGroup's earnings per share continue to benefit from our share repurchase program. In the fourth quarter, we repurchased 5.6 million common shares at a total cost of $283 million or an average price of $50.11 per share. For all of 2021, we repurchased 17.7 million shares, driving a 6% reduction in our shares outstanding at an average cost of $50.80 per share. For the year, we returned $897 million to shareholders through share repurchases, plus an additional $148 million of dividends. This brings the five-year total of share repurchases and dividends to approximately $3.2 billion. Having reduced our common shares outstanding by more than one-third over the past eight years, returning funds to shareholders has been a significant part of our capital allocation strategy. We fully expect such systematic repurchases to continue in the future. So we're extremely pleased with the board's action that we announced today, approving a $1 billion increase to our repurchase authorization. At the end of '21, we had $458 million remaining on the existing programs. Given our improving financial results and cash flows, even after returning over $1 billion to shareholders, investing over $4 billion in our business and paying down $726 million of bonds during the year, we ended the year with $1.8 billion of cash. Our debt-to-total capital ratio at year-end was 21.3%, which is a decrease of 820 basis points from last year. 20 basis points from last year. Adjusting for the cash on our balance sheet, our net debt-to-capital ratio was 2.5%. As part of our overall capital allocation strategy, we have routinely talked about maintaining our gross debt-to-capital ratio in the range of 30% to 40%. As noted in today's press release, we are updating these numbers to better reflect how our business operates today. Over the past several years, we have driven material and sustained gains in our operating performance and capital efficiency. These, in turn, have dramatically increased the cash flows we expect to generate. Taken in combination, we now believe we can grow our business and fund its operations while maintaining our gross debt-to-capital ratio in the range of 20% to 30%. This represents confirmation that the changes we've driven in the business continue to support long-term growth. To further demonstrate this point, in the fourth quarter, we invested $1.4 billion of land acquisition and development. This brings our total land spend for 2021 to $4.2 billion. On paper, this is an increase of almost 50% over 2020 land spend. But I would remind you that we suspended land investment for almost six months when the pandemic first hit in 2020, so some of the 2021 spend was simply deferred for the prior year. We currently expect to increase our land investment in 2022 to between $4.5 billion and $5 billion. Given the vast majority of land we acquire is undeveloped, more than half of our spend in 2022 will be from the development of existing land assets. Supported by the higher land spend, we ended 2021 with 228,000 lots under control, of which 109,000 were owned and 119,000 were controlled through options. On a year-over-year basis, we ended 2021 with an incremental 30,000 lots under option and remain focused on advancing our land life strategy going forward. I would note that included within our land position are approximately 1,400 lots that were approved under our strategic relationship with Invitation Homes and that we remain on track with our five-year plan of building 7,500 homes under this program with first closings expected in 2023. Now, let me turn the call back to Ryan.Ryan Marshall -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Bob. For a number of reasons, we remain constructive on the outlook for the housing industry. Earlier, I spoke about the large demographic trends, which are aligned to support buyer demand over the long term. In the near term, most economic indicators point to an ongoing expansion of the U.S. economy, which should keep the job market strong and increase wages even further. We recognize that COVID and its various mutations are obviously a wildcard, but we hope that this latest surge may have already peaked and that conditions will begin to improve going forward. The impacts from COVID that don't appear to be waning are the desire for single-family living and the ability to work from home indefinitely. We are certainly mindful of rising interest rates and the potential risk through affordability and overall demand and are prepared to respond appropriately should conditions change. Still, given a strong economy, high unemployment, high employment and rising wages, this is a market environment in which we can sell homes. Before opening the call to questions, I do want to highlight an initiative that we've launched internally in 2020, but which you may begin hearing more about this year called our hope to home program. This is our effort to make available for sale more affordable housing and the possibility of homeownership to individuals who might not otherwise get the chance. We all know the benefits that homeownership can afford people over time, but we also can appreciate that not everyone has the same opportunity to access this path. We are beginning to pilot hope to home in a few communities and believe it's a program that could ultimately result in the sale of a couple of hundred homes a year. Hope to home is a for sale program designed to complement, but run independently of our highly successful Build to Honor program through which we donate mortgage-free homes to wounded veterans. Started in 2013, I'm extremely proud to say that Build to Honor will award its 75th mortgage-free home later this year. Now let me close as I begin by thanking our entire organization as well as our suppliers and trade partners. You continue to prove yourselves to be an outstanding group of people focused on serving our customers and supporting each other.Jim Zeumer -- Vice President, Investor Relations and Corporate Finance Thanks, Ryan. We're now prepared to open the call for questions. So we can get to as many questions as possible during the remaining time on this call, we ask that you limit yourself to one question and one follow up. Rob, if you'll explain the process, we'll get started with Q&A. 