  OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by, and welcome to the second-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Mr. Dennis McDaniel, investor relations officer. Please go ahead.Dennis McDaniel -- Investor Relations

 



 Hello. This is Dennis McDaniel at Cincinnati Financial. Thank you for joining us for our second-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. Late yesterday, we issued a news release on our results, along with our supplemental financial package, including our quarter-end investment portfolio. To find copies of any of these documents, please visit our investor website, cinfin.com/investors. The shortest route to the information is the quarterly results link in the navigation menu on the far left. On this call, you'll first hear from Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer Steve Johnston; and then from Chief Financial Officer Mike Sewell. After their prepared remarks, investors participating on the call may ask questions.At that time, some responses may be made by others in the room with us, including Chief Investment Officer Marty Hollenbeck; and Cincinnati Insurance's chief insurance officer, Steve Spray; Chief Claims Officer Marc Schambow; Senior Vice President of Corporate Finance Theresa Hoffer. First, please note that some of the matters to be discussed today are forward-looking. These forward-looking statements involve certain risks and uncertainties. With respect to these risks and uncertainties, we direct your attention to our news release and to our various filings with the SEC. Also, a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures was provided with the news release. Statutory accounting data is prepared in accordance with statutory accounting rules and therefore, is not reconciled to GAAP. Now I'll turn over the call to Steve. 

 



Steve Johnston -- Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Dennis, and good morning, and thank all of you for joining us today to hear more about our second-quarter results. We had another quarter of strong operating performance as we remain focused on steady progress toward profitably growing our insurance business over time. Financial results benefited from several areas, including excellent investment management and ongoing efforts to continually improve insurance operations. Net income for the second quarter of 2021 decreased by $206 million compared with the second quarter of last year, primarily due to $439 million less benefit on an after-tax basis in the fair value of securities held in our equity portfolio. Equity portfolio fair value changes caused significant earnings volatility for several quarters since early 2020. And net income for the first six months of 2021 increased by $1.6 billion from a year ago. Non-GAAP operating income was up $221 million or 311% for the quarter, with lower catastrophe losses on an after-tax basis, contributing $136 million of the increase. Our 85.5% property casualty combined ratio was 17.6 percentage points better than a year ago, with decreased catastrophe losses in the second quarter representing 12.6 points of the improvement. The current accident year combined ratio before catastrophe loss effects also continued to improve and was 2.0 percentage points better than last year for the second quarter and 3.5 points better on a six-month basis. Our underwriters emphasize segmentation of risks, working to retain more profitable accounts, and obtaining better pricing on business that we identify as less profitable. At the same time, we are diversifying risks by product line and geography while excellent service from our claims operation also helps grow our business. Premiums grew at an impressive rate for the second quarter in a row, reflecting expertise and focus by our associates and great production by the premier independent agents who represent Cincinnati Insurance.

 



 Consolidated property casualty net written premiums rose 10% in the second quarter of 2021. We continue to believe we are growing profitably by combining data and judgment as we underwrite and price business. We also recognize the importance of remaining disciplined and walking away from opportunities when we determine pricing is inadequate. Renewal pricing in the second quarter continued to be ahead of our estimate for prospective loss cost trends for each property casualty segment. our commercial and personal lines insurance segments, again experienced mid-single-digit percentage range estimated average price increases, while the excess and surplus lines insurance segment continued in the high single-digit range. Each insurance segment grew its business and produced improved profit compared with the second quarter a year ago. Our commercial lines segment had superb results with its 84.2% combined ratio improving by 14.9 percentage points compared with the second quarter a year ago and growing net written premiums by 8%. For our personal lines segment, second-quarter net written premiums grew 4%, continuing to benefit from planned expansion of high net worth business produced by our agencies. Its combined ratio of 92.7% also improved significantly, down 19.6 percentage points from the second quarter a year ago. Our excess and surplus line segment produced a combined ratio below 90%, while also growing net written premiums by an impressive 26% and posting favorable reserve development on prior accident years for the third time in the past four quarters. Cincinnati Re continued its strong diversified and profitable growth as net written premiums grew 62% in the second quarter, with an excellent combined ratio of nearly 80%. Its seasoned, talented team, is taking advantage of firmer reinsurance pricing, while at the same time, maintaining underwriting discipline as they typically decline three out of four opportunities to write new reinsurance contracts among hundreds that they are routinely submitted in a quarter. Cincinnati Global again produced a fine underwriting profit with an exceptional loss and loss expense ratio as favorable reserve development on prior accident year catastrophes offset most of its other losses. Its net written premiums decreased a little as underwriters have been reducing catastrophe loss risk while growing some newer lines of business. Our life insurance subsidiary had another good quarter, reporting second-quarter net income up 17% from a year ago and growing life insurance earned premiums by 2%. I'll conclude with the value-creation ratio, our primary measure of long-term financial performance. Strong operating results and favorable securities markets produced an excellent VCR at 7.3% for the second quarter and 11.6% for the first half of the year. The contribution from operations measured as net income before investment gains was 4.8% for the first six months of 2021, up 2.7 percentage points from a year ago. Now our chief financial officer, Mike Sewell, will comment on a few other important areas of our financial performance.Mike Sewell -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Steve, and thanks for all of you joining us today. Our investment portfolio continued to perform very well during the second quarter of 2021, including investment income growth of 5%. Dividend income was up 13% for the second quarter compared with the same quarter a year ago. For the first half of the year, net purchases for the equity portfolio totaled $42 million. Interest income from our bond portfolio grew 3% and the pre-tax average yield was 4.02%, down nine basis points from the second quarter a year ago. The yield on a six-month basis matched last year's first half. The average pre-tax yield for the total of purchased taxable and tax-exempt bonds during the second quarter of 2021 was 3.33%. Investing in the fixed maturity portfolio continues to be a priority, with net purchases during the first six months of the year totaling $465 million. Investment portfolio valuation changes for the second quarter of 2021 were favorable for both our stock portfolio and our bond portfolio. The overall net gain was $652 million before tax effects, including $489 million for our equity portfolio and $141 million for our bond portfolio. At the end of the second quarter, total investment portfolio net appreciated value was approximately $6.9 billion, including $5.9 billion in our equity portfolio. We had another quarter of strong cash flow, again, contributing to investment income. Cash flow from operating activities for the first six months of 2021 generated $917 million, up 49% from a year ago. Expense management is always an important matter as we work to achieve a good balance between strategic business investments and expense controls. The second quarter of 2021 property casualty underwriting expense ratio was 0.6 percentage points lower than last year's second quarter which included a stay-at-home policyholder credit for personal auto policies and higher credit losses due to uncollectible premiums. The second-quarter ratio was higher than the first quarter of this year, largely due to higher accruals related to profit sharing in the second quarter and lower expenses in the first quarter that benefited from less business travel. Next, I'll highlight a few items regarding loss reserves and reinsurance. Our approach to reserving remains consistent and aims for net amounts in the upper half of the actuarially estimated range of net loss and loss expense reserves. During the second quarter of 2021, we experienced $119 million of property casualty net favorable development on prior accident years. The combined ratio effect was 7.8% for the quarter. As we do each quarter, we consider new information such as paid losses and estimate ultimate losses and loss expenses by accident year and line of business. Based on our study of new data during the year, we update estimates as needed. Together, our workers' compensation and commercial casualty lines of business represent about half of our $7 billion quarter-end total gross property casualty loss and loss expense reserves and they had the largest amounts of second-quarter favorable net reserve development. Workers' compensation has the longest tail as claims can remain open for many years. While the amount of reserve release for any given accident year was relatively small, the aggregate amount was $27 million. Commercial casualty paid loss development by accident year over time is an important factor in estimating ultimate losses. Calendar-year basis data is not as useful. For example, while the second-quarter 2021 paid loss total for commercial casualty was higher than a year ago, for the first six months of 2021, it was 15% less than what we saw prior to the pandemic in the first half of 2019 despite earned premiums that were 13% higher in 2021. Net favorable reserve development during the second quarter was concentrated in the four most recent accident years, including a little more than two-thirds for accident years 2017 through 2019. On an all-lines basis by accident year, net reserve development for the first half of the year was favorable by $170 million for 2020, $26 million for 2019, $15 million for 2018, and $18 million in aggregate for accident years prior to 2018. Nearly 80% of the 2020 amount was for property or auto lines of business, which have a much shorter tail than workers' compensation or commercial casualty. Regarding reinsurance, we disclosed in our 10-Q that we nonrenewed our combined property catastrophe occurrence excess of loss treaty that provided up to $50 million of coverage for business written on a direct basis and by Cincinnati Re. And we restructured the reinsurance program in place for Cincinnati Re only that provides property catastrophe excess of loss coverage now with a total available aggregate limit of $48 million. Another reinsurance detail we disclosed pertains to cyber insurance that we offer as an affirmative coverage option on various policies. Some recent industry reports indicate that on a direct written premium basis, Cincinnati insurance is among the 20 largest insurers in the U.S. Premiums for those policies are ceded to a reinsurer, therefore transferring substantially all of that risk. I'll briefly comment on capital management. Our approach remains consistent, and we ended the quarter with outstanding financial strength and financial flexibility. In typical fashion, I'll wrap up my prepared [Audio gap]our value-creation ratio. Property casualty underwriting increased book value by $1.08. Life insurance operations increased book value $0.07. Investment income other than life insurance and net of noninsurance items added $0.80. Net investment gains and losses for the fixed income portfolio increased book value per share by $0.69. Net investment gains and losses for the equity portfolio increased book value by $2.40. And we declared $0.63 per share in dividends to shareholders. The net effect was a book value increase of $4.41 per share during the second quarter to a record-high $73.57 per share. And now I'll turn the call back over to Steve.Steve Johnston -- Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Mike. It's satisfying to see the steady execution of our initiatives producing these strong results. In June and July brought a return of business travel and a return of our headquarters associates working together in person, it's wonderful to see so many familiar faces in the hallway and to be able to get out from behind our desks to visit with agents and our field teams across the country. This return to a bit of normalcy has produced an energy that you can feel across our organization, bringing with it lots of optimism for the future of Cincinnati Financial. As a reminder, with Mike and me today are Steve Spray, Marc Schambow, Marty Hollenbeck, and Theresa Hoffer. Polly, please open the call for questions. 