
OperatorWelcome to the DexCom First Quarter 2021 Earnings Release Conference Call. My name is Adrienne, and I'll be your operator for today's call. [Operator Instructions].I'll now turn the call over to Sean Christensen. Sean, you may begin.Sean Christensen -- Director of Corporate Affairs and Head of Investor Relations

 



Thank you, operator, and good afternoon everyone. Welcome to Dexcom's First Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. Our agenda begins with Kevin Sayer, Dexcom's Chairman, President, and CEO, who'll provide a summary of our progress, followed by a financial review and outlook from Jereme Sylvain, our Chief Financial Officer. And then an update from Quentin Blackford, our Chief Operating Officer on the company's strategic initiatives and scaling progress.Following our prepared remarks, we will open up the call for your questions. At that time, we ask analysts to limit themselves to one question, so we can provide an opportunity for everyone participating today. Please note that there are also slides available related to our first quarter performance on the DexCom Investor Relations website on the events and presentations page.With that, let's review our Safe Harbor statement. Some of the statements we will make in today's call may constitute forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's intentions, beliefs, and expectations about future events, strategies, competition, products, operating plans, and performance. All forward-looking statements included in this presentation are made as of the date hereof, based on information currently available to Dexcom are subject to various risks and uncertainties and actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by any of these forward-looking statements are detailed in Dexcom's Annual Report on Form 10-K, most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q, and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements after the date of this presentation or to conform these forward-looking statements to actual results.Additionally, during the call we will discuss certain financial measures that have not been prepared in accordance with GAAP, with respect to our non-GAAP and cash-based results. Unless otherwise noted, all references to financial metrics are presented on a non-GAAP basis. The presentation of this additional information should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results or superior to results prepared in accordance with GAAP. Please refer to the tables in our earnings release and the slides accompanying our first quarter earnings presentation for a reconciliation of these measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.

 



Now, I will turn it over to Kevin.Kevin Sayer -- Chairman, President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Sean, and thank you everyone for joining us. Today, we reported strong first quarter results for total revenue growth of 25% over the first quarter of 2020. As I often tell our employees, our ability to thrive as a company ultimately comes down to solving significant problems with a great product, and that is what we continue to see with G6. We hear incredible stories of improved glucose control, reduced disease burden, and people being empowered, and those responses have only increases with enhanced tools to better drive our customer experiences. These stories are coming from multiple sources as well, whether it is coming from G6 users or their family members who are getting better control on their glucose levels to real-time data, or clinicians who are empowered by the ability to gather unique insights into the diabetes treatment of their Type 1 or Type 2 patients and optimize therapy accordingly. And even new settings like nurses and doctors and the inpatient setting who are deploying CGM and learning about its potential to optimize workflows, and benefit from our remote monitoring technology.New customer additions are off to a great start in 2021, especially in the U.S., as we continue to see growth across all channels, building from the increased access that we've gained over the past several years. This includes continued traction for people with Type 1 diabetes and Type 2 intensively managed diabetes, both of which have continued the strong growth momentum that we've seen over the past couple of years. We're also seeing a growing number of Type 2 non-intensive customers on G6, not only through our partnerships like UnitedHealthcare's Level 2 program, but also including the other innovative programs and providers that are establishing early access to Dexcom CGM.

 



We are also progressing our strategic commercial efforts with the remainder of our commercial sales force expansion completed in the first quarter and our direct-to-consumer marketing efforts generating new levels of brand awareness. The Super Bowl commercial featuring Nick Jonas was a highlight for the company in the first quarter. We were able to generate significant excitement for our employees and customers, many of whom have sent us pictures and stories of their pride in feeling represented during one of the biggest annual events in the world. We also contribute to a broader conversation in the diabetes community that we hope will help facilitate broader access to CGM in the future. The ad drove a record number of visitors to our website, a record for a single day new customer leads and significantly more media impressions than we generated in all of 2020, and we are confident that there will be ongoing benefits that will come from the ad, in fact according to an independent Harris Poll, Dexcom led all Super Bowl advertisers in brand equity growth. Overall, it was a great investment for the company, and I'm really proud of our team for pulling it together.Our commercial efforts also include a strong push from our teams to expand access to Dexcom CGM technology internationally both deeper and existing markets as well into new geographies. With Dexcom in the strongest majority position in the company's history as a result of our scaling initiatives, we are aggressively advocating for broader access to our G6 systems for people with Type 1 diabetes, and intensively managed Type 2 diabetes, similar to what we have done here in the United States.Since we last reported in February, we have received confirmation from three additional Canadian provinces that they will begin covering Dexcom CGM. This is a great step forward in expanding access for people with diabetes. There is significant demand from customers and clinicians, and we are optimistic that we will continue this positive momentum in Canada with both the public and private payers over the coming months. In certain reimbursed markets we are proactively lowering price to significantly expand access through incremental customer populations. This positions us well continue to grow sensor volume significantly now and into the future, and we believe the incremental volumes will more than offset the impact of price in the near-term.In conjunction with our commercial initiatives and the growing CGM category awareness, we are advancing the clinical and regulatory path for our next-generation G7 CGM system. As a reminder, we expect G7 to improve all aspects of the current customer experience offered with G6, in a disposable wearable that is less than half the size. We are working to prepare the submission for CE Mark in accordance with New Medical Device Reporting Standard in the EU. At this point, we remain on track for our target launch of G7 in the second half of 2021.We also plan to present preliminary data on G7 performance at the upcoming ATTD Conference in early June. Our trial that will support our U.S. ICGM filing is also well under way. And we have received outstanding feedback from the investigators and patients involved. We expect to complete that trial in the current quarter and we'll keep you updated as we progress toward regulatory approvals and launch.Even as we advance our strategic plans and have seen continued customer growth over the past year, the evidence of the global pandemic remains with us. We continue to navigate certain closures and territories that have seen cases spike, and our team remains focused on the three priorities that we have emphasized throughout the past year. The health and safety of our employees, continued supply of our customers and service to our communities. Towards this end, we were pleased to recently work with the State of Arizona to open the first indoor mass vaccination facility in Arizona to help the community as it transitions to the heat of the summer months. This facility rests within our Mesa distribution facility and has the capacity to support several thousand appointments per day. I am proud to lead a company whose employees are so dedicated to the service of our customers and willing to think creatively about what it means to be a leader in the communities that we serve.As we come back to first quarter results, I want to welcome a new voice to our earnings call, very familiar to many of you already. Last month, we announced the promotion of Jereme Sylvain to the role of Chief Financial Officer, and I'm pleased to have Jereme joined Quentin and I for his first Dexcom earnings call this afternoon. Jereme?Jereme Sylvain -- Cheif Financial OfficerThank you, Kevin. I'm excited to be with you today and in the new role as we advance our work together for people with diabetes. As a reminder, unless otherwise noted, the financial metrics presented today will be discussed on a non-GAAP basis. Reconciliations to GAAP can be found on today's earnings release as well as on our IR website.For the first quarter of 2021, we reported worldwide revenue of $505 million, compared to $405 million for the first quarter of 2020, representing growth of 25% on a reported basis and 23% on a constant currency basis. This is our 7th consecutive quarter of revenue growth of $100 million or more. Impressively, our revenue performance came against our toughest quarterly comparison in 2020 for both our U.S. and international businesses as the first quarter of 2020 was largely unaffected by the COVID-19 pandemic. We also saw a nearly 40% global unit volume growth in the quarter, demonstrating the continued customer growth in the business,U.S. revenue totaled $381 million for the first quarter compared to $292 million for the first quarter in 2020, representing growth of 30%. Our U.S. business was the primary driver of growth in the first quarter with our commercial efforts in rising CGM awareness, driving solid volumes and an acceleration from our fourth quarter growth percentage. We believe that we are well-positioned to continue this momentum. Our DTC efforts and driving awareness of Dexcom CGM. we have new connected systems coming to market that build from years of collaborative work with our partners and we have an expanded field sales force, equipped with the product that our customers love.Our international business reached another quarterly high watermark with a revenue of $124 million, or 10% growth on a reported basis compared to the first quarter of 2020. As we saw in the final three quarters of 2020, the impact of COVID-19 lockdowns has had a greater impact on new customer growth in certain international markets, which has a compounding effect on our reoccurring revenue model. Nevertheless, we delivered growth against our toughest quarterly comp of 2020, or international revenue grew 61% before the pandemic. We continue to see strong growth across a number of our markets, particularly in countries with the administrative requirements to access CGM are minimized via our e-commerce channel or via broad reimbursement.As many of you have seen, we've successfully reduced our manufacturing costs and intentionally increased sensor production capacity. Through these manufacturing efficiencies and increased capacity we are no longer restricted to focusing on high-risk, high reimbursement populations. With this increased commercial flexibility we are executing on our strategy to broaden access to our CGM technology by pushing deeper into existing markets we previously could not address. Through the incremental volumes generated by these efforts, we believe we will offset the near-term price impact, while better positioning the company for long-term growth.Our first quarter gross profit was $343.9 million or 68.1% of revenue compared to 63.9% of revenue in the first quarter of 2020. The fact that we are driving margin expansion despite absorbing the channel mix impact associated with the acceleration of our U.S. business to the pharmacy channel is a testament to the work of our teams to drive down material and production costs.Operating expenses were $297.5 million for the first quarter of 2021 compared to $215.4 million for the first quarter of 2020. The increase in operating expenses as a percentage of sales in the first quarter of 2021 is a result of several of the key initiatives that we outlined in our original 2021 guidance in February. This includes our expanded commercial efforts with the doubling of our U.S. sales force and increased global DTC marketing efforts, both reflected in the quarterly results.In addition, the first quarter research and development expense includes costs associated with our large U.S. ICGM trial for G7, which will continue into the second quarter as we generate the data necessary to support our regulatory filing. Offsetting those strategic investments, we continue to gain leverage in our general and administrative expenses in the quarter demonstrating the benefits of our scaling initiatives. To that end, as we've previously indicated, we have launched a global business services facility in Lithuania, which is now officially live and servicing our customers.Operating income was $46.4 million, or 9.2% of revenue in the first quarter of 2021 compared to $43.3 million, or 10.7% of revenue in the same quarter of 2020, with the 150 basis point decrease resulting from our strategic investments, offset by our gross margin improvement. Adjusted EBITDA was $94.4 million or 18.7% of revenue for the first quarter, compared to $77.8 million or 19.2% of revenue for the first quarter of 2020.Net income for the first quarter was $32.8 million or $0.33 per share. We remain in a great financial position, closing the first quarter with more than $2.6 billion in cash and cash equivalents and well-positioned to continue our G7 scale up and remain opportunistic as we look to expand our growth opportunities.Turning to guidance. We expect some impact to new customer starts to continue during the ongoing global vaccine roll-out, particularly in certain international markets as well as continued higher than usual volumes in our U.S. Medicaid channel as the economy recovers. With the strong first quarter performance, as well as the currency benefit that we saw in the first quarter and continue to anticipate, we are pleased to be in a position to raise our full-year 2021 revenue guidance. We now expect 2021 revenue to be between $2.26 billion to $2.36 billion, representing growth of 17% to 22% over 2020. This growth continues to factor in strong unit growth volumes which are offsetting the impact of lower revenue per customer channels and our recent efforts to broaden access to G6 in international markets as well as the impact of currency.Turning to margins, we are affirming the full-year 2021 targets previously established on our fourth quarter call. This includes non-GAAP results to be approximately at the following levels. Gross profit margins of approximately 65%, operating margins of approximately 13%. We continue to expect that adjusted EBITDA margins to be approximately 23% and finally, as you may have noticed, from a tax perspective we have transitioned to profitability and will have a tax rate applicable to earnings going forward.Our expectation [Technical Issues] the call over to Quentin for a scale and strategy update.Quentin Blackford -- Chief Operating OfficerThank you, Jereme. It's been a pleasure to work alongside Jereme for the last 7 years of our careers, and I am thrilled for him as he now steps into the CFO role. I look forward to watching him take this next step in his career and look forward to the many contributions that he will make in his new role, while I'm also excited by the opportunity to turn my attention much more broadly to our strategic and scaling efforts across the organization.Our teams remain incredibly focused on our strategic initiatives and are making great progress on several fronts. As Kevin mentioned, we are advancing our regulatory and clinical efforts for G7 and we'll present the first set of G7 data at the upcoming ATTD Conference in early June. As we press forward toward our G7 goals, we are making steady progress in our effort to scale G7 manufacturing to support our launches and the continued growth of our global customer base. In the near term, this includes the lines that we are building in our San Diego and Mesa, Arizona facilities. We've also broken ground on our manufacturing site in Malaysia, which we expect will enable us to significantly scale our G7 production capacity to serve meaningful more customers as we continue to grow our business in the years to come. Even with G7 on the horizon, we remain committed to building on the leading customer experience that we have established for users of our G6 system. Following the December regulatory approval in the U.S., we rolled out an update to the G6 algorithm in the first quarter. We believe this update will drive further reductions to times in which data is temporarily unavailable. And I've seen excellent results from the initial launch of this updated algorithm in Canada in 2020. These are the kinds of incremental improvements that we are always looking to provide, and they are contributing to our strong customer retention and satisfaction levels reflected in our industry-leading net promoter scores.On the insulin delivery front, we were encouraged to see the great results from the Omnipod 5 pivotal trial presented at ENDO 2021, and look forward to the upcoming launch of that system for our Dexcom customers using the Omnipod pump. With this launch in Omnipod's differentiated patch pump form factor, as well as Tandem's continued market traction with their Dexcom connected Control-IQ, we believe that we are very well-positioned to continue to benefit from the growing appreciation for these automated insulin delivery systems.Similarly, we continue to advance our development with Eli Lilly, Novo Nordisk and more recently Ypsomed leaving us in a strong position in future years as people with diabetes stand to benefit from greater variety in their choices for Bluetooth connected insulin delivery options that integrate Dexcom CGM. We've discussed the excellent first quarter performance in our U.S. IIT market, as well as some of the key strategic initiatives that we are undertaking to expand access in our international markets. We are also making excellent progress in our effort to drive the 3rd pillar of near-term growth that we highlighted at our 2020 Investor Day, the non-intensive Type 2 market.As we've mentioned before, we are taking multi-channel approach to enabling access to Dexcom CGM in the absence of widespread reimbursement. This involves direct work with payers, digital health programs, healthcare providers and integrated networks, as well as the patients themselves. The early roll-out of Level 2 is progressing well, as we continue to see that program expand and our teams are working well with the UnitedHealthcare team to optimize the experience for members using our G6 system as part of that program.We also worked with several partners to expand their use of G6 and their respective Type 2 populations in the first quarter. This includes the initiation of commercial pilots with Teladoc Health Livongo for Diabetes platform, as well as with Welldoc. Everside Health also announced that it will offer G6 to its members with Type 2 diabetes in its Healthstat business unit, and we are proceeding there now in a pilot phase. This relationship builds from our initial work with Healthstat over the previous 2 years, including the use of Dexcom CGM in a pilot for health screenings at on-site clinics. Each of these relationships is expanding the approval of customers who can access our technology, while generating evidence of the utility of Dexcom CGM for the broader Type 2 market that we believe will drive access and awareness in the future.Beyond these core growth initiatives, our teams continue to advance innovative research and product development that we feel will contribute to long-term growth for Dexcom. This includes the hospital market, where we are generating data via our patient registry, and receiving great feedback as many hospitals across America continue to take advantage of the FDA's temporary allowance to use Dexcom CGM in the inpatient setting during the pandemic. This also includes several clinical studies assessing the use of Dexcom CGM for better management of gestational diabetes, a solution that we believe can enhance the outcomes for both the mother and the child. And finally, we continue to access next-generation technologies that we believe can build from the sensor platform that we've established with G6 and G7. We look forward to updating you as we progress.With that, I will pass it back to Kevin.Kevin Sayer -- Chairman, President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Quentin. As you can see, we're off to a great start to the year, and working hard to execute on the strategic pathway that we laid out for 2021.I would now like to open up the call for Q&A. Sean?Sean Christensen -- Director of Corporate Affairs and Head of Investor RelationsThank you, Kevin. As a reminder, we ask our audience to limit themselves to only one question at this time, and then reenter the queue if necessary.Operator, please provide the Q&A instructions.