  OperatorGood day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the first quarter 2022 General Electric Company earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] My name is Brandon, and I'll be your conference coordinator today. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. I would now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference, Steve Winoker, vice president of investor relations. Please proceed.Steve Winoker -- Vice President of Investor Relations Thanks, Brandon. Welcome to GE's first quarter 2022 earnings call. I'm joined by Chairman and CEO Larry Culp and CFO Carolina Dybeck Happe. Keep in mind that some of the statements we're making are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today. As described in our SEC filings and on our website, those elements may change as the world changes. With that, I'll hand the call over to Larry.Larry Culp -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Steve, thanks, and good morning, everyone. I'd like to start by addressing the devastating war in Ukraine. The GE team stands proudly with the people of Ukraine. As we shared last month, we have suspended our operations in Russia with the exception of some essential activities, primarily in healthcare. We've also made a multimillion-dollar contribution through philanthropic commitments and medical equipment to assist those who have been directly impacted by the events. I'm inspired by the more than 50 GE employees in the surrounding regions who have opened the doors of their homes to Ukrainian refugees and have volunteered their time to help with other refugee efforts. Now let me turn to our results, starting on Slide 2. I'm proud of how our team drove improved services, orders, and cash as we managed through increasing challenges in the first quarter. Orders were up 13% organically, with strength in both services and equipment and we saw double-digit growth in aviation and power. Revenue was up slightly, driven by growth in higher-margin services in all segments. We saw continued momentum at aviation with revenue up double digits. This however was largely offset by supply chain constraints in all segments, especially healthcare and aviation, U.S. policy uncertainty driving lower Onshore Wind North American deliveries at renewables this quarter and continued selectivity at power. In particular, selectivity, being more disciplined about what we sign up for, taking a closer look at the margins we underwrite and not competing everywhere, continues to be a critical element of our strategy at power and renewables. We're focusing on business that's aligned with our long-term growth and profit objectives. As you've been hearing from many other companies, we're operating in a challenging macro environment. Collectively, supply chain issues, the Russia-Ukraine war, and China COVID impacts adversely affected revenue in the quarter by about six percentage points. I'll provide more detail shortly on these factors, and more importantly, the actions we're taking to mitigate them. Adjusted operating margin expanded 110 basis points, driven by higher services mix and continued cost out. Both aviation and power margin improved substantially, while healthcare and renewables were meaningfully pressured due to both inflation and supply chain shortages. Strong services growth and margin expansion led to an adjusted EPS of $0.24, up 85% year on year. Free cash flow was roughly negative $900 million, as expected, given our seasonality. This was driven by receivables and inventory build for the second half and supply chain constraints. Importantly though, this was a $1.7 billion improvement, excluding discontinued factoring. Overall, services are recovering across our portfolio. Our total orders are strong and our cash generation continues to improve. Turning to Slide 3. At our Investor Day in March, we discussed some of the key risk factors that drove the range in our outlook. Since then, we're experiencing increased pressure from inflation, renewable energy, and the Russia-Ukraine war. We're also watching two evolving areas, namely additional supply chain pressure and recent COVID impacts in China. We're holding the outlook range we shared in January and working through these pressures I just outlined. But given the fluidity around the duration and magnitude of these factors, we're trending toward the low end of that range. Carolina will run through the dynamics by business shortly, but let me spend a moment on renewables. As Scott Strazik shared last month, our financial results here have been unacceptable, but they are fixable. First, continued U.S. policy uncertainty, along with higher prices, has reduced near-term demand in our profitable North America Onshore Wind business. Second, inflationary pressures are impacting GE with higher material and logistics costs. Third, proven and new leadership with Scott and Philippe Piron is transforming the business fundamentals, largely using their gas power and power conversion playbooks in their new roles. This all starts, of course, with what's in our control. We need to run the business better, and that's something we know how to do. We're using lean to improve safety and quality and product cost. We're taking an even harder look at our cost structure to size the business for the new realities. We're now managing the business in a more decentralized manner, closer to our customers as well as improving our own execution. We're being more selective on deals internationally, with our price and market focus on defined geographies where we've identified product fit, services opportunities, and an ability to execute. This is already yielding improved order pricing, which was up high single digits in the quarter in our onshore international business. These actions won't materialize in our results right away, but we do expect renewable energy to return to being a profitable growth business over time. And rest assured, this is a business that's critical to the energy transition, thus one positioned for long-term growth. More broadly, in all of our businesses, we're driving growth, price, and cost out. We're growing our more profitable services businesses, reconfiguring our supply chains, and leading with innovation while increasing R&D spend. We're also raising list prices and price floors. And in services, we're utilizing escalation clauses in our agreements. And we're focused on sourcing and productivity to reduce cost. power, for example, continues to deliver profit and cash, supported by price escalation in our CSAs and improving Steam business, a disciplined underwriting strategy, and operational improvements despite the fulfillment challenges. And we're embedding lean deeply across GE, changing the way we work for the better. You've heard me talk about the core principles of lean before, which is all about serving the customer, eliminating waste, and prioritizing ruthlessly. Earlier, I mentioned six points of pent-up revenue. We need to work through to execute on the demand we're seeing, especially in aviation and healthcare. Let me give you a few quick examples of what we're doing to manage through the well-documented supply chain challenges out there. We hosted our Investor Day at Gemba, showing up close how lean is transforming the company. Many of you saw at our aviation facility in Greenville how our team performs complex machining operations and detailed inspections on high-pressure turbine blades. Here, we're focused on reducing the site's blade delivery lead time. The team has used lean to improve the plant layout and create standard lines, improving part flow. These actions have reduced lead time by more than 10 days, and we're targeting an additional 10-day decrease. Through this work, overall inventory has been reduced as well. Our military business is also making progress. For the T700 program, we've improved first-time yield in key lines by about 40% and shipments increased more than 35% sequentially. This supported high single-digit revenue growth at military in the quarter, with more improvement to come as we apply these learnings to other engine programs. In healthcare, our ultrasound team shifted part of their work cadence from make to stock to make to order. This has simplified planning and execution, optimized infrastructure cost, and reduced lead time by 30%. Importantly, the team has also increased inventory turns by 50% since 2019, removing the Muda or the waste in the system. And while lean is always important, it's during these dynamic times that lean really contributes and differentiates us in the eyes of our customers. In turn, as we make these kinds of continuous operational improvements, we better serve our customers and set ourselves up to reinvest for growth, driving innovation across GE, where we have significant impact with our customers. Just looking at what we market, sell, and service today. At renewables, we completed the Traverse Wind Energy Center with Invenergy recently. This is the largest wind farm constructed in North America in a single phase, and it's powered by more than 350 of GE's 2-megawatt platform turbines. At aviation, we're developing technologies for the future. We've recently reached two key engine milestones. Our adaptive cycle XA100, with the second engine to test fired up in March, and our first T901 engine tested successfully in March as well, achieving max power, with performance matching our pretest predictions. We're also introducing new products, like healthcare's Edison Digital Health Platform. Powered by AI, this platform will aggregate data from multiple sources and vendors to help reduce staff burdens and improve the delivery of care. And at the same time, we'll continue to complement these organic investments with inorganic activity to improve our growth potential, whether with an acquisition like BK Medical or a sale, as seen this quarter with part of Steam power's nuclear business. In summary, we're taking action in this difficult environment to serve our customers while investing in tomorrow's innovation. We're using lean principles to improve our results and our culture. We're confident this work is improving our operational and financial performance while fortifying our competitive positions around the world, ultimately, unlocking further potential across our company. And with that, Carolina will provide further insights on the quarter.Carolina Happe -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Larry. Let's dive right into our results. Turning to Slide 4. I'll provide color on the quarter on an organic basis. Overall, orders were strong when revenue up 1% remained pressured, especially in renewables due to U.S. onshore. The constraints that Larry detailed, including supply chain disruptions, Russia-Ukraine and China, weighed on our ability to ship, which further hurt revenue. Taken together, these constraints reduced the total growth by about six points. Plus, our selectivity actions impacted revenue by another point. It's important to highlight that this was largely an equipment dynamic. And services remained strong, up 15%, with growth in all businesses. Notably, aviation and commercial services rose 37% as the market recovery accelerated. We continued to enhance profitability, expanding our adjusted margin 110 basis points, reflecting the mix shift to higher-margin services and continued cost productivity. On the positive side, both aviation and power expanded with more than 300 basis points, driven largely by favorable services mix. Within power, Steam showed significant expansion, reflecting our strategy to exit less profitable segments like new build coal as well as benefits from prior cost actions. There was approximately 200 basis points of additional margin headwinds from inflation and logistics costs net of sourcing actions at the total company level. This was greater than expected, especially in our shorter-cycle businesses like healthcare. While we achieved positive pricing on deliveries this quarter, particularly in aviation and power, it was not enough to offset inflation. Despite the tough macro environment, we are continuing to prioritize investing in the future, with R&D up double digits. We remain focused on leading with innovation through high-return, strategically differentiated technologies, such as aviation next-gen programs and healthcare Imaging platforms like the CT photon counting. Finally, we increased adjusted EPS 85%, driven by margin expansion. In the standard work from continuing to adjusted EPS, I'd call out three additional adjustments this quarter. First, separation costs related to the planned business operation; second, the asset impairment due to our previously announced plan to sell the nuclear activities within our Steam business to EDF; and third, Russia and Ukraine charges, primarily related to sanction activities at aviation and certain power businesses. In all, we delivered significant order growth and continued margin expansion this quarter. Moving to cash. Free cash flow was negative $880 million, a use of cash which we expect seasonally. This was an improvement of $2.5 billion year over year on a reported basis or up $1.7 billion, excluding discontinued factoring programs. The improvement was largely driven by lower interest expenses and derivatives on reduced debt, as expected, as well as improvement at aviation and power, in line with earnings growth and utilization. This was offset by significant headwinds, including supply chain disruptions. This quarter, working capital was the biggest component of negative free cash flow. And looking at the dynamics, receivables was a use of cash. This was driven by growing CSA billings through the quarter at aviation and supply chain constraints, driving higher deliveries late in the quarter. Inventory was also a use across the businesses of $1 billion. We expected inventory to grow in the first quarter as inventory was built to support second-half volume, but this was further impacted by material shortages, delaying shipments of finished goods. We still see opportunities to improve both inventory turns and receivable DSOs. In this challenging environment, it is much harder to implement though, but we are still seeing pockets of improvement. Take the Onshore Wind North America. Our team in Pensacola, Florida held a case and event focused on hub costing. Using standard work, they reduced lead time to prep the hub costing for the assembly line by 80%, so from nine hours to under two. And as a result, the team also includes productivity by about 50% and reduced inventory by more than 80%. Contract assets and progress collections were a source of cash. Strength was driven by utilization, outpacing service visits in aviation and power as well as progress payments in aviation and renewable energy. In all, our efforts to improve working capital management are slowly taking hold despite the difficult supply chain environment. We see real opportunity for the company to build on this momentum, keeping us on track to reach more than $7 billion of free cash flow for 2023. Our success in strengthening our balance sheet and improving cash flow provides us with more optionality to drive value, both through growth investments and capital return initiatives. To that end, our board recently authorized up to $3 billion in share repurchases as a potential capital allocation alternative. Moving to the businesses. aviation results reflect continued recovery in commercial markets as demand remains strong. However, supply chain disruptions presented headwinds to our top-line performance this quarter. This will be a key watch item as we progress through the year, but we still expect improvement across the business as deliveries and shop visits ramp. For the quarter, orders grew significantly, with both commercial engines and services up substantially again. military orders were down, largely due to a tough comp in the previous year when we recorded big CF6 and T408 engine wins. Demand remains robust. Revenue was up due to meaningful growth in commercial services, again, the shop visits up 18% year over year. Growth in shop visits this quarter would have been even higher without the material availability and fulfillment issues we experienced. Military was up as lean improvements begin to materialize. As we apply the T700 learnings across other programs, we expect tangible progress through the second half of 2022. Commercial engine revenue was down double digits, driven by supply chain disruptions and lower production rates on GEnx. You can see the impact of wide-body mix here as engine shipments were down just 4% year over year, with LEAP narrow-body up 27%. The supply chain constraints were mainly related to labor and material availability due to COVID disruptions in our facilities and at our suppliers, which we're actively managing. Segment margin expanded 310 basis points to 16.2%, primarily driven by commercial services growth as well as positive pricing and productivity. This was partially offset by higher LEAP engine shipments, inflation, and additional growth investments. Looking ahead at the remainder of the year. We expect demand to remain strong as the market continues to recover in most parts of the world despite uncertainty in China due to the recent COVID impact. We're managing through this and the supply chain disruptions. We still expect shop visits to ramp through the year up to 25%, driven by the ongoing recovery and customer confidence. And this supports the total year growth of 20% or more. Moving to healthcare. Market demand continues to be strong, though the first quarter was impacted by supply chain and inflationary challenges. Orders were up high single digits year over year. This was driven by high single-digit growth in healthcare Systems and mid-single digits in PDx. Elective procedure volumes recovered from January. COVID cases subsided in February and March, with volumes improving sequentially, though hospital staffing shortages continue. Revenue was up 2%, with services growing low single digit and equipment flat. Growth was impacted by the continued supply chain constraints, primarily in electronics; COVID impact in certain China regions, further limiting what we can buy and ship and affecting revenue toward quarter end; lower volume in Russia and Ukraine, a region that accounts for about 2% of healthcare's annual sales. And finally, COVID has delayed site readiness and some equipment installations, mainly due to customers' labor and construction material shortages. Absent these constraints, we estimate that the revenue growth would have been about seven to eight points higher or a year-over-year growth of approximately 9%. Segment margin was significantly impacted by increased material and logistics inflation, which net of our sourcing actions resulted in a headwind of about four points. We've been leveraging every tool at our disposal within our control. This includes: price actions, which are showing early success; qualifying alternative parts; redesigning product configuration; and reducing discretionary spend. The healthcare team remains focused on innovation and commercial growth investments, with R&D investments up double digits this quarter. A couple of key solution highlights from the quarter include: the FDA approval of the End tidal Control software platform to automate anesthesia delivery and a subscription model for our handheld ultrasound tools. Looking ahead, our current view at healthcare is that supply and inflationary challenges will persist at some level through 2022. Sequential improvement depends on supply chain constraints easing, especially in China, and our ability to leverage lean to improve output and strengthen our pricing discipline. We are working to offset headwinds with price increases. But given product fulfillment timing, this will likely have a more meaningful positive impact in the second half. We also continued to manage SG&A and discretionary costs to improve margins. Our supply chain constraints is healthcare is well-positioned to achieve high teens to 20% margins over time. Turning to renewables. Our results were challenging. So let me give you more context. We're seeing pressure in the U.S. Onshore Wind, largely due to the PTC dynamics, and higher prices suppressing demand as customers delay decisions. Grid is positioned to support modernization needs as demonstrated by our contract this quarter to supply a digital subscription for the Empire Offshore Wind 1 project. And we've started to see increased interest within Europe as countries recognize the need to meet their energy goals. On the quarter, orders were down double digits. Onshore equipment orders decreased, consistent with the inflation-driven customer delays and the U.S. market decline. Our selectivity strategy is impacting both wind and grid. Grid was also down as we lapped the large HVDC order versus last year. However, with automation orders remain strong, up double digits. And overall, services grew mid-single digits. Revenue declined, with all businesses down as we saw lower equipment revenue with 280 fewer wind turbine deliveries year over year. Grid was also down due to increased selectivity. This was partially offset by significant services growth, primarily driven by onshore repower. Segment margin declined substantially, driven by volume reduction in our most profitable market, U.S. onshore, combined with cost inflation in materials, such as steel and transportation costs across the business. Onshore Wind margin declined and was negative, pressured by volume, mix, and the new product transitions. We continued to transition to newer product offerings internationally and executed on lower-margin projects in North America. On the positive side, we saw benefits from lower cost and savings associated with prior restructuring projects across our businesses. At grid, margins improved slightly with the restructuring benefits, offsetting lower volume and our rundown of low-margin legacy backlog. Today, due to lower volumes in Onshore Wind North America and the additional inflation we've seen, we expect renewables to be below the outlook range. The business full-year result will depend largely on North America volume, the inflationary environment, and execution of cost and price actions. Overall, these results are disappointing and we know we have a lot to do here, but we have a proven playbook and a leadership driving price to market and selectivity and taking a hard look at the right cost structure. Long term, we're confident the team will drive profitable growth given the market demand for renewable energy generation as the world adds 1,000 gigawatts of wind capacity in the next decade and our strong portfolio. Moving to power, where our team is driving operational improvements. Better results reflect progress with gas power, steam, and power conversion as lean takes hold, positioning the business for long-term success. Global gas generation and GE utilization remained resilient, up mid single-digits as the market manages through the uncertainty and disruptions in Ukraine. Despite recent price volatility, gas continues to be reliable and economic source of power generation. And over the next decade, we expect the gas market to remain stable, with gas generation growing low single digits. Orders were strong, and we improved the quality of the backlog for the future. Significant growth in equipment was driven by large H-class order, with continued aero momentum. Our new business underwriting remained disciplined as we grow our backlog profitably. Services orders were also up, driven by gas, with growth in both our contractual and transactional business. Revenue was down mid-single digits, primarily driven by equipment as we shipped three fewer H-class units year over year. This was consistent with our backlog ship dates, which will result in back-end loaded equipment revenue this year. Aero continued to grow, shipping seven more units versus last year. And services was up 1%, driven by gas and power conversion. And recall, we deconsolidated the Baker aero joint venture last year, so that is now excluded from our organic metrics. Segment margin expanded 360 basis points. Gas power margin was positive and improved. We are seeing progress in steam with meaningful margin improvement due to the increased focus on services, reduced cost structure, and project and legal charges from last year that did not repeat. Similarly, the focus on services and selectivity at power conversion generated positive margin, making four quarters of profitability. And for 2022, we expect to deliver margin expansion, driven by aero deliveries, transactional services, and continued improvement in Steam. And while we expect a dip in our CSA revenue, driven by a lower planning outage profile in 2022 really based on multiyear technology cycles, we expect to increase next year. And we expect continued strong service fleet utilization and cash generation. Power remains on track to meet its full-year outlook, though the team faces a relatively higher exposure to Russia than the other businesses, with Russia comprising of about 4% of revenue at high incremental margin. Importantly, our commitment to selectivity and operational execution is enabling us to win the right orders, grow services and increase free cash flow generation. Finally, I'll spend a moment on corporate. As a reminder, we rolled the remainder of capital, including EFS and the corporate. Adjusted corporate costs, which we expect to be uneven through the year, decreased by more than 40% year over year. This was primarily driven by better EFS performance and improvements in functions and operations. While excluded from our adjusted results, insurance net income was approximately $180 million, up year over year. This was driven by favorable claim experience in our LTC portfolio and continued investment return favorability. This quarter, we also completed our annual cash flow test. As expected, we funded $2 billion in line with permitted practice. Additionally, our team is preparing to implement the industrywide FASB accounting standard beginning in January 2023. As disclosed previously, this will result in a GAAP charge but does not impact projected cash funding. At Q2 earnings, we'll provide more detailed update. In parallel, we are adopting the LTC first principles approach, which complements the FASB standard and includes incorporating more granular modeling assumptions. This is expected to impact our GAAP LRT margin, but we expect the margin to remain positive. And in addition, we do not expect changes to statutory reserves to regulatory capital or projected funding. In discontinued operations, we have our runoff Polish BPH mortgage portfolio, with a current gross balance of $2.2 billion. This quarter, we recorded charges of about $200 million, mainly driven by more adverse results for banks in the ongoing litigation with borrowers. This brings the total litigation reserves related to this matter to approximately $900 million. Stepping back, we are managing through an increasingly difficult macro environment. We are focused on what's within our control by leveraging lean and digital tools to improve our operations. As those improvements take hold, we'll drive sustainable, profitable growth and free cash flow, enabling us to deliver value for shareholders and strengthening GE for the long term. Now, Larry, back to you.Larry Culp -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Carolina, thanks. Before I close, I'll briefly touch on the real progress we're making on our plan to create three independent investment-grade industry leaders. As always, it starts with our team. As we shared at our Investor Day, we've added three new board members: Steve Angel; Bella Goren; and Tom Mihaljevic, who bring deep domain expertise in our key industries. And we're delighted to add to our existing leadership bench, Scott Reese, who joined as CEO of our digital business, which will be part of GE's global energy portfolio going forward. And in healthcare, we welcome Chief People Officer Betty Larson, and General Counsel Frank Jimenez. We remain very enthusiastic about the opportunities these spins will unlock for our already strong franchises as they will help drive greater focus, accountability and alignment with our customers and the markets they serve. We're committed to making sure each proposed company is set up with an investment-grade rating, strong capital and governance structures, and best-in-class talent that will position them for long-term success. As you heard from our healthcare leaders last month, planning work for the spin-off is well underway, and we're on track to launch healthcare early next year. We've received positive feedback from our customers and many investors. And we have dedicated cross-functional teams working through stand-alone operating and capital structures, governance branding, and a range of other work streams to ensure operational readiness. We have more than 1,000 people today engaged in the separation planning work, moving forward with purpose in important areas. We're progressing the carve-out audits, and we have finalized the IT infrastructure and legal entity separation plans. A lot of work has been completed, more to come, but we're on our way. Pete and his leadership team are focused not only on successfully executing the intended spin, but also deeply embedding lean and developing long-term plans to accelerate top and bottom-line growth as an independent company. At the same time, GE remains focused on serving our customers. The majority of our teams are fully dedicated to running the business and driving lean improvements to further strengthen our foundation ahead of the spins. As we move forward, we're confident about our path to create three outstanding companies well-positioned for the future, with global leadership positions, lean cultures, and innovation prowess to solve for the critical needs of our customers. I'm grateful for the focus and dedication of the GE team. I continue to be inspired by their extraordinary commitment. I'm excited about our ability to realize the full potential of these businesses as we move forward. To close on Slide 11. It's been a busy start to the year to say the least. This quarter presented its challenges with rising inflation, renewable energy, and Russia-Ukraine chief among those challenges. And we continue to monitor additional supply chain constraints and the COVID impacts in China. But we're managing through, focusing on what we can control, and there is a lot that we can control. The recovery in services is a bright spot, with all businesses growing service revenue this quarter as well as strong underlying demand in aviation and healthcare. I'm confident that our team is leveraging lean and decentralization, focused on safety, quality, and delivery, and taking action to drive growth, price, and cost out. And we continue preparing our plans to stand up three strong independent companies, focused on growing critical sectors: in aviation, where we're on the cusp of a post-COVID recovery and new engine ramp with our airframe customers, accelerating our mission to create a smarter and more efficient future of flight; in healthcare, where we're innovating in precision health to drive efficiency and improve patient outcomes; and in Energy, where we see tremendous opportunity to provide affordable, reliable and sustainable power. Overall, I hope you see what I see, that our businesses are positioned for success as we continue to scale lean and drive innovation, delivering better results for our shareholders today and tomorrow. Steve, with that, let's go to questions.Steve Winoker -- Vice President of Investor Relations Thanks, Larry. [Operator instructions] We have a hard stop at 9:00. Brandon, can you please open the line? 