
OperatorGreetings. Thank you for standing by. Welcome to the J.B. Hunt First Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Brad Delco, Vice President of Finance and Investor Relations. Please go ahead.A. Brad Delco -- Vice President-Finance and Investor Relations

 



Good afternoon. Before I introduce the speakers, I would like to take some time to provide some disclosures regarding forward-looking statements. This call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as expects, anticipates, intends, estimates or similar expressions are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. These statements are based on J.B. Hunt's current plans and expectations and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause future activities and results to be materially different from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. For information regarding risk factors, please refer to J.B. Hunt's annual report on Form 10-K and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.Now I would like to introduce the speakers on today's call. This afternoon I am joined by our CEO, John Roberts; our CFO, John Kuhlow; Shelley Simpson, our Chief Commercial Officer and EVP of People and Human Resources; Nick Hobbs, our Chief Operating Officer and President of Contract Services; Brad Hicks, President of Highway Services; and Darren Field, President of Intermodal.At this time, I would like to turn the call to our CEO, Mr. John Roberts for some opening comments. John?John N. Roberts -- President, Chief Executive Officer

 



Thank you, Brad. As we discussed during our last call, we entered 2021 with a cautious, but informed positive outlook on what we could expect in terms of demand and inventory replenishment needs from our customers. Aside from the temporary disruptions presented by weather events in February, most of the data supports a generally optimistic view of those expectations and encourages our direction going forward.As we evaluate current market conditions and the needs of our customers, we have determined that an increase in our capital investment plan is warranted. Accordingly, we are announcing a 40% increase in our originally stated plans to enable the procurement of incremental containers, trailers and the needed supporting equipment such as chassis and tractors for JBI. The new projection for our capital investments now reached $1.25 billion for this year, a clear milestone for our Company. We have secured contracts to increase our container fleet by another 6,000 units in 2021 for Intermodal, bringing our net addition target to approximately 12,000 units for 2021, a little over 1,000 of which are temperature controlled containers. We are also increasing our trailer fleet in Highway Services by 1,500 units bringing that total fleet expansion to 3,000 for 2021. All of this equates to just above an 80% increase to our original container growth plan and a 100% increase to our tractor [Phonetic] fleet expansion plans for our 360box programs. John Kuhlow will add his comments on our capital expenditures in his remarks.Let's discuss margins. After announcing our plans to issue clarification for all segment margin targets during our last call and with the understanding that we have had these margin goals under specific review for over a year, we will reestablish our targets with you here today. For Intermodal we lower our margin goals from 11% to 13% to 10% to 12%. The fundamental reason for this structural change is that it presents the Company with the ability to grow with and serve our customers, while also generating an appropriate and sustainable ROIC. As a component of this adjustment, we also see opportunities to improve our asset utilization [Technical Issues] box turns per month and to evaluate our tractor and chassis ratios, all of which would be positive for the business and returns.For DCS we increased our margin goals from 11% to 13% to 12% to 14%. While this change appears to be a step up in margin expectation, it is actually the realization of a fundamental increase in the fleet size, which allows growth and start-up expenses to occur without disrupting the core business as it has in the past. Another element revealing clarity for the fleet business is the removal of the final mile activities, which require a lower margin given the lighter asset requirements. As discussed, the margins are set to provide an appropriate return for each business and given the asset intensity of DCS a higher margin has always been needed.

 



For JBT we are adjusting our margin range from 8% to 12% to between 8% and 10%. The primary reason for this change is a recognition of a lighter asset position as we focus our investments on adding trailers and not tractors going forward. We do point out that we are in the early stages of transforming this model focused on more trailers and we'll continue to evaluate the margin requirements and market support to achieve growth in the appropriate ROIC levels to reinvest.For ICS, we reaffirm our long-term target margin range between 4% and 6%. And for Final Mile Services, we reaffirm our long-term target margin rate between 4% and 8%. Each segment leader will add comment on the main drivers for these margin targets and the resulting ROIC expectations going forward.Final comment from me on the availability of professional drivers for our asset-based businesses and our care providers is under unusual pressure currently. While we have faced driver hiring issues at varying degrees of difficulty during previous tightening cycles, we see the current pressure being meaningfully more pronounced and likely prolonged. Shelley and Nick will add more color on our perspectives.Accordingly, we are taking some unique steps in our efforts to address this critical challenge. These include reducing the eligibility time for new driver benefits from 90 to 30 days, expanded efforts to explore new ways to train and mentor new entrants to the field of professional drivers and of course a comprehensive overview of driver wages and compensation. All in, we believe we are advantaged by our brand, our recruiting and hiring systems, a focus on retention and the vitally important increasing efforts in improving our inclusion and awareness for the vast diversity currently in place with our amazing driver and field management teams.I will now turn the call over to John Kuhlow for his comments.John Kuhlow -- Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice PresidentThank you, John and good afternoon, everyone. I'd like to start by providing a couple of comments on our first quarter of 2021 from a consolidated perspective. Given the weather and other constraints, facing the industry, we are pleased with our revenue, operating income and EPS growth for this quarter, with notable achievements in our Highway Services revenue as both ICS and JBT were up significantly over the prior-year quarter.With respect to weather, we previously guided to a $15 million to $20 million estimated operating income impact from the February winter storms. In closing the quarter we determined this impact to be approximately $17 million, which primarily includes lost opportunities within our Intermodal segment of approximately 25,000 loads. Other cost pressures in the quarter were primarily related to higher driver costs to attract and retain drivers and higher costs across our various networks and operations due to congestion and the overall labor tightness from increased freight demand and capacity constraints.You will note, we ended the quarter with approximately $550 million in cash with this being driven in part by our review of the capital investments that John had highlighted. We had previously guided capex to be between $850 million and $900 million for 2021 and we are now updating that to $1.25 billion, primarily driven by the Intermodal container adds and the trailers for our 360box program. This investment is supported by the current environment, but also our longer-term outlook. While not specifically included in the capex plans, our cash and liquidity also allows for further consolidation in our final mile businesses as opportunities may arise.With regards to margins, as noted, the conclusion of our review of our segmented margin targets was informed by the current and future state of our business segment. In terms of our desired returns on capital, are revenue quality, capital intensity and the desired market penetration rates. Other inputs to our ranges include underlying risks regarding the nature of our customer contracts, both in terms of precipitated commitments and contract duration.Finally, from a capital allocation standpoint, we continued stock buybacks in the quarter but found less opportunity in the back half and then fell into our blackout period. While we have guided toward a significant capital investment, we still anticipate continuing our buyback approach throughout 2021.A final note on COVID costs. We continue to offer paid time low or -- excuse me paid time off, or PTO, to employees that have needed to quarantine. During the quarter, we committed to providing PTO to employees to allow them to be vaccinated thereby ensuring their W2 is not impacted when needing time away from work to be vaccinated.We've been working with local healthcare organizations to host vaccine clinics at our corporate headquarters to provide vaccinations to employees, their adult family members and other eligible community members. Together we have inoculated more than 13,000 members of our community and are working with our field employees to provide vaccination assistance under applicable area of guidelines and procedures. As a result of these efforts, we have incurred approximately $8 million in costs in the current quarter designated as specific COVID costs compared to the $15 million that we experienced in the first quarter of 2020.That concludes my remarks and I'd like to now turn it over to Shelley.Shelley Simpson -- Chief Commercial Officer, Executive Vice President, People and Human ResourcesThank you, John, and good afternoon. My commercial update this afternoon will focus on general market conditions and our expectations for the year as well as an update on the progress we are making as an organization with our 360 platform. As John alluded to earlier, we entered 2021 with cautious optimism about the opportunities presented to us. These opportunities include a means to recover from the cost incurred last year as we honored our commitments to customers but equally as important the opportunities to solve capacity challenges for and on behalf of our customers. Those capacity challenges for our customers remain very present in the current landscape and will likely persist throughout 2021 highlighted by a tight labor market, elevated cost to procure capacity and overall lack of supply chain fluidity.As an organization, we remain committed and focused on meeting the needs of our customers honoring our commitments and doing so by striving toward our mission to create the most efficient transportation network in North America. I remain encouraged by the level of discussion and interaction with our customers on the very important subjects of revenue quality, capacity and cost. And while our view on pricing is a little more elevated today than what we discussed on our last earnings call, the reality is that our cost to serve is also higher. This cost presents itself primarily in our labor cost as well in the utilization of our assets or equipment terms. We, and the industry as a whole, are facing meaningful cost pressures to recruit, hire, train and retain qualified professional truck drivers to meet the capacity needs of our customers.As our future outlook on costs remains fluid, so will our approach to price to ensure that our investments to meet the capacity needs of our customers are supported with our expectations for an appropriate rate of return. These returns support our ability to continue to invest in our assets, which are our people and our equipment as well as our investments in technology to serve the growing needs of our customers. And as we prepare for a record equipment add this year, we are working very closely with our customers on equipment turns and forecast to enable better network fluidity.Shifting gears to our J.B. Hunt 360 platform, I could not be more excited about the progress we are making as well as the opportunities we have ahead. In the last quarter I've been extremely encouraged by the level of engagement we were seeing in the platform from our carriers and shippers as our KPIs in this area continued to break new records weekly and monthly. We remain focused on reducing friction across the supply chain, making it easier for shippers and carriers to match in our system to optimize and transact in real time. One of our big areas of focus is on improving visibility and transparency across the supply chain and we are encouraged about the opportunities we have to make progress in these areas supported by our recently announced alliance with Google as we collaborate and co-innovate on solving some of the industry's biggest problems.I am extremely proud and excited for all the opportunities presented to us and our ability to solve for our customers' needs utilizing our people, products and services. Our diversified services or [Indecipherable] powered by our technology platform continues to be valued in the marketplace and supported by our customers leaning into us to solve for their needs.Finally, as I have recently added the role of EVP of People and Human Resources, I would like to share how encouraged I am about the work we are doing enhancing our inclusive culture. While early in our journey, I see our organization leading in this area with more to discuss and to share in the future.I'd now like to turn it over to Nick.Nick Hobbs -- Chief Operating Officer, President, Contract Services, Executive Vice PresidentThank you, Shelley. Good afternoon. I am going to spend a few minutes today giving out several areas and topics including the current driver environment, results and performance of Dedicated with some additional context for the updated margin target range that John mentioned earlier and finally, I'll review the results and performance of our Final Mile Services segment.I'll start with some quick thoughts and comments around the driver market. In my opinion, the industry is facing the most challenged driver market that I've seen in my 37-year career at J.B. Hunt. We estimate that the decrease of the driving school applicants and graduates, the Drug and Alcohol Clearinghouse and the impact presented by the pandemic combined have resulted in approximately 220,000 fewer drivers available to meet industry capacity needs. As a result, we are taking a comprehensive approach to attract and retain our professional driving workforce, including adjustments to our wages and benefits while also focusing on the quality of the job. We believe we have some of the best wages for professional drivers -- professional driving jobs in industry across our portfolio of services, including Intermodal dray, Dedicated, Truck and Final Mile Services. Over 90% of our driving jobs are local and regional providing consistent routes and opportunities for more home time.On Dedicated results. Dedicated continues to perform and respond in an agile fashion to the challenges thrown at it. Despite several weather-related disruptions in the quarter, DCS delivered its highest first quarter revenue and operating income in our Company's history. I believe that it is a testament to our operations team and professional drivers who responded and worked to recover for our customers, all while staying focused on safe execution and the efficient utilization of our assets. As a result, customers continue to see value in the quality and flexibility of our professional outsourced private fleet solution as also evidenced by our strong pipeline [Phonetic].We ended the first quarter selling approximately 380 trucks in DCS as we are off to a strong start in 2021 all while customer retention rates remain above 98%. Regarding everyone's favorite topic about margin, we believe that it's prudent to update the market on our targeted margin range which now stands at 12% to 14% for the DCS segment from the previous range of 11% to 13%. Informing us of this decision is the following. Our value proposition, scale, efficiency as well as the capital intensity of our business. More importantly it is worth noting that nothing in our pricing model has changed but rather what it has revealed itself is the realization that the current scale of our operations presents us an opportunity to grow the business while experiencing less drag and start-up cost associated with customer growth. Said a different way, we see the same opportunity presented to us today to balance our desire to grow well into the future while maintaining discipline around our returns on capital.I'll wrap up my comments on Final Mile Services. Final Mile Services was able to deliver a strong performance in the quarter as the continuation of fourth quarter peak season like strength in our business rolled into Q1, which has not been the seasonal norm. While weather did disrupt the business temporarily, we were able to recover and get our customers' goods delivered and only experienced a modest impact to overall performance and results. We remain active in conversations to grow and scale with our current and new customers across our footprint and plan to capitalize on these opportunities throughout the year. Additionally, we will continue to invest to ensure we deliver a differentiated product focused on the high standards of service, safety and customer satisfaction.With regards to margins, we are maintaining our targeted range of 4% to 8%. Our growth trajectory of our asset and non-asset Final Mile Services offerings will continue to influence where we fall within that range as we gain greater scale with our value-added services.That concludes my remarks. So I'll turn it over to Brad Hicks.Brad Hicks -- President, Highway Services, Executive Vice PresidentThank you, Nick. The organization's excitement and enthusiasm for our Highway Services business continues to be evidenced by the progress in our results and further supported by the opportunities our customers present us with to provide needed capacity solutions. My comments today will briefly touch on some of the highlights of our Highway Services businesses, which includes both Integrated Capacity Solutions or ICS and Truck or JBT. In short, the Marketplace for J.B. Hunt 360 continues to provide our customers capacity solutions utilizing a combination of our multimodal digital freight platform while complemented with our drop trailer pools powered by J.B. Hunt 360.I'll start with ICS. ICS was able to deliver revenue of $525 million or 56% growth over the prior year and deliver operating income of $7 million, which is now the second consecutive quarter of profitability since our journey along our digital transformation. Similar to the fourth quarter of 2020, the quarter presented us with opportunities to help customers source capacity effectively and efficiently on our platform in an otherwise constrained market environment. Segment volumes were down 1% year-over-year driven by a decline of LTL volumes, offset, however, by truckload volumes, which were up 10% in the quarter. Higher spot market opportunities, higher contractual rates and the previously mentioned mix change contributed to the 58% increase in gross revenue per load.Going forward, we will remain focused on balancing the right mix of volume growth opportunities presented to us as we remain committed to our investments in three key areas, our people, our technology and scaling the platform. As John alluded to earlier, our margin target remains 4% to 6% in this segment, which we believe is achievable as we move beyond our heavy investment cycle, achieve scale and as the business model matures.In JBT or Truck, the segment was able to deliver 43% year-over-year growth in first quarter revenue following just shy of $150 million. Operating income was $10 million, which is the highest for a first quarter since 2007. Growth in this segment continues to be driven by non-asset and asset-light service offerings powered and supported by the J.B. Hunt 360 platform. As JBT has shifted to more of an asset-light model, we have an ability to provide trailing capacity to customers that may be hauled by either J.B. Hunt own equipment or independent contractors or power-only capacity sourced through the platform. This is our 360box offering. Demand for this service is strong and supports the previously disclosed 100% increase to our prior trailer fleet investment for 2021. Our margin targets in JBT are now 8% to 10% from the prior 8% to 12% which recognizes the shift to a more asset-light model. That said and similar to Final Mile Services, our performance relative to those targets will be dependent on the asset, intensity of the business as it evolves, but as always our returns on capital remain the core focus of our investments to grow this business.In closing, I would just like to reiterate the excitement and growth opportunities we see across our Highway Services portfolio to solve for our customers' needs in an efficient and, as Shelley alluded to earlier, more frictionless way. We remain committed to our investments in our people, technology and scaling the platform, which includes our investments to expand our 360box program.That concludes my comments and I'll pass it over to Darren.Darren Field -- President, Intermodal, Executive Vice PresidentThank you, Brad. Hello to everyone. Today, I will provide some additional details on our first quarter performance, give you some thoughts about network fluidity and balance, provide some perspective on the demand and pricing environment and cap it off with comments on our updated capital investment and target margin range that John highlighted earlier.Volumes declined 3% in the quarter, broken down by month, plus 3% in January, a 16% decline in February and plus 4% in March. As we called out in the earnings release, the weather challenges in the quarter are estimated to have impacted us by 25,000 Intermodal loads primarily in February, but the effects did carry over into March. The rail network has shown signs of improvement so far in April although we are not fully back to pre-weather service levels we have and continue to expect to see improvements as we move through the second quarter.While rail challenges are well known, another challenge we face is what we refer to as customer street time which has increased as our customers are falling behind on unloading inbound delivered units in a timely manner. We believe both the rail terminal congestion and the customer unloading challenges are direct results of labor challenges. Inside our operation driver hiring continues to be a significant challenge and the industry will take on higher wages in order to attract and retain new drivers. We fully expect the same is true for the rail terminal contractors and customer warehouse labor. Demand for our Intermodal service remains at incredibly strong levels. The pricing market is performing at a level to cover our cost increases from last year as we honored our commitments as well as the inflationary cost pressures we are experiencing this year related to driver hiring. Certainly the increasing driver wage and rail costs are topics with our customers, but we are also highlighting the velocity challenges and the cost of equipment ownership. As you should be able to conclude, the pricing environment supports our decision to add additional capacity to our fleet as John highlighted earlier and as we discussed last quarter. During the last call, we said we expected pricing to come in at high-single to low double-digit increases. And at this point, we feel more optimistic about things trending toward the higher end of that range adjusting for mix. As we entered the quarter, just over 10% of our business had implemented '21 bid cycle rates. By the end of the quarter just over 40% of the volume had current bid cycle rates. We will expect that to climb to 70% by the end of Q2 and the remainder to finalize during Q3.As John covered in his opening comments, we have adjusted the margin target range to 10% to 12%. We have highlighted many times that we remain focused on generating the appropriate return on our invested capital in the business and while margins are an output of achieving our targeted returns, returns are also influenced by other factors including asset turns, capital intensity and consideration of contribution per load. We believe this new target range strikes the right balance between generating appropriate returns that support reinvestment to capitalize on what we believe is a long sustainable growth opportunity presented by the market. The future of Intermodal remains bright as it provides an economically attractive alternative to some of the challenges our industry is facing, including the driver market, higher fuel cost, capacity, the carbon intensity of the supply chain and the need for investment in public infrastructure.Also as John highlighted, we have expanded our container order in 2021 to approximately 12,000 new containers, including both dry and temp-controlled that will begin to arrive in Q2 and continues through the end of the year. As we have moved through the current bid cycle, it is clear that our customers want more capacity from us and we are responding. The commitments from our customers thus far during bid season fully support this additional investment in capacity. We are confident that focusing and delivering value to our customers will support the appropriate returns needed to invest to meet their needs and put us on a strong path toward long sustainable growth.That concludes my prepared comments.