  OperatorGood morning, and welcome to Johnson & Johnson's first quarter 2022 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] This call is being recorded. If anyone has any objections, you may disconnect at this time. [Operator instructions] I would now like to turn the conference call over to Johnson & Johnson. You may begin.Joe Wolk -- Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer

 



 Good morning. This is Joe Wolk, executive vice president and chief financial officer of Johnson & Johnson. Thank you for joining us today to discuss our company's first quarter 2022 financial results and full year 2022 outlook. While many things have changed in the world since our last call, much has stayed the same for Johnson & Johnson. We continue to deliver reliable growth and generate meaningful free cash flow, enabling us to invest and advance our pipeline, increase our dividend for the 60th consecutive year, and continued to make a positive impact across the landscape of healthcare. It is, however, important to take a few moments to recognize the current events that are impacting the world we're living in. Today, while we're all still managing through the global pandemic, as evidenced by the current surge of cases in China, we also acknowledge the increasing hardship brought on by the war in Ukraine. We remain focused on the safety of our employees and their families.Guided by our credo and grounded in our purpose, our hearts are with all those affected by these crises and hope for a rapid resolution to both. Now, I'd like to turn the program over to Jessica Moore, vice president, investor relations, to take you through our Q1 results. Jessica Moore -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Joe. A few logistics before we get into the details. This review is being made available via webcast, accessible through the Investor Relations section of the Johnson & Johnson website at investor.jnj.com, where you can also find additional materials, including today's presentation and associated schedules. Please note that today's presentation includes forward-looking statements regarding, among other things, our future operating and financial performance, and the anticipated separation of the company's Consumer Health business. We encourage you to review the cautionary statement included in today's presentation, which identifies certain risks and factors that may cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those projected. In particular, there is significant uncertainty about the duration and contemplated impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and other marketplace dynamics. This means that results could change at any time, and the contemplated impact of COVID-19 on the company's business results and outlook is a best estimate based on the information available as of today's date. A further description of these risks, uncertainties and other factors can be found in our SEC filings, including our 2021 Form 10-K, along with reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures utilized for today's discussion to the most comparable GAAP measures. These materials are also available at investor.jnj.com. Several of the products and compounds discussed today are being developed in collaboration with strategic partners or licensed from other companies. This slide acknowledges those relationships. Moving to today's agenda, I will review the first quarter sales and P&L results for the corporation and the three segments. Following, Joe will provide additional business and financial commentary before sharing an overview of our cash position, our capital allocation priorities, and updated guidance for 2022. The remaining time will be available for your questions. During the Q&A portion of the call, Joe will be joined by, Ashley McEvoy, executive vice president and worldwide chair, MedTech; Thibaut Mongon, executive vice president and worldwide chair, Consumer Health; and Jennifer Taubert, executive vice president and worldwide chair, Pharmaceutical. We have heard your feedback and are implementing a few enhancements this quarter.

 



 First, we are now providing select earlier phase clinical trial information on our Pharmaceutical pipeline to streamline your data collection efforts from clinicaltrials.gov. Second, rather than sharing detailed business performance commentary on each part of the business, I will summarize the significant business drivers, leaving more time for Q&A. You can find additional detailed segment commentary in our earnings presentation. We anticipate the webcast will last up to 60 minutes. Now, let's move to the first quarter results. Worldwide sales were $23.4 billion for the first quarter of 2022, an increase of 5% versus the first quarter of 2021. Operational sales growth, which excludes the effect of translational currency, increased 7.7% as currency had a negative impact of 2.7 points. In the US, sales increased 2.7%. In regions outside the US, our reported growth was 7.2%. Operational sales growth outside the US was 12.6%, with currency negatively impacting our reported OUS results by 5.4 points. Excluding the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures, adjusted operational sales growth was 7.9% worldwide, 2.8% in the US, and 12.9% outside the US. Turning now to earnings. For the quarter, net earnings were $5.1 billion, and diluted earnings per share was $1.93 versus diluted earnings per share of $2.32 a year ago. Excluding after-tax intangible asset amortization expense and special items for both periods, adjusted net earnings for the quarter were $7.1 billion, and adjusted diluted earnings per share was $2.67, representing increases of 3% and 3.1%, respectively, compared to the first quarter of 2021. On an operational basis, adjusted diluted earnings per share increased 6.2%. I will now comment on business segment sales performance highlights. Unless otherwise stated, percentages quoted represent the operational sales change in comparison to the first quarter of 2021 and therefore exclude the impact of currency translation. Beginning in 2022, certain over-the-counter products previously reported under the pharmaceutical segment have been reclassed to Consumer Health. These products represent roughly $100 million of sales per quarter. Please refer to the supplemental sales schedules for prior year restatements. Also, as stated in our 2021 10-K, effective January, our medical devices segment is now referred to as MedTech. Beginning with Consumer Health. Worldwide Consumer Health sales of $3.6 billion increased 0.8% with a decline of 3.4% in the US and growth of 4.1% outside the US. Excluding the impact of acquisitions and divestitures, worldwide growth was 1.6%. Consumer Health was negatively impacted by industrywide external supply constraints, primarily due to ingredients and packaging availability as well as labor shortages largely reflected in our skin health and beauty business, worth approximately 280 basis points worldwide and 500 basis points in the US. Adjusting for these constraints, Consumer Health delivered solid results, primarily due to above-market growth in OTC driven by increased Tylenol, Motrin, and upper respiratory product sales. Moving on to our pharmaceutical segment. Worldwide Pharmaceutical sales of $12.9 billion increased 9.3% with growth of 2.9% in the US and 16.7% outside of the US. Base Pharmaceutical growth was driven by our broad portfolio of products paired with strong commercial execution, enabling us to deliver above-market adjusted operational sales growth, including six assets with double-digit growth in the quarter. Base business growth was due to strength from Darzalex, Tremfya, Stelara, Erleada, and our paliperidone long-acting portfolio. Growth was partially offset by LOE pressures from both Remicade and Zytiga, along with decrease in Imbruvica and Xarelto sales. Darzalex continues to drive very strong operational growth with sales increases of 40.3%, driven by subcutaneous formulation penetration and meaningful share gains across all lines of therapy and in all regions. Imbruvica sales declined 3.9% worldwide due to increased competition from novel oral agents, particularly in US. Imbruvica maintains its market leadership position worldwide and continues to drive growth outside of the US despite ongoing competitive pressures. Xarelto sales declined 13.8% in the US, driven largely by a net unfavorable prior period price adjustment and increased cost for patient access, partially offset by continued demand and market growth. The COVID-19 vaccine also contributed approximately $500 million to sales in the quarter. Given these results, we remain confident in our ability to deliver our 11th consecutive year of above-market adjusted operational sales growth in 2022. I'll now turn your attention to the MedTech segment. Worldwide MedTech sales of $7 billion increased 8.5%, with growth of 5.6% in the US and growth of 11.1% outside the US. Excluding the impact of acquisitions and divestitures, worldwide growth was 8.6%. We see strong performance in Q1 driven by market recovery, focused commercial strategies, and differentiated new products driving enhanced or sustained market share across most of the 11 priority platforms. We continue to monitor potential impacts on elective procedures driven by COVID-19 resurgences across various markets. Before highlighting the financial performance for the segment, I'd like to share a few notable first quarter MedTech events that demonstrate our stated aspirations of entering higher-growth market segments and continuing to build upon digital technologies across the portfolio. Two acquisitions were closed in the quarter, CrossRoads Extremity with a differentiated portfolio of bunion and hammertoes solutions in the fast-growing elective foot and ankle market; and Cuptimize, which will be a new addition to the VELYS digital surgery platform of connected technologies. The customized solution is designed to give surgeons an easy-to-use tool to better understand and address the impact of abnormal motion between the spine and pelvis in some patients who require total hip arthroplasty and may help reduce the risk of dislocation related to pelvic tilt. I am also pleased to share that Fast Company selected Johnson & Johnson MedTech as one its top 10 World's Most Innovative Health Companies of 2022, recognizing MedTech's success and commitment to delivering breakthrough scientific innovation and reimagining health in an increasingly digital world. The Interventional Solutions franchise delivered another quarter of worldwide double-digit growth at 17.4%, with double-digit growth in both the US and OUS regions, driven primarily by success of new products in electrophysiology, commercial execution, and continued market recovery. Worldwide surgery grew 5%, driven by strong performance in wound closure and biosurgery where we continue to gain market share. Monarch-enabled procedures now exceed 14,000 since launch, providing continued evidence of the adoption of Monarch technology in patient treatment regimens. The worldwide Orthopedics franchise grew 5.6%, reflecting COVID-19 recovery, continued penetration in the US ambulatory surgery center channel or ASCs; and penetration of new product launches, such as enhancements to VELYS hip navigation, VELYS robotic-assisted solution, and a tune cementless knee system. Partially offsetting this growth was softness in spine procedures in the US. The worldwide Vision franchise continued its double-digit growth, growing 13.9% this quarter. Contact lenses global growth of 10.6% reflects continued positive momentum for our market-leading Acuvue portfolio, success of commercial initiatives, and recently launched products such as Acuvue Oasys Multifocal and Acuvue Define Fresh. Surgical vision delivered global growth of 23.8%, with both the US and OUS posting growth above 20%, fueled by market recovery and share momentum due to the success of recently launched products, including Tecnis Eyhance and Tecnis Synergy. As a reminder, additional sales commentary for all of our segments can be found on the slides. Now turning to our consolidated statement of earnings for the first quarter of 2022. I'd like to highlight a few noteworthy items that have changed compared to the same quarter of last year. Cost of products sold deleveraged by 70 basis points, driven by unfavorable mix in the MedTech business and commodity inflation in the Consumer Health business. Sales, marketing, and administrative deleveraged by 110 basis points, driven by higher brand marketing expenses in Consumer Health and timing of brand marketing expenses in the pharmaceutical segment. We continue to invest strategically in research and development at competitive levels, investing 14.8% of sales this quarter. The $3.5 billion investment was an 8.9% increase versus the prior year, primarily due to portfolio progression in Pharmaceutical and MedTech. In process, research and development reflects an impairment expense of $610 million for certain indications associated with bermekimab, the investigational compound acquired from XBiotech Inc. as disclosed in our previous SEC filings. This impairment was driven by the termination of development of bermekimab for atopic dermatitis based on efficacy data. The other income and expense line was net income of $102 million in the first quarter of 2022, compared to net income of $882 million in the first quarter of 2021. This decrease was the result of lapping prior-year gains on the divestiture of Doxil, Caelyx, and Evra in 2021, higher unrealized losses on securities and Consumer Health separation costs. This was partially offset by favorable returns associated with our employee benefit plans. Regarding taxes in the quarter, our effective tax rate was 12.2% versus 16.6% in the same period last year. The decreased tax rate was primarily driven by lower US income due to higher unrealized losses on securities and the impairment of bermekimab IP R&D compared to prior-year divestiture gains. Excluding special items, the effective tax rate was 13.3% versus 16.5% in the same period last year. I encourage you to review our upcoming first quarter 10-Q filing for additional details on specific tax matters. Lastly, I'll direct your attention to the box section of the slide where we have also provided our income before tax, net earnings, and earnings per share, adjusted to exclude the impact of intangible amortization expense and special items. Now let's look at adjusted income before tax by segment. In the first quarter of 2022, our adjusted income before tax for the enterprise as a percentage of sales decreased from 37.1% to 35.1% due to product mix, commodity inflation, increased brand marketing expense, portfolio progression in R&D, and comparisons to gains from prior-year divestitures. Pharmaceutical margin declined from 45.5% to 44.1%, primarily driven by timing of brand marketing expenses and general portfolio progression in R&D. MedTech margins declined from 30.6% to 27%, driven by unfavorable product mix. Finally, Consumer Health margins declined from 26.8% to 22.1%, due to commodity inflation and higher brand marketing expenses. This concludes the sales and earnings portion of the Johnson & Johnson first quarter results. I am now pleased to turn the call back over to Joe Wolk.Joe Wolk -- Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer As Jess just mentioned, Johnson & Johnson posted solid performance for the quarter, continuing to invest in the business for the long-term success, while overcoming multiple macroeconomic headwinds, including inflationary pressures and higher input costs. These external challenges include limited availability and rising prices of certain commodities; as well as increased costs for labor, energy, and transportation. These impacts are pervasive across the enterprise, but most notable in Consumer Health. We expect these pressures will continue to some degree throughout the remainder of 2022. However, mitigation efforts are underway, including cost improvement initiatives, strategic price increases, and contract negotiations with external supply partners. We are committed to sustaining supply of the products, medicines, and treatments that consumers and patients want and need. Turning to our segments and notable events in the quarter. MedTech led our enterprise performance with nearly 9% adjusted operational sales growth. We continue to drive this business forward and are increasing the value of our pipeline through innovation, internally and externally. We were pleased to see a steady uptick in surgical procedures this quarter with the easing of COVID restrictions in many parts of the world, but we recognize that the situation is fluid, which requires monitoring. Building on more than 20 major new product launches in 2021, MedTech announced the addition of two new innovations to our Attune portfolio, the Attune cementless fixed bearing knee with Affixium 3DP technology and the Attune medial stabilized knee system. In our Pharmaceutical business, we continue to deliver above-market growth driven by volume as evidenced by our recently published 2021 Janssen US Transparency Report, which reflects our fifth consecutive year of price decreases across the portfolio despite inflationary pressures. We also continue to advance our Pharmaceutical pipeline. This quarter, we received FDA approval for Carvykti, a CAR-T therapy for the treatment of multiple myeloma developed together with our partner, Legend Biotech. We are partnering with clinics utilizing a phased approach to begin patient dosing, and the feedback to date has been positive. We also filed Teclistamab, our BCMA CD3 bispecific antibody seeking EMA approval, and we also received priority review from the FDA, potentially expanding our multiple myeloma portfolio further. In our Consumer Health business, we remain focused on delivering on our 2022 performance objectives, continuing to achieve above-market growth in our over-the-counter medicines business, while navigating industrywide supply constraints that have primarily impacted our skin health/beauty business. We continue to be excited about the activity related to the announcement we made in November on the creation of two new industry-leading companies, the new Johnson & Johnson and the new Consumer Health Company. For the new Johnson & Johnson, the portfolio will remain well diversified with 25 brands delivering over $1 billion in sales annually, holding market-leading positions across key therapeutic areas and franchises. The financial hallmarks of Johnson & Johnson will remain the same, including a well-defined capital allocation strategy, a disciplined approach to inorganic growth, and a strong balance sheet, while also creating opportunities to sharpen focus on execution and clinically differentiated innovation. The new Consumer Health Company will also have a strong financial profile and be better positioned to drive incremental growth, realizing increased potential in new markets through a more agile operating model. The company will continue to deliver science-backed innovation and enhanced digital consumer-centric solutions. The Consumer Health separation team is making substantial progress related to our efforts in establishing the new independent company. As previously mentioned, we cannot disclose new financial information specific to Consumer Health in order to preserve optionality on the various separation pathways. Our time lines remain unchanged. We anticipate announcing key executive leadership appointments for the new Consumer Health Company in the coming months, with plans to provide the new company name and headquarters location around the middle of this year. In the second half of 2022, we plan to provide the updated path forward and applicable financial information such as refined standup cost estimates and potential short-term dis-synergies. Finally, consistent with previous communications, we expect to execute the separation in 2023. You have our ongoing commitment adhering to the regulatory framework to provide transparent updates for material decisions on a timely basis. Turning now to cash and capital allocation. We generated free cash flow for the quarter of nearly $3.4 billion. At the end of the first quarter, we had approximately $30 billion of cash and marketable securities and approximately $33 billion of debt for a net debt position of approximately $3 billion. Our capital allocation priorities remain unchanged. Internal innovation remains critical to our future growth and a top priority. In the first quarter, we increased R&D investment by approximately 9% compared to the first quarter of 2021. We also continue to evaluate opportunities to complement the current portfolio with acquisitions that build upon our capabilities, address portfolio gaps, or play in higher-growth markets while yielding solid financial returns. As I mentioned earlier, we were pleased to announce today that our board of directors approved an increase in our quarterly dividend for the 60th consecutive year from $1.06 per share to $1.13 per share, an increase of 6.6%. Moving to full year 2022 guidance and key considerations. I'll start with comments on our COVID-19 vaccine and foreign exchange impacts, essentially the only items with updates from our January guidance. As market demand for all COVID-19 vaccines is currently challenged by global supply surplus and vaccine hesitancy in developing markets, we have made the decision to suspend guidance for sales of our COVID-19 vaccine. This will enable investors to focus on the performance of our core businesses, which drive the current and future value for investors. We are maintaining the total adjusted operational earnings per share guidance we provided in January, absorbing if need be, the modest income impact from the COVID-19 vaccine. Regarding foreign exchange, as you know, we don't offer guidance or predictions on currency movements. But to give you a sense of the impact currency may have on potential full year reported results, utilizing the euro spot rate relative to the US dollar as of last week at 1.08, there is an incremental unfavorable currency impact of $1.1 billion on reported sales and an unfavorable $0.25 for reported adjusted earnings per share versus the calculation related to January's guidance. The full year unfavorable impact is now projected to be $2.5 billion on reported sales and $0.45 on reported adjusted earnings per share. All other line items for which we provide guidance remain the same as communicated in January. To reiterate, we are maintaining our adjusted operational earnings per share guidance. We don't provide quarterly guidance but do understand that you find value in us providing some qualitative considerations as you update your models. In Consumer Health, we expect supply constraints to continue throughout the year but not to the same extent in the second half. As a result, we anticipate that the back half performance will improve over the first half. For MedTech, while the first quarter demonstrated faster recovery than we anticipated, our full year expectations remain fairly intact. We anticipate continued market recovery and uptake from recently launched products and are monitoring the ever-changing COVID dynamics, particularly the surging cases in China. Similar to Consumer Health, we expect the second half to be stronger than the first half. As a reminder, with respect to growth rates, the second quarter was the strongest quarter for MedTech in 2021. The expectations for the Pharmaceutical base business remain the same. We anticipate delivering another year of above-market adjusted operational sales growth with relatively consistent growth throughout the remainder of the year. In summary, Johnson & Johnson had a solid start to the year despite managing macroeconomic headwinds, and we remain confident in our business. I would like to recognize the continued efforts of our 144,000 global colleagues focused on delivering our innovative healthcare solutions to our credo stakeholders. Their unwavering dedication and support continue to inspire. And on behalf of the executive team, I'd like to extend our gratitude. I am now pleased to welcome to the call, Ashley McEvoy, Thibaut Mongon and Jennifer Taubert, our worldwide chairs to address your questions. Kevin, can you please provide instructions and open the line for Q&A? 