
Mary Winn Pilkington -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations & Public RelationsThank you, operator, good morning everyone. Thanks for taking the time to join us today and we do hope that everyone is staying safe and well. On the call today are Hal Lawton, our CEO; Kurt Barton, our CFO. After our prepared remarks we will open the call up for your questions, Seth Estep, our EVP and Chief Merchandising Officer will join us for the question-and-answer session. Please note that we've made a supplemental slide presentation available on our website to accompany today's earnings release.Now let me reference the safe harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. This call may contain certain forward-looking statements that are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including the future operating and financial performance of the company. In many cases, these risks and uncertainties are beyond our control. Although the company believes the expectations reflected in its forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such expectations or any of its forward-looking statements would prove to be correct, and actual results may differ materially from expectations. Important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those reflected in the forward-looking statements are included at the end of the press release issued today and in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information contained in this call is accurate only as of the date discussed. Investors should not assume that statements will remain operative at a later time. Tractor Supply undertakes no obligation to update any information discussed in this call.This morning we've shortened the prepared remarks to allow more time for Q&A. Given the number of people who want to participate, we respectfully ask that you limit yourself to one question. If you have additional questions, please feel free to get back in the queue. I appreciate your cooperation on this. We will be available after the call for follow-up. Thank you for your time and attention this morning. Now it's my pleasure to turn the call over to Hal.

 



Hal Lawton -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Mary Winn, and thank you to everyone for joining us this morning. The Tractor Supply team delivered strong results for the third quarter with net sales of 15.8%, comparable store sales increase of 13.1% and diluted earnings per share of 20.4%. The team is doing an outstanding job navigating a very dynamic and challenging operating environment. We continue to benefit from many market trends that we see is very structurally sound. We have strengthened our customer base. We're gaining market share across our categories. We continue to advance our Life Out Here Strategy. Our business has never been stronger, and we see tremendous opportunities for growth ahead of us.As we've consistently shared with you over the last 18 months, our strong results are a testament to our 45,000 plus team members and I'd like to thank them for all their efforts in the quarter. They kept each other safe as we went through another COVID-19 wave, they navigated through broad based supply chain disruptions and cost of goods increases, and navigated and managed through a tight labor market. Through it all, they've been resilient and persevered to deliver strong customer satisfaction scores including all-time high [Indecipherable] scores. Our team members are our greatest strategic asset and a key competitive differentiator with our customers. Our loyal and highly engaged team members have helped us fare better than most as far as staffing across our stores and DCs. Back in June, we raised our minimum opening wage to $11.25 per hour. Our recent wage actions bring our average hourly wage rate at our stores to nearly $15 per hour as we exit the year, with our DCs at a higher rate. The investments we have made in store labor are being recognized by our customers by the overall customer satisfaction scores that I just mentioned.I'd also like to say thank you to our vendors and supply chain partners as we work together to overcome challenges in the global supply chain network. And together, we've been very focused on controlling what we can control to deliver these results. Across our network we've been nimble and been able to navigate the unprecedented supply chain environment and macro issues including inflationary pressures. And the team has done a great job addressing issues ranging from import container shortages and port delays, driver shortages, higher freight rates and a multitude of other supply chain constraints. To mitigate these challenges, the team has leveraged dedicated containership, top up the fees, expansion of mixing centers and direct to store shipment. Despite these challenges, our inventory's in good shape and our in-stock rates finished above last year at the end of the quarter.

 



Our diversified vendor base with only about 12% direct import is a strong point of differentiation for us during these supply chain times. Given our scale and sophistication, we believe that our network is a competitive advantage to being the dependable supplier for the Out Here lifestyle. Categories in which we participate and the Out Here lifestyle that we serve, continue to have elevated consumer spending levels well above pre- COVID levels. We fully anticipate this environment we're in is going to continue for the foreseeable future. And consequently, we think that the sales growth that we've seen is structurally sound, given the changes in consumer behavior and the lifestyle investments that are now much more ingrained in the consumer psyche. These structural trends that continue to work in our favor include things like rural revitalization, trip consolidation, omnichannel adoption and a self-reliant lifestyle movement, including DIY trends and investments in hobbies like gardening, backyard poultry and of course pet ownership. For many workers, the return to office has been pushed out until next year. And even then will very likely be in a hybrid environment at most employers. And at this point, our customers will have been ingrained for over two years. As such, we anticipate that their behaviors are much more sustainable and structural.To provide some color on our results, let me share a few other highlights for the third quarter. Like the second quarter, every week had positive comps. Also like the second quarter, our growth was broad based across regions and product categories. Our e-commerce business continued to experience strong momentum with double-digit sales increases of over 40%. And in just under a year, our mobile app already has more than 2 million downloads and now represents over 10% of our e-commerce sales. We continue to gain share across all categories. This has been a consistent trend for multiple quarters now, and this share gain has been both online and in stores. The share gain has been aided by the increase in our unaided brand awareness, which has improved by 21 percentage points since November of 2019. This improvement combined with positive trend in our overall customer satisfaction, are significant contributor to the share gains we are experiencing.Also consistent from previous quarters, all customer segments were strong with notable strength in our core Farm & Ranch, which is the largest and most important of our customer base. At the same time, our digital ad campaigns that target millennials are supporting a significant growth we are seeing in this important demographic. We think the relevancy of Tractor Supply to the millennial customers has staying power, given the structural changes in the market and our customer behaviors and we're certainly seeing that consistently quarter after quarter in our data, as our average age of customer trends down. For the year, more customers than ever have shopped at Tractor Supply. These customers are making more trips and are spending more money per trip, and our new customer retention remains very strong.Our Neighbor's Club loyalty program continues to exceed our expectations, with year-over-year sales growth that these members north of 20%. We exited the quarter with more than 22 million Neighbor's Club members. These members are spending more than about three times the rate of non-members, with Neighbor's Club members now accounting for nearly 70% of our sales. This continues to be a step up from where we've been running prior to the relaunch of the program, and sequential improvement over the second quarter of this year. The number of high-value per customers in the program grew almost 30% for the quarter, and we continued to experience retention rate in excess of 95% for our high-value customers. These strong results demonstrate that the changes to Neighbor's Club continue to gain traction with our customers. Given our robust performance through the third quarter, along with our outlook for the fourth quarter, we are again raising our sales and earning guidance for 2021, and Kurt will share more detail on our improved outlook later in the call. Regarding our pending acquisition of Orscheln Farm and Home, we continue to work cooperatively with the FTC, as they continue to review the proposed transaction. We look forward to the benefits this transaction will offer customers with improved product offering and competitive pricing.

 



As has been the case over the last 18 months, I'm incredibly proud of the way our entire Tractor Supply team has managed to stay focused on taking care of each other and our customers. Our long-term opportunities remain very exciting. Our goal has been to emerge from the pandemic stronger. Over the course of the last year since rolling out our Life Out Here Strategy, we have gotten stronger through this pandemic. And we believe that we're going to emerge from it even stronger and better positioned as we execute our strategy. And with that, I'll now turn the call over to Kurt.Kurt Barton -- Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and TreasurerThank you, Hal, and hello to everyone on the call. Once again, our third quarter results demonstrate the strength and resilience of our business and our strategic initiatives. As Hal shared, we continue to believe the underlying health of our business is very strong. Third quarter comp store sales of 13.1% representing a 39.9% two-year stack were driven by a comparable average ticket increase of 9.5% and transaction count increase of 3.6%. An example of the structural advantage we have is the ongoing strength in our consumable, usable and edible products. Our C.U.E. products represent the strength of our core business and what drives trips to the store. Once again C.U.E. outperformed the chain average comp sales, and for the sixth consecutive quarter in a row, C.U.E. had comp sales growth at or above 15%. Key subcategories such as poultry, livestock feed and dry dog food were among the strongest categories with broad based strength. Our big ticket categories which were going against significant growth in the prior year continued to have solid comp store sales performance in line with the chain average. This was driven by strength in trailers, recreational and utility vehicles, safes and zero turn mowers.Inflation contribute about 700 basis points to comparable store sales. As you've heard from the retail sector and others, the cost environment remains elevated across imports, domestic freight commodities and labor wages. Our merchant team has been aggressively advocating for our customers. Where necessary, we are taking price increases to pass through some of the cost pressures that we cannot offset. Our merchant and supply chain teams are currently navigating this challenging and disruptive environment extremely well. As we closely monitor our customers' purchasing behaviors, we are focused on product unit trend and are committed to being priced right every day.Our third quarter gross margin rate was 36%, a decrease of 41 basis points versus last year. For comparison, our gross margin rate this quarter was still about 100 basis points above our Q3 2019 rate of 35%. Year-over-year, the gross margin drivers were principally three items. First, higher product cost inflation; second, elevated freight costs, inclusive of domestic and import costs; and third, a more normalized product mix shift in C.U.E. All of retail is working through the drivers of inflation and freight costs. The Tractor Supply team effectively offset a significant portion through our price management program. Additionally, we continue to see favorability in the frequency and depth of promotions. This is due to our commitment to our everyday low pricing strategy and a continued strong demand for our product categories. The benefit from vendor funding for the Field Activity Support Teams for our FAST initiative, which was launched in the second half of last year was consistent with our guidance.Our third quarter SG&A expense ratio, including depreciation and amortization, improved by 58 basis points versus last year to 26.1%. This improvement as a percent of net sales was primarily attributable to good leverage in occupancy and other fixed costs from the increase in our comparable store sales, along with lower COVID-19 pandemic response costs and decreased incentive compensation. Partially offsetting this leverage were higher wage rates, incremental store labor hours to ensure we are providing great customer service, and investments in our Life Out Here strategic initiatives. Given the elevated volumes in current operating environment, we also incurred select discreet costs such as incremental team member benefits, pop up DCs and the timing of our annual sales meeting, which normally occurs in the first quarter.The offset to our FAST initiative benefit in gross margin was approximately 20 basis points of incremental SG&A expense for the labor cost for the team as we are now cycling the initial investment to launch the program last year. Much like our gross margin rate, our SG&A performance compares favorably to Q3 2019. We've had about 70 basis points favorable expense ratio since then. Operating profit increased about 18% with operating profit margin of nearly 10% in the quarter. Diluted EPS was $1.95, an increase of 20.4% from the third quarter of last year.Our balance sheet remains incredibly strong. At the end of the quarter, our merchandise inventories were $2.2 billion, representing an 11.7% increase year-over-year in average inventory per store. The increase principally reflects growth to support the robust sales trends along with the impact of inflation.Moving now to our updated guidance for fiscal 2021. We continue to operate in a time of heightened uncertainty regarding the pandemic. Despite this uncertainty, including product cost inflation and supply chain constraints, we are raising our full-year outlook. Our updated guidance reflects the strong results for the first three quarters of the year and the positive and structural momentum we see in our business continuing into the fourth quarter. Against the backdrop of what we know today, we are forecasting fiscal 2021 net sales centered around $12.6 billion, with comparable store sales growth of about 16%. For the year, we forecast an operating margin of 10.2% to 10.3%, a step up from our prior guidance. Diluted EPS is now forecast in a range of $8.40 to $8.50. This compares to our previous earnings range of $7.70 to $8 per diluted share. Within this updated guidance, we are forecasting comparable store sales growth for the fourth quarter of 8% to 10%.Two modeling points to keep in mind. The prospective acquisition of Orscheln Farm and Home is not included in our guidance. And as you start to roll forward your models for 2022, please keep in mind that next year, we'll have a 53rd week for us. This week is typically a low volume week of sales given that it follows the Christmas holidays. We have a unique opportunity with the positive customer trends and momentum in the business. And with that we are committed to investing in store and supply chain labor as we look to provide a legendary customer experience across all channels. The strength of our balance sheet and the consistency of our free cash flow, continue to be a position of strength for Tractor Supply. We remain committed to returning cash to shareholders through the combination of a growing dividend and share repurchases. For 2021, we remain on track for anticipated share repurchases in a range of $750 million to $800 million. This year will mark a milestone with approximately $1 billion returned to shareholders through the combination of share repurchases and dividends.In summary, our results prove yet again Tractor Supply's unique competitive advantages. Our relentless focus on being the dependable supplier for the Out Here lifestyle is embedded in our purpose as a company. With that, I'll turn the call back over to Hal.Hal Lawton -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Kurt. Now I'd like to share with you an update on our recent ESG announcement as well as provide updates on our Fusion and Side Lot strategic initiatives, which are key parts of our Life Out Here Strategy. At a time of urgency and action on climate change and social justice, we just announced new goals that are the next step in our long-standing commitment to sustainability, stewardship and opportunity. By 2040 we are committing to achieve net zero carbon emissions across all our operations. As part of our social commitments, we are prioritizing and accelerating our initiatives and actions for diversity, equity and inclusion. At Tractor Supply, we are focused on cultivating an environment of inclusion, where diversity of all kinds is appreciated in value. I invite you to learn more on our dedicated ESG website.Turning next to our Life Out Here Strategy. As a reminder, we've been executing against five key strategic initiatives this year as part of our overall strategy. And those initiatives are Neighbor's Club, Digital, FAST, Fusion and Side Lot. The strategy and it's initiatives are designed to capitalize on the attractive opportunity that we see in our nearly $110 billion total addressable market. Our Project Fusion and Side Lot model transformations represent significant investments in our stores. These store-level investments are designed to grow our market share and drive the productivity of both existing and new stores as part of our Life Out Here Strategy.So let's start with our Project Fusion store remodel program. As a quick reminder Project Fusion is our state-of-the-art space productivity program designed to enhance the customer experience in our mature store base, and give customers that may not have shop with us in the past, more reasons to shop. We anticipate having about 15% of our total store base in the new Fusion lay out by year-end. We've reduced the time to complete Fusion remodels by 50% since the beginning of the year, and in turn, allowing us to minimize the disruption to the store operations and our customers' shopping experience. Our customers are taking note of the improved layout, the ease of shopping and our new product offering. Specifically, in our customer intercepts surveys, they call out better organization, improved merchandise selection, cleaner and brighter aisles, and easier to navigate layout. Categories seeing the strongest lift in sales include areas like apparel, companion animal and power tools. Given the size of our store base, this is a multiyear opportunity to continually refresh our store base and further drive comp sales through productivity.Another significant component of our space productivity efforts is the transformation of our Side Lot. Again as a reminder, typically there is as much space outside of our stores in the side lots as we have on the inside of our store. And the productivity of this space is substantially below the chain average. We are in the midst of a multi-year project to transform our side lot with an expanded product offering and an enhanced shopping experience. With this investment, the Side Lots space is leveraged to offer a wider product offering in the lawn and garden categories and our new categories with the garden center, and offer greater convenience through the expansion of our Buy Online Pickup in Store capabilities for drive-thru pickup. In select locations that meet sales volume thresholds, we're also adding a feed room to help deliver the bag feed demand. And as a reminder, we're the largest seller of bagged feed in the country.We also continue to see a positive halo effect from the garden center to the existing store and vice versa. The addition of product categories, increased ease of shopping and new services, provides us even more ways to continue to keep our existing customers engaged with Tractor Supply and attract new customers also to the brand. Our ability to drive higher sales per square foot through the transformation of our Side Lot space, remains a significant opportunity. We anticipate having about 150 Side Lots complete across the chain as we exit 2021. In these early remodels we're learning a great deal about our customers' appetite for expanded lawn and garden assortment. And we're even more excited than we were when we embarked on the initial test pilots late last year. As with our Fusion remodels, we continue to reduce the project timeline also here by about 50%, and minimizing the disruption to our customers and store teams as we implement our findings from our test-and-learn process. While still early on, we are very positive about the continued refinement and learnings.While implementing construction projects of this scope and scale has been very challenging in the current macro environment, we're making progress in our ability to significantly reduce construction costs, the construction time and the corresponding disruption at the store site. While the majority of the remodels have been completed more recently, we are very pleased with the early read on sales lift. Post the disruption period, we're seeing lift of low single digits for Fusion remodels and mid single digits for combo stores which have both Fusion and Side Lot remodels. We expect continued improvements in these results as the stores normalize, and are forecasting year one lift of mid-single digits for Fusion and high-single digits for combo stores, which is on track for the expectations we had as we began these projects. Over the course of the last year, the team has done a great job operating the business at elevated levels, navigating unprecedented challenges and also executing our transformational initiatives to support our Life Out Here Strategy.And to wrap up, our results clearly underscore that our strategies are working, that the team is navigating the challenges effectively and that we're emerging from the pandemic stronger than before. We're extremely optimistic about our future. As we enter one of the busiest periods in retail, my thanks and sincere appreciation go out to each of the more than 45,000 Tractor Supply team members for their dedication and commitment to our mission and values. And with that operator, we would like to open the lines for questions.