
OperatorGood day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Twitter First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to turn the call over to your host, Krista Bessinger, VP, Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Krista Bessinger -- Vice President of Investor Relations

 



Hi, everyone, and thanks for joining our Q1 earnings conference call. We have Jack and Ned with us today.As usual, we published our shareholder letter on our Investor Relations website and with the SEC a couple of hours ago, and hope that you've all had a chance to read it. We'll keep our opening remarks brief, so that we can get right to your questions. As a reminder, we will also take questions asked on Twitter, so please tweet us at @twitterir using the #TWTR.During this call, we will make forward-looking statements, including statements about our business outlook, strategies and long-term goals. These comments are based on our plans, predictions and expectations as of today, which may change over time. Our actual results could differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties, including the risk factors in our most recent 10-K and upcoming 10-Q to be filed with the SEC.Also during this call, we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures. We have reconciled those to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in our shareholder letter. These non-GAAP measures are not intended to be a substitute for our GAAP results.

 



And finally, this call in its entirety is being webcast from our Investor Relations website, and an audio replay will be available on Twitter and on our website in a few hours.And with that, I'd like to turn it over to Jack.Jack Dorsey -- Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Krista. Hello, everyone, and thank you for joining us.

 



We had a great start to the year. Total revenue reached $1.04 billion, with ad revenue growing 32% and accelerating year-over-year growth in MAP revenue. Average monetizable DAU reached to 199 million, up 20% year-over-year. We remain focused on our -- on the three goals we shared at our Analyst Day: increasing development velocity, and significantly growing mDAU and revenue. We've made progress on each in Q1.On the products, we now offer more than 7,000 topics and interests across nine languages, people can pick when they first sign up or in the main interface and timeline. This continues to be the fastest and best way to give value out of Twitter immediately. We're also moving faster in taking on -- talking on Twitter Better for Twitter Spaces, our audio conversations products being our newest division. We expanded the feature to Android and we're shipping weekly iOS updates with the focus on giving hosts more controls and moderation tools, as well as better discovery and reliability.Our revenue products are moving faster than ever before, building out a suite of products that possibly reinforce one another. MAP is the first step, unlocking revenue opportunities in direct response with large and small businesses alike. In Q1, we launched our rebuilt app install and website click offerings, improved the viewer experience for ads across Twitter Amplify, and improved brand safety with the launch of conversation controls for advertisers. We also launched Curated Categories, a brand-safe way for advertisers to run pre-roll ads exclusively against premium video content. We're focused on delivering the roadmap we laid on in February, and it's been great to see how individuals and companies are using our new products and our features. I'm excited about our progress and what's next. Ned?Ned Segal -- Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Jack.As Jack mentioned, Q1 was a solid start to the year. Total revenue reached $1.04 billion, up 28% year-over-year. Total ads revenue grew 32% year-over-year, driven by strong brand advertising in March and accelerating year-over-year growth in MAP. mDAU grew 20% in line with the outlook that we shared in February. Overall, we're benefiting from a growing audience, better ad formats, improved relevance and strong secular trends.Before we turn to your questions, I'd like to touch on three topics. First, like our performance, hiring is off to a great start. We're attracting more great people to Twitter than ever before and investing in our highest priorities to deliver on our long-term goals across consumer product, revenue products and platform. We now expect headcount growth to more closely mirror expense growth in 2021, with headcount and total costs and expenses growing 25% or more on a year-over-year basis in 2021, ramping in absolute dollars over the course of the year. There are no changes to our thinking on revenue. We expect total revenue to grow faster than expenses in 2021, assuming the global pandemic continues to improve and that we see modest impact from the rollout of changes associated with iOS 14.5.Second, on mDAU. There are no changes here either. I remind you that we're lapping unusual comps, given the significant pandemic-related surge that we saw last year. As a result, we continue to expect mDAU growth rates to be in the low-double digits on a year-over-year basis in Q2, Q3 and Q4, with the low point likely in Q2.And finally, on ATT [Phonetic]. We've been actively preparing for the changes that Apple just released as part of iOS 14.5. Our outlook for Q2 and 2021 assumes a modest impact from the rollout of changes associated with iOS 14.5 across owned and operated ads and MoPub. Long term, we're confident that our brand advertising strength and better performance products position us well to help advertisers achieve their goals. There are no changes to our long-term plans. We're laser focused on executing against the strategy that we laid out at the Analyst Day, and we look forward to updating you on our progress along the way.With that, let's move to Q&A. Operator?