
OperatorGood day and welcome to the Hologic 3Q '21 Earnings Conference Call. My name is Kathy, and I will be your operator for today's call. Today's conference is being recorded. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to introduce Mike Watts, Vice President, Investor Relations and Corporate Communications, to begin the call.Michael Watts -- Vice President, Investor Relations and Corporate Communications

 



Thank you, Kathy. Good afternoon and thanks for joining us for Hologic's Third Quarter Fiscal 2021 Earnings Call. With me today are Steve MacMillan, the company's Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Karleen Oberton, our Chief Financial Officer. Our third quarter press release is available now on the Investors section of our website. We also will post our prepared remarks to our website shortly after we deliver them. Finally, a replay of this call will be archived through August 27. Before we begin, I'd like to inform you that certain statements we make today will be forward-looking. These statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied.Such factors include those referenced in the safe harbor statement that's included in our earnings release and in our filings with the SEC. Also during this call, we will be discussing certain non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation to GAAP can be found in our earnings release. One of these non-GAAP measures is organic revenue, which we define as constant currency revenue excluding the divested Blood Screening business as well as year one revenue from acquired businesses: currently, Acessa, Biotheranostics, Diagenode and Mobidiag. Finally, any percentage changes that we discuss today will be on a year-over-year basis, and revenue growth rates will be in constant currency unless otherwise noted.Now I'd like to turn the call over to Steve MacMillan, Hologic's CEO.Stephen P. MacMillan -- Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

 



Thank you, Mike, and good afternoon, everyone. We're pleased to discuss our financial performance for the third quarter of fiscal 2021. We posted excellent results overall driven by a strong rebound in our base businesses and continued contributions to fight the ongoing COVID pandemic. Total revenue was $1.17 billion, up 38%. And non-GAAP earnings per share were $1.33, up 77%. We significantly exceeded our guidance on both the top and bottom lines. Our revenue outperformance was broad-based in the quarter. Our breast and Surgical divisions both grew substantially versus the prior year period when results were negatively affected by the pandemic. And importantly, both businesses also grew compared to the same period of 2019. Our Diagnostics division grew about 20% compared to last year despite lower sales of COVID tests and increased compared to 2019 as well. Karleen will review our full financial results today, but before she does, I want to take a step back and provide some perspective on where Hologic is headed over the longer term, as many of you have requested.As mentioned in our last call, we have been working through our annual strategic planning process. And based on this, I've never been more excited about our future and the global impact we are making by pursuing our purpose, passion and promise. We know this is important to all our investors and especially those focused on ESG priorities. Hologic is clearly emerging from the COVID-19 pandemic as a stronger faster-growing company. We have a much higher profile on the global stage, which has helped create a stronger and more durable foundation to accelerate our international growth. And we have placed hundreds of new Panther instruments, which is boosting our razor-razorblade business model. From a financial perspective, we have generated more than $2.5 billion of operating cash in just the last five quarters. During this time, we have used about $1.35 billion to buy six companies and about $510 million to buy back our own stock.In Diagnostics alone, we have added two new growth platforms in Biotheranostics and Mobidiag and substantially increased our assay development capabilities with Diagenode. Based on all this progress, we are now targeting organic revenue growth rates of between 5% and 7% in our base businesses between now and 2025. This excludes sales of COVID assays and related ancillaries, which we expect to decline over our strat plan horizon. Now we'd like to discuss how we expect this to play out in our three divisions. This is more detailed than we'd typically provide in the quarterly call, but it's important to underpin the enthusiasm we have for our future. First, in Diagnostics. We are diversifying our customer base, installing more Panther instruments, continuously adding new assay menu and driving testing demand. Our foundation in diagnostics remains rock-solid with leading U.S. market positions for our ThinPrep pap test and our key women's health assays on the Panther instrument, namely chlamydia, gonorrhea, HPV and Trichomonas.As leaders in these categories, we have built strong partnerships with many of our largest lab customers that enable us to educate physicians about testing guidelines issued by groups like the CDC. Just last week, in fact, the CDC posted new recommendations that are very positive for public health and for our business. So while our market shares are already very high, we are driving growth by expanding addressable markets. In addition, we have developed related women's health tests that are often performed from the same patient sample, such as our vaginosis panel and our test for Mycoplasma genitalium. Finally, we see significant opportunities to increase sales of other products where our market shares are much lower today. Our response to the COVID pandemic has unquestionably enabled us to accelerate these growth strategies. We have grown from a successful niche player in STI testing into a much more diversified industry leader with a broader customer base. We have done this by dramatically increasing placements of Panther instruments.

 



Since the start of the pandemic, we have increased our global installed base by more than 50% or in real numbers, by almost 1,000 Panthers. We now have about 1,500 Panthers in the United States and more than 1,200 in other countries. And we are well diversified across customer sizes and types. And as COVID testing wanes, customers are beginning to use these instruments to run more non-COVID assays. This is a significant opportunity because today, about half our customers from the largest reference labs to smaller hospitals run three tests or fewer on their Panther instruments, even though we now have 19 total assays available. We are capitalizing on this opportunity by signing up record levels of new business, as reflected in the test of record, or TORs, metric that we have discussed. Pre-COVID, our best year for TORs was a little more than $20 million. Last fiscal year, we set a new record with about $35 million of new business, and we are on track to comfortably exceed that number in 2021. Outside the United States where Hologic Diagnostics has been less well known historically, COVID has materially elevated our profile. Since the pandemic began, about 1/3 of our COVID assay sales have been generated internationally.And the relationships we have established will help us win business and drive future growth. Finally, the strong cash flow we've generated from COVID sales has enabled us to complete three recent acquisitions in Diagnostics that together are expected to contribute more than $100 million of annual revenue as well as providing new growth platforms that increase our top line growth rate. First, Biotheranostics enables us to enter the lab-based oncology space, a longtime area of interest that has been growing rapidly. Biotheranostics is off to an excellent start with about $13 million of revenue in the third quarter, more than 30% higher than their best quarter prior to the pandemic. Second, Diagenode will help us add PCR-based menu to our Panther Fusion instrument both in Europe and in the United States. And third, the acquisition of Mobidiag enables us to enter the rapidly growing market for acute care near-patient testing, which we have been monitoring for years.We believe the Novodiag instrument provides the right combination of ease of use, rapid turnaround and low manufacturing cost to expand into smaller hospitals and create a multi-hundred million-dollar product line over time. Now let's shift gears and discuss our Breast & Skeletal Health division, where revenue growth is becoming more diversified, more recurring, more global and more consistent than ever before. Similar to Diagnostics, our strategic plan is built on a foundation of strength. We are the leaders in breast health based on a long history of innovation, partnership with customers and focus across the continuum of breast care. Our strategy is built around the innovative market-leading Genius 3D Mammography platform. Like all our key products, our Genius exams make a real difference in women's lives. They detect more dangerous cancers while reducing unnecessary callbacks. A few years ago, many investor questions focused on whether we could overcome the 3D cliff that was thought to be inevitable once the market converted to 3D. We don't get that question much anymore because we have leveraged our leadership in 3D to create a much more diversified business with more consistent, steady revenue growth. In fact, in the third quarter, U.S. gantry sales represented less than 20% of global breast health revenue.We have accomplished this in four ways. First, we have expanded our service business. If we think of breast health service as a single product, it would be the company's second largest with more than $500 million of global revenue over the last four quarters. While we don't expect this to grow dramatically over our strategic planning horizon, service will continue to underpin our financial results and be the cornerstone of the tight relationships we have with our customers. Second, we have beefed up our R&D capabilities beyond our traditional focus on X-ray imaging. We have developed new software packages like Clarity HD, which provides the industry's fastest, highest-resolution images. We have introduced new tools like Genius AI detection, a deep learning-based software that helps radiologists detect subtle potential cancers. And we pioneered Brevera to fully integrate the biopsy procedure with specimen radiography for the first time. Brevera alone is now generating about $40 million of annual revenue, and we expect all these new products to drive growth over our strat plan horizon.Third, we have acquired four companies since 2018 to broaden our product portfolio, expand across the continuum of breast healthcare and become the partner of choice for all a customers' breast health needs. These acquisitions include Faxitron, which bolstered our offerings in specimen radiography; and Focal, which moved us further into breast-conserving surgery; and SuperSonic Imagine, which strengthened our position in ultrasound; and SOMATEX, which increased innovation in breast biopsy markers. In aggregate, these deals are now adding about $90 million annually to breast health revenue and are important contributors to growth in our strategic plan. And fourth, we are expanding internationally in breast health. Our focus is to continue gaining market share with our existing 3D and upgradable 2D mammography products, the same products that have established leadership positions in the United States. We are also bringing the new products I've discussed both internally developed and acquired two additional countries.And we've purchased distributors in Germany, Spain and other markets to get closer to customers and secure more service revenue. Now let's turn to our GYN Surgical division. Surgical was our fastest-growing division before the pandemic, and our strategic plan assumes that Surgical will continue its momentum through 2025. We have a unique opportunity to leverage our strength in the OB/GYN channel to provide differentiated solutions throughout women's lives. While today, our products mainly help middle-aged women, in the future, we plan to have a stronger presence among mothers-to-be and older women as we expand our offerings within the hysteroscopic, laparoscopic and pelvic health markets. Within Surgical, MyoSure remains the world's leading hysteroscopic product to remove smaller, less complicated fibroids. Since July is Fibroid Awareness Month, you've probably seen many articles describing the huge number of women who are affected by fibroids and the way they often suffer in silence or undergo invasive procedures, such as hysterectomies. It's clear that this market remains large and underpenetrated and that after many years of exceptional growth, MyoSure still has plenty of room to run.We are also very excited about Acessa, which we acquired in 2020, and its laparoscopic fibroid treatment system. Acessa is a perfect complement to MyoSure as the system is used to treat larger, more complicated fibroids that MyoSure can't reach. Importantly, the same OB/GYNs who rely on MyoSure have the potential to use Acessa, so it's a great fit for our sales force. We recently received two pieces of good news on Acessa, that it's now included in ACOG's updated fibroid management guidance and Cigna's list of medically necessary procedures. These are important milestones on our road to creating another $100 million-plus surgical brand alongside MyoSure and NovaSure. Another reason we feel confident in Surgical's future is the revitalization of our R&D pipeline. A few years ago, the division was basically a 2-product show. Today, however, we sell multiple versions of these products as well as new fluid management system, hysteroscopes and other GYN surgical tools. and we have a robust pipeline of new products in development.Finally, based on the strengthening of our global commercial capabilities, we now have many opportunities to deliver our less invasive surgical solutions to women around the world since less than 20% of the division's revenue is generated outside the United States today. Before I turn the call over to Karleen, let me wrap up by saying that, to me, Hologic looks like a fundamentally different company today than just 18 months ago before the pandemic. We have three franchises growing faster than they ever have. We are growing in all major regions of the world. We have added multiple new growth drivers in all our divisions. And with our COVID test, we have a significant new product line to provide upside to a strong base. Taken together, we are excited for the future and confident that we will grow our base, non-COVID business between 5% and 7% over the next several years.Now let me hand the call over to Karleen.Karleen Oberton -- Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Steve, and good afternoon, everyone. As Steve said, our third quarter results exceeded expectations as revenue and EPS grew significantly compared to the prior year. Revenue of $1.17 billion increased 38%. Organically, revenue grew 34% driven by continued sequential improvement in our base businesses and a meaningful contribution from global COVID testing revenue. We exceeded our top and bottom line guidance with upside in both our base and COVID. We also significantly improved profitability compared to the prior year period. As a result, EPS of $1.33 in the third quarter increased 77%. Further, operating cash flow remained robust, allowing us to execute on our capital allocation strategy, which I'll discuss more in a moment. Before I do that, let me provide some detail on our divisional revenue results. Providing a more complete picture of our performance, I will often compare our results to the third quarters of both 2020 and 2019. In Diagnostics, global revenue of $665.5 million grew an impressive 20% compared to the prior year period, based on higher-than-expected COVID sales and the strength of our core molecular franchise. Within Diagnostics, Molecular Diagnostics increased 11.9% globally as massive growth internationally more than offset the decline in U.S. COVID sales.Although COVID testing revenue declined, it still exceeded our most recent guidance. Specifically, we shipped about 14 million COVID tests to customers, generating assay revenue of $291 million globally. About 2/3 of COVID assay revenues generated outside the United States in the quarter, reflecting the broader global footprint that Steve discussed. To better understand the underlying performance of our non-COVID businesses, let me remind you that the pandemic has also increased sales of collection kits, instruments and ancillaries that are used with our COVID test. Backing this revenue out of the current and prior year period provides a better picture of true underlying trends. If we do this, we see that base molecular revenue in total Diagnostics sales grew about 76% organically in the third quarter. Compared to the same quarter of 2019, molecular grew in the mid-teens and total Diagnostics grew mid-single digits. Rounding out Diagnostics, our Cytology & Perinatal businesses grew 75% compared to the prior year. But compared to 2019, these businesses were still slightly behind their pre-pandemic levels. In breast health, global revenue of $349 million grew 53% and exceptional results as the franchise continues to gain momentum.As evidence of this, revenue has now increased sequentially and compared to 2019 for the last three quarters. The division's strong performance remains well rounded, reflecting our commitment to diversifying revenue streams, as Steve discussed. Both breast imaging and the interventional businesses increased compared to the prior year period, with imaging growing 43% and interventional increasing 120%. Although we remain encouraged by continued improvement in the capital environment, capital is still not quite back to the 2019 levels. However, breast screening rates continue to improve. And with a healthy backlog, we are encouraged about continued recovery over the next few quarters. In Surgical, third quarter revenue of $127.9 million grew 143% while also exceeding 2019 levels by low double digits. Surgical's strong performance has been driven by normalizing procedure volumes, MyoSure and new products in the hands of our exceptional sales force.Lastly, in skeletal, revenue of $25.9 million increased 66% compared to the prior year period and was also up low single digits compared to 2019. Overall, in terms of geography, domestic sales of $749.9 million increased almost 14%. On an organic basis, U.S. revenue was up 10%. Outside the United States, sales of $418.4 million increased 130% -- 137%. Organically, sales outside the U.S. grew 131%, a tremendous result. Now let's move on to the rest of the P&L for the third quarter. Gross margin of 66.1% increased 140 basis points, driven by volume recovery in our base businesses and a nice contribution from sales of our COVID test. Continuing down the P&L. Total operating expenses of $310.1 million increased 19% in the third quarter. Excluding expenses from our recent acquisitions, operating expenses would have increased about 11% as we reinvested for future growth with incremental spending in R&D and marketing. In addition, remember that given uncertainties associated with the pandemic, we cut back on spending in our third quarter of 2020. Our non-GAAP tax rate in the quarter was 21.5% driven by a favorable geographic income mix, mainly sales of COVID tests outside the United States.Putting this all together, operating margin increased 650 basis points to 39.5%, and net margin increased 580 basis points to 29.5%. As a result, non-GAAP net income finished at $344.8 million and non-GAAP earnings per share were $1.33, exceeding the top end of our guidance. Before we cover our fourth quarter guidance, I'll quickly touch on a few other financial metrics. Driven by our strong performance of our base businesses as well as the contribution from COVID testing, cash flow from operations was $663 million in the third quarter. This was nearly double our non-GAAP net income, highlighting excellent cash conversion. These strong cash flows continue to give us tremendous financial and strategic flexibility. For example, in the third quarter, we closed the acquisition of Mobidiag for an enterprise value of $808 million and also repurchased three million shares of our stock for $188 million. Overall, we had $828 million of cash at the end of the third quarter, and our leverage ratio was 0.7 times.We intend to continue using our cash on divisional-led tuck-in acquisitions and share repurchases that improve our top and bottom line growth rates. Finally, ROIC was 34.7% on a trailing 12-month basis, a significant increase of 2,190 basis points. Before we open the call for questions, let me discuss our expectations for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021 and provide a few comments on longer-term targets. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021, we expect strong financial results again with total revenue in the range of $1 billion to $1.04 billion, representing constant currency decline of 27% to 24% versus the prior year period, which benefited from huge COVID assay sales. For perspective, in the fourth quarter of 2019, we generated less than $800 million of revenue, excluding the divested Cynosure business. So we expect to grow significantly above pre-pandemic levels. In our base businesses, we expect continued momentum and recovery to generate very strong growth rates compared to the fourth quarter of 2020 given the negative impact of the pandemic a year ago. And we expect this franchise to grow nicely compared to 2019 as well. In terms of COVID assay sales, the U.S. testing market continues to decline. As we forecasted last quarter, we expect this trend to continue as more people are vaccinated. In addition, summer vacations may further reduce demand domestically and in Europe.With these factors in mind, we expect COVID assay sales to range from $150 million to $170 million in the fourth quarter. In addition, COVID-related items in diagnostics are expected to be approximately $30 million in the fourth quarter, down roughly $20 million sequentially. If new variants drive demand that exceeds our current expectations, we are well prepared to deliver for our customers and generate upside to our estimates. Our fourth quarter guidance includes approximately $35 million of acquired revenue from Mobidiag, Biotheranostics, Diagenode and Acessa. Backing this out as well as $9 million of expected Blood Screening revenue, we expect organic revenue to decline 30% to 27%. But excluding COVID assay sales and related revenue, we forecast organic revenue to grow low to mid-teens in the fourth quarter. Below operating income, I would point out that we expect other expenses net to increase to about $25 million in the fourth quarter. Our guidance is based on a tax rate of 21.5% and diluted shares outstanding of 260 million for the quarter. All of this nets out to expected EPS of $0.92 to $1 in the fourth quarter. Given the outsized impact of COVID assay sales in the prior year period, this translates to a decline of 56% to 52%. As you update your forecast, let me remind you that macro uncertainty due to the pandemic is still high. We would therefore encourage you to model at the middle of our ranges, which incorporates both potential upsides and downsides. Before we open up the call for questions, let me touch on a few longer-term items.As Steve discussed, based on our recent strategic planning process, we are confident that organic revenue can grow 5% to 7% through our fiscal 2025, excluding sales of COVID assays as well as the related ancillaries and instruments. Many of you have also asked for our perspective on COVID assay sales next year. And the shortest, most accurate answer is we don't know, no one does, given the uncertainty -- significant uncertainties that still exist and that seemingly change on a weekly basis. Having said that, we do understand your desire for some kind of framework. Toward that end, we believe that given the scope of the ongoing pandemic and our broad global installed base of Panther instruments, it's unlikely that COVID assays revenue will be much less than $200 million next year, which would make COVID one of our biggest molecular assays. It's certainly possible that sales could be more than that, maybe as much as double. But we are going to be conservative at this stage and consider anything above $200 million potential upside.We would encourage you to do the same and focus instead on the strong underlying growth rates in our base businesses that Steve discussed. Let me wrap up by saying that Hologic showed tremendous growth in the third quarter with results that exceeded guidance. We continue to make a huge impact on women's health globally and are meeting COVID testing needs as the pandemic evolves. Further, with organic investments in multiple acquisitions, we are emerging from the pandemic as a stronger company with top line growth rates of 5% to 7%, excluding COVID impacts.With that, I will ask the operator to open the call for questions.