  OperatorGood day and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Honeywell first quarter 2022 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to your speaker today. Sean Meakim, vice president of investor relations. Please go ahead.Sean Meakim -- Vice President of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Shannon. Good morning and welcome to Honeywell's first quarter 2022 earnings. On the call with me today are chairman and CEO, Darius Adamczyk; and senior vice president and chief financial officer, Greg Lewis. Also joining us are senior vice president and general counsel, Anne Madden; and senior vice president and chief supply chain officer, Torsten Pilz. This call and webcast, including any non-GAAP reconciliations, are available on our website at www.honeywell.com/investor. Honeywell also uses our website as a means of disclosing information, which may be of interest or material to our investors, and for complying with disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Accordingly, investors should monitor our investor relations website, in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings, public conference calls, webcast, and social media. Note that elements of this presentation contain forward-looking statements are based on our best view of the world and of our businesses as we see them today.Those elements can change based on many factors, including changing economic and business conditions, and we ask that you interpret them in that light. We identify the principal risks and uncertainties that may affect our performance in our annual report on Form 10-K and other SEC filings. This morning, we will review our financial results for the first quarter of 2022, share our guidance for the second quarter, and provide an update on our full year 2022 outlook. As always, we'll leave time for your questions at the end. With that, I'll turn the call over to our chairman and CEO, Darius Adamczyk. 

 



Darius Adamczyk -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Sean. And good morning, everyone. Let's begin on Slide 2. First off, our collective thoughts are with the millions of Ukrainian refugees, and we hope to see a peaceful resolution quickly. The number one priority continues to be the safety and security of our employees and partners in the region and respond to their immediate needs. That said, we deliver a very strong first quarter, despite a challenging backdrop that includes ongoing supply chain constraints, deflation headwinds, and global unrest. I'm pleased with our disciplined execution as we navigate these dynamics and capitalize on the ongoing recovery in our end markets. We met or exceeded our first quarter commitments despite these challenges with adjusted earnings per share of $1.91, down 1% year over year, but $0.01 above the high end of our guidance range. Organic sales grew by 1% year over year, and our commercial aviation aftermarket, building products, productivity solutions and services, advanced materials, and recurring connected software businesses all delivered double-digit organic growth. This was partially offset by two percentage points impact from lower COVID-related masks sales as we lap the height of the demand in 2021. Our strong price realization allowed us to stay ahead of the inflation curve. We expanded segment margin by 10 basis points year over year, 10 basis points above the high end of our guidance range.

 



 Excluding the impact of our investment continuum, the margin expansion rate would have been 40 basis points year over year. Orders and backlog growth accelerated in the first quarter, indicating strong demand momentum despite macro headwinds, led by strength in aero, HBT, and PMT, our end markets continue to recover. We'll go into more details on orders and backlog trends in the next slide. The first quarter is seasonally our lowest from a cash perspective. And as we communicated, this year it is being exacerbated by the supply chain impacts and strong collections in Q4. We generate $50 million of free cash flow in the quarter. These results do not change our full year free cash flow guidance range of $4.7 billion to $5.1 billion, which Greg will discuss later. We continue to leverage our strong balance sheet, deploying $2 billion of total capital in the first quarter, including $1 billion allocated to share repurchases as we began execution of our recently updated commitment to buy back $4 billion in shares in 2022. From an M&A perspective, we closed the acquisition of U.S. Digital Designs, a public safety communications, hardware and software solutions provider. Looking forward, I continue to be encouraged by the strength we're seeing in many areas of our portfolio as we execute our rigorous and proven value creation framework. Our accelerator operating system is driving outstanding shareholder value. Now let me turn to Slide 3 to discuss our orders and backlog trends. First quarter orders across Honeywell improved 13%, the strongest growth we have since the start of 2021. The exception of second Q '21 growth, which benefited from 2020 COVID-related lows. Despite ongoing macro challenges of the last few years, our book-to-bill ratio has been greater than one for the last several quarters, indicating the strength of our demand and commercial success. Long cycle orders grew over 20% in the first quarter, led by strength in the overall aerospace portfolio. PMP process solutions projects and SPS warehouse automation to help facilitate sustained growth through the coming years. First quarter backlog increased 9% year over year to $28.5 billion, or up 10%, excluding the impact of approximately $300 million of backlog removed due to the Russia conflict. Backlog growth has also been accelerating consistently over the last two years as our end markets recover, giving us confidence in increased sales growth as the supply chain environment eases. Now let's turn to Slide 4 to discuss some exciting recent announcements. Last month, we announced a strategic collaboration of OTTO Motors, a division of Clearpath Robotics, that gives warehouse and distribution centers throughout North America an automated option to handle some of the most labor intensive roles in an increasingly scarce job market. The collaboration enables Honeywell customers to increase efficiency, reduce errors, and improve safety by deploying OTTO's autonomous mobile robots in their facilities. These autonomous mobile robots handle repetitive and often time-consuming tasks and allow scarce labor resources to be shifted to higher value jobs. This helps boost worker satisfaction while reducing injuries and turnover rates. The pandemic and its lasting effects on labor shortages is causing companies to reconsider the way they operate, and companies are more willing than ever to invest in automation. We also recently announced that we'll supply Hecate Energy, Energy Storage System for a solar park located in northern New Mexico. When completed in mid-2022, the 50-megawatt solar farm will be capable of supplying enough electricity to power up the 16,000 average New Mexico homes, which will help meet the state's decarbonization goals. When combining of Honeywell's experience energy control systems, the energy storage systems will enable customers to accurately forecast and optimize energy cost at the site and will support access to reliable and cost-effective clean energy. Honeywell remains on the forefront of innovation. It is leading the energy transition. Energy storage will be a play -- will play a critical role in renewable power generation. It will be vital to the decarbonization of global power systems. Lastly, we are teaming up with World Energy, our -- a carbon net zero solution provider in air products, the world's largest hydrogen producer to build one of the most technologically advanced sustainable aviation fuel production and distribution sites ever constructed. The facility will produce fuel that will displace over 76 million metric tons of carbon dioxide by 2050, equal to 3.8 million carbon net zero flights from L.A. to New York. World Energy and Honeywell collaborated over the past nine years, and this long-term engagement will continue to transform the industry, support the growth of zero carbon economy, and help accelerate the decarbonization of the aviation industry. These exciting announcements reinforce our message at Investor Day that our innovative culture, our commitment to providing efficient and sustainable solutions to meet the needs of our customers, and our new technologies will be integral to the next leg of growth. Now, let me turn it over to Greg on Slide 5 to discuss our first quarter results in more detail and to provide an update on our 2022 outlook.Greg Lewis -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Darius, and good morning, everyone. As Darius highlighted, we met or exceeded our financial commitments despite a very challenging backdrop. First quarter sales grew by 1% organically as supply chain constraints predominantly in aero, HBT, and SPS continued to hold back volume growth and caused our pass-through backlog to increase by approximately $500 million in the quarter. Our strong pricing was a highlight in the face of high inflation. Similar to the fourth quarter, iQ also had difficult year-over-year comps with lower COVID-related mask demand, impacting growth by two percentage points and the timing of sales and warehouse automation, dampening our growth rate. Turning to the segments, aerospace sales for the first quarter were up 5% organically compared to the first quarter of 2021, despite continued supply constraints. As the ongoing flight hour recovery led to more than 25% year-over-year sales growth in both air transport, aftermarket and business in general aviation aftermarket. Commercial and original equipment grew double digits in the first quarter as air transport original equipment return to growth. That was partially offset by lower business in general aviation original equipment volume. Growth from commercial aerospace was partially offset by defensive space sales that were down 14% in the quarter. Aerospace segment margins contracted as expected in the first quarter to 27.4% due to higher sales of lower margin original equipment products, the impact of inflation, and the absence of a one time gain in 2021, partially offset by our pricing actions. Turning to building technologies, where sales were up 8% organically, led by favorable pricing across the building products portfolio, partially offset by lower volume in building projects. Orders were up double digits in the first quarter as a result of strong demand for fire products and building management systems. Backlog growth continued in building solutions, products and services, giving us confidence for the remainder of 2022. In addition, our healthy buildings portfolio maintained its momentum with orders over $100 million in the first quarter. Segment margins expanded 100 basis points to 23.5% due our pricing actions and are favorable sales mix partially offset by cost inflation. In performance materials and technology, sales grew 6% organically in the quarter, despite an approximately 1% headwind from Russia sales. Growth was led by advanced materials, where the business experienced double-digit growth despite lower automotive refrigerant volume due to supply constraints affecting automotive OE production. Process solutions sales growth was led by thermal solutions and lifecycle solutions and services. Sparta Systems grew approximately 20% and turned in operating profit in the quarter earlier than expected in our acquisition model. UOP sales were down in the quarter due to lower process technology equipment volume, although sustainable technology solutions continued to excel, growing over 75% organically year over year. Orders increased double digits year over year, headlined by over 20% growth in process solution. Segment margins expanded 230 basis points in the quarter to 20.8%, driven by favorable pricing and sales mix, partially offset by cost inflation. In safety and productivity solutions, sales decreased 15% organically in the quarter. Remember that the first quarter of 2021 was near the height of our COVID-driven mask demand, creating a 9% year-over-year comparison headwind in the quarter. Productivity solutions and services, advanced sensing technologies, and our gas detection businesses all grew at double-digit rates in the quarter, despite the supply constrained environment, highlighting the strength in much of the underlying SPS portfolio. As we expected, the timing of intelligent sales is shaping up to be a mirror image for 2021 with sales down in the first quarter and we expect growth in the back half of the year. Segment margins expanded 20 basis points to 14.5%, led by favorable pricing and sales mix, partially offset by lower volume leverage and cost inflation. Honeywell connected enterprise continues to underpin the growth we are seeing across the portfolio. In the first quarter, recurring revenue grew over 15% with SAF growth of over 50%, led by the Sparta business. We also saw double-digit growth in our connected building, Cyber, and connected industrial solution. So for overall Honeywell, our execution allowed us to deliver 10 basis points of segment margin improvement, 10 basis points above the high end of our guide, with margin expansion in PMT, HBT, and SPS ending the quarter at 21.1%. And keep in mind, this expansion is net of a 30-basis-point year-over-year headwind associated with our investment in Quantinuum. On EPS, we delivered first quarter GAAP earnings per share of $1.64 and adjusted earnings per share of $1.91, which was down $0.01 year over year. A bridge for adjusted earnings per share from 1Q '21 to 1Q '22 can be found in the appendix of this presentation. Segment profit was a $0.01 headwind, driven primarily by lower volume and supply chain constraints, partially offset by strong price realization. A lower effective tax rate, 22% this year versus 22.3% last year, drove a $0.01 tailwind. Share count reduction drove a $0.04 year-over-year tailwind to earnings per share. We saw a $0.05 headwind from below-the-line item, primarily due to lower pension income and increased repositioning. In response to the Russian invasion of Ukraine, we suspended substantially all our sales, distribution, and service activities in Russia. And as a result, we recorded a charge of $183 million or a $0.27 impact to our GAAP EPS. Moving the cash. We generated $50 million of free cash flow in the quarter, which is closely aligned to our expectations. This decrease was driven by higher working capital, including lower payables and higher receivables from strong 4Q collections in addition to higher inventory as we continue to work through the constrained supply chain environment. Higher cash taxes due to the impact of tax legislation and R&D capitalization were also a free cash flow headwind in the quarter consistent with our full-year guidance. Finally, as Darius mentioned earlier, we continue to leverage our strong balance sheet, deploying $2 billion toward high-return opportunities for our shareholders. Notably, we repurchased 5.5 million shares for $1 billion in the first quarter as we executed on our update committed to buy back $4 billion in shares in 2022. We also paid approximately $670 million in dividend, spent approximately $180 million in capital expenditures, and invested approximately $180 million in M&A as we closed the acquisition of U.S. Digital Designs. So overall, we executed better than expected, managing through a very difficult first quarter and accelerated our capital deployment as promise. Now let's turn to Slide 6 to talk about our second quarter and full year guidance. Signs of the recovery continue to unfold in our key markets, underpinned by strong orders growth across many of our businesses, as Darius highlighted in his opening. While uncertainties and persistent challenges remain in the macro economic backdrop, our rigorous operating principles have enabled us to demonstrate our agility and resiliency, positioning us well for the recovery ahead. Our end market setup continues to be strong with ongoing improvement in global flight hours, return to public spaces, and elevated oil prices. Global energy production continues to transition to a low carbon future, and Honeywell will lead that evolution with our strategically differentiated and sustainable technology. We expect supply chain impacts to remain as challenging in the second quarter as they were in the first quarter, but to start to abate as capacity for electronic components comes online in 3Q. We're confident the eventual return to normalcy in the aerospace supply chain. However, the timing remains difficult to call. Inflation will continue to be a significant headwind. However, our strategic pricing actions will continue to dampen impacts to margin throughout the year. In response to the Russian invasion of Ukraine, we suspended substantially all our sales, distribution, and service activities in Russia, representing approximately 1% of total 2021 sales for Honeywell that we do not expect to return this year. In addition, we're actively monitoring and navigating the worsening COVID-19 lockdown situation in China that is creating sales and supply chain risk. With that as a backdrop, we expect second quarter sales to be in the range of $8.5 billion to $8.8 billion, down 2% to up 2% on an organic basis or flat to up 4%, excluding the one point impact of the mask sales decline and the one point impact of lost Russian sales. This sales range assumes that COVID-19 lockdowns in China alleviate in May and that the Chinese operating environment remains relatively normal. Despite the ongoing macro uncertainties, we now expect full year sales of $35.5 billion to $36.4 billion, which represents an increase of $100 million on the low end from our prior guidance, up 4% to 7% organically with accelerating growth as the year progresses. That represents organic growth of 6% to 9%, excluding the one point impact of the lower mask demand and one point impact of lost Russian sales. We expect that our disciplined price actions will keep us ahead of the current inflationary environment, contributing approximately 5% to our sales growth, which is higher than we anticipated in our original guide, and offsetting the majority of the approximately $400 million of lost Russia sales. Now let's take a moment to walk through the second quarter and full year expectations by segment. An update on our 2022 and market outlook can be found in the appendix of this presentation. Starting with aerospace, the overall industry supply chain complex continues to be a challenge and we do expect to see moderate improvement throughout the year. Sequential growth in flight hours will lead to another quarter of robust growth for our air transport and business and general aviation aftermarket businesses. This momentum will carry through to the end of '22 with growth led by the air transport aftermarket. With build rates improving as expected, business in general aviation original equipment will grow sequentially each quarter for the balance of 2022. As '22 progresses and our comp eases, defense and space will see sequential improvement from the first quarter and return to year-over-year growth in the second half. We still expect full year organic sales growth for aerospace to be up high single digits. Growth in the original equipment will lead to mix-related margin headwinds throughout the year, but we expect aero margins to grow sequentially from the first half to the second half. In building technology, we expect momentum to continue with sales growth both sequentially and year over year throughout 2022 as supply chain constraints, particularly around semiconductors, begin to ease and we deliver on strong demand for fire and security products and building management systems. Our targeted pricing actions will also provide growth on top of that unlocked volume. We expect building solutions to return to growth in the second quarter and rebound well in to the second half, finishing the year off strong. Underpinning the growth throughout the portfolio are healthy buildings offering, which will benefit from increased demand for air quality and touchless technologies. Higher government spending on infrastructure will provide additional growth opportunities for us as well. Overall, we now expect full year organic sales growth of high single digit to double digits, trending better than expected. We continue to work diligently to combat the current inflationary environment, and our cost controls and pricing actions will ensure that we maintain and build upon our margin expansion in both the second quarter and the back half of the year. In performance materials and technology, the macro setup remains favorable for our portfolio as we are uniquely positioned to both participate in the oil and gas reinvestment cycle as well as enable the energy transition. However, PMT has the largest exposure to Russia among our segments, and our decision to substantially suspend operations in the country represents a near-term sales growth headwind, particularly in UOP. Process solutions projects orders are expected to remain strong throughout the year and volumes in the products businesses will increase as supply availability improves. In UOP, we see sequential improvement in the second quarter and throughout the year as catalyst reloads increase in refining markets, and we are encouraged by the order pipeline for our sustainable technology. UOP is also a significant contributor to the liquefied natural gas capacity globally, and recent government announcements suggest incremental LNG capacity may ramp beyond what has already been committed, representing a promising opportunity for the business. Advanced materials pricing will continue to be a tailwind throughout the year and we are expanding capacity to position ourselves for further growth. In total, we still expect PMC sales to be up mid to high single digits for the year. PMC margins will benefit from our pricing and productivity actions and we expect sequential and year-over-year margin expansion in 2Q and continued sequential improvement in the second half. Turning to safety and productivity solutions. We expect productivity solutions and services, advanced sensing technologies, and gas detection to build on their momentum from the first quarter and continue to grow throughout the year. These businesses saw year-over-year backlog growth of over 25% in 1Q and have demonstrated their ability to execute in difficult macro conditions, giving us confidence in the growth trajectory there, especially as the supply chain environment improves. Lower COVID-related mask demand will continue to be a year-over-year drag in 2Q but as we enter the second half of the year, we'll lap the difficult pandemic comps and personal protective equipment sales will return to growth, led by other product offerings in the portfolio. In Intelligrated, we're encouraged by the progress we have made in improving our operational efficiency and profitability, and we're increasing our focus on project selectivity, finding the right balance between top and bottom line growth as we discuss. We still expect SPS sales to be flattish year over year for the full year with sequential improvement each quarter. However, we anticipate margins to expand sequentially throughout the year as business mix, pricing, and volume compounds. Now let me turn to our expectations for the other core guided metrics. For second quarter segment margins, we expect to be in the range of 20.5% to 20.9%, resulting in 10 to 50 basis points of year-over-year margin expansion. Excluding the 30-basis-point headwind from Quantinuum, we expect margins to expand 40 to 80 basis points. Second quarter net below-the-line impact, which is the difference between segment profit and income before tax, is expected to be in the range of zero to $45 million, with a range of repositioning between $40 million and $80 million as we continue to fund ongoing restructuring projects. We expect the second quarter effective tax rate to be approximately 24% and the average share count to be approximately 687 million shares. As a result, we expect adjusted second quarter earnings per share between $1.98 and $2.08, down 2% but up 3% year over year. Turning to the full year, we continue to expect segment margins to expand 10 to 50 basis points, supported by higher sales volume, price-cost management, and our continued rigor on fixed cost. Excluding the 30-basis-point headwind from Quantinuum, we expect margins to expand 40 to 80 basis points in the year. SPS will lead to margin expansion for the company as we continue to prioritize profitability in 2022 in that business, followed by HBT and PMT, with aero about flat year over year. We continue to expect our full year net below-the-line impact to be in the range of negative $100 million to positive $50 million, including capacity for $300 million to $425 million of repositioning in the year. We expect the full year effective tax rate of approximately 22% and we now expect a weighted average share count to be in the range of 684 million to 687 million shares for the year, reflecting our updated commitment to repurchase $4 billion of Honeywell shares in 2022. We have raised our full year earnings per share expectations to $8.50 to $8.80, up 5% to 9% adjusted, an increase of $0.10 on both ends versus our prior guidance due to our accelerated share repurchase commitment. We still expect to see free cash flow in the range of $4.7 billion to $5.1 billion in 2022, or $4.9 billion to $5.3 billion excluding the impact of Quantinuum. So in total, we're raising our full year earnings per share guidance and increasing the midpoint of our sales range, absorbing the impact of external macroeconomic factors. Now let me turn it back to Darius to discuss our enhanced environment commitments coming out of our recent Investor Day.Darius Adamczyk -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Greg. Let's turn to Slide 7 and talk about the more aspirational approach we're taking to our ESG commitments. ESG has been part of Honeywell's DNA for decades, and we have an established track record of success in this area. Since we stood up our sustainability program in 2004 we've achieved every one of the ambitious targets we have set for ourselves, reduced our greenhouse gas emissions intensity by approximately 90% while spending over $4 billion on remediation projects to restore thousands of acres of land for our communities. While we're thrilled in the successes we have had in the past, we believe we still have much to accomplish in the future. We're currently on track to deliver on our 10-10-10 target set in 2019, further reducing our greenhouse gas emissions while deploying renewable energy projects and improving energy efficiency at our sites. In addition, last year we committed to achieving carbon-neutral facilities in operations by 2035, a full 15 years earlier than the Paris Climate Accord. While these targets are successful in reducing our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, we didn't stop there. Earlier this year, we submitted a commitment to the Science-based Targets Initiative to address our Scope 3 emissions across our value chain, lowering the environmental footprint of our products, we continue to innovate with products and services that help our customers reduce their own emissions. In addition to our ambitious sustainability targets, we've also enhanced our ESG disclosures with additional metrics on our Investor Relations website. These include an ESG data sheet that has metrics for diversity, water, greenhouse gas, and more, a defense and space fact sheet that includes more detailed information, our sales make up, and a document that breaks down Honeywell's many ESG-oriented offerings, which compromise more than 60% of our revenue today. Now, let's turn to Slide 8 for some closing thoughts before we move to -- into Q&A. As always, our value-creation framework offer -- helps us to successfully navigate the quarter and overdeliver on our commitments. Most of our end markets will continue to recover and we are optimistic about our future. Despite the ongoing geopolitical challenges, including approximately $400 million of lost Russian sales, we raised the midpoint of our full year sales range and increased our earnings per share expectations. Our value-creation framework is working. With the ongoing recovery of our end markets, we remain optimistic about the future of our business. While there is a heightened level of macro uncertainty at present, we remain confident in our ability to execute on the pieces within our control. With that, Sean, let's move to Q&A.Sean Meakim -- Vice President of Investor Relations Thank you, Darius. Darius, Greg, Anne, and Torsten are now available to answer your questions. [Operator instructions] Shannon, please open the line for Q&A. 