  OperatorGood afternoon. My name is Ashley, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the KLA Corporation September quarter 2021 earnings conference call and webcast. All participant lines have been placed in a listen-only mode to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator instructions] And I will now turn the call over to Kevin Kessel, vice president of investor relations and market analytics. Please go ahead.Kevin Kessel -- Vice President of Investor Relations and Market Analytics Thank you, and welcome to KLA's fiscal Q1 2022 quarterly earnings call to discuss the results of the September quarter and the outlook for the December quarter. With me on today's call is Rick Wallace, our chief executive officer; and Bren Higgins, our chief financial officer. During this call, we will discuss quarterly results for the period ended September 30, 2021, released this afternoon after market close. You can find the press release, shareholder letter, slide deck, and infographic on the KLA IR section of our website. Today's discussion is presented on a non-GAAP financial basis unless otherwise specified. And whenever we make references to a year, we are referring to calendar years. A detailed reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP results is in the earnings material posted on our website. Our IR website also contains future investor events, as well as presentations, corporate governance information, and links to our SEC filings, including our most recent annual and quarterly reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q.Our comments today are subject to risks and uncertainties reflected in the risk factor disclosure in our SEC filings. Any forward-looking statements, including those we make on the call today, are also subject to those risks, and KLA cannot guarantee those forward-looking statements will come true. Our actual results may differ significantly from those projected in our forward-looking statements. Let me now turn the call over to our chief executive officer, Rick Wallace. Rick? Rick Wallace -- Chief Executive Officer Hello, and thank you for joining us today. KLA September 2021 quarter continued our track record of consistent execution and commitment to outperformance. The company's focus on delivering on top and bottom-line goals remained at the forefront of how we run our business. During the quarter, revenue grew 8% sequentially and 35% year over year to $2.08 billion. Non-GAAP earnings per share was $4.64, representing 5% sequential growth and up 53% compared to the prior year. These results demonstrate growth momentum in our core markets and the operating leverage in the KLA financial model. Customer demand across KLA's major product groups continues as secular trends drive growth across a broad range of markets and applications in the industry. This growth is putting pressure on the semiconductor industry supply across multiple technology nodes. In parallel, leading-edge customers are increasing their strategic capex investments to improve their ability to address market demanding new semiconductor capabilities. Against this intense demand backdrop, we are navigating evolving customer needs and supply chain challenges. Still, KLA continues to outperform expectations by operating with purpose and precision and keeping our focus on creating value for our customers, partners, and shareholders. Now turning to the industry demand environment. KLA remains in an excellent position when we look at the industry demand landscape. Strong secular growth drivers are creating important tailwinds that translate into momentum for our business. As a result, we are increasing our outlook for the wafer fab equipment, or WFE, industry. Last quarter, we estimated WFE growth would be in the mid-30s percent range. We now estimate that WFE will grow to approximately 40% in 2021. With sustained demand trends, we expect positive industry dynamics to continue into calendar 2022 and fuel another year of growth. Along with increased demand due to digitization across multiple categories, KLA's business is benefiting from customers increasing their focus on investment in leading-edge development, optimization of fab utilization or established production nodes, and regionalization for future fab construction. To address this growth, we continue to invest high levels of R&D to ensure we're constantly improving and remaining indispensable for our customers. For example, we are prioritizing investment in R&D for software that enhances the value customers extract from KLA systems. Data analytics, advanced simulation, and machine learning technologies are driving adoption of process control. KLA's data analytics performed platforms connect, centralize, and analyze the data produced by our systems in the field. This creates a network effect that enhances performance across the product portfolio and for customers. KLA's breadth of products is uniquely positioned to speed time to results for our customers. We're making investments in these critical technologies as process control intensity increases. KLA's market leadership in the process control markets remain in impressive level -- at an impressive level of four times the nearest competitor. Thanks to focus on execution and the industry demand backdrop, we remain on track to achieve our 2023 financial targets well ahead of expectations. Let's now move along to the top highlights for the quarter. First, we continue to benefit from strength across all major end markets with overall company revenue expected to be up in the mid-30s on a percentage basis year over year based on the midpoint of our guidance for the December quarter. While we're not immune to the unprecedented supply chain challenges affecting the electronics industry, we are navigating them as well as can be expected. In foundry/logic, simultaneous investments across multiple nodes and rising capital intensity continues to be a tailwind. In memory, demand remains broad-based across multiple customers with growth in 2021 led by DRAM, and 2022 is setting up to be a relatively strong year for NAND. Second, our optical metrology business continues to stand out. KLA's metrology revenue is on track to grow meaningfully faster than the WFE market in 2021 after experiencing similar levels of absolute growth in 2020. The optical metrology market is strongly leveraged to EUV and its critical next-generation architectures, including gate all-around and multi-stack 3D NAND. Third, KLA's leadership in the largest and fastest-growing segments of the process control market is fueling strong relative growth in our Semiconductor Process Control segment. Optical pattern wafer inspection is forecasted to be among the fastest-growing segments of WFE in 2021 for product segments over $1 billion in revenue. KLA's cadence of innovation and new product introduction continues to outpace the competition. Just last month, we introduced our new Voyager 1035 laser scanning patterned wafer inspector, the latest in an extensive portfolio of in-line defect inspection tools for critical process monitoring application and advanced chip manufacturing. Coupled with the Gen 4 and Gen 5 broadband plasma portfolio, KLA's laser scanning systems help comprise the most comprehensive optical pattern wafer inspection portfolio in the marketplace today. Fourth, our services revenue was $454 million in the September quarter, up 15% year over year. For the quarter, it was 22% of revenue. More than 75% of service revenue in the Semiconductor Process Control segment and over 90% of services in the PCB business comes from recurring subscription-like contracts. Services is on track for another year of strong double-digit growth in 2021. This is driven by our growing installed base, higher utilization rates, and increasing expansion of service opportunities in the trailing edge. Finally, the September quarter was exceptional from a free cash flow perspective. We generated record quarterly free cash flow of $795 million, which helped drive last 12-month free cash flow, up 42% year over year to $2.29 billion. We also have remained focused on returning capital to shareholders via our dividend and stock repurchase program, both of which are up materially year over year, including $563 million in share repurchases and dividends in the quarter. In addition to executing against our strategic objectives and disciplined capital management, KLA delivers enduring value through corporate stewardship. KLA's values are reflected in efforts to reduce our environmental footprint, provide for a safe and healthy workplace for employees, advanced inclusion and diversity and make positive contributions to the communities where we live and work. We published our latest Global Impact report in August 2021. It highlights how KLA delivers lasting values through corporate citizenship. Our journey on this path began when we opened our doors in 1976. We are now expanding our efforts to be more holistic across environmental, social, and governance topics most relevant to our business. We've also broadened our tracking and reporting to be inclusive of our full global footprint and acquired companies. We continue to build our long-term ESG strategy to focus on reducing climate impact, increasing disclosure, and deepening the positive impact we deliver through our business and community engagement. With that, I will pass the call over to Bren to cover our financial highlights, outlook, and guidance.Bren Higgins -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Rick. KLA's quarterly results highlight the soundness and strength of our ongoing strategies. We continue to demonstrate our ability to meet customer needs in a robust demand environment while expanding market leadership, growing operating profits, generating strong free cash flow, and maintaining our long-term strategy of productive capital allocation. Total quarterly revenue was $2.08 billion. Non-GAAP gross margin was 62.9% as the various components performed mostly as expected, with upside coming from the higher-than-expected Semiconductor Process Control systems revenue, which enhanced the product mix for the quarter. Non-GAAP diluted EPS was $4.64. Our performance reflected the mark-to-market of an equity position in a strategic supplier that negatively impacted non-GAAP earnings per share by $0.06. Without this adjustment, which is reflected in other income and expense on the income statement, non-GAAP earnings would have been $4.70. GAAP diluted EPS was $6.96 due primarily to a one-time tax benefit of $395 million, resulting from changes made to our international structure to better align ownership of certain intellectual property rights with how our business operates. Non-GAAP operating expenses were $432 million and included $252 million of R&D expense and $180 million of SG&A. Technical applications is a competitive advantage for KLA and drives demand for our products by helping our customers develop solutions that address their complex process challenges. Technical applications is included in SG&A and was $47 million in the quarter. The combination of R&D and technical applications represented approximately 70% of total operating expenses. Given the rapid growth of the business over the last couple of years and our revenue expectations for the business going forward, we expect the company's operating expenses to continue to grow as we invest in global infrastructure, systems to scale the KLA operating model, new product development programs and volume-dependent resources to support our business expansion. Furthermore, we, as most companies are seeing a strong labor market driving cost pressure across our global workforce. As a result, we expect operating expenses to grow sequentially to approximately $470 million in the December quarter, and we forecast sequential growth in operating expenses to continue through calendar 2022. While operating expenses are trending higher, going forward, we will make the necessary investments to scale our business, while we continue to size the company based on our target operating model, which delivers 40% to 50% incremental operating margin leverage on revenue growth over a normalized time horizon. Non-GAAP operating income as a percentage of revenue was strong at 42.2% in the September quarter. Other income and expense net was $52 million compared with guidance of $43 million, with the variance from guidance reflecting the impact of the mark-to-market of the investment discussed earlier. For December, we forecast other income and expense net at approximately $44 million. The quarterly effective tax rate was 13.9%, just above our guided tax rate of 13.5%. Non-GAAP net income was $712 million. GAAP net income was $1.07 billion. Cash flow from operations was $864 million, and free cash flow was a record $795 million, resulting in a free cash flow conversion of 112%. Turning to our reportable segment and end markets. Revenue for the Semiconductor Process Control segment, including its associated service business, was $1.78 billion, up 40% year over year and up 13% sequentially. The approximate Semiconductor Process Control system customer segment mix was tilted slightly more toward foundry logic than we forecasted at 61%, above our 59% estimate. Memory was 39%, and within memory, the business was split roughly 61% DRAM and 39% NAND. Revenue for our EPC group continues to be driven by strength in 5G mobile and infrastructure, as well as continued demand in automotive. More specifically, the specialty Semiconductor Process segment, which includes its associated service business, generated record revenue of $102 million, up 15% over the prior year and up 4% sequentially. PCB, display, and component inspection revenue was $203 million, up 12% year over year but down 18% sequentially after a record quarter in the PCB and the component inspection businesses in June. For a breakdown of revenue by major products and regions, please see our shareholder letter or the earnings slides. Moving forward to our balance sheet. We ended the quarter with $2.63 billion in cash, bonds outstanding of $3.45 billion with no maturities until 2024, and a flexible and attractive bond maturity profile supported by strong investment-grade ratings from all three agencies. Over the last 12 months, KLA returned $1.73 billion to shareholders, including $581 million in dividends paid and $1.15 billion in share repurchases. While circumstances can change, current expectations are the capital returns for calendar 2021 will exceed 85% of expected free cash flow generated in the calendar year. For the quarter, we generated a record $795 million in free cash flow and repurchased $400 million of common stock while also paying $163 million in dividends. Moving to our outlook and guidance. Our overall semiconductor demand and WFE outlook continues to increase from our views earlier in the year. At the start of this year, we characterize the expected growth of the WFE market to be in the low teens plus or minus a few percentage points. In April, we revised that view to the low to mid-20s on a percentage basis with a bias to the upside. In July, we revised our WFE outlook upward again to the mid-30s. Today, we see continued strengthening and expect the WFE market to grow approximately 40% to the mid-$80 billion range in 2021, growing from approximately $61 billion in calendar 2020. This reflects the broad-based strengthening in demand across all customer segments. KLA is in a position to deliver strong relative growth this year with the semiconductor process control systems business now expected to grow in the mid-40s on a percentage basis over calendar year 2020. This growth profile is driven by our market leadership and strong momentum in the marketplace across multiple product platforms. Looking ahead, we remain encouraged by the strength and sustainability of our current demand profile across all customer segments. For the total company, we expect that the first half of 2022 will grow in the high single digits versus the second half of 2021. It is abundantly clear today that demand is constrained by the industry's ability to supply. This pent-up demand should enable another year of solid growth in 2022. While it's too early to put a fine point on our growth expectations for next calendar year, early indications point toward the WFE industry maintaining its growth momentum. Given our bookings momentum and strong backlog, we believe KLA is well-positioned to outperform WFE. As in calendar 2021, we are adding capacity strategically across our global manufacturing footprint to drive this outlook and to enable us to support our customers' process control requirements. Our December quarter guidance is as follows. Total revenue is expected to be in the range of $2.325 billion, plus or minus $100 million. Foundry logic is forecasted to be approximately 74%. And memory is expected to be approximately 26% of Semiconductor Process Control systems revenue to semiconductor customers. Within memory, DRAM is expected to be about 53% of the segment mix, and NAND is forecasted to be 47%. We forecast non-GAAP gross margin to be in the range of 62% to 64%. At the midpoint, gross margin is roughly flat sequentially as revenue volume and product mix improvement is offset by higher expected service and manufacturing costs. Other model assumptions for December include non-GAAP operating expenses of approximately $470 million, other income and expense net of approximately $44 million, and an effective tax rate of approximately 13.5%. Finally, GAAP diluted EPS is expected to be in the range of $4.69 to $5.59, and non-GAAP diluted EPS in a range of $4.95 to $5.85. The EPS guidance is based on a fully diluted share count of approximately 152 million shares. In conclusion, the tailwinds driving semiconductor growth and investments in WFE continue to remain compelling. Broad-based customer demand and simultaneous investments across multiple technology nodes are strong and resilient trends. We have confidence in the leading indicators of our business, including our backlog and sales funnel visibility, which is spurring us to invest in expanding our business infrastructure and the required capabilities to support our outlook. Our customers' multiyear investment plans provide an element of stability in the demand outlook for the future. KLA continues to execute exceptionally well and is on track to exceed our 2023 financial targets well ahead of expectations. The KLA operating model positions us well to outperform our industry and guides our important strategic objectives. These objectives fuel our growth, operational excellence, and differentiation across an increasingly diverse product and service offering. They are also the foundation of our sustained technology leadership, wide competitive mode, leading financial performance, long-standing track record of strong free cash flow generation, and capital returns to shareholders. With that, I'll turn the call back over to Kevin to begin the Q&A.Kevin Kessel -- Vice President of Investor Relations and Market Analytics Thank you, Bren. Ashley, can you please queue up for questions? 