
OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the eBay Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to Joe Billante, VP of Investor Relations. Thank you. Please go ahead.Joe Billante -- Investor RelationsOperator, just checking. Can you hear us OK?

 



OperatorI can, yes. Just one moment, please.Joe Billante -- Investor RelationsThank you. Good afternoon. Thank you for joining us, and welcome to eBay earning release conference call for the second quarter 2021. Joining me today on the call are Jamie Iannone, our Chief Executive Officer; and Steve Priest, our Chief financial officer. We're providing a slide presentation to accompany Steve's commentary during the call which is available through the Investor Relations section of the eBay website at investors.ebayinc.com. Before we begin, I'd like to remind you that during the course of this conference call, we will discuss the non-GAAP measures related to our performance.

 



You can find the reconciliation of these measures to the nearest comparable GAAP measures in the slide presentation accompanying this conference call. Additionally, all revenue and GMV growth rates mentioned in Jamie's and Steve's remarks represent FX-neutral year-over-year comparisons unless they indicate otherwise. In this conference call, management will make forward-looking statements including, without limitations, statements regarding our future performance and expected financial results.These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties, and our actual results may differ materially from our forecast for a variety of reasons. You can find more information about risks, uncertainties and other factors that could affect our operating results in our most recent periodic reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q and in our earnings release from earlier today. You should not rely on any forward-looking statements. All information in this presentation is as of August 11, 2021, and we do not intend and undertake no duty to update this information.With that, let me turn it over to Jamie.Jamie Iannone -- President and Chief Executive Officer

 



Thanks, Joe. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us. Today, I'll begin the call with key highlights from the second quarter. Then I'll share some updates on the progress toward our strategic vision. At the end of my remarks, I will turn the call over to Steve, our new CFO, who will discuss our financial performance and outlook in greater detail. The second quarter of 2021 marked several important milestones in the ongoing transformation of eBay, and I want to thank our team for making it happen. We've accelerated our pace of innovation while executing several complex transactions.Their dedication and focus have created tremendous value for our customers and shareholders. Let me start with a few of our portfolio enhancements. We completed the transition of eBay's Classified business to Adevinta. This deal was originally valued at approximately $9.2 billion, but a closing in June had appreciated to $13.3 billion. Shortly after closing, we announced a deal with Permira to sell approximately 135 million of our Adevinta shares for over $2.4 billion. This agreement fulfills regulatory commitments while returning value to eBay shareholders. We also increased our share buyback plan for the year from $2 billion to $5 billion. In June, we announced the sale of over 80% of our Korean business to Emart for approximately $3 billion, bringing together two leading e-commerce and retail companies that can unlock significant potential in Korea.We anticipate the deal will close either later this year or in early 2022. These portfolio changes allow us to intensify our focus on the core eBay business moving forward. When I spoke to you last July, I outlined a renewed vision and strategic plan for the company. We set out on a multiyear journey to become the best global marketplace for sellers and buyers, through a tech-led reimagination. Our priorities were to grow the core, become the platform of choice for sellers and to cultivate life-long trusted relationships with buyers, by turning them into enthusiasts. To-date, our progress is very encouraging.Our underlying growth is positive, and the strategy is working. Q2 results were strong and all key business metrics met or exceeded expectations. Revenue grew 11% driven by acceleration in the Payments migration and advertising growth. We funded incremental investments in product development while delivering $0.99 of non-GAAP EPS above the high-end of our range. As expected, GMV declined 11% when compared to last year when results were heavily impacted by the initial pandemic lockdown. Importantly, compared to pre-pandemic levels two years ago, we are seeing positive underlying GMV growth.Our customer metrics remain healthy on both sides of our marketplace. Active sellers grew 5% to 19 million globally, as more small businesses and consumers continue to turn to eBay's global platform to reach millions of potential customers from around the world. This quarter, global active buyers totaled 159 million, down 2% versus last year, and up 3% versus 2019. We've been focused on building lifelong trusted relationships with enthusiast buyers. Changes in our marketing mix and product investments have been focused on attracting and retaining these enthusiasts particularly Gen Z and millennials.In parallel, we've discontinued legacy tactics that led to low value, infrequent or one and done buyers. Our buyer base is starting to evolve based on this strategy. These high-volume buyers are growing compared to a year-ago and their spend on eBay is growing even faster. This higher-quality mix of buyers increases value for sellers and will lead to improved health of our ecosystem over the long-term. Moving on from buyer trends to Payments and Advertising initiatives continued to deliver a simpler product experience and meaningful benefits for sellers, buyers and shareholders. Managed Payments is now live in every market globally, and the transition is progressing faster than expected.During the second quarter, we processed 71% of on-platform buying through managed Payments. We exited Q2 at a run rate over 80% and are on track to process over 90% this quarter. Managing the Payments experiences ourselves enables us to eliminate a pain point that sellers occasionally face on eBay, unpaid items. Changes to checkout have been made to address this issue and today 99% of fixed-price transactions are paid up front. We have also started to address this issue for best offers and options, by asking buyers to provide a Payment method in order to bid. This is a significant win for sellers, as it frees up inventory and reduces their post-transaction costs.Our Advertising business continues to perform well. In Q2, ad revenue outpaced volume driven by Promoted Listings, which delivered almost $224 million, up 8%. More than 1.4 million sellers promoted over 430 million listings during the quarter. Growth was driven by higher adoption and technology improvements that increased conversion. We see tremendous growth opportunities in advertising, both from our existing Promoted Listings offerings, and from new product innovations. Following a number of successful trials in Q2, we are scaling several new products globally over the next few months. Previously, sellers could only promote fixed-price listings, but now they can increase visibility for a flat fee on options to increase conversion. In June, we also introduced a cost-per-click ad product to sellers in our major markets. Initial results from the first 100,000 listings showed that sellers' return on ad spend was higher than industry benchmarks.We are placing more AI-powered recommendations for pricing and keyword bidding into the Seller Hub to help sellers drive particular volume. Finally, we're beginning to syndicate ads off eBay platforms to drive more buyers to listings. Importantly, sellers maintain control of pricing and visibility while benefiting from the scaled marketing capabilities of eBay. In addition to Advertising and Payments, we're driving a number of other sitewide initiatives. For consumer sellers, we're simplifying the selling process with a heavy focus on mobile. This includes easier label printing solutions in the app, and faster listings through image or bar code scans.In trading cards where we first launched image-based listings sellers are able to match scans over 80% of the time. The time it takes to create a listing has been dramatically reduced and we plan to expand the capability to more product categories later this year. For small business sellers, we continue to expand and optimize their eBay toolkit. To help drive repeat business from enthusiasts to eBay stores, we built a CRM tool that enables sellers to fund and distribute their own coupons. Since launching a few months ago, over 1 million buyers have purchased items through these targeted campaigns.As you've heard me say in the past, we are focused on a number of categories where we are well-positioned to serve both sellers and buyers. These categories are growing significantly faster than the overall business, and I'm delighted with the progress our team is making. Our innovation playbook has included increasing customer satisfaction, improving trust, growing supply and marketing to enthusiasts. As we exited Q2, we have applied this playbook to approximately 10% of our volume across our top three markets. With our current plan and ongoing momentum, we expect to expand coverage to approximately 20% by the end of the year.One of these categories is trading cards. In North America, we continue to see substantial growth with approximately $2 billion of GMV in the first half of the year, equal to all of 2020. Despite these strong results, we see additional untapped potential in the market that we plan to capture with further innovation. We recently launched price guide and collection tools, aimed at trading card enthusiasts. These new features leverage unparalleled inventory and pricing data, allowing customers to view, manage and track the value of their collections in real-time. As a leader in trading cards with 25 years of transactional data, no one is better positioned to estimate the value of every card ever sold.In addition, the collection tool seamlessly tracks all eBay activity and offline inventory in one place. This makes it easy for enthusiasts to assess opportunities, quickly trade and increase the value of their collections. Sneakers and watches continue to outgrow our overall marketplace. Since launching one year ago, we have authenticated nearly 1 million items enabling a game-changing level of trust. Both categories are seeing close to 90% customer satisfaction rates on authenticated transactions. Our Sneakers business saw strong double-digit growth despite tougher comps from a year-ago, and based on this success, we've expanded sneaker authentication to the UK, Canada, an Australia.Luxury watches are also sustaining double-digit growth. Improved buyer trust is leading to strong cross-category shopping behavior similar to what we have seen in sneakers. In fact, luxury watch buyers spent 8,000 dollars on more than 50 items in other categories well-above the average eBay buyer. The next luxury category we are focused on is handbags. We plan to leverage a similar playback from watches and sneakers to deliver higher NPS for buyers and sellers. We've started in the U.S. for authenticating handbags over $500 for major brands. Refurbished electronics continues to be another area of growth across our largest markets.Our Certified Refurbished experience is strengthening relationships with best-in-class brands by opening new sales channels. We recently welcomed Samsung Galaxy to the program, providing eBay buyers access to exclusive, like-new products at exceptional prices. Vehicles parts and accessories has historically been one of the strongest-performing categories on eBay, and remain so today. Our platform offers a wide inventory selection supported by a robust catalog. The Fitment shopping experience matches car parts to vehicles, to help buyers shop efficiently and confidently. In Q2 we expanded this capability by enabling a motorcycle parts finder in Germany and the UK.We also expanded the My Garage feature, which allows buyers to store their vehicle data, leading to a more tailored shopping experience, to Canada, Italy, France and Spain. We plan to launch more technology-driven innovations in this category later this year to further build on our success. Taking a step back, eBay exists to create economic opportunity for all. That purpose guides our approach to our customers, our communities and our team at eBay. This year, our leadership team's individual goals focus on accelerating meaningful change in diversity, equity and inclusion, throughout every level of our company. We formed an ESG council, composed of senior leaders across the company whose role is to guide and ensure the success of sustainability initiatives.During the quarter, we published our fifth annual Impact Report and third annual Diversity, Equity and Inclusion report detailing the progress we made in the past year as well as outlining our 2025 goals. The full list of activities is extensive, but I would like to share a few highlights. We made progress on our journey to be more diverse, equitable and inclusive. Our communities of inclusion have conducted 150 events with more than 10,000 attendees in the past year. We've also continued multiyear efforts to ensure gender pay equity, resulting in 100% pay parity in the U.S. and 99.7% globally. Another priority is managing our environmental impact.Investing in clean energy is a focus for the company and our goal is to source 100% renewable energy by 2025. We have already reached 74% of our goal through a combination of power purchase agreements and local programs. Just last week, we announced that we are teaming up with McDonald's in an agreement with Lightsource bp to purchase power from Louisiana's largest solar project. The electricity produced will be greater than the power used at our largest data center. Finally, I would like to call out the incredible generosity of our buyers and sellers. During Q2, customers contributed over $35 million to their favorite causes through eBay for Charity.This represented a 16% growth versus last year, and the platform is on track to hit the 2025 goal of raising $600 million. These are just a sample of the ongoing ESG-related activities and I encourage you to check out more at ebayinc.com. Q2 was another step forward in the multiyear transformation of eBay. The business delivered strong results and it's clear that our strategy is working. Customers are delighted with the innovation in our focus categories, leading divine growth despite tougher comps from a year-ago. We are harnessing the power of next-gen technology to make eBay the seller platform of choice and to attract lifelong enthusiasts.Our Payments transition is nearly complete, delivering benefits to sellers, buyers and shareholders. Our advertising product portfolio is expanding, giving sellers more tools to grow their business, and we simplified our portfolio enabling us to focus on the core, while creating significant shareholder value. Our team continues to be relentlessly focused on executing for our customers. I'm delighted to welcome four new exceptional leaders to our executive team this year. In addition, we've hired critical talent in areas such as technology, AI, analytics and category management. The teams in place are well-positioned to propel this business forward.With that, I'll turn the call over to Steve to provide more details on our financial performance. Before I do, I want to say how excited I am to have another world-class customer centric leader on our team to help us realize our vision.Steve, over to you.Steve Priest -- Senior Vice President, Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Jamie, and thank you all for joining today. I would like to start by saying how excited and honored I am to be at eBay. I'd also like to thank Andy for this leadership and guidance during my transition into the role. He's done an excellent job creating value for the company and leading our finance team over the last couple of years. I'll start on page 4 of our presentation. We've outlined the impact of moving our Korean business to Discontinued Operations, and our guidance for Q2 earnings. At an aggregated level this reduced guidance by approximately 2 points of GMV growth, $400 million of revenue and $0.02 of EPS.The Q2 results purely reflect the performance of our continued Marketplace business. On July 13, we published the Form 8-K that includes the recasted historical financial statements back to the start of 2019. These figures provide an apples-to-apples comparison versus our actual results. Excluding Korea, the implied Q2 guidance was between $2.58 billion and $2.63 billion of revenue growing 8% to 10% on an organic FX-neutral basis. Non-GAAP EPS was between $0.89 and $0.94 per share representing a decrease of 5% to 10% year-over-year. Turning to our highlights from the quarter on slide 5, despite lapping an exceptional quarter last year, we delivered strong operational results.Revenue grew double digits, driven by Payments and ads. Non-GAAP EPS was $0.99 per share, and our operating margin was 33%. We generated $910 million of free cash flow while returning $1.6 billion to shareholders through share repurchases and cash dividends. We generated significant value from our portfolio as we work to transform eBay. We announced the agreement to sell over 80% of our Korean business to Emart for approximately $3 billion. We completed the Classifieds transaction, for a total value of $13.3 billion including $2.5 billion in cash, and a 44% stake in Adevinta. We then reached an agreement to sell a quarter of that steak to Permira for over $2.4 billion in cash.Finally, we increased our estimated 2021 share buyback to $5 billion for an initial $2 billion. Moving to Active Buyers on slide 6, we executed the quarter with 159 million buyers representing a 2% decrease year-over-year on a trailing 12-month basis. At the beginning of the pandemic, in Q2 last year, we added more than 7 million buyers, our largest quarterly increase ever. That cohort of buyers has matured in-line with historical trends. We are also seeing a reduction in buyers of low-priced items due to changes in our marketing mix. As Jamie mentioned our strategy to attract and retain buyers has changed over the past several quarters.We've intentionally focused our marketing and product innovation on higher-valued buyers. These include buyers who sell, or buyers who purchase at least six days a year and spend over $800. This high-value segment represents approximately 20% of our buyer base and they purchase around 75% of our GMV. High-value buyers grew in Q2 as did the spend per buyer. Low value buyers on eBay make approximately half of our buyer base, but only purchase about 5% of our GMV. As we drive [Indecipherable] we expect to see a further drop in active buyers on a rolling 12-month basis but an increase in GMV per buyer over the coming quarters.Moving to slide 7, in Q2 we delivered $22.1 billion of GMV, down 11% year-over-year. On a spot basis, this represents a decrease of 7% year-over-year. Compared with Q2 of 2019, GMV grew 19% on an FX-neutral basis, and 23% on a spot basis. There were several factors that contributed to the Q2 GMV dynamic. First, we lapped the peak of the early impact of the pandemic, including the first wave of mobility restrictions, stimulus payments and supply chain disruptions. Second, there was a meaningful ongoing macro benefit from global mobility, although it was significantly less at the end of the quarter, than at the beginning of Q2.And third, our underlying business continued to show positive growth from sitewide product experience improvements and category performance. In the U.S. we generated approximately $10 billion of GMV in Q2, down 5% year-over-year. International GMV decreased 16% year-over-year to $12.1 billion. Our U.S. volume outpaced international primarily due to strength in trading cards, as well as benefits from government stimulus earlier in the quarter. Turning to revenue on slide 8, our net revenue for the quarter was $2.7 billion, up 11% on an FX-neutral basis and up 14% on a spot basis.We delivered $2.5 billion of transaction revenue, up 11% year-over-year, mainly driven by payments. We continue to make great progress on seller migration. As Jamie mentioned, 71% of our global on-platform volume was processed through Managed Payments during the quarter, which contributed approximately 18 points of incremental revenue growth year-over-year. The success of the Payments ramp also drove quarterly acceleration of 80 basis points to our transaction take rate, which is 11.3% for the quarter. We expect this rate to continue to grow throughout 2021, as we complete the Payments rollout.We delivered $172 million of Marketing Services & Other revenue, up 11% year-over-year driven by strength in shipping programs. While we continue to purposely reduce third-party advertising, the total MS&O growth rate was less due to easier comps from a year-ago. Turning to slide 9, our major cost drivers; in Q2 we delivered non-GAAP operating margin of approximately 33%. This represents a 6 point year-over-year decrease driven primarily by lower volume. Cost of revenue has increased in-line with Payments growth due to processing costs. While these variable costs will increase as Payments revenue grows, the incremental revenue provides leverage for our fixed expenses most notably Sales and Marketing and G&A.Product Development costs increased year-over-year as we continue to invest in product innovation, supporting our strategic initiatives. Transaction losses were flat versus the prior year, as the benefits of matching seller fees against their net proceeds were offset by higher customer protection losses. Turning to EPS on slide 10, we delivered $0.99 of non-GAAP EPS in the second quarter, flat versus the prior year. Negative impacts from lapping COVID-driven volumes were offset by strategic initiatives, particularly Payments as well as a lower share count related to share repurchases. GAAP EPS for the quarter was $0.43, a decrease of 56% year-over-year.We elected the fair value accounting method for our investments in Adevinta. The change in stock price between the close of the sale on June 24 and the quarter-end on June 30 drove a majority of the GAAP EPS decrease. In addition, while we recognized further gains on the Adevinta launch in Q2, we are lapping significant gains in the prior year. Moving to slide 11, we saw another strong quarter of cash generation with $910 million of free cash flow. This 7% year-over-year growth was driven by strong operational results led by Payments and improvements in working capital. This is partly offset by higher cash taxes.Turning to slide 12, we ended the quarter with cash and investments of $7.6 billion and debt of $9.1 billion. As I mentioned in my earlier remarks, we completed the sale of the Classifieds business to Adevinta during quarter generating cash proceeds of $2.5 billion. We expect to pay cash taxes associated with the sale of approximately $400 million in the third quarter. As a result of our strong underlying free cash flow performance, and the proceeds from this transaction, we updated our capital allocation plans for 2021 by increasing the estimated share buyback to $5 billion.In Q2, we returned $1.6 billion to our shareholders through stock repurchases and dividends. We repurchased approximately 24 million shares at an average price of $62.60 per share, amounting to $1.5 billion and paid a dividend of $121 million. We exited the quarter with $4.2 billion of share repurchase authorization remaining. Our board has approved an additional share repurchase authorization of $3 billion with no expiry raising the total to approximately $7.2 billion. Finally, we issued $2.5 billion of senior unsecured notes during the quarter, parts of which will be used to repay our 2022 debt maturities.Moving to investments on slide 13; on June 24, we closed the Classifieds sale and recorded investments on our balance sheet of $10.8 billion to reflect the 540 million shares we received as consideration. The value of this stake stood at $10.4 billion at quarter-end, based on Adevinta's stock price. Between the announcements of the deal, last July and the close of the transaction this June, the value of our equity stake appreciated 61%. As a regulatory condition of the Classifieds sale, we agreed to reduce our ownership stake in Adevinta to 33% or less, over the 18 months following the close of the deal. We recently announced an agreement with Permira to sell approximately 135 million shares for more than $2.4 billion.This will reduce our ownership stake to 33%. We expect this transaction to close in the fourth quarter. Turning to Adyen, the warrants we acquired in the second quarter of 2018 are valued at $1.1 billion at the end of the second quarter, an increase of over $500 million year-over-year. You'll find more information on the Adyen line in our 10-Q. We also want to highlight our stake in Kakao Bank. At the end of the second quarter, our investment was worth approximately $300 million. On August 6, they completed their IPO, which increased the value of our stake to over $900 million. Finally, on June 24, we announced plans to sell over 80% of our Korea business to Emart.We will retain an interest of less than 20%. The implied value of our interest was approximately $800 million at the time of the announcement. We remain excited about all these investments, the optionality they provide and the significant value that each generate for our shareholders. Turning to guidance on slide 14; for Q3 we are projecting revenue between $2.42 billion and $2.47 billion, growing 6% to 8% on an organic FX-neutral basis and approximately 7% to 9% on a spot basis. We anticipate Payments and Advertising will continue to drive revenue to grow faster than volume leading to take rates expansion.This revenue guidance implies GMV is down low-to-mid-teens on an FX-neutral basis versus last year, and up high-single-digits compared to 2019. On a spot basis, today's rates would indicate a 2-point benefit versus FX-neutral growth rates in Q3. This is 2 points lower than the 4 point benefit we saw in Q2 GMV. We are assuming that macro benefits including stimulus and mobility will be significantly less in Q3 than Q2. We also expect that our FX to improve the business will continue to enable modestly positive underlying growth. We expect non-GAAP EPS of $0.86 to $0.90 per share representing 4% to 9% growth.Year-over-year, we plan to continue investing in products and technology to deliver better category experiences while improving marketing efficiencies. We are expecting GAAP EPS in the range of $0.64 to $0.68 per share in Q3. Looking at the full year, the macro environment remains dynamic and difficult to predict, and we're not providing full year guidance at this time. However, there are variables within our control that we are sharing this context. Given the accelerated pace of the Payments transition, we are raising our full year forecast for Payments revenue from $1.7 billion to $1.8 billion. Payments margin contribution continues to ramp toward our long-term target of 25%.Total operating margin for the business is expected to land approximately 33%, which will be close to 150 basis points better than 2019. As I mentioned before, we expect to repurchase shares totaling $5 billion in 2021 at this time, which implies an additional $3.2 billion in the second half. In conclusion, during the quarter, we delivered strong short-term results, ahead of expectations, while transforming the company for the longer-term. We are excited about the path forward and the growth potential of eBay.Innovation is leading to volume growth in our focused categories despite tougher comps from the year-ago. Our Payments and Advertising initiatives are driving better customer experience, resulting in incremental revenue and earnings growth. Our balanced approach to cost management allows us to reinvest in our customers, while delivering high margins, with low capital intensity. We continue to deliver strong free cash flow and return value to our shareholders through stock repurchases and dividends.Our portfolio simplification has created over $20 billion of shareholder value allowing us to intensely focus on growing the core. As a purpose-driven company, we're enabling economic opportunity for all, while supporting our people, our communities and our planet. I would like to once more take this opportunity to thank our teams across eBay, for their tremendous work over the last quarter and for their support for our buyers and sellers in the eBay community.We will now take your questions. Operator?