  OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Intuitive Q3 2021 earnings release conference call. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. Later, we will have a question-and-answer session, and instructions for queuing up will be provided for you. [Operator instructions] And as a reminder, this conference call is being recorded. I would now like to turn the call over to your host, senior vice president of finance, Jamie Samath. Please go ahead, sir.Jamie Samath -- Senior vice president of finance

 



 Good afternoon, and welcome to Intuitive's third-quarter earnings conference call. With me today, we have Gary Guthart, our CEO; Marshall Mohr, our CFO; and Brian King, our treasurer. Before we begin, I would like to let you know that Philip Kim, our Head of Investor Relations for the last couple of years, has moved on to pursue his next opportunity. We appreciate his contributions and wish him well in his next endeavor. Joining us on the call today is Brian King, who has been our treasurer for the last seven years. Brian will be expanding his responsibilities to include the role of head of investor relations. Moving on, I would like to inform you that comments mentioned on today's call may be deemed to contain forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied as a result of certain risks and uncertainties.These risks and uncertainties are described in detail in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including our most recent Form 10-K filed on February 10, 2021, and Form 10-Q filed on July 21, 2021. Our SEC filings can be found through our website or at the SEC's website. Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. Please note that this conference call will be available for audio replay on our website at intuitive.com on the Latest Events section under our Investor Relations page. Today's press release and supplementary financial data tables have been posted to our website. Today's format will consist of providing you with highlights of our third-quarter results as described in our press release announced earlier today, followed by a question-and-answer session. Gary will present the quarter's business and operational highlights. Marshall will provide a review of our financial results.

 



 I will discuss procedure and clinical highlights and provide an update of our financial outlook. And finally, we will host a question-and-answer session. With that, I will turn it over to Gary. Gary Guthart -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you for joining us today. Our team performed well in the third quarter in the face of pandemic-related headwinds. The rise of the delta variant and stresses in some hospitals pressured the demand for surgery. Global supply chain disruption has yet to abate, necessitating redirection of internal resources to continue to meet our customers' demand. Despite these challenges, growth in the use of our products continued in the quarter and capital demand remained robust. Our new platforms advanced in their commercialization, in their innovation, and in their clinical programs. Turning first to procedures. The increased COVID burden tempered the recovery we saw in the second quarter, particularly in the month of August.

 



 The impact of the delta variant drove procedures in the United States below our expectations at the start of the quarter with run rate stabilizing the last couple of weeks of September. Adoption continues in the United States, driven particularly by benign general surgery procedures, including bariatric surgery, cholecystectomy, and hernia repair. Trends in malignant procedures remain solid, including prostatectomy, hysterectomy, lobectomy, and colon resection. Two trends that have emerged over the past few years are the increased use of da Vinci in benign procedures and rising use of our advanced instrumentation in targeted procedures. Both are the result of focusing on our customers' needs and delivering product and economic solutions to match. Outside the United States, procedure performance varied as a function of regional pandemic impact. In China, growth in the quarter was strong and spanned multiple specialties, reflecting continued adoption. In Japan and Korea, our procedure business remains healthy with slight sequential procedure growth Q2 to Q3 despite COVID-related surgery disruption. Germany, the U.K., and France had reasonable year-over-year procedure growth, and our customers are having success in diversifying procedure categories beyond urology. Regarding the capital environment, new system placements continue to be robust. The United States had an outstanding capital quarter with a balanced mix of hospitals new to da Vinci, as well as healthy incremental placements for existing customers and trade-ins of older technology. This performance has been driven by collaboration with U.S. integrated delivery networks as they thoughtfully manage and expand the capacity of their da Vinci fleets. Elsewhere, China, Japan, and Europe had solid placements in the quarter, and our placements in Brazil showed strength. Turning to our newer platforms. Our single-port system, da Vinci SP, had a solid quarter as we pursue additional indications. Placements of our flexible bronchoscopy platform, Ion, grew nicely sequentially Q2 to Q3, powered by continued strong customer experiences in the field. Our finances were strong again this quarter, though they followed an unusual path. System strength and favorable system sales mix drove strong system revenue. Procedures grew at the low end of our expectations as a result of the delta variant. Instrument and accessory revenue per procedure moved down modestly as benign procedures continue to make up more of the procedure mix and our extended use instrument program reaches equilibrium in the field. Our spending grew sequentially and year over year as we continue to invest in expanding our new platforms and digital programs, as well as build our go-to-market capabilities globally. Our expense growth was again modestly lower than planned, driven by some increase in time to fill open positions in a tight labor market, lower travel-related spending given the pandemic, and some underspending in prototypes. We will continue to invest in programs that fulfill the mission and build the company. Turning to our innovation efforts. We develop and deploy technology-enabled solutions to support our customers' pursuit of the quadruple aim: better outcomes, better patient experiences, better care team experiences, and lower total cost to treat per patient episode. I'd like to take a moment to overview the clinical status of our programs. For our da Vinci system, there are now over 9.7 million lifetime procedures performed with over 28,000 peer-reviewed clinical publications. Da Vinci X and Xi now have over 70 representative clinical uses, allowing broad use across multiple clinical specialties, from urology to gynecology, thoracic surgery, general surgery, and transoral surgery. Tens of thousands of surgeons routinely use our multiport systems. We continue to invest in our multiport products, instruments, and services to further expand their capabilities and indications. Leading surgeons continue to work with us to pursue new learning with several prospective studies ongoing. Our flexible bronchoscopy system, Ion, continues to build momentum clinically and commercially with several presentations and manuscripts updating Ion clinical progress at the 2021 CHEST conference this weekend. As described in yesterday's press release, early clinical trial results point to outstanding capability, allowing for definitive diagnosis of hard-to-reach lung lesions. Our teams are hard at work building our manufacturing and supply capabilities to meet rising demand. Our single-port system, SP, has a clinical database of 28 peer-reviewed clinical publications. There are currently several ongoing prospective studies for SP in Korea and the United States, including our IDE trial for colorectal indications. This quarter, we received FDA approval of our uniportal thoracic IDE. Broad SP adoption will be paced by additional regional and clinical clearances, which remain our focus for the SP program. Our digital solutions provide data-driven insights to surgeons, operative services, and hospital administration. From virtual reality training to efficiency insights, to custom comparative outcomes analysis, these tools are now routinely employed by our customers and our teams to improve programs. Our analytics program supported thousands of customers in the quarter. Turning to machine learning. Our teams are at the leading edge of ML-based clinical science for surgery through our collaborations with leading academic centers, informing algorithmic and scientific discovery. Taken together, these programs allow our customers to quantify our collective impact on the quadruple aim, core to our mission. Before turning the time over to Marshall, today, we announced some changes in responsibilities of our senior executive team. These changes are the result of a structured process over the past few years, and they are driven by our need to support growth in our product lines, commercial reach, operations capabilities, and business infrastructure as we scale to meet the global opportunity to advance minimally invasive care. Starting January 1, 2022, our executive vice president and chief business officer, Dave Rosa, will take on an important new role of executive vice president and chief strategy and growth officer, leading our efforts to identify and realize long-term business opportunities, continuing to build the value of our integrated product offerings and ensuring our customers clearly understand the value of our ecosystem in creating successful minimally invasive programs. Henry Charlton, currently general manager of the U.S. and Europe, will succeed Dave as chief commercial officer, overseeing global commercial sales, regional marketing, and commercial enablement. Also, Marshall Mohr will take on an important new position as executive vice president, global business services, leading Intuitive's continued growth in information technology, enterprise process, data and systems, and global facilities. Jamie Samath will succeed Marshall as chief financial officer. They are each outstanding proven leaders and will report to me. We expect them to spearhead our efforts to achieve our mission and continue to position Intuitive as first choice of our customers in a growing marketplace. I'll now turn the call over to Marshall, who will take you through our financial highlights in greater detail.Marshall Mohr -- Chief Financial Officer Good afternoon. I will describe the highlights of our performance on a non-GAAP or pro forma basis. I will also summarize our GAAP performance later in my prepared remarks. A reconciliation between our pro forma and GAAP results is posted on our website. The information in our earnings release and within our prepared remarks reflects the three-for-one stock split completed earlier in October. Overall, third-quarter procedures grew 20% year over year and reflected the impact of delta variant resurgence. COVID also impacted third-quarter 2020 procedures, making year-over-year comparisons complicated. In the U.S., procedures grew 16%, reflecting the impact the COVID resurgence had on hospital resources regionally. The impact of the resurgence was most pronounced in August and early September, and regionally, in the south and southeast. Later in the quarter, as COVID cases began to slow, procedures began to recover. However, it is difficult to estimate the extent to which this resurgence or future resurgences will impact da Vinci procedures. Year-over-year OUS procedures grew 30%, with the impact of COVID varying regionally. In Europe, COVID had a greater impact in Italy and France and less in U.K. and Germany. While there continued to be COVID hotspots within some of our Asia Pacific markets, overall procedures in the region performed well. China growth in the third quarter continued to be far higher than other regions, primarily reflecting system installation growth over the past year. Relative to the beginning of the pandemic, many hospitals are able to better manage increased COVID patient hospitalization. However, staffing shortages and hospital supply chain issues are challenging some hospital capacities and could impact deferrable procedures, including da Vinci procedures going forward. Jamie will provide additional procedure commentary later in this call. Key business metrics for the third quarter were as follows: third-quarter 2021 procedures increased approximately 20% compared with third-quarter 2020 and decreased approximately 3% compared with last quarter, compound annual growth between the second quarters of 2019 and 2021 was 13.5%, third-quarter system placements of 336 systems increased 72% compared with 195 systems for the third quarter of 2020 and increased 2% compared with 328 systems last quarter. We expanded our installed base of da Vinci systems over the last year by 11% to approximately 6,525 systems. This growth rate compares with 8% last year and 10% last quarter. Utilization of clinical systems in the field, measured by procedures per system, increased approximately 9% compared with last year and decreased 6% compared with last quarter. The compounded annual utilization growth rate between the third quarters of 2019 and 2021 was 3%. Moving on to capital placement. System placements in the quarter reflected a continued trend of IDN multisystem purchases and were driven by procedure growth and hospitals upgrading in order to access or standardize on fourth-generation capabilities. Looking forward, we see the following capital revenue dynamics. Procedure growth drives capital purchases in many of our markets. To the extent that COVID impacts procedures, it will also impact capital purchases. The trade-in cycle has been a tailwind to system placements. However, as the installed base of older generation product declines, the number of trade-ins will decline over time. Leasing and alternative financing arrangements enable customer access to our systems. While the percentage of systems placed under operating leases fluctuates quarter to quarter, we believe leasing will increase as a percentage of sales over time, which will result in the deferral of otherwise current revenue into future periods. Macroeconomic conditions created by COVID could regionally impact hospital capital spending. And as competition progresses in various markets, we will likely experience longer selling cycles and price pressures. Additional revenue statistics and trends are as follows. Third-quarter revenue was $1.4 billion, representing a 30% increase from last year and a 4% decrease from the last quarter. The compound annual revenue growth rate between the third quarters of 2019 and 2021 was 12%. The year-over-year revenue increase reflected growth in both procedures and system placements. The decrease relative to the second quarter of 2021 reflects lower instrument and accessory revenue associated with lower procedures and increased leasing as a percentage of placements. Leasing represented 41% of current quarter placements compared with 35% last year and 33% last quarter. Leasing as a percentage of total sales has and will continue to fluctuate with customer and geographic mix. However, we anticipate more customers will seek leasing or alternative financing arrangements than reflected in historical run rates. Forty percent of systems placed in the third quarter involved trade-ins, which is consistent with the 40% last year and higher than the 38% last quarter. As customers continue to upgrade to fourth-generation capabilities, the population of installed Sis is decreasing, particularly in U.S., where 97 trade-ins were completed in the third quarter, leaving an installed base of Sis of approximately 425 systems. As a result, we expect lower trade-out transactions over time. Trade-in activity can fluctuate and be difficult to predict. Third-quarter average selling prices increased to $1.57 million from $1.55 million for both the third quarter of 2020 and the second quarter of 2021. Average selling prices will fluctuate with geographic and product mix. Consistent with historical patterns, we expect a higher mix of systems sold to distributors in the fourth quarter which carry lower prices. We recognized $25 million of lease buyout revenue in the third quarter, compared with $17 million last year and $26 million last quarter. Lease buyout revenue has varied significantly quarter to quarter and will likely continue to do so. Instrument and accessory revenue per procedure of $1,900 decreased slightly compared with $1,910 per procedure for the third quarter of last year and decreased compared with $1,940 per procedure in the second quarter. The year-over-year change reflects increased usage of extended use instruments, mostly offset by increased usage of our advanced instruments. The decrease from the previous quarter reflects customers continuing to adjust their instrument buying patterns to reflect the additional uses per instrument included in extended use instruments. Ten of the systems placed in the third quarter were SP systems. Our installed base of SP systems is now 89, 10 in Korea and 79 in the U.S. We continue our measured rollout of SP as we work on gathering clinical data to gain additional procedure clearances in the U.S. We placed 28 Ion systems in the quarter, bringing the installed base to 98 systems. There were approximately 2,000 Ion procedures completed in the third quarter. Ion system placements and procedures are excluded from our overall da Vinci system and procedure counts. Our rollout of Ion is progressing well. Outside the U.S., we placed 109 systems in the third quarter compared with 79 in the third quarter of 2020 and 115 systems last quarter. Current quarter system placements included 47 into Europe, 20 into Japan, and 17 into China compared with 39 into Europe, 15 into Japan, and 12 into China in the third quarter of 2020. We also placed nine systems in Brazil in the third quarter and now have placed 23 systems in Brazil over the past four quarters. Moving on to gross margin and operating expenses. Pro forma gross margin for the third quarter of 2021 was 71.3% compared with 70.2% for the third quarter of 2020 and 71.7% last quarter. The third quarter of 2020 included $23 million of service credits issued in conjunction with our Customer Relief Program, higher period costs associated with lower production levels, and higher excess and obsolete inventory charges. The decline in gross margin relative to the second quarter primarily reflects product mix. Product and customer mix fluctuate quarter to quarter, which can cause fluctuations in gross margins. COVID has impacted global supplies of semiconductors and other materials used in our products. While to date, we've been able to secure supply necessary to ensure fulfillment of customer demand, our teams are expending significant time and effort to bridge future supply with demand. To date, we have experienced immaterial component cost increases and freight expedition fees. However, global shortages could result in future supply disruption, as well as delayed development and regulatory activities. We also expect supply issues to result in higher production costs. Pro forma operating expenses increased 21%, compared with the third quarter of 2020, and increased 2% compared with last quarter. The increase compared to the prior year reflects costs associated with higher headcount, increased variable compensation, and increased spending in areas impacted by COVID. Third-quarter spending was below our expectations due to delays in headcount hiring and lower spending on activities restricted by COVID, including clinical development, marketing events, and travel costs. In addition, COVID delayed some R&D work resulting in underspend on prototypes. We expect spending on activities restricted by COVID to increase as the impacts of the pandemic decline. We also expect spending to increase as a percentage of revenue as investments in headcount, infrastructure, and other support areas catch up to the growth of the business. Finally, we expect to continue to invest in expanding and accelerating our ecosystem of products and capabilities. Jamie will provide spend guidance later in this call. Our pro forma effective tax rate for the third quarter was approximately 24%. We recorded expense of $11 million associated with periods prior to 2020 related to guidance recently provided by the IRS associated with stock-based compensation. We expect our pro forma tax rate for the fourth quarter to be approximately 21.5%. Our actual tax rate will fluctuate with changes in geographic mix of income, changes in taxation made by local authorities, and with the impact of one-time items. Our third-quarter pro forma net income was $435 million or $1.19 per share, compared with $334 million or $0.92 per share for the third quarter of 2020 and $477 million or $1.31 per share for the last quarter. Third-quarter 2021 and 2020 included pre-tax gains of approximately $8 million and $62 million associated with investments in companies that resulted from development agreements entered into in prior years. I will now summarize our GAAP results. GAAP net income was $381 million or $1.04 per share for the third quarter of 2021, compared with GAAP net income of $314 million or $0.87 per share for the third quarter of 2020, and GAAP net income of $517 million or $1.42 per share for last quarter. We ended the quarter with cash and investments of $8.2 billion compared with $7.7 billion last quarter. The increase in cash in the third quarter primarily reflected cash from operations and stock exercises. We did not repurchase any shares in the quarter. And with that, I'd like to turn it over to Jamie.Jamie Samath -- Senior vice president of finance Thank you, Marshall. Our overall third-quarter procedure growth was approximately 20% compared to growth of 7% during the third quarter of 2020. Q3 procedure growth reflected 16% growth in U.S. procedures and 30% growth in OUS markets. In the U.S., procedures in Q3 were adversely impacted by an increase in COVID-related hospitalizations due to the delta variant. Procedures were particularly impacted in those states with relatively lower vaccination rates. As the number of COVID-related hospitalizations peaked and began to improve in September, we saw U.S. procedures start to recover. Q3 growth reflected relative strength in bariatrics procedures, cholecystectomy, and hernia repair. In the more mature procedure categories, year-over-year growth in prostatectomy was strong relative to historical averages and benign hysterectomy grew in the low single-digit range. Third-quarter OUS procedure volume grew approximately 30% compared with 9% growth for the third quarter of 2020. Third-quarter 2021 OUS procedures were driven by growth in prostatectomy and earlier stage growth in general surgery, gynecology, kidney cancer procedures, and thoracic surgery. China procedure growth remained strong and broad-based as a result of continued expansion of the installed base under the current quota and the addition and training of surgeons new to the da Vinci platform. Growth in Japan was solid but was impacted by localized lockdowns stemming from ongoing efforts to prevent resurgences of COVID. Growth in Korea was also solid, primarily driven by gynecology, urology, and head and neck procedures. A little more than half of the procedures in these three key Asian markets are outside of urology. In Europe, procedure growth varied by country based on the relative impact of the delta variant and the impact of COVID-related mitigation measures. Growth in the U.K. and Germany was solid with procedure growth in France and Italy impacted by reduced capacity for surgery as hospitals reserved resources for potential increases in COVID patients. During Q3, customers in the U.S. and Europe effectively consumed their remaining inventory of X life instruments following the launch of extended use instruments in those regions in Q4 of last year. With this full adoption in the U.S., customers are benefiting from I&A per procedure costs that are reduced by approximately 10% in lower acuity procedures such as cholecystectomy and hernia repair. In Europe, customers are benefiting from an even larger reduction in I&A costs for targeted procedures. While recent procedure trends are confounded by the various waves of the pandemic, we believe, based on customer feedback, the adoption of extended use instruments is having a positive impact on targeted procedures. In our new platform, Ion procedures increased almost fourfold as compared to Q3 of 2020, driven by a significant expansion of the number of systems at customers and an increase in usage in the existing installed base. Our single-port platform, which is gated by additional regional and clinical clearances showed solid performance with almost 50% year-over-year procedure growth. Now, turning to the clinical side of our business. Each quarter on these calls, we highlight certain recently published studies that we deem to be notable. However, to gain a more complete understanding of the body of evidence, we encourage all stakeholders to thoroughly review the extensive detail of scientific studies that have been published over the years. During the quarter, Dr. Michael Kent from Beth Israel Deaconess Center, Harvard Medical School in Boston, Massachusetts, published results from a landmark multicenter pulmonary open, robotic and thoracoscopic lobectomy or PORTaL study in the Annals of Surgery. This retrospective study sponsored by Intuitive compared lobectomy outcomes associated with open VATS and robotic-assisted da Vinci surgery with over 6,000 cases included in this analysis. After one-to-one propensity score matching, a comparison of open and da Vinci lobectomies with approximately 800 patients in each group showed a two-day shorter length of stay and a 9.5% lower rate of prolonged hospital stay associated with da Vinci lobectomies. The da Vinci cohort also had an approximately eight-minute shorter mean OR time for cases without a concomitant procedure. Postoperative complications were approximately 9% lower with the da Vinci robotic approach. With regards to the propensity score match comparison of minimally invasive approaches with over 1,700 patients in each group, the da Vinci approach evidenced a 1.1-day shorter mean length of stay and a 6.1% low rate of conversion to thoracotomy when compared to VATS, with the differences in conversion rates reported for each tumor stage in the analysis. The authors concluded in part, "In this retrospective, multi-institutional data analysis, both robotic-assisted and VATS lobectomy were associated with improved perioperative outcomes compared to open lobectomy. Robotic-assisted lobectomy was associated with additional differences compared to VATS such as a reduced length of stay and conversion rate." In August of this year, Professor Umberto Bracale from the University of Naples Federico II in Naples, Italy, published a systematic review with meta-analysis of transversus abdominis release or TAR for ventral hernia repair, assessing short-term outcomes of the open and robotic-assisted approaches. The meta-analysis combined six studies containing over 800 patients, of which just over 200 patients underwent robotic-assisted da Vinci surgery and just under 600 patients who underwent the open approach. Results of this meta-analysis found that the robotic-assisted approach was associated with a 4.4-day shorter length of stay, 64% lower risk of postoperative complications, and 79% lower risk of developing systemic complications. Readmission and reoperations were comparable between both groups. The authors concluded in part, "Based on the data from the meta-analysis, the robotic approach for TAR seems safe and feasible even in more difficult cases. Robotic-assisted TAR shows the common advantages of minimally invasive procedures that improve short-term outcomes with significant benefits in the early postoperative period." Lastly, as noted in yesterday's press release, preliminary results from the PRECIsE study evaluating outcomes associated with the Ion endoluminal system were presented at the annual CHEST conference. This preliminary analysis of 69 subjects showed a diagnostic yield of 83% with a sensitivity of malignancy of 84% to 88% from the biopsy of peripheral pulmonary nodules with a mean size of 17 millimeters. These initial outcomes regarding the performance of the Ion system are encouraging, and we look forward to the full study being published in the second half of 2022. I will now turn to our financial outlook for 2021. During Q3, we experienced a more challenging supply chain environment with a deterioration in on-time delivery performance from our suppliers. We also saw increased supply chain costs. While this did not have a material impact to our operating results in Q3, the outlook we are providing does not reflect any potential significant disruption or additional costs related to supply constraints. Starting with procedures. Last quarter, we forecast 2021 procedure growth of 27% to 30%. Given Q3 results and the impact of the delta variant, we are now narrowing our forecast and expect full-year 2021 procedure growth of 27% to 29%. This procedure outlook does not reflect a significant impact from OR staffing shortages or a resurgence of COVID-19. The high end of the range assumes that COVID-19-related hospitalizations in the U.S. continue the recovery that began in September and that COVID-related mitigation measures in OUS markets continue to ease. Turning to gross profit. On our last call, we forecast our 2021 full-year pro forma gross profit margin to be within 70.5% and 71.5% of revenue. We now expect 2021 pro forma gross profit margin to be within 71% and 71.5% of revenue. This range does not reflect any significant disruption associated with the current supply chain challenges. Our actual gross profit margin will vary quarter to quarter depending largely on product, regional, and trade-in mix the impact of product cost reductions and manufacturing efficiencies, and competitive pricing pressure. With respect to operating expenses, on our last call, we forecast to grow full-year pro forma 2021 operating expenses between 17% and 21% above 2020 levels. We are refining our estimate and now expect our full-year pro forma operating expense growth to be between 17% and 19%. We expect our noncash stock compensation expense to range between $450 million and $460 million in 2021. With regard to pro forma other income, which is comprised mostly of interest income, we expect a range of between $50 million and $55 million in 2021. Finally, with respect to income tax, we expect our Q4 2021 pro forma tax rate to be approximately 21.5% of pre-tax income. That concludes our prepared remarks. We will now open the call to your questions. 