
OperatorGood morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Tractor Supply Company's Conference Call to Discuss Second Quarter 2021 Results. [Operator instructions] Please be advised that reproduction of this call in whole or in part is not permitted without written authorization of Tractor Supply Company. And as a reminder, this call is being recorded.I would now like to introduce your call -- your host for today's call, Mrs. Mary Winn Pilkington, Senior Vice President of Investor and Public Relations for Tractor Supply Company. Mary Winn, please go ahead with your conference.Mary Winn Pilkington -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations & Public Relations

 



Thank you, operator. Good morning, everyone. Thanks for taking the time to join us today, and I do hope you all are staying safe and well. On the call today are Hal Lawton, our CEO; and Kurt Barton, our CFO. After our prepared remark, we'll open the call up for your questions. Seth Estep, our EVP and Chief Merchandising Officer will join us for the Q&A session. Please note that we've made a supplemental slide presentation available on our website to accompany today's earnings release. Now let me reference the Safe Harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.This call may contain certain forward-looking statements that are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, including the future operating and financial performance of the company. In many cases, these risks and uncertainties are beyond our control. Although the company believes the expectations reflected in its forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such expectations or any of its forward-looking statements will prove to be correct, and actual results may differ materially from expectations.Important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those reflected in the forward-looking statements are included at the end of the press release issued today and in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information contained in this call is accurate only as of the date discussed. Investors should not assume that statements will remain operative at a later time. Tractor Supply undertakes no obligation to update any information discussed in this call. Given the time constraints and the number of people who want to participate, we ask that you please limit your questions to one with a quick related follow-up. I appreciate your cooperation. We will be available after the call for follow-up.Thank you for your time and attention this morning and now, it's my pleasure to turn the call over to Hal.

 



Hal Lawton -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Mary Winn, and good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us this morning. My thanks go out to the more than 45,000 Tractor Supply team members for their ongoing commitment to each other, our customers in the Out Here lifestyle. The team has been through a lot together over the last 15 months as an essential needs-based retailer, including necessary but cumbersome health and safety measures, surge in volumes, the rollout of our Life Out Here strategy, supply chain disruptions, numerous digital investments and more.The team has risen to each challenge to be there as the dependable supplier to our customers and the communities we call home. Thank you to the team for another great quarter. I would also like to say thank you to our vendor and supply chain partners as we work together to overcome the challenges in the global supply chain network. Together, we were able to support our customers as the dependable supplier for their Out Here lifestyle. Over the first 12 months of the pandemic through the first quarter of 2021 our sales grew approximately 35% or $3 billion. In the second quarter of 2021, as we are now comping the comp, we are pleased this momentum and all the underlying trends have remained and continue to sustain.Looking at the second quarter, the Tractor Supply team delivered a very strong performance that exceeded our expectations, as we achieved a 10.5% comparable store sales growth for the quarter and a 41% two years back. Our results proved yet again Tractor Supply's unique competitive advantages. Our relentless focus on being the dependable supplier for the Out Here lifestyle is embedded in our purpose as a company. Our Life Out Here strategy is still in the early days, and we are seeing positive trends from our initiatives. We're excited by the momentum. We remain committed to investing in our team members, as we believe they are a key competitive differentiator with our customers.

 



Just last month, we increased pay for nearly 27,000 of our tenured hourly store team members and also raised our minimum wage to $11.25 per hour. Our team members continue to make Tractor Supply, the special place that it is. Investing in our team members is not only the right thing to do, but it's also a way to recognize their role in driving our business forward. Now turning to our results for the second quarter of 2021; our net sales grew approximately 13.4%. Comparable store sales grew 10.5%, driven by a comparable average ticket increase of 6% and transaction count increase of 4.5%. Diluted earnings per share increased 10% to $3.19.Importantly, the underlying foundation of our business is robust. For the quarter, every week had positive comps. Our growth was broad-based across regions and product categories. We continue to gain share across all categories, online and in stores. For instance, in Q2, we experienced comparable store growth in our Consumable, Usable and Edible categories that was well above our overall comparable store sales. E-commerce recorded its largest ever quarter of sales. The work we have done over the last year to improve our e-commerce capabilities has certainly resonated with our customers.In just under a year, our mobile app already has more than 1.6 million downloads and now represents over 10% of our e-commerce sales. Given our strong performance year-to-date, coupled with our outlook for the balance of the year, we are raising our sales and earnings guidance for the year. Kurt will share more details on our revised outlook later in the call. Regarding our pending acquisition of Orscheln Farm and Home that we announced in February, we are working cooperatively with the SEC on their second request. We look forward to the benefits this transaction will offer customers with improved products and competitive pricing.We have previously shared key observations of our customer behaviors based on our market data and research and I would like to update you on that today. Overall, our customer metrics remain very healthy, with both traffic and spending increasing at a balanced rate. So let's run through some of the insights that are most relevant. First, we are seeing broad continued strength across our customer base. More customers than ever are shopping Tractor Supply. And these customers are making more trips than ever and are spending more money per trip than ever. We are seeing strong retention of customers that have shopped us over the last 12 months.Our retention rates continue to run above historical trends. The conversion of our Neighbor's Club loyalty program to a points-based rewards is resonating with our customers. Year-over-year, we've added nearly 5 million new members to the program. In our Neighbor's Club members, they're spending about three times the rate of non-members and they're comping at a rate well above the chain average. Neighbor's Club members accounted for about 65% of our sales, and that's a step-up from where we've been running prior to the relaunch of the program. We've grown our high-value customer base in the program by about 15% year-to-date, with customers migrating upward in spending significantly outpacing any downward spending.The retention rate of our most valuable customers is running north of 95%. New customers are joining the Neighbor's Club program at a rate of nearly 30%, significantly above the rate from last year. And the new customers we are acquiring as compared to our core customers are continuing to skew younger. We're seeing significant growth in our millennial shoppers. Our trends this quarter for the customer age cohorts of 18 years to 45 years old were in line with the first quarter. And we continue to believe that the growth in this customer segment has staying power. Much like last quarter, the types of trends we're seeing can simply be described as once in a generation.We believe key aspects to our customer service, such as a convenient place to shop, product assortment, legendary customer service and in-stock levels are important to keeping these existing and new customers engaged with our brands. On the macro front, the economy remains strong and key trends continue to work in our favor, such as rural revitalization, trip consolidation, omni-channel adoption and a self-reliant lifestyle movement, including DIY trends and hobbies like gardening, backyard poultry and pet adoptions.While the cost environment remains elevated across imports, domestic freight, commodities, and labor wages, the merchant team has been aggressively advocating for our customers. Where necessary, we are taking price increases to pass-through some of the cost pressures that we cannot offset. We are closely monitoring the price elasticity to ensure that we are focused on product unit trends. The team is doing an excellent job navigating this environment. Over the past few months, we have navigated unprecedented conditions. As the country opens back up, the Out Here Lifestyle remains incredibly relevant.And with that, I'll now turn the call over to Kurt to review the quarter in more depth and our outlook before I come back to give insight on our Life Out Here Strategy and other drivers of the second half of 2021.Kurt Barton -- Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and TreasurerThank you, Hal, and hello to everyone on the call today. As Hal shared many details on the second quarter, in my time on the call today, I'd like to go into some of the specifics around our financial performance and our increased outlook for the full year. We were very pleased with our performance. These results demonstrate the strength and resilience of our business and our strategic initiatives. For the quarterly cadence, April and June were the strongest months of the comp store sales performance. All geographic regions and all major merchandising categories had comp store sales growth.We believe the underlying health of our business is structurally advantaged. A great example of this is the strength in our consumable, usable and edible products. Our CUE represents the strength of our core business and what drives trips to the store. For the fifth consecutive quarter in a row, CUE had comp store sales growth above 15%. Key sub categories such as poultry, livestock feed and dry dog food were among the strongest categories with comp sales all greater than 25%. Of note, we are seeing strong retention rates of our new customers across every species of livestock and companion animal. For example, poultry, a hallmark home setting category for Tractor Supply has the highest retention rate of the animal species for new customers and new to the category.Our big ticket categories, which were going against significant growth in the prior year, continue to have strong comp sales performance above the chain average. This was driven by strength in zero turn mowers, safes, utility vehicles, and trailers. Lastly, inflation contributed about 350 basis point to 400 basis point to comparable store sales in the quarter. Our second quarter gross margin rate was 35.8%, a decrease of 67 basis points. Year-over-year, the gross margin drivers were principally three items: first, higher freight costs that all of retailers experiencing; second, an initial impact from the relaunch of our Neighbor's Club loyalty program; and third, a more normalized CUE product mix.Our price management program partially offset these factors as we look to mitigate the impact of inflation and other cost pressures. Consistent with our guidance, we received approximately 40 basis points benefit from vendor funding for the Field Activity Support Teams or FAST initiative, which was launched in the second half last year. Of note, we continue to see favorability in the frequency and depth of promotions as we are committed to being true to our everyday low pricing strategy and continue to see strong demand for our product categories. For comparison, our gross margin rate this quarter was still about 90 basis points above our Q2 2019 rate of 34.9%.Our second quarter SG&A expense ratio, including depreciation and amortization, improved by 6 basis points to 22.3%. This improvement was primarily attributable to lower COVID-19 pandemic response costs and decreased incentive compensation as well as good leverage in occupancy and other fixed costs from the increase in our comparable store sales. Partially offsetting this leverage were higher wage rates, additional store labor hours to ensure we are providing great customer service, and investments in our Life Out Here strategic initiatives.The offset to our FAST initiative benefiting gross margin was approximately 40 basis points of incremental SG&A expense for the labor costs for the team. Much like our gross margin rate, our SG&A performance compares favorably to Q2 2019 when our SG&A expense ratio was 22.7%. Operating profit increased 8.5% with operating profit margin of 13.5% on the quarter. Net income was $370 million, an increase of 9.3%. Diluted EPS was $3.19, an increase of 10%. Turning now to our balance sheet, which remained strong; merchandise inventories were $1.99 billion at the end of the second quarter, representing a 14% increase in average inventory per store. The increase principally reflects growth to support the robust sales trends along with the impact of inflation.Our supply chain and our vendors are executing at a very high level to meet the customers' current demands. We finished the quarter with $1.41 billion of cash and cash equivalents and no borrowings on our $500 million revolver. Moving now to our updated guidance for fiscal 2021; looking ahead, while the trends in our business provided additional confidence in the structural nature of the tailwind, we remain aware that the COVID-19 pandemic and the vaccine rollout can have further impact on the broader economy, the consumer and our fiscal 2021 results. With still some measure of uncertainty, we continue to plan for fiscal 2021 based on a range of potential outcomes and will remain nimble and adjust as necessary.Our updated guidance reflects the strong results in the first half of the year and the positive momentum we see in our business continuing into the second half of 2021. Please note that the prospective acquisition of Orscheln Farm and Home is not included in our guidance. So against the backdrop of what we know today, we are updating our guidance to a net sales range of $12.1 billion to $1.23 billion with comparable store sales growth in the range of 11% to 13%. For the year, we forecast an operating margin of 9.7% to 9.9% of sales, a step-up from our prior guidance. Diluted EPS is now forecast in a range of $7.70 to $8. This compares to our previous earnings range of $7.05 to $7.40 per diluted share. We have a unique opportunity with the positive customer trends and momentum in the business.We are committed to investing in store and supply chain labor as we look to provide legendary customer service to meet our customers' expectations. While we continue to lap challenging sales and earnings comps, we expect positive sales comp in both the third and fourth quarter with the third quarter a few points higher than the fourth quarter. Please keep in mind we will continue to cycle strong gross margin performance of the prior year where we benefited from minimal promotional or clearance activity as well as favorable product mix, where CUE products represented a smaller portion of sales. Much like results in the second quarter, we are expecting gross margin decline in the back half of the year due to higher transportation costs and continued strength in CUE products.Our guidance assumes promotional activity comparable to last year in Q3, with Q4 seeing some shift back to normalizing promotions during the holiday season. While we are dealing with significantly higher transportation costs, a mix shift to CUE and cost of goods increases, we continue to see benefit from a pullback in promotions and are seeing less price elasticity from consumers as we adjust prices. We believe we are effectively navigating impacts to our gross margin. The strength of our balance sheet and the consistency of our free cash flow continue to be a hallmark of Tractor Supply.We have raised our outlook for capital spending to now be in the range of $500 million to $600 million to reflect higher construction and raw material costs for store projects and increased technology investments for the customer experience. We remain committed to returning cash to shareholders through the combination of a growing dividend and share repurchase. For 2021, we remain on track for anticipated share repurchases in a range of $700 million to $800 million. This year will mark a milestone with approximately $1 billion returned to shareholders due the combination of share repurchases and dividends.To wrap up, we are very pleased with our performance in the first half of the year and see positive momentum carrying into the second half of 2021. We continue to build relevance and market share both today and over time. We are excited about the investments ahead of us to better serve our customers from new stores, Project Fusion remodels and our Side Lot transformation. We are strengthening our supply chain and growing our digital commerce, all in support of our commitment to driving strong shareholder returns for the long-term.With that, I'll turn the call back over to Hal.Hal Lawton -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Kurt. Tractor Supply has thrived over the last 15 months. We continue to operate from a position of strength and are committed to investing in the business. Our Life Out Here strategy is designed to capitalize on the attractive opportunity that we see in our nearly $110 billion total addressable market. We are transforming our stores through our Project Fusion remodel and Side Lot transformation, optimizing our technology in store and online and investing in how we operate our stores.I'm incredibly proud of the progress the team has made in advancing our strategic priorities, especially amid a global pandemic and running the business at an elevated rate. So let me share with you an update on how a few of our top initiatives are progressing. I'll start with the field activity support team. A 1,200-plus person organization that is designed to improve store labor productivity, example task is a FAST team includes execution of merchandising programs like center court, end caps, clip strips, planogram resets, seasonal programs and our sales-driving initiatives.Rolled out in the third quarter of last year this team has made great progress in improving execution of our merchandising activity, which represents the second largest body of work for our store team members. Year-to-date, the execution of TAC by the FAST team is running at 97%, or nearly 33 points higher than our base year of 2019. The FAST team is allowing the store teams to spend more time on customer service and improve their in-store execution. We believe the FAST team will continue to contribute to comparable store sales well into the future.Turning next to our Project Fusion store remodel program; recall our Project Fusion is our state-of-the-art space productivity program designed to enhance the customer experience in our mature store base and give new customers that may other shop with us in the past, more reasons to visit. We now have more than 160 stores in the new layout and the customer feedback has been overwhelmingly positive. Our customers are taking note of things like the improved shopping experience in our remodels. And specifically in our customer intercept surveys, they're calling out better organization, improved merchandise selection, cleaner and brighter and easier to navigate factors.While the majority of the remodels have been completed more recently, we are very pleased with the early read of our customer response and the comp lift of the remodel is running in line with our expectations. Given the size of our store base, this is a multiyear opportunity to continually refresh our store base and further drive comp sales. Another component of our space productivity program is the transformation of our Side Lot. Typically, there's as much space outside of our stores in the Side Lot as we have inside the store. The productivity of this space is substantially below the chain average.We're in the midst of a multiyear project to transform our side lot, with an expanded product offering and an enhanced shopping experience. With this investment, the side lot space is leveraged to offer a wider product offering in the lawn and garden categories, enter new categories and offer greater convenience through the expansion of our Buy Online Pickup in Store capabilities for drive-through pickup. We also continue to see a positive halo effect from the Garden Center to the existing store and vice versa. Addition of product categories, increased ease of shopping and new services provides us with even more ways to continue to keep our existing customers engage at Tractor Supply and attract new customers to the brand.Our ability to drive higher sales per square foot, through the transformation of our side lot, remains a significant opportunity. We currently have about 60 side lot transformations completed. And we anticipate having greater than 150 complete, as we exit 2021. In these early remodels, we're learning a great deal about our customers' appetite for our expanded lawn and garden assortment, and even more excited than we embarked on the initial test pilots. The team has done a great job laying the foundation of our Life Out Here strategy, as we scale our transformational initiatives.Beyond our multi-year strategic initiatives, at Tractor Supply, we are always focused on having the seasonally appropriate offerings to support our customers. Wrapping up the summer season, we're exiting the quarter with our -- with clean inventory with the seasonal change over. We continue to focus on enhancing our product offerings for the transition to the important fall and winter season. Across all areas of the store and online, we have fall-centric merchandising and marketing plans in place to keep our customers engaged. Whether it's the launch of our pet appreciation week in September to the rollout of our Deer hunting planogram set or our focus on heating products for the change in temperature, our customers know that they can count on tractor supply for the relevant product that they need to live Life Out Here.We are leveraging new lines and innovation across drilling, safe and home and decor. In addition, Ridgecut, our exclusive brand and performance workwear will be expanded across new categories and into women's workwear. These product expansions are relevant to both new and existing customers and will help retain our growing customer base. Across all parts of the store, we have exciting products for the fall and winter, as we shift gears to ramp up for our customers' needs to care for their land, home, animals and pets as colder weather comes.On the marketing front, we're making continued investments to drive our brand awareness, as part of our plans, we're excited to announce the new multi-year partnership to be the official life out her partner, for the professional bull riders effective this season. The partnership includes a flagship presence on the PBR tour that host over 200 events per year, a Tractor Supply branded broadcast booth during the pre-show on CBS, an in-arena broadcast activation and local customer activation. PBR will also produce and distribute custom content for our social media channels. We're very excited to support our customers' passion for this dynamic and rapidly growing sport.Again, on marketing, given the strong millennial trends we have been experiencing. We're investing in marketing to continue to attract and nurture this important demographic. Given that the millennial customer cohort may not be as familiar with our brand, we are executing marketing plans to introduce Tractor Supply to this next generation of customers. Just last month, we launched a new campaign, targeting millennial as a media channel, like Pandora, YouTube and other streaming services. This campaign is called, Welcome to Life Out Here and introduces this new audience to what lies ahead in our stores and the lifestyle we help support.The focus is on key categories such as pet, backyard poultry, gardening and self-reliance. With the primary goal to drive awareness, the millennial campaign has delivered significant impressions since the launch. Early results show best-in-class performance in ad recalls and awareness relative to traditional benchmarks. We believe this indicates that we are resonating with this audience, and it is driving consideration for Tractor Supply.To summarize, we've delivered strong results year-to-date and made significant progress with our strategic initiatives. We have confidence that our strategy and execution will allow us to continue to build a stronger tractor supply. With our purposeful actions, we'll emerge from the pandemic a stronger company. It's an exciting time at Tractor Supply. My appreciation goes out to each and every 1 of our more than 45,000 Tractor Supply team members for their dedication to our mission and value.And with that, operator, we would now like to open the line for questions.