
OperatorHello, and welcome to today's Tyler Technologies Second Quarter 2021 Conference Call. Your host for today's call is Lynn Moore, President and CEO of Tyler Technologies. [Operator Instructions] And as a reminder, this conference is being recorded today, July 29, 2021. I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Moore. Please go ahead.H. Lynn Moore -- CEO, President & DirectorThank you, Andrew. And welcome to our second quarter earnings call. With me today is Brian Miller, our Chief Financial Officer. First, I'd like for Brian to give the safe harbor statement. Next, I'll have some preliminary comments on our quarter results, and then Brian will review the details. I'll end with some additional comments, and then we'll take questions. Brian?

 



Brian K. Miller -- Executive Vice president, Chief Finance Officer & TreasurerThanks, Lynn. During the course of this conference call, management may make statements that provide information other than historical information and may include projections concerning the company's future prospects, revenues, expenses and profits. Such statements are considered forward-looking statements under the safe harbor provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially from these projections. We would refer you to our Form 10-K and other SEC filings for more information on those risks. Please note that all growth comparisons we make on the call today will relate to the corresponding period of last year, unless we specify otherwise. Lynn?H. Lynn Moore -- CEO, President & DirectorThanks, Brian. First, I want to provide you with an update on the NIC acquisition and our progress in the first three months post closing, and then we'll move on to a review of the quarter's results. As you know, we completed the acquisition of NIC during the second quarter on April 21. With a purchase price of approximately $2.3 billion, this was by far our largest acquisition to date and our first acquisition of a public company. NIC is a leading provider of digital government solutions and payment processing that serves more than 7,100 federal, state and local government agencies across the nation. We believe that the combination of NIC and Tyler provides tremendous opportunities for incremental growth in both businesses. The combined company is the public sector market leader for payment solutions and we plan to use NIC's robust payment platform to expand our local government payments business. We also have an opportunity to leverage NIC's strong relationships and state enterprise contracts to deliver Tyler solutions at the state level, including our MicroPact entellitrak platform. We discussed our vision for those opportunities on our investor call in early June. I'm extremely pleased with the progress we've made toward these objectives in the three months that NIC has been a part of Tyler. Our teams have prioritized our opportunities and are very engaged, working well together in a regular cadence. Our pre-acquisition impressions regarding the high degree of compatibility between the cultures of the two organizations have thus far proven to be accurate and leaders in both organizations have commented on how natural the combination feels.

 



Our payments teams are working together and have been very encouraged as we learn more about each company's strengths and how complementary they are. As we noted on our June call, the state of Florida is a great example of the kind of opportunities we're pursuing. NIC is in the process of implementing a statewide payment processing solution for the state government in Florida. And the contract allows for local governments in the state, more than 400 of which are Tyler clients, to piggyback on that contract and we are actively pursuing those opportunities. For the last two months, we've also been conducting weekly showcases to familiarize NIC state enterprise managers with Tyler's broad portfolio of solutions and to surface opportunities in their states. We have already developed a growing joint pipeline that is generating active engagements with prospects in NIC states. And finally, our teams are actively working together to jointly establish the data and analytics platform for Connected Communities, leveraging our respective strengths, including our Socrata Data & Insights platform and NIC's Gov2Go citizen portal. Together, NIC and Tyler can now provide the most expansive set of capabilities for citizens to interact with government at all levels. Turning to the quarter. NIC, like Tyler, had a very strong second quarter as they continue to benefit from the recovery from the pandemic with a growing demand for citizens and businesses to interact digitally with government. NIC also recorded higher than expected revenues from its TourHealth and pandemic unemployment initiatives, although those lower-margin revenues are currently expected to taper off in the second half of the year. Although NIC's results are only included in Tyler's consolidated financials from the date of the acquisition on April 21, for the full quarter, NIC's core revenues, excluding revenues from TourHealth and pandemic unemployment initiatives, grew 23.5%.We're also very pleased to report that in late June, NIC was selected as one of two vendors to provide the Internal Revenue Service with a digital payment processing solution, which will allow individual and business taxpayers to securely pay their federal taxes. The contract has an initial 6-month term with four 1-year renewal options and revenue under the contract is expected to begin in January of 2022. The actual revenue will be driven by the number of taxpayers who choose to pay online and who choose to use the NIC platform, and we expect to aggressively market our solution. We currently estimate annual gross revenue under the contract to be between $40 million and $60 million with annual net revenue of $5 million to $7 million after interchange and merchant fees. This contract significantly expands NIC's payment processing at the federal level and underscores the strength of NIC's platform and leadership in public sector payments. Moving on to our consolidated results. Our second quarter was very strong, reflecting the inclusion of the results of NIC from April 21 with both core Tyler and NIC operations exceeding expectations. Total revenues grew 49.1% driven by the inclusion of NIC, as well as the acceleration of Tyler's organic growth to 12.4%. Recurring revenues comprised 79% of our second quarter revenues and were led by 133% growth in subscription revenues with the inclusion of NIC. Excluding NIC revenues, subscription revenue growth was robust at 24%. Software licenses and services revenues also rebounded from the low point in last year's second quarter, growing 17% or 7.6% excluding NIC. As expected, our margins were down compared to second quarter last year as some costs and lower margin revenues, like billable travel, that declined in 2020 due to COVID pandemic began to return. Margins were also impacted by the inclusion of NIC and particularly by the continuation of their lower-margin COVID-related revenues.As a result, our non-GAAP operating margin declined 100 basis points to 26.5%. Bookings in the second quarter grew 50% to approximately $464 million with the inclusion of NIC. Excluding NIC, bookings rose 17.5%. Our largest deal in the quarter was a combination license and SaaS arrangement with the Colorado Department of Regulatory Agencies valued at approximately $9.3 million for our entellitrak Regulatory, Socrata Data & Insights, and SceneDoc mobile field inspection solutions as well as NIC's electronic payment solution. And all those solutions will be hosted in AWS. This deal is a great example of our ability to add value by offering multiple Tyler products, many of which came from recent acquisitions, into a single deal, enhancing the competitiveness of solutions like entellitrak. We also signed a large public safety license contract with the Lake County Sheriff's Office in Illinois for our CAD, RMS, mobile, field reporting, Brazos eCitation, SoftCode process service and Socrata Data & Insight solutions valued at approximately $4.1 million. In addition, we signed four other license deals across multiple product suites, each with contract values greater than $1 million. SaaS contracts represented 65% of our new contract software value in the second quarter. Our largest SaaS contract was a 5-year deal with Dubuque, Iowa, for our Munis ERP and EnerGov civic services solutions valued at approximately $4.6 million. We also signed SaaS contracts for our Munis ERP solution with Charles County, Maryland, valued at approximately $4 million and DeSoto, Texas, valued at approximately $3.5 million. We also signed a SaaS deal for our Tyler Supervision solution with Riverside County, California, valued at approximately $3.3 million. This is the largest deal to date for our Supervision product, which came to Tyler through the acquisition of CaseloadPRO a little less than three years ago. And in fact, the value of the single contract is greater than the total annual revenues of that business when we acquired it. In addition, we signed nine other SaaS arrangements during the quarter, each with a total contract value of greater than $1 million. In addition to the IRS payment processing contract, during the second quarter, NIC signed extensions of its state enterprise contracts for digital government and payment processing services with the states of Oregon and Idaho. NIC also signed a 5-year SaaS agreement for its RxGov prescription drug monitoring program solution with the province of New Brunswick, Canada, marking the first international deployment for that solution.We're pleased to see the increased market activity and trends that reflect our markets are rebounding back toward pre-COVID levels. Now I'd like for Brian to provide more detail on the results for the quarter.

 



Brian K. Miller -- Executive Vice president, Chief Finance Officer & TreasurerThanks, Lynn. Yesterday, Tyler Technologies reported its results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2021. Note that the results of DataSpec and ReadySub, which were acquired on March 31, are included in our consolidated results for the full quarter and the results of NIC are included in our results from the date of acquisition, April 21. In our earnings release, we have included non-GAAP measures that we believe facilitate understanding of our results and comparisons with peers in the software industry. A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP measures is provided in our earnings release. We've also posted on the Investor Relations section of our website under the Financial Reports tab schedules with supplemental information provided on this call, including information about quarterly bookings, backlog and recurring revenues. GAAP revenues for the quarter were $404.1 million, up 49.1%. Non-GAAP revenues were $405.4 million, up 49.4%. On an organic basis, GAAP and non-GAAP revenues grew 12.4% and 12.3%, respectively. Software license revenues rose 3.4%. Subscription revenues rose 133%. Excluding the contribution from NIC, subscription revenues were still very strong, growing 24%. We added 170 new subscription-based arrangements and converted 62 existing on-premises clients, representing approximately $73 million in total contract value. In Q2 of last year, we added 125 new subscription-based arrangements and had 42 on-premises conversions, representing approximately $39 million in total contract value. Subscription contract value comprised approximately 65% of total new software contract value signed this quarter compared to 43% in Q2 of last year. As we continued our shift to a cloud-first approach to sales, the value weighted average term of new SaaS contracts this quarter was 4.1 years compared to 3.7 last year. Transaction-based revenues, which include NIC portal revenues, payment processing and e-filing are included in subscriptions -- and are included in subscriptions, were $119.6 million, up 463%. That amount includes e-filing revenues of $16.3 million, up 14.5%. Excluding NIC, Tyler's transaction-based revenues grew 24.1%.For the second quarter, our annualized non-GAAP total recurring revenue, or ARR, was approximately $1.3 billion, up 58.2%. Non-GAAP ARR for SaaS software arrangements for Q2 was approximately $325 million, up 25.9%. Transaction-based ARR was approximately $479 million, up 463% and non-GAAP maintenance ARR was approximately $478 million, up 2.4%. Our backlog at the end of the quarter was $1.63 billion, up 5.6%. Because the vast majority of NIC's revenues are transaction based, their backlog at quarter end was only $21 million. As Lynn noted, our bookings in the quarter were very robust at $464 million, up 50.1% and includes the transaction-based revenues of NIC. On an organic basis, bookings were strong at approximately $364 million, up 17.5%. For the trailing 12 months, bookings were approximately $1.3 billion, up 9.6%, and on an organic basis were approximately $1.2 billion, up 1.3%. Our software subscription bookings in the second quarter added $15 million in new annual recurring revenue. Cash from operations and free cash flow were both negative in the second quarter as Q2 included approximately $19 million of acquisition-related costs. In addition, cash from operations and free cash flow were negatively impacted by the timing of cash collections by NIC on behalf of government agencies prior to the close of the acquisition and remittances to the agencies post acquisition. This is purely a timing difference and will normalize in future quarters. Our balance sheet remains very strong. During the quarter, we paid down $185 million of the debt incurred under our revolver in connection with the acquisition. We ended the quarter with total outstanding debt of $1.565 billion and cash and investments of $380.9 million. Since the end of the quarter, we have repaid an additional $52 million on the revolver. And today, we have outstanding $1.513 billion of debt with a blended stated interest rate of 1.01%. We have raised our revenue and EPS guidance for the full year of 2021, which is as follows. We expect 2021 GAAP total revenues will be between $1.532 billion and $1.557 billion, and non-GAAP total revenues will be between $1.535 billion and $1.560 billion.We expect total revenues will include approximately $32 million of COVID-related revenues from NIC's TourHealth and pandemic unemployment services that are not expected to recur in future years. We expect 2021 GAAP diluted EPS will be between $3.68 and $3.81 and may vary significantly due to the impact of stock incentive awards on the GAAP effective tax rate. We expect 2021 non-GAAP diluted EPS will be between $6.70 and $6.80. Interest expense for the year is expected to be approximately $23 million and includes approximately $11 million of amortization of debt discounts and issuance costs. For the year, pre-tax noncash share-based compensation expense is expected to be approximately $102 million. We expect R&D expense for the year will be between $94 million and $96 million. Fully diluted shares for the year are expected to be between 42 million and 42.5 million shares. GAAP earnings per share assumes an estimated annual effective tax rate of negative 2% after discrete tax items and includes approximately $46 million of estimated discrete tax benefits related to share-based compensation, which may vary significantly based on the timing and volume of stock option exercises. Our estimated non-GAAP annual effective tax rate for 2021 is 24%. We expect our total capital expenditures will be between $48 million and $50 million for the year, including approximately $10 million related to real estate and approximately $22 million of capitalized software development costs. Total depreciation and amortization is expected to be approximately $126 million, including approximately $89 million of amortization of acquired intangibles. Now I'd like to turn the call back over to Lynn.H. Lynn Moore -- CEO, President & DirectorThanks, Brian. As you can see, our team of professionals, including our new team members at NIC, DataSpec and ReadySub, executed at a very high level in the second quarter, driving results that surpassed expectations. As I've said before, I'm extremely proud of how our team members have responded to the challenges in the last 1.5 years with incredible grit, grace and resilience. And we're proud that Tyler has recently been named a Best Place to Work by publications in Washington, D.C., Colorado and Mississippi, joining several other locations where Tyler has received similar awards. We've continued to invest in, and in some cases, accelerate, all of our long-term strategic initiatives, in particular, our shift to a cloud-first approach with a focus on optimizing our products for the cloud and transitioning SaaS deployments from Tyler data centers to AWS. As a result, our competitive position has also continued to strengthen. We continue to see indications that our market is returning to normal, as many delayed procurement processes are moving forward and new processes are starting. RFPs and sales activities such as demos are trending toward, and in some cases, exceeding pre-COVID levels. While not a significant factor in Q2, we expect that the $350 billion of aid to state and local governments and $167 billion of aid to schools under the American Rescue Plan Act will provide a significant measure of relief to budget pressures faced by many of our clients and prospects and potentially provide a tailwind over the next two to three years. With that, we'd like to open up the line for Q&A.