  OperatorGood day. and welcome to the Centene fourth quarter and fiscal year 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions]. Please note, today's event is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to Jennifer Gilligan, senior vice president, investor relations. Please go ahead, ma'am.Jennifer Gilligan -- Senior Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you, Rocco, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us on our fourth quarter 2021 earnings results conference call. Michael Neidorff, chairman and chief executive officer; Sarah London, vice chairman; Brent Layton, president and chief operating officer; and Drew Asher, executive vice president and chief financial officer of Centene, will host this morning's call, which also can be accessed through our website at centene.com. Any remarks that Centene may make about future expectations, plans, and prospects constitute forward-looking statements for the purpose of the safe harbor provision under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by those forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors, including those discussed in Centene's most recent Form 10-Q filed on October 26, 2021, and other public SEC filings, including the risks and uncertainties described with respect to the potential impact of COVID-19 on our business and results of operations. Centene anticipates that subsequent events and developments may cause its estimates to change. While the company may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so. The call will also refer to certain non-GAAP measures.A reconciliation of these measures with the most directly comparable GAAP measures can be found in our fourth quarter 2021 press release, which is available on the company's website under the investors section. With that, I would like to turn the call over to our chairman and CEO, Michael Neidorff. Michael?  