
OperatorGood day and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Brown-Forman Corporation Second Quarter and First Half Fiscal 2022 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers' presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Sue Perram, Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Sue Perram -- Director of Investor Relations

 



Thank you and good morning everyone. I would like to thank each of you for joining us today for Brown-Forman's second quarter and first half fiscal 2022 earnings call. Joining me today are Lawson Whiting, President and Chief Executive Officer and Leanne Cunningham, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.This morning's conference call contains forward-looking statements based on our current expectations. Numerous risks and uncertainties may cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or projected in these statements. Many of the factors that will determine future results are beyond the company's ability to control or predict. You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements and the company undertakes no obligation to update any of these statements whether due to new information, future events or otherwise.This morning, we issued a press release containing our results for the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2022 in addition to posting presentation materials that Lawson and Leanne will walk through momentarily. Both the release and the presentation can be found on our website under the section titled Investors Events and Presentations. In the press release, we have listed a number of the risk factors you should consider in conjunction with our forward-looking statements.Other significant risk factors are described in our Form 10-K and Form 10-Q reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. During this call, we will be discussing certain non-GAAP financial measures. These measures, a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and the reasons management believes they provide useful information to investors regarding the company's financial conditions and results of operations are contained in the press release and investor presentation.

 



With that, I would like to turn the call over to Lawson.Lawson E. Whiting -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Sue, and good morning everyone. I'm pleased to share our second quarter and first half of fiscal '22 results with you today. But before I do, we'll open up with a toast, a toast to the fact that after three and a half years, the U.S. and EU reached an agreement on trade in steel and aluminum and the EU will be removing tariffs on American Whiskey on January 1, 2022.The tariffs have been in place longer than I've been in this role and as such, it's been one of the most discussed topics of my tenure as CEO, having been a part of our conversations in the past 12 quarterly earnings calls, as well as the last three Annual Stockholder Meetings. It's been an exhausting and expensive chapter in the company's 151-year history as we've been so disproportionately impacted by the tariffs compared to our competitors. We've remained strong and resilient as an organization and I believe we are very well positioned to deliver solid growth in the short, in the medium and in the long term.

 



That said though, you can be certain that we look forward to the return of a level playing field for American Whiskey in the EU and hope a similar outcome can very soon be achieved between the U.S. and the U.K.So with that let's turn our attention to the other headlines of our first half. First, our top line growth remain strong, driven by the reopening of the on-premise channel, the return of tourism and the cycling of the lower comparisons during the first half of last year, most notably in the emerging markets and travel retail. Second, we really do have pretty significant optimism about the health of the spirits industry and our business in particular.We continue to see strong consumer demand across our portfolio brands and we're benefiting from consumers' increased preference for spirits and the sustained growth for both the American Whiskey and Tequila categories. Our portfolio, which consists largely of premium and super premium brands is also really benefiting from the continued premiumization trends across our industry.Our other major headline is that we continue to face challenges from the supply chain, largely related to glass supply, which has really impacted our finished goods inventories along with the inventories of both the distributor and retailer levels. This is a contributing factor to the difference in our reported and underlying results. While working to mitigate this impact, the supply chain challenges, along with higher input costs, mainly related to agave continue to pressure our gross margin. Liam is going to talk more about this in just a few minutes.I'll start with the top line, where our overall underlying net sales increased 12% in the first half even as supply chain disruptions had an adverse effect on the year-to-date results. This was led by a double-digit underlying net sales increase for the Jack Daniel's family of brands. Within the Jack family, Jack Daniel's Tennessee Whiskey fueled the growth with underlying net sales of plus 15%.First half of this fiscal year is benefiting from relatively easy comparisons as the prior year included a time period where the on-premise channel was largely closed around the world. On a two-year CAGR, Jack Daniel's Tennessee Whiskey grew underlying net sales 3%, which is similar to the low-single digit growth the brand delivered pre-pandemic.The consumer trends of flavor and convenience continue to drive the growth of the Jack Daniel's Flavors and Jack Daniel's RTDs. Higher volumes of Jack Daniel's Tennessee Honey, which just celebrated its 10th year in the market, as well as the continued international launch of Jack Daniel's Tennessee Apple contributed to high single-digit growth and underlying net sales for the Jack Daniel's Flavors. And Jack Daniel's RTDs grew underlying net sales mid-single digits in the first half of the fiscal year.Notably, this growth comes against difficult comparisons. On a two-year CAGR, the Jack Daniel's RTDs delivered 19% underlying net sales growth. So, overall, we believe consumer demand for RTDs remains very strong on a global basis. Woodford Reserve continued to benefit from premiumization trends, which were only amplified by the pandemic and the growth in the American Whiskey category. The brand again delivered double-digit underlying net sales growth despite supply chain challenges. We believe the underlying consumer momentum for Woodford Reserve remains incredibly strong.Our full strength Tequilas, Herradura and el Jimador continue to benefit from the strength of the tequila category and grew underlying net sales in the first half by 46% and 19% respectively. This increase more than offset a decline in New Mix, which is a reminder experienced exceptional growth in the first quarter of fiscal '21, driven by the temporary interruption in Mexico's beer supply chain.In addition, our emerging brands portfolio in the U.S. continued its momentum, growing strong double digits, even as it was cycling the strong double-digits comparison in the first half of last year. Old Forester, Chambord, our Single Malt Scotch portfolio and Fords Gin led this growth. We also strengthened our investment behind our emerging brands teams in several markets in Europe this past year.Based on our experience in the U.S., we know that super premium brands benefit from a high level of focus and we're seeing the benefit in Europe already as the Woodford Reserve family of brands, the single malt scotches, as well as our tequilas and Chambord have responded with very strong growth. I do think our portfolio of super premium brands, supported by a dedicated emerging brands team, offers the company a really big opportunity for growth internationally and we plan to be more aggressive in our expansion plans in the future.The key themes in the first half of this fiscal year are really about our focused efforts on driving top line momentum, but while absorbing the cost of the tariffs and significant increases in input costs, especially agave and wood and through it all we continue to invest in the long-term health of our brands. But thankfully, I do believe many of the headwinds we have faced are beginning to become tailwinds.The emphasis on long-term growth and performance is built into Brown-Forman's DNA. We're fortunate to have a shareholder base that understands the importance of making decisions today that will deliver value for the next generation. This long-term perspective is replicated time and time again in all that we do and is foundational to our business strategy, as well as our integrated environmental, social and governance commitments.We recently updated our global sustainability goals, which serve as a roadmap for advancing our sustainability efforts, reducing the company's environmental footprint and increasing our positive impact on the community and the environment. The goals were highlighted in our most recent Annual Report, but given the importance of the work, I wanted to call special attention to them today.The new sustainability goals center around really four pillars: climate action, specifically to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, water stewardship, circular economy and our supply chain. We recognize the increased importance for organizations like Brown-Forman to play a leading role in the environmental stewardship and look forward to sharing our progress against these goals in the years to come.In a moment, I'll hand the call over to Leanne, who will provide more details on our first half of fiscal '22 results as well as our recent capital allocation actions. But before I do, on behalf of the Brown-Forman Board of Directors and executive leadership team, I want to say thank you to the 4700 Brown-Forman employees around the globe, who give me a multitude of reasons to be thankful as we mark the end of another calendar year.As a company, we've lived our values of integrity, respect, trust, teamwork and excellence each and every time we've had headwinds and challenges come our way. The last few years have not been easy, but it has been a beautiful thing to watch how our teams have responded and produced solid business results. By living these values, our people have enabled our business to be resilient and I believe that because of our people, Brown Forman will get better year after year and continue to thrive for generations to come.Leanne, I'll now hand the call over to you.Leanne Cunningham -- Senior Vice President, Shareholder Relations OfficerThank you. Lawson and good morning everyone. As Lawson reviewed our headlines for the first half. I will provide additional details on our business results and our outlook for fiscal 2022 starting with the top line. Reported net sales were up 9% in the first half of the fiscal year compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. This growth was driven by favorable price mix, higher volumes and the positive effect of foreign exchange, partly offset by an estimated net decrease in distributor inventories and the effect of the sale of Early Times, Canadian Mist and Collingwood brands during the first half of fiscal 2021.The decrease in distributor inventory is primarily due to the supply chain disruptions Lawson mentioned and that I'll address in more detail momentarily. From an underlying net sales growth perspective, we experienced broad-based growth across all of our geographic clusters of the U.S., developed international markets and emerging markets, as well as our Travel Retail channel.Starting with the U.S. business, which represents approximately half of our underlying net sales, for the first half of fiscal 2022, underlying net sales grew 6% due to higher volumes, as well as positive size and channel mix, Jack Daniel's Tennessee Whiskey was the largest contributor to growth, fueled by higher volumes and a favorable channel mix shift with the reopening of the on-premise channel.Recent trends observed by mobility and OpenTable reflect a stabilization in the on-premise channel just below their pre-pandemic levels. Consumer premiumization trends continue to propel our premium bourbons led by Woodford Reserve and Old Forester, both with their strong double-digit underlying growth rates, along with strong consumer demand for our tequila brands, resulted in higher volumes of Herradura and el Jimador. This growth was partially offset by lower volumes in the off-premise channel due to strong prior-year comparisons.Supply chain disruptions, particularly for the Jack Daniel's Flavors and Woodford Reserve also had an adverse effect on our first half results and reduced inventory levels. These disruptions impacted our finished goods inventories, along with inventories at our distributors and retailers. In the e-premise channel, our market share remained slightly above 2% and well above pre-pandemic levels even as the on-premise channel reopened and consumers began to return to in-store shopping.Developed international markets collectively delivered strong underlying net sales growth up double digits in the first half with broad-based growth across the markets despite supply chain challenges. This growth was largely driven by the reopening of the on-premise as well as a rebound of tourism in some markets. The Jack Daniel's family of brands experienced strong growth driven by Jack Daniel's Tennessee Whiskey high single-digit volume growth led by markets such as Germany and the U.K. where the brand is gaining share. The brand also grew in Spain as tourism returns and Korea where whiskey consumption shifted to international brands.Jack Daniel's ready to drink experienced strong volume growth in Germany, where we continue to be a category leader and the U.K. These gains were partially offset by lower volumes in Australia due to strong prior-year comparisons. Jack Daniel's Tennessee Honey grew volume double digits fueled by gains in France, Czechia and Korea, and collectively the Jack Daniel's super premium brands Gentleman Jack and Jack Daniel's Single Barrel grew volume low-single digits as they were significantly impacted by supply chain challenges.In addition to the Jack Daniel's family, collectively our super premium brands delivered very strong double-digit underlying net sales growth. As Lawson mentioned, we continue to invest in these brands through our emerging brands group in Europe. Collectively, our emerging markets continue to rebound against easier comparisons with strong double-digit underlying net sales growth, driven by the growth of Jack Daniel's Tennessee Whiskey in Turkey, Brazil and Chile.They continued launch of Jack Daniel's Apple, most notably in Brazil and Chile and collectively our full strength tequila brands grew double-digits in Mexico as the down-trading trend shifted back toward premiumization, which more than offset the strong prior-year comparisons of New Mix RTDs. While New Mix is down year-over-year, the brand is performing above its pre-pandemic levels.And from an innovation perspective, we continue to innovate in the RTD category and recently launched el Jimador Seltzer in Mexico in October. Finally, our Travel Retail business continue to experience a strong rebound as we cycled against significant declines during the early days of the pandemic. Volumes continue to remain below their pre-pandemic levels as international airline travel and the cruise business have not fully recovered.Moving onto gross profit and gross margin. In the first half of the fiscal year, reported gross profit increased 9% with underlying growth of 12% in line with our underlying top line growth and gross margin was down 10 basis points year-over-year. This represents an improvement in gross margin in the second quarter compared to the same period last year. Consistent with last quarter, we continue to navigate the impacts of global supply chain disruptions and input cost headwinds.As we shared last quarter, our supply chain disruptions have largely been driven by glass supply constraints. While glass supply constraints have eased in the second quarter, they resulted in a decrease in our finished goods inventory, along with the inventories at both the distributor and retailer. These challenges have had a negative impact on our price mix in the first half of this fiscal year due to unfavorable product mix on our higher-margin brands including the Jack Daniel's family of brands as well as Woodford Reserve.And similar to many other CPG companies, we have also experienced higher than expected logistics cost. The input cost headwinds related to agave and commodity prices, largely grain and aluminum, also continued throughout the first half of the year. Consistent with our last call, greater demand of our tequila brands, driven by the continued growth in the U.S. and a faster than expected rebound in Mexico has required a greater supply of agave. As a reminder, agave costs are below their peak, though easing at a slower pace than expected due to the higher demand within the category.Turning to our operating expenses. We continue to support our top line momentum through our investments behind our iconic brands and our people. Our reported advertising expense increased 24% and on an underlying basis grew 23% in the first half as we lap the impact of the early stages of the pandemic when on-premise activations, consumer events, summer festivals and sponsorships were rescheduled or canceled.Reported SG&A expenses increased 10% with underlying growth of 8%, driven by the timing of compensation related expenses, non-income tax items and the cycling of lower discretionary spend during the same period last year due to COVID-19. In total, on a reported basis, operating income decreased 15%, largely driven by the effect of acquisitions and divestitures, primarily the gain on the sale of Early Times, Canadian Mist and Collingwood brands last year and the decrease in distributor inventories. And on an underlying basis, operating income grew 13% for the first half. The decrease in reported operating income combined with an increase in our effective tax rate resulted in a 24% decrease in diluted EPS to $0.89 per share.And finally to our fiscal 2022 outlook. Even with the volatility and potential resurgence of COVID-19 due to emerging variants, we remain confident in our top line growth momentum based on the continuing performance of our U.S. business, the collective strength of our developed markets, which performed well throughout the pandemic in the off-premise channel and should continue to benefit from the reopening of the on-premise channel and increasing levels in tourism.In the aggregate, we still expect strong growth in our emerging international markets, as well as Travel Retail as we cycle the effect of easier comparisons and they continue their path to recovery. And further. We do not expect our non-core business mainly used barrel sales to have a material impact on our results this year. We also believe our portfolio remains well positioned to continue to benefit from growing premiumization trends.Additionally, as we mentioned last quarter, given the strength of our brands, we are able to focus on value growth through revenue growth management initiatives and have increased price on a number of our brands in the U.S., including Jack Daniel's. We believe our ability to take price reflects the health and the investments we are making behind our brands as well as a more favorable pricing environment. Based on our strong results in the first half of the fiscal year, coupled with solid consumer takeaway trends, we now expect underlying net sales to grow in the high single-digit range.Turning to gross margin. We continue to manage through the unfavorable impact of global supply chain disruptions and have deployed a number of risk mitigation strategies to address the various constraints on our business. While we expect these disruptions to continue throughout the remainder of the fiscal year, we believe the impact will become less significant in the second half of the year. We believe this along with persistent cost headwinds related to agave, logistics cost and commodity prices will continue to have a negative impact on our gross margin.We also believe we will have a modest impact from the removal of tariffs in the EU. The tariffs are scheduled to end on January 1, 2022. Therefore, the impact to the full year fiscal 2022 will be minimal, but it will be a tailwind. As a result of these factors, we still expect gross margin for the fiscal year to be flat or slightly down.The spirits category continues to take share from beer and wine and we will continue to invest behind our brands to ensure we optimize our opportunity to gain share in the market. We expect underlying advertising expense to be in line with top line growth, which is consistent with our long-term philosophy. We also remain committed to supporting our various strategic initiatives including our three new RTCs of Russia, Belgium and Taiwan, the continued expansion of our emerging brands team in select international markets and the increased investment in our digital marketing and e-commerce capabilities.Therefore, we now expect our underlying operating expenses, advertising and SG&A to be in the high single-digit range. And we now expect our underlying operating income to grow in the high single-digit range in line to slightly below underlying net sales growth. Lastly, we continue to expect our fiscal 2022 effective tax rate to be in the range of about 22% to 23%. As a reminder, the seasonality of our results are expected to be volatile for the remainder of the year, particularly our operating income as a result of unusual comparisons in our prior year.Before I conclude my remarks, I wanted to briefly highlight our long-standing capital allocation philosophy that has produced strong results for our investors and allowed us to maintain a healthy balance sheet. As I shared during our Investor Day in September, our four guiding principles are: first to fully invest behind our business, second to pay increasing regular dividends, third to opportunistically look for acquisitions that we believe create long-term value, and finally to seek opportunities to return cash to shareholders in excess of regular dividends.Throughout the pandemic, we thoughtfully and judiciously prioritized, managed and allocated capital and emerged with an even stronger balance sheet. As we announced on November 18th, the Brown-Forman's Board of Directors approved a 5% increase in the regular quarterly cash dividend. We are proud to be a member of the prestigious S&P 500 Dividend Aristocrats Index having paid regular quarterly cash dividends for 78 consecutive years and increased the regular dividend for 38 consecutive years.In addition, Brown-Forman's Board of Directors declared a special cash dividend of $1 per share or approximately $480 million on our Class A and Class B common stock. We firmly believe our capital allocation philosophy, coupled with our strategic priorities, will continue to drive superior returns over the long term. In summary, we are pleased with the strong first half of the fiscal year. We are able to share these results today because of the strength of our brands and the commitment of our people, the strong and talented spirits that make up Brown-Forman.Over the last 20 months, our employees around the world have demonstrated the same high level of agility and resilience that we've seen exemplified throughout the course of our 151-year history. They have shown us once again that we can continue to build our brands, achieve our strategic ambitions and thrive in the long term even under challenging conditions, all it requires is determination, perseverance and a commitment to ensuring there is nothing better in the market than Brown-Forman.This concludes our prepared remarks. Please open the line for questions.