
OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Amcor 2021 Full Year Results. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Tracey Whitehead, Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Tracey Whitehead -- Head of Investor Relations

 



Thank you, operator, and thank you everyone for joining Amcor's full year call for fiscal 2021. Joining the call today is Ron Delia, Chief Executive Officer; and Michael Casamento, Chief Financial Officer.At this time, I'll direct you to our website amcor.com under the Investors section where you'll find our press release and presentation, which will be discussed on the call today. We'll also discuss non-GAAP financial measures and related reconciliations can be found in the press release and presentation on our website.Also I'll remind you that the call today includes some forward-looking statements, which remains subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Please refer to Amcor's SEC filings, including our statements on Form 10-K and 10-Q, to review factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from what we are discussing today.During the question-and-answer session, we request that participants limit their questions to a maximum of two, and then rejoin the queue for any follow-ups.

 



With that, I will turn over to Ron.Ron Delia -- Managing Director and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Tracy, and thanks everyone for joining us to discuss Amcor's fiscal 2021 full year results. Joining me today, as Tracey mentioned, is Michael Casamento, Amcor's Chief Financial Officer. We'll begin with some prepared remarks and then we'll open the line for Q&A.We start every meeting at Amcor with safety and we'll begin there on Slide 3. Safety is the first and most important of our values and Amcor has been on a long-term journey toward our goal of no injuries. Our safety performance has shown continued improvement, including in the last 12 months, where our performance has been a real highlight. Across Amcor, we reduced the number of injuries by almost 25% compared to last year. All of our businesses reported fewer injuries, and over half of our sites have remained injury free for at least 12 months. And through a year where the pandemic continued to present operational challenges in many countries, our focus on safety was unwavering and we're incredibly grateful that our people continue to be engaged and focused on staying healthy as well as safe. We're proud of our safety performance, which we believe is the best in our industry, and the progress we've made over a number of years, but we're also convinced that our objective of no injuries is absolutely possible and we continue striving toward that goal.

 



We have four key messages today, which is set out on Slide 4.First, FY '21 was an outstanding year for Amcor on multiple dimensions. The operating environment remained highly dynamic, but our team stayed fully focused on the key business drivers within our control, remained agile as conditions changed, and demonstrated exceptional execution and consistency all year.Financial results exceeded our expectations as the year progressed. We ended the year with momentum and we expect another strong year in fiscal '22, which is the second key message.Third, our recent performance in many ways is a result of the financial and strategic benefits from our 2019 acquisition of Bemis. Two years on, the integration is now essentially complete. The financial benefits are ahead of our expectations and strategically, we're better positioned than ever with a stronger foundation for growth into the future.And lastly, we're capitalizing on that strong base by investing in a number of organic growth initiatives, which will maintain our momentum beyond fiscal '22 and for the long term.Turning now to the financial highlights on Slide 5. FY '21 was an exceptional year financially for Amcor with record earnings, exceptional margin management, despite steep raw material cost increases and supply constraints, and momentum building through the year.Organic sales growth was 2% and we exited the year in Q4 with sales 3% higher than the prior year.EBIT growth was 8% with the Flexibles and Rigid Packaging segments both delivering strong results, growing in several higher value end markets and contributing to margin expansion. In fiscal '21, Amcor's EBIT margins increased 60 basis points to reach 12.6% for the year, which is a new high and an exceptional achievement in an environment where raw material price increases and supply disruptions continue to require an intense focus on securing availability, as well as managing price recovery. We estimate Bemis acquisition synergies were around $75 million and as we close out the final integration activities, we expect to exceed the original synergy target by at least 10%.EPS increased 16% for the year and was ahead of guidance, which we were able to continuously increase through the year.And free cash flow of $1.1 billion was at the top of our expected range.Return on capital or return on average funds employed finished well above 15% at a time when our cost of capital is at an all-time low. And through the year, we returned $1.1 billion of cash to shareholders through share repurchases and higher dividends.The key message here is that the fundamentals of our business continue to strengthen; our teams around the world have demonstrated unwavering focus on executing against our strategy; and as a result, we've delivered another year of outstanding financial performance with momentum continuing to build as we begin fiscal '22.I'll turn it over now to Michael to provide some more detail on the financial results and I'll finish up with some comments on growth and sustainability.Michael Casamento -- Executive Vice President, Finance, and Chief Finance OfficerThanks, Ron, and good morning and good evening, everyone.I'll start with the Flexibles segment on Slide 6, which performed very well, delivering record sales, EBIT and EBIT margins for the year.Sales includes recovery of higher raw material costs, and as Ron mentioned earlier, these have continued to move higher during the quarter. Across the business, our response has been proactive and we have implemented price increases quickly. As a result, in the June quarter, net sales increased by more than $100 million, with the annual recovery run rate reaching more than $500 million as we exited the year.From an earnings perspective and consistent with last quarter, the price cost impact has remained manageable, given the diversity of materials we buy and the multiple regions in which we consume those materials. This is clearly evident in our margin performance which continued expanding in Q4 and through the year.From a volume perspective, demand in many of our key high value end markets has remained consistently strong, including meat, coffee and pet food. However, this has been offset by double-digit declines in North America medical volumes and European pharmaceutical volumes, driven by fewer elective surgeries and lower prescription trends.From a geographic perspective, volume growth has been relatively broad based with good overall performance in emerging markets. And while volumes in North America were higher than the prior year, along with Europe, this is where large parts of our healthcare business are located and growth in these regions is inclusive of those headwinds.Adjusted EBIT has grown 9% in constant currency terms, mainly reflecting volume growth, exceptional margin management with expansion delivered every quarter, and around $65 million of cost synergy benefits related to the Bemis acquisition.Turning to Rigid Packaging on Slide 7. In summary, the business has continued to deliver outstanding results, driven by an increasing consumer demand in both North and Latin America.Sales growth included a 5% increase in volume as well as a 3% price/mix benefit, including higher pricing to recover cost inflation in Latin America.In North America, annual beverage volumes were 8% higher than last year and hot-fill container volumes were up 13%, driven by rising demand through the year, which resulted in capacity shortages and historically low inventory levels across the industry. Demand was particularly strong in hot-fill categories, including sports drinks, ready-to-drink tea and juice. Year-to-date specialty container volumes were higher than the prior period with growth in categories including spirits, home and personal care, and this was partly offset by lower volumes in the healthcare segment.Volumes in Latin America were 5% higher than last year with growth delivered in Brazil and Argentina, in particular.EBIT growth of 8% reflects higher volumes and favorable mix across the business, and this was partly offset by higher labor and transportation costs in North America. These higher costs have been a direct result of capacity shortages and low inventories throughout our network, which introduced supply chain inefficiencies in the short term ahead of installing additional capacity.Rigid containers continues to be one of the world's preferred packaging formats since its recyclable, resealable and hygienic, and has the lowest carbon footprint. As you'll see on the slide, this preference continues to be reflected over time, holding that share in a healthy growing market, remaining consistent.Demand for recycled content is also rising rapidly and our use of recycled resin has doubled over the last two years. Looking forward, we expect this trend to accelerate further and are working with customers on a very active pipeline of new product launches, incorporating high levels of recycled material.Moving to Slide 8.Adjusted free cash flow of $1.1 billion was at the upper end of our expected range for the year and we finished the year strongly. Compared with last year, free cash flow benefited from the higher flow-through of higher earnings, and this was offset by $100 million adverse impact from the timing of US cash tax payments and a lower working capital benefit. Working capital has been an area we have been particularly focused on through the Bemis integration and is a real highlight. In total, since 2019, approximately $250 million of working capital has been release and this has been a source of funds to cover synergy-related cash costs.Capital expenditure increased in the current year as we have stepped up our organic investments in high-growth segments and geographies. Looking ahead, we have a broad range of attractive investment opportunities and expect to increase capex by further 10% to 15% in fiscal 2022.Our financial profile is solid with leverage of 2.7 times on a trailing 12 month EBITDA basis and is right in line with our expectations.With strong annual cash flow and a strong balance sheet, the business has significant capacity and flexibility to invest in organic growth, execute M&A, as well as return a substantial amount of cash to shareholders. In fiscal '21, total cash returns to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases reached an impressive $1.1 billion.Turning to Slide 9 and our outlook for the 2022 fiscal year.We expect comparable constant-currency EPS growth of 7% to 11% for the full year. This excludes the effect of disposed businesses, which impact comparability and an unfavorable currency impact of approximately $0.01 per share assuming current exchange rates prevail for the remainder of the year. So, on a reported basis, this results in an EPS guidance range of approximately $0.79 to $0.81 per share.Free cash flow is expected to be $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion, up to 10% higher than fiscal 2021, even as we are accelerating capital investments to support organic growth. Growing cash flow enables us to continue paying a compelling and growing dividend and allocate cash to share purchases, which we expect to be around $400 million in fiscal '22 while retaining the flexibility to fund acquisitive growth when needed.So with that, I'll hand back to Ron.Ron Delia -- Managing Director and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Michael.I'll start with a few points to recap the Bemis acquisition on Slide 10. The all-stock acquisition of Bemis was completed in June 2019 and was the largest in Amcor's history. So two years in now our integration efforts are essentially complete and the outcomes are clearly exceeding our original expectations.Firstly, from a financial perspective, the transaction unlocked substantial value through the realization of cost and cash flow synergies, which have materially strengthened Amcor's financial profile. More specifically, based on our fiscal '22 expectations over the three-year period post closing the acquisition, we will have outperformed the original cost synergy target of $180 million by at least 10%, and as Michael mentioned, the cash released from working capital over the last two years funded the cash costs to achieve those synergies.Margins in our Flexible segment will be more than 200 basis points higher than in fiscal 2019. EPS will be at least 35% higher or at least $0.21 per share. We will have repurchased approximately 25% of the shares issued to fund the acquisition. And the annual cash flow will be close to double Amcor's annual cash flow in the year prior to the acquisition.Strategically, Bemis was a perfect fit for Amcor. It was a pure play coming into what was already the world's largest global flexible packaging business. And putting these two companies together created the only truly global flexible packaging platform, able to serve multi-national customers around the world with an even stronger value proposition, especially in the most attractive end markets like healthcare and protein where our participation has meaningfully increased. Amcor is now the clear flexible packaging leader in every major geography with greater absolute and relative scale advantages, and we've strengthened our talent and capabilities, particularly in R&D, so we can support large and small customers with the broadest range of innovative and sustainable packaging solutions. Today as a result of the Bemis acquisition, we're better positioned than ever with a strong foundation for growth looking forward.With that stronger foundation, we have a range of organic growth drivers that we're investing behind, and on Slide 11, we've highlighted a few.First, an increasing percentage of our sales are coming from the most attractive higher growth, higher value added segments, where we have the best opportunities to differentiate, including healthcare, and protein packaging in Flexibles, and the hot-fill product segment in Rigids. Our global healthcare business is approaching $2 billion in sales across medical device and pharmaceutical packaging, segments that requires unique capabilities that are not easy to replicate. We're investing to add both capacity and capability with current projects underway in Malaysia and Ireland to highlight two examples. In protein and meat packaging, we have a great opportunity to leverage our capabilities in high barrier films and our growing business in North America to the benefit of our other businesses around the world. In the hot-fill Rigid Packaging segment, we have extensive intellectual property and product design capabilities and we now partner with customers to help them drive growth through innovation. Given the sold-out environment we're in and the growth outlook, we're adding capacity across our North American plant network.Second, organic growth driver we're highlighting today is our leading emerging markets portfolio with over $3 billion in annual sales and a long history of profitable growth. Again, we're investing behind the emerging market opportunity, including in the new greenfield plant in China that we highlighted on our last call.And third, innovation and new product development will increasingly contribute to organic growth going forward. We've been investing in this area as well to extend our global innovation center network into Europe and China through the recently announced partnership with Michigan State University School of Packaging and with our entry into the corporate venturing space earlier this year.And finally, the number one organic growth driver for Amcor going forward, which cuts across the other three and really everything else we do, will be the increasing need for more sustainable packaging. And we know there will always be a role for packaging for essential food and healthcare products, and so the ability to provide that packaging so that it meets all consumer needs and is more sustainable creates a unique opportunity for growth.Slide 12 highlights sustainability a bit more. And as we take stock at the end of one financial year and start a new one, we are particularly pleased with the progress we're making to accelerate responsible packaging through advances in packaged design, waste management infrastructure, and consumer participation. Examples of recent progress on package design demonstrate the breadth of our product range across substrates with packaging that uses less material overall and more recycled content, eliminates problematic materials and end-of-life profile.In terms of materials, our use of recycled resin in Rigid Packaging has almost doubled over the last two years and we expect to almost double again over the next 12 to 18 months. We've also announced our new AmSky platform, which eliminates PVC, and has the potential to transform the sustainability profile of healthcare packaging in particular. To improve end-of-life outcomes, we've commercialized several new recycle-ready product platforms, including the polymer based AmLite and AmPrima, and the paper-based Matrix product ranges, and we've entered into a new partnership to extend our offering of compostable solutions. Demand is growing for these new products and we'll be scaling up to capture the growth opportunity.Making progress on waste managing infrastructure and consumer participation will be equally important and both require close collaboration with others across the value chain. We've stepped up that collaboration over the past year through our partnership network where Amcor is increasingly relied upon to shape and established packaging design standards around the world, which can then inform infrastructure investment and consumer education to help keep packaging out of the environment. We'll talk more about our sustainability agenda following the publication of our annual sustainability report later this year.Slide 13 is a slide we shared late last year at our Investor Briefing, but it remains relevant today. And we believe the Amcor investment case is as strong now as ever and we set out the reasons why in this slide. Several of the points have already been made, but in simple terms, we generate significant and growing free cash flow every year. In fiscal '22, that free cash flow will be up to $1.2 billion, and that cash flow will comfortably support reinvestment in the business, as well as M&A and regular share repurchases, which in turn drive strong EPS growth. And in addition, we will continue to pay an attractive and growing dividend. We also believe that momentum matters and momentum has been building at Amcor, which is clear from our recent performance and outlook [Technical Issues] we have for our fiscal 2022 year.And finally, on Slide 14, a quick recap of our key messages from today. Amcor had an outstanding year in FY '21. We believe momentum is building and we expect another strong year in FY '22. The Bemis integration is essentially complete and we've summarized the outcomes today, which have exceeded our expectations. And finally, we now look forward to capitalizing on a range of organic growth drivers, and we're investing in the business to make that happen.With that operator, we'll conclude our opening remarks and we'd like to open the line for questions.