  OperatorGood morning and welcome to the Match Group fourth quarter 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] Please note, this event is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to Bill Archer, head of investor relations and corporate development. Please go ahead.Bill Archer -- Head of Investor Relations and Corporate Development Thank you, operator and good morning, everyone. Today's call will be led by CEO, Shar Dubey; and CFO and COO, Gary Swidler. They will make a few brief remarks and then we'll open it up for questions. Before we start, I need to remind everyone that during this call, we may discuss our outlook and future performance.

 



 These forward-looking statements may be preceded by words such as we expect, we believe, we anticipate or similar statements. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and our actual results could differ materially from the views expressed today. Some of these risks have been set forth in our earnings release and our periodic reports filed with the SEC. With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Shar.Shar Dubey -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Bill. Good morning and thank you, all for joining the call today. You know, this past year has been remarkable for Match Group in many ways, even though the broader world has been a bit disorienting at times. And as much as we'd hope to be done with COVID in 2021, the recent omicron surge is a reminder that we aren't quite at the end yet, although I sure hope we're close. So our business grew 25% in revenue despite the waves of delta and more recently, omicron. And this latest omicron surge has impacted peak season behaviors and dating sentiment in parts of the world. And because these surges have had varying effects on our business, I thought I would start by sort of level-setting where our business is in the context of the pandemic. So if you recall, back in 2020, in the early days of the pandemic, our business took a hit during the global lockdowns and it then stabilized by late spring.

 



 And at that time, both user activity and propensity to pay slowly recovered. And as we've dealt with different waves of COVID since, usually, the mobility restrictions are generally impacted dating activity. And now fast forward two years, while much of the Western markets including the U.S. are seeing less and less impact to activity and propensity to pay with these ongoing surges, several markets, particularly in Asia, are still disproportionately impacted. Japan, for instance, has now dealt with three periods of state of emergency last year, all of which have had a meaningful impact to mobility and general dating sentiment. And there seems to be a glimmer of hope after that last one was lifted. But again, omicron has them back in a quasi state of emergency at least until February 20. And all of this has led to a level of anxiety and fatigue, particularly in these winter months and we're seeing the effects of this in Japan and parts of Asia. Now, beyond these geographic differences, as we've said before a few times, while active online daters and propensity to metrics have largely recovered in Western markets, there is still a hesitancy among new users who have never tried dating apps before to break into the category. Now these are usually largely driven by word of mouth and that, of course, depends on normal levels of socializing, which hasn't yet happened. And if you've resisted online dating until now, the pandemic hardly seems the right time to start. So this past year, we have seen periodic uptakes in new entrants when COVID is not dominating the news cycle. But by and large, that has not fully recovered in a sustained way. So unlike categories like, say, online groceries, for instance, where pandemic pulled forward new users, for us, nonusers breaking into the category, even at a normal cadence, is still to come. And we feel optimistic that if omicron truly is what causes the shift from a pandemic to endemic and if things do indeed return to more normal in spring and summer, we are well positioned to be able to capitalize on it. We've made a significant progress in building out our portfolio of products that appeal to different demographics and intent.

 



 We've innovated on many pain points, everything from trust and safety to more authentic discovery and getting to know each other experiences. We've been disciplined and measured in our marketing efforts given the macro climate, but we're ready with several creative and optimistic campaigns to reenergize dating sentiment as soon as we are in a new post-pandemic normal. Romance and love maybe just the thing that shakes us out of this collective malaise. Now, Tinder beyond a 22% revenue growth in 2021, Tinder released its biggest update since the invention of the Swipe feature and this was the launch of Tinder Explore. Explore provides Tinder with additional flexibility to expand use cases to more dimensions of discovery and social live experiences. Explore enhances responsiveness, offers surface and opportunity for regionally tailored experiences, has exciting media, video dating hybrids such as Swipe Night, wedding dates, concert festival mode and it's clearly had a productive start with almost 70% of users adopting this experience. The 2022 road map has many more enhancements planned, along with new monetization opportunities later in the year. Hinge. Hinge has had an impressive year where they more than doubled revenue. They're also seeing a strong start to 2022 in markets they've been around at, like the U.K. and Australia. And the Voice Prompts feature they launched late last year has really resonated with users, not to mention the social virality this have seen. Turns out people's life goals, dating styles and their best dad jokes are both entertaining and insightful. Our 2022 plan for Hinge, to expand internationally beyond English-speaking markets, remains intact. We're also making progress at Hyperconnect and stabilizing the core business and we plan to return them to growth later this year. They have recently launched a Azar lounge, their live streaming feature and Hakuna city, their interactive and immersive new discovery experience. And they continue to experiment with metaverse elements, both in dating and social discovery context. We've also successfully integrated Hyperconnect's live video and audio tech on a couple of our platforms. And the teams are making progress, enabling our other brands to leverage their technology more broadly to build new immersive discovery and live experiences. While much remains to be done at Hyperconnect, we're actually very confident it is on the right track and it is pushing us forward in a number of areas that are critical to our long-term growth. As I reflect on last year, what jumps out to me has been ability to find opportunities in the face of uncertainty. And despite this latest omicron surge and all the uncertainty it may create over the next couple of months, I am hopeful about 2022. How we're going to use technology and innovate product experiences, tell our story with ever more creative marketing and most importantly, profoundly change many more lives around the world. And with that, I will hand it over to Gary to provide some color on the quarter and the full year.Gary Swidler -- Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer Thanks, Shar. We had a strong Q4 with total revenue of $806 million, up 24% year over year. In the quarter, the U.S. dollar strengthened meaningfully against a number of global currencies, including the euro and the yen, which led to $12 million of year-over-year FX headwinds, excluding Hyperconnect. On an FX-neutral basis, total revenue would have been $818 million, up 26% year over year. We did not anticipate about $9 million of FX headwind when we provided our outlook in early November. Our direct revenue grew 24% year over year. It grew 21% in the Americas, an acceleration from last quarter, 16% in Europe and 46% in APAC and other. We did feel some COVID impacts on our business, particularly from the emergence of the omicron variant, which severely reduced mobility in a number of markets starting in December. COVID continues to be a meaningful overhang on our Japanese business and in certain other markets. Total payers were 16.2 million, an increase of 15% from the prior-year quarter. Growth was strong in all geographies, up 10% year over year in both the Americas and Europe and 36% in APAC and other, which was aided by the acquisition of Hyperconnect. RPP was up 8% year over year to $16.16 in Q4. RPP was up a solid 10% in the Americas, 6% in Europe and 7% in APAC and other. Tinder performed strongly in the quarter, delivering direct revenue of $444 million, up 23% year over year, an acceleration over Q3's rate. Tinder had payers growth of 18% year over year, adding 1.6 million payers to 10.6 million and RPP growth of 4% year over year in the quarter. Tinder Platinum subscribers comprised approximately 13% of total Tinder subscribers, exceeding 1 million in aggregate. Tinder active user growth continues to be strong, with the brand achieving a record number of active users on its platform globally in 2021. Engagement on the platform also continues to be robust with several KPIs such as daily swipes and messages at or near all-time highs in Q4. All other brands grew direct revenue 26% year over year in Q4, driven by 16% RPP growth and 9% payers growth. Hinge was the standout among this group, growing direct revenue approximately 90% year over year, driven by RPP growth of 60% to nearly $24 and reaching about 850,000 payers. BLK, Chispa and Upward in aggregate grew direct revenue over 70% year over year in Q4. Hyperconnect contributed about $50 million of total revenue in the quarter. The business saw improved performance in December compared to preceding months. It was also significantly impacted in the quarter by FX, especially against the Turkish lira as Turkey is a large market for Hyperconnect. Indirect revenue reached $18 million, the highest ever in the quarter, up 12% year over year. This was off a very strong Q4 2020. Q4 operating income grew 9% year over year to $232 million for margins of 29% and adjusted operating income, which we formally called adjusted EBITDA, grew 18% year over year to $290 million for margins of 36%. Adjusted operating income margins would have been 2.5 points higher, excluding Hyperconnect. Overall expenses, including SBC expense, grew 31% year over year in Q4, with slightly less than half of the total increase resulting from the acquisition of Hyperconnect. Excluding the impact of Hyperconnect, cost of revenue grew 21% year over year, primarily due to higher IAP fees and represented 28% of total revenue. Sales and marketing spend, excluding Hyperconnect, decreased $12 million as we pulled back marketing spend across our portfolio to maintain our ROI discipline in a crowded holiday marketing environment. That did have some impact on payers, especially in our marketing-heavy brands like Match. Sales and marketing spend was down five points year over year as a percentage of total revenue to 16%. G&A expense, excluding Hyperconnect, rose 38% year over year, primarily due to an increase in legal fees. G&A comprised 14% of revenue, up 2 points or $28 million year over year. G&A was less than we had anticipated as the former Tinder employee litigation came to a conclusion on December 1. Product development costs, excluding Hyperconnect, grew 31% year over year and were 8% of revenue as we increased headcount at several brands, primarily Tinder. Our gross leverage declined to 3.7 times trailing adjusted operating income and our net leverage was 2.9 times at the end of Q4, achieving the target of below three times that we set at the time of our separation. We ended the quarter with $827 million of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments on hand. We have agreed to pay $441 million to settle the former Tinder employee litigation and all related claims and arbitrations. We expect to pay this amount from cash on hand in Q1 2022. For full year 2022, we expect the company to deliver 15% to 20% year-over-year growth, driven by another strong year for both Tinder, where we expect high-teens year-over-year growth and Hinge. Our outlook includes approximately $85 million of negative year-over-year FX impacts on total revenue. That's approximately $60 million worse than what we expected at the time of our last earnings call in early November, which is about 2 points of growth. In addition to the FX impact, our revenue growth outlook is more conservative than what we shared in early November due to continued COVID impact, especially in Asia and particularly the rise of the omicron variant, which is impacting us in the early goings of 2022. Keep in mind that we have a global business. And while we may be getting ready to move past omicron in the U.S. and Europe, Asia still has to get through that period. So we expect our performance will continue to be somewhat impacted likely until sometime in Q2. In aggregate, our '22 revenue outlook has been reduced by about three points of growth since November due to the FX and COVID impacts. Our revenue outlook for 2022 also assumes momentum builds in the second half of the year. There remains much uncertainty about what happens next with the pandemic, but we have increased confidence that while the first part of 2022 may be tougher than we initially anticipated, the second half could be stronger. We're hopeful that once we get past the effects of omicron, we could even have that summer of love that we had expected back in 2021 after the vaccines were introduced. We expect overall company margins to be roughly flat, inclusive of Hyperconnect, which we expect to be better than breakeven in 2022. For the full year, we expect 50 to 100 basis points of margin improvement, excluding Hyperconnect, as we incur lower year-over-year legal expenses and lower fees on Google subscriptions, which we plan to partially reinvest in safety and CSR initiatives as well as higher employee costs given the ongoing war for talent. Note that despite Google's recent fee cut, which covered only subscription revenue, we actually expect to pay a greater percentage of our revenue to the App Stores in 2022 than in 2021 as more of our users come in via app. For instance, on our fast-growing Hinge app, most payers use iOS and we pay a full 30% on that revenue. Our margin outlook reflects current App Store policies. Our outlook includes over $650 million of App Store fees in 2022, primarily to Apple. Our outlook does not include implementation of Google's previously announced requirement of mandatory use of its payment system starting in April 2022. Were that to happen, we'd incur approximately $50 million of additional costs for the remainder of the year. Even though we're unable to forecast further change in App Store policies at this time, we remain optimistic that more changes to the App Store ecosystem are likely and we will continue to update you. For full year 2022, we expect SBC expense of $175 million to $185 million, reflecting additional hiring and the continued competitive market for talent. Capex of approximately $70 million, about $10 million lower than in 2021 and adjusted operating income to free cash flow conversion of approximately 80%, excluding the $441 million legal settlement. We do not expect to be a material U.S. federal cash taxpayer in 2022. We have an initiative underway in countries where Tinder still offers age-based discounts to eliminate these discounts. These changes, which have begun in earnest in Q1, will impact Tinder payers beginning in Q1, but we expect these changes to be revenue neutral. For Q1, we expect total revenue for Match Group of $790 million to $800 million, which will represent 18% to 20% year-over-year growth. We expect this to be driven by year-over-year payers growth in the low to mid-teens and year-over-year RPP growth in the mid-single digits, as is typical for us. However, the effects from omicron could shift these metrics somewhat. We anticipate about $25 million of year-over-year FX headwinds in Q1, meaning that growth would be more than four points higher on an FX-neutral basis. We expect Tinder's year-over-year direct revenue growth to be in the high teens in Q1 and that Hinge will remain on its growth trajectory and deliver direct revenue growth over 70% year over year in Q1. We anticipate that Hyperconnect will deliver revenue in Q1 at similar levels to Q4 '21. We expect adjusted operating income of $260 million to $265 million in Q1, representing margins in the low-30s percent range, typical for a first quarter for us despite about two and a half points of pressure from adding Hyperconnect. Our company has all the ingredients to continue to deliver on our mission of helping people make meaningful connections through our technology. Tinder has an exciting product road map and a growing global user base to continue to convert. Hinge's product continues to gain traction and the business has meaningful opportunities ahead, including in many international markets. There is so much we can do with Hyperconnect, not only deploy their video and audio tech capabilities across our apps, but have them help us build exciting new metaverse dating apps and immersive user experiences, which we can potentially make use of across our portfolio. Our financial performance is strong with room to grow already best-in-class margins and potential App Store reform benefits. We strongly believe that the next phase of our business is going to be very exciting. With that, I'll ask the operator to open the line for questions. 