  OperatorHello, and welcome to Broadcom, Inc. fourth quarter and fiscal year 2021 financial results conference call. At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I will turn the call over to Ji Yoo, director of investor relations of Broadcom, Inc. You may begin.Ji Yoo -- Director of Investor Relations Thank you, operator, and good afternoon, everyone. Joining me on today's call are Hock Tan, president, and CEO; Kirsten Spears, chief financial officer; Tom Krause, president, Broadcom Software Group; and Charlie Kawwas, chief operating officer. Broadcom also distributed a press release and financial tables after the market closed, describing our financial performance for the fourth quarter and fiscal year 2021. If you did not receive a copy, you may obtain the information from the Investors section of Broadcom's website at broadcom.com.

 



 This conference call is being webcast live, and a recording will be available via telephone playback for one week. It will also be archived in the Investors section of our website at broadcom.com. During the prepared comments, Hock and Kirsten will be providing details of our fourth quarter and fiscal year 2021 results, guidance for our first quarter, as well as commentary regarding the business environment. We'll take questions after the end of our prepared comments.Please refer to our press release today and our recent filings with the SEC for information on the specific risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made on this call. In addition to U.S. GAAP reporting, Broadcom reports certain financial measures on a non-GAAP basis. A reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP measures is included in the tables attached to today's press release. Comments made during today's call will primarily refer to our non-GAAP financial results. I'll now turn the call over to Hock. Hock Tan -- President and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thank you, Ji, and thank you, everyone, for joining us today. So, in the environment we have today, enterprise demand rebounded sharply over 30% year on year. Hyper-cloud and service provider demand continued to be strong, and strong wireless growth in Q4 was driven by the seasonal launch of next-generation smartphones by our North American OEM. Meanwhile, our core software business continues to be steady with a focus on strategic customers. On the supply side, our lead times remain extended and stable. Inventory in our channels and at our customers remains very lean. Accordingly, in Q4, semiconductor solutions revenue grew 17% year on year to $5.6 billion, and with infrastructure software revenue growing 8% year on year to $1.8 billion. Consolidated net revenue was a record $7.4 billion, up 15% year on year. Let me now provide more color by end markets. Let's start with networking. Networking revenue of $1.9 billion was up 13% year on year, in line with our forecast for low double-digit growth, and represented 34% of our semiconductor revenue. Double-digit year-on-year growth was primarily driven by strong demand from campus switching, both from our merchant silicon, as well as ASIC solutions through OEMs like Cisco and HP. We also experienced similar double-digit growth with the deployment of Jericho routers within large-scale AI networks in the cloud, as well as Qumran in 5G infrastructure and DCI. Our unique capability here to deliver ultra-low latency Ethernet networks enables large-scale deployment of AI compute for the cloud. Meanwhile, in the core of these large data centers, we have begun to ramp Trident 4 and Tomahawk 4, the world's first 25.6 terabit per second switch to several hyperscale cloud customers as they address their ever-growing need for bandwidth demand in scaling out their massive data centers. Now within hyperscale cloud, we continue to lead in delivering ASIC silicon for multiple compute offload accelerators, which has manifested into being 20% of our networking revenue, expect continued growth in the next fiscal year here to over $2 billion.

 



 The key to our success here aligns with our robust design methodology, which integrates a broad and substantial silicon IP and rapidly delivers world-class customized silicon SoCs to enable AI, virtualization, orchestration, video transcoding, and security. We have now extended our footprint here beyond TPUs and multiple cloud customers. In Q1, networking is firing on all cylinders, and we expect networking revenue growth to accelerate to close to 30% year on year. Next, our server storage connectivity revenue was $815 million, up 21% year on year in sharp contrast to the first half of 2021 and represented 15% of semiconductor revenue. The better-than-expected results were driven by robust demand for storage controllers and hotspot adapters from renewed spend by enterprises upgrading their compute and storage infrastructure. Additionally, hyper-cloud storage, we saw accelerated migration to eight terabytes and the start of 20-terabyte hard disk drives, which drove our nearline storage revenue. To put things in perspective, today, our nearline storage business is close to $1 billion on an annualized basis. We continue to gain share in server storage connectivity as we expand our leadership in next-generation SaaS 4, PCI express Gen 5, and nVME. Spending for enterprise continues to recover, and we expect this will accelerate growth in our server storage connectivity revenue in Q1 to approximately 30% year-on-year growth. Moving on to broadband. Revenue was $872 million grew 29% year on year and represented 16% of semiconductor revenue. This was driven by the continued strong growth in deployment by service providers globally of next-generation PON, wave Wi-Fi 6, and 6E access gateways. We continue to lead the industry with a portfolio of end-to-end integrated solutions across multiple access protocols on PON, cable modem, and DSL, all SoC controllers, each with integrated Wi-Fi managed through our software stacks to reliably deliver more bandwidth, faster data speeds from the call service provider networks to the homes. And a critical element in our broadband platform on my end is leading-edge Wi-Fi 6 and 6E today and Wi-Fi 7 tomorrow. Having leading-edge wireless is important for our service provider customers to reach digital homes from the networks. By the same token, in-campus switching in enterprises, it's also critical that our OEMs can connect enterprise data centers through campus switches to the access points with leading-edge Wi-Fi. In both markets, our platforms, which encompass wired and wireless, silicon and software, uniquely differentiate Broadcom and sustain our market leadership. So, in Q1, we expect this double-digit percent year-on-year growth rate in broadband to continue as we have seen for the last few [Inaudible]. Moving on to wireless. Consistent with the launch of our customers' next-generation phone during the quarter, Q4 revenue of $1.8 billion represented 32% of semiconductor revenue and was up 21% against a softer Q4 quarter a year ago. Nevertheless, we expect continuing strong demand into Q1, which will drive wireless revenue to be up sequentially single-digit and be flat to up low single-digit percentage year on year from the peak of a year ago. Finally, industrial revenue of $197 million represented approximately 3% of our Q4 semiconductor solutions revenue. Having said this, resales of industrial of $232 million grew 36% year over year in Q4, driven by strong demand from OEMs for electric vehicles, robotics, factory automation, and healthcare. As a result, our inventory in the channel declined further to below one month. And turning to Q1, we expect resales to continue to be strong, at the levels we saw in Q4. In summary, Q4 semiconductor solutions revenue was up 17% year on year. And in Q1, we expect the momentum to continue and revenue growth to be up double digits again year on year. This implies that Q1 semiconductor revenue will be up low single digits sequentially. Turning to software. Q4. Infrastructure software revenue of $1.8 billion grew 8% year on year, represented 24% of total revenue. Within this, Brocade showed strong growth of 19% year on year, consistent with strong enterprise recovery during the quarter and deployment of our next-generation Generation 7 Fibre Channel SAN products. Now excluding Brocade, our core software revenue grew 6% year on year. In dollar terms, consolidated renewal rates averaged 116% over expiring contracts, while within our strategic accounts, we actually averaged 127%, consistent with prior quarters. Over 90% of the value represented recurring subscription and maintenance. Stepping back and following the Software Investor Day last month, let me provide an update on the entire fiscal '21 for our core software. Total backlog at the end of the year totaled $14.9 billion, up 15% from a year ago, with average duration of contracts extending from 2.6 to 2.9 years. This backlog translates into an ARR, or annual recurring revenue, of $5.2 billion, which was up 5% from a year ago. 74% of this ARR comes from our approximate -- approximately 600 strategic accounts, which in fiscal '21, we renewed at 129% or $2.4 billion of annualized booking value. $1.9 billion of these represented renewals on expiring contracts and roughly $500 million represented cross-selling, including PLAs of our portfolio of products to these strategic customers. For the year, we booked over 300 contracts generating greater than $1 million of revenue annually with over 30 contracts generating over $10 million annually. With such stability in Q1, we expect our infrastructure software revenue to continue to sustain around mid-single-digit percentage growth year over year. So, let me summarize. With the continued strength in our semiconductor segment and steady growth in our SAN software segment, total Q4 net revenue grew 15% year on year. Turning to Q1. Semiconductor revenue, excluding wireless, is expected to be up 28% year on year. Wireless is expected to grow flat to low single-digit percentage compared to the peak of a year ago. So, semiconductor revenue in total is expected to grow 17% year on year again, and consolidated revenue is expected to grow 14% year on year. Sequentially, this will drive revenue to grow from $7.4 billion in Q4 to $7.6 billion in Q1. We are very well positioned in every one of our franchise markets in fiscal '22 and beyond. We continue to significantly out-invest anyone else across our platforms, in switching and routing, offload compute, silicon photonics, and wireless connectivity to accelerate our next-generation road maps as we continue to gain market share. With that, let me turn the call over to Kirsten.Kirsten Spears -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Hock. Let me now provide additional detail on our financial performance. Revenue was $7.4 billion for the quarter, up 15% from a year ago. Gross margins were 75% of revenue in the quarter and up approximately 105 basis points year on year. Operating expenses were $1.1 billion, up 3% year on year, driven by investment in R&D. Operating income for the quarter was $4.4 billion and was up 20% from a year ago. Operating margin was 59% of revenue, up approximately 286 basis points year on year. Adjusted EBITDA was $4.5 billion or 61% of net revenue. This figure excludes $134 million of depreciation. Now a review of the P&L for our two segments. Revenue for our semiconductor solutions segment was $5.6 billion and represented 76% of total revenue in the quarter. This was up 17% year on year. Gross margins for our semiconductor solutions segment were approximately 70%, up 170 basis points year on year, driven by favorable product mix and content growth in next-generation products across our extensive product portfolio. Note that we have been able to continue to expand our semiconductor gross margin despite higher wireless revenue mix. Operating expenses were $790 million in Q4, up 3% year on year. R&D was $701 million in the quarter, up 6% year on year. As a side note, for fiscal '22, we are planning to increase R&D spend in semiconductors by mid- to high-single-digit percent year on year. As Hock indicated in his remarks, we are committed to investing heavily in our next-generation products to maintain and even increase our leadership across all our franchises. Q4 operating margins increased to 56%, up 350 basis points year on year. So, while semiconductor revenue was up 17%, operating profit grew 24%. Moving to the P&L for our infrastructure software segment. Revenue for infrastructure software was $1.8 billion and represented 24% of revenue. This was up 8% year on year. Gross margins for infrastructure software were 90% in the quarter, up 19 basis points year over year. Operating expenses were $353 million in the quarter, up 1% year over year. R&D spending at $220 million is up 9% year over year, and SG&A of $133 million is down 10% year over year. Operating margin was 70% in Q4, up 166 basis points year over year, and operating profit grew 11%. Moving to cash flow. Free cash flow in the quarter was $3.5 billion, representing 47% of revenue. We spent $88 million on capital expenditures. Days sales outstanding were 25 days in the fourth quarter, compared to 32 days a year ago. We ended the fourth quarter with inventory of $1.3 billion, an increase of $137 million or 12% from the end of the prior quarter in preparation to meet customer demand in Q1. We ended the fourth quarter with $12.2 billion of cash and $39.7 billion of total debt, of which $290 million is short term. Turning to capital allocation. In the quarter, we paid stockholders $1.4 billion of cash dividends. We also paid $266 million in withholding taxes due on vesting of employee equity, resulting in the elimination of 525,000 AVGO shares. We ended the quarter with 413 million outstanding common shares and 448 million diluted shares. Based on current business trends and conditions, our guidance for the first quarter of fiscal 2022 is for consolidated revenues of $7.6 billion and adjusted EBITDA of approximately 61.5% of projected revenue. Let me recap our financial performance for fiscal year 2021. Our revenue hit a new record of $27.5 billion, growing 15% year on year. Semiconductor solutions revenue was $20.4 billion, up 18% year over year. Infrastructure software revenue was $7.1 billion, up 7% year on year. Gross margin for the year was 75%, up 100 basis points from a year ago. Operating expenses were $4.5 billion, down 2% year on year as we completed the integration of Symantec. Operating income from continuing operations was $15.9 billion, up 23% year over year, and represented 58% of net revenue. Adjusted EBITDA was up $16.6 million, up 21% year over year, and represented 60% of net revenue. This figure excludes $539 million of depreciation. We spent $443 million on capital expenditures, and free cash flow represented 49% of revenue or $13.3 billion. Free cash flow grew 15% year over year. For the year, we returned $7.5 billion to our stockholders, consisting of $6.2 billion in the form of cash dividends and $1.3 billion for the elimination of 2.8 million AVGO shares. We have extended our weighted average debt maturity to approximately 10.6 years, with a weighted average interest rate of approximately 3.6%. Looking ahead to fiscal 2022, we remain committed to returning approximately 50% of our prior-year free cash flow to stockholders in the form of cash dividends. Consistent with that, we are increasing our quarterly common stock cash dividend in Q1 fiscal '22 to $4.10 per share, an increase of 14% from the prior quarter. We intend to maintain this target quarterly dividend throughout this year, subject to quarterly board approval. Today, as part of our commitment to return capital to shareholders, we announced that the company's board of directors has authorized the repurchase of $10 billion of our common stock under Broadcom's new share repurchase program. The authorization is effective until December 31, 2022. This new share repurchase program reflects our confidence in the company's ability to generate strong and sustainable cash flow. Note that we expect the diluted share count to be 448 million in Q1. This excludes the potential impact of any share repurchase. That concludes my prepared remarks. Operator, please open up the call for questions. 