
OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the First Quarter 2021 Linde Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions]I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Mr. Juan Pelaez, Head of Investor Relations. Sir, you may begin.Juan Pelaez -- Head of Investor Relations

 



Crystal, thank you. Good morning, everyone, and thanks for attending our 2021 first quarter earnings call and webcast. I'm Juan Pelaez, Head of Investor Relations, and I'm joined this morning by Matt White, Chief Financial Officer; and Sanjiv Lamba, Chief Operating Officer. Today's presentation materials are available on our website at linde.com in the Investors section. Please read the forward-looking statement disclosure on page two of the slides and note that it applies to all statements made during this teleconference. The reconciliations of the adjusted numbers are in the appendix to this presentation. Sanjiv and Matt will now give an update on Linde's business outlook and first quarter performance, and we'll then be available to answer your questions.Sanjiv, all yours.Sanjiv Lamba -- Executive Vice President and Chief Operating OfficerThanks, Juan, and good morning, everyone. Once again, the Linde team delivered another stellar quarter across all fronts, 32% growth in EPS, 57% growth in operating cash flows, operating margins expanding 320 basis points and of course, ROC at 14.5%. And of course, very strong progress across our ESG goals of reducing carbon intensity and making strides in gender diversity. Matt will walk through the more -- through the details on the financial numbers. But frankly, they speak for themselves. A few months ago, we marked the two year anniversary of the merger. So I'd like to take the opportunity to recap both our performance and also provide you a medium-term outlook on expected financial performance going ahead. Let me move on to slide three. Slide three shows our 2018 to 2020 growth relative to key competitors across four major financial metrics: EPS, operating profit margin, operating cash flows and, of course, very importantly, return on capital. From my perspective, these are the four most important financial metrics to determine performance in this industry. And it is, of course, quite clear from that slide, as you see, that we have led across all four.

 



In fact, I'd say with some pride that Linde has the undisputed best performance in the entire industry since our merger. Our employees have accomplished this while integrating two global companies during possibly the worst pandemic in a century. But of course, this is nothing new. We have been the industry leader for almost three decades now. And I want to move on to slide four and talk a little bit about that history of over 25 years from 1993 to 2017 as the last full year before the merger. The compound annual growth rate of Linde's sales, EPS, dividend and operating cash flow exceeds both competitors across the board. We have a long history of generating compound value for our shareholders while sustainably and profitably growing the company. And of course, Linde's outperformance extends beyond just our industry. On the right-hand side over there, you can see the EPS CAGR that we've had over the same period against the broader S&P 500. So it's clear we've been the industry leader for many years, and we fully expect to continue that trend for decades to come. Our midterm strategy, which is on our next slide five, provides a road map on how we plan to get there. Most of you have seen this strategy before.It's fairly straightforward and simple enough that we can summarize it on one page. It starts, of course, with optimizing our base business of industrial gases and engineering. I've said this before, our unique operating rhythm provides a real competitive advantage on how we extract value year in and year out, irrespective of the macroeconomic climate. We've, of course, proven this in the prior recessions and some black swan events, including the most recent COVID pandemic. So while our resilient business model provides downside protection, we also have the ability to leverage and any economic recovery due to our exposure to the cyclical end markets, primarily here through merchant and packaged gases. Of course, the pricing structure here also helps as it closely correlates with inflation. You've already seen some of that demonstrated in the last few quarters, and I anticipate further upside if the economy continues to recover. Finally, we will continue to grow by capitalizing on future opportunities. Linde has demonstrated the highest compound growth rate in the industry across all key financial metrics, and we expect to maintain this distinction.Currently, there are secular growth drivers around two of our key markets that comprise about 30% of our sales. These are healthcare and electronics. You're all familiar with what is happening in the electronic space today. Our customers are looking to expand production of chips to meet soaring demand while improving and strengthening local supply chain logistics. We are an integral part of this development as industrial gases are a critical component to successfully operating a modern fab today. I fully expect electronics to comprise the largest portion of backlog wins over the next couple of years as we continue to see high levels of interest for new customer builds. Furthermore, the healthcare market continues to grow as well, combination of demographics and trend toward telehealth. As you know, our healthcare business, particularly the home care business, served as a critical second line of defense during the recent pandemic. And, of course, we expect future trends to create new growth opportunities, allowing us to leverage our leading dense network to support momentum toward a distributed healthcare market. The combination of these strategic elements should enable us to grow annual earnings per share on average more than 10%. That is something we've demonstrated throughout our history, and we feel confident we can continue for the long term.Now you will notice, I said 10% EPS outlook excludes the impact from the transition to clean energy. Currently, we view the benefits from this transition as incremental to our EPS outlook. Clean energy, of course, is a hot topic, as you all know. In fact, I haven't quite realized how many global hydrogen experts there really were until only six months ago. However, producing, storing and supplying hydrogen to enable cleaner fuels is something we've been doing for decades. In fact, hydrogen has been one of our fastest-growing molecules over the past 10 years. So given this, I'd like to use the last few slides to provide you a view on the overall clean energy market, explain why Linde is exceptionally well positioned to succeed and share with you our overarching strategy going forward. But before I start, I want to state that we are not providing specific guidance on either expected sales or wins from clean energy at this time. This is a rapidly evolving landscape with many countries taking different paths. So the pace of the transition is just too uncertain to make multiyear detailed projections. However, what I can confirm is that Linde has the experience, the technology and the asset network to be a significant player in the transition.

 



To further elaborate on this, I'd like to provide you our view of the clean energy market on the next slide, slide six. It's safe to say that nobody really knows how the decarbonization market will ultimately play out. So it may be helpful to start with an overview of the potential opportunity. We think of clean energy transition in two main pieces. The first being how we can provide solutions to managing carbon and the second relating to clean hydrogen development. Now we already have a number of significant applications that reduce, capture, sequester or clean and monetize gas streams for use. A good example of this is our current carbon dioxide business at about $1.3 billion, serving several key end markets. Looking ahead, we see more opportunities for our technologies and solutions to enable our customers to reduce their carbon footprint through capture and removal of their emissions. Furthermore, we believe blue and green hydrogen will both play an important role in the transition to cleaner energy. In theory, the total available opportunity can be represented by the current $6 trillion of hydrocarbon market. However, that will be served by a blend of solutions, and it will take years to evolve. So as an example, one estimate assumes clean hydrogen will reach $100 billion by 2030. Or say, roughly 1.5% of today's hydrocarbon market. But time will tell.Given the uncertainty, as I said before, I'm not going to provide you a specific estimate or time line today, but I do want to reiterate that this is a significant opportunity for Linde and something we see as an upside to our base business. So with this as a backdrop, it may be helpful to understand what Linde brings to the table regarding technology, asset network and experience which you can find on the next slide, slide seven. Whether it's production, distribution or application and services, we have over 50 years of experience as an owner and an operator of billions of dollars of hydrogen infrastructure. We are agnostic to how that molecule is made, whether it's through reforming chemistry or by electrolysis. We have the technology and the operating expertise for all of them. Furthermore, we have the largest and the most dense hydrogen distribution network in the world. This will be crucial to ensuring a safe, reliable and cost-effective energy transition. Our technology, many proprietary applications and extended service capabilities, position us exceptionally well for this opportunity. And finally, we also have the ability to leverage our engineering business to integrate various technologies into solutions and to offer sale of gas or selectively, sale of equipment, providing us a unique competitive advantage.Overall, we have a very long and successful history supporting the transition to clean energy, and I believe we are incredibly well positioned across the entire value chain as this initiative accelerates. I'd like to wrap up the clean energy discussion on the next slide, slide eight, with a view of our overarching strategy and give you some key supporting examples as well. The strategy on the left is something we've mentioned before. It represents a proven approach to profitably growing an industrial gas business, including hydrogen. It starts with leveraging a leading integrated asset network. In addition to that, we execute locally market-driven strategies. We believe many of these initiatives will vary by country. We also expect to continue to advance and grow our technology leadership in this space across the value chain by leveraging the expertise of our engineering team as well as developing partnerships that provide us access, insight and hopefully accelerate opportunities. Now on the right-hand side of the slide, you'll see three projects we recently announced. I just want to remind you that these are part of our base capex and, therefore, not included in the $3.5 billion backlog. Now these projects are over $350 million for green and blue hydrogen infrastructure in South Korea, Germany and the United States. Just to pick on the example in South Korea. We are partnering with one of the largest industrial conglomerates to build out a liquid hydrogen infrastructure to fuel municipality buses there.We continue to evaluate a significant and growing number of opportunities from large megaprojects to very small ones. But irrespective of the size of the opportunity, we will always maintain our disciplined approach to pursuing projects that meet our investment criteria. This summarizes our midterm strategy and how we currently see the clean energy market. But this is something I'll provide more updates on in the future as it continues to evolve. Now before I hand over to Matt, I want to make one final point on our ESG initiatives. Simply said, ESG is embedded in our culture. It's part of our operating rhythm and it's part of our compensation philosophy. It has been an integral part of our values and forms the foundation of Linde's mission statement, making our world more productive. I'm pleased to say we are currently tracking ahead in many of the initiatives we laid out in early 2020, including carbon emission intensity reduction and increasing gender diversity, but this isn't enough. We know we need to do more. We are therefore in the process of thoughtfully developing more ambitious ESG goals, which I expect to share with you in a future call. But until then, you can be certain that we will continue to improve our performance in this area.So with that, I'd now hand over to Matt, who will take you through the financial results and our guidance. Matt?Matt White -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Sanjiv. Please turn to slide nine for an overview of the first quarter results. Before I jump into the numbers, I'd like to remind you that we deconsolidated a joint venture in APAC, which reduces sales and operating profit by about 3% but has no effect on EPS since we are maintaining a consistent ownership position. This deconsolidation is shown as a divestiture, and we provide further details in the APAC segment results, which you can find in the appendix. Total sales grew 7% from last year and were flat sequentially. Underlying sales increased 5% from prior year and 2% sequentially. Volumes continue to recover, growing 3% over last year and 1% over the fourth quarter. Sequentially, negative seasonal effects and temporary outages in the U.S. Gulf Coast from Storm Uri were more than offset by a broad-based increase in volumes. Industrial production levels have consistently risen in most geographies, which supports volume recovery in the packaged and merchant supply modes. And note that while Uri had a temporary negative effect on sales for the first quarter, profit impact was immaterial due to our contractual structure.Referring to our end market trends in the appendix, every end market grew sequentially and over prior year, except for food, mostly due to restaurant closures and seasonality in GIST, our distribution business in the U.K. Pricing improvements of 2% is in line with globally weighted inflation, since the majority of our contracts have mechanisms in place to adjust for local cost inflation. Operating profit increased 25% over prior year from a combination of higher pricing, incremental volumes and a lower cost base. Furthermore, operating margins expanded 320 basis points, which marks the seventh consecutive quarter that we have expanded operating margins more than 200 basis points. EPS of $2.49 grew 32% from last year and 8% sequentially. You can see the wider than normal growth rate differential between operating profit and EPS, which is mostly driven by the joint venture deconsolidation. We had another strong quarter in capital management, with operating cash flow up 57% and return on capital reaching 14.5%. ROC levels have been trending well as we continue to grow earnings by double-digit percent while maintaining a disciplined and focused capital allocation process. capex is down 5% from prior year as temporary declines in project backlog spending more than offset increases in growth projects categorized as base capex.Approximately 40% of base capex is for growth, including the clean energy projects Sanjiv mentioned as well as the majority of small on-site wins we announced yesterday. Overall, these results clearly validate our positive leverage to the economic recovery while offering significant downside protection as evidenced in 2020. Slide 10 provides an update on our capital management process. It starts with cash generation, which you can see on the left side. Linde employees have done a great job focusing on cash conversion and thus making more capital available for the company to deploy. Available operating cash flow, which we define as operating cash flow less base capex, has exceeded $1.5 billion for the last two quarters. And while we continue to generate healthy levels of cash, how we spend it is equally important, which is shown on the right half of the slide. Our capital allocation process is simple and consistent. We have a mandate to maintain an A credit rating and raise the dividend every year.After which, our priority is to invest in growth that meets our criteria. And then any leftover cash is used for stock repurchases. The pie chart represents how we spent the first quarter operating cash, investing $0.8 billion to grow and returning $1.4 billion to shareholders. This approach provides balance, but more importantly, forms the foundation of the strategy and earnings outlook provided by Sanjiv. I'll wrap up with guidance, which you can find on slide 11. The second quarter guidance range is $2.50 to $2.55. The midpoint represents an increase of 33% over 2020 and 38% over 2019. I believe it's important to provide the 2019 comparison to properly distinguish between true growth, which this demonstrates, from mere recovery which other companies may be showing. This guidance includes an estimated year-over-year FX tailwind of 4% since Q2 of 2020 was the low point on foreign currency weakness. Sequentially, this range assumes stable economic conditions with a moderate improvement related to normal seasonality. In other words, the Q2 guidance range does not assume any improvement in the underlying economy from Q1. Note that preliminary April results came in better than our internal estimates.So if these conditions persist, Q2 EPS would be at the upper end or above this range. The updated full year guidance range is $9.60 to $9.80 or $0.50 higher than what we provided last quarter. The midpoint of the range is 18% above 2020 and 32% above 2019. I'd like to explain how we approached full year guidance especially as it relates to the half year comparisons. At this point, we have updated full year for the better performance in Q1 and the latest Q2 outlook of which this first half year combined was approximately $0.50 better. However, we have not updated the second half guidance. In other words, we left the second half alone until we get a better sense of the recovery pace. Rest assured, we will capture any improvement in the economy as we have recently demonstrated. Furthermore, we will provide a more detailed update next quarter. However, today, we are refraining from adjusting the back half until we get more visibility. Of course, if economic conditions hold or improve, we will be above this full year range. But for now, we believe this is the most prudent approach given the global uncertainty.I'd now like to turn the call over for Q&A.