  OperatorGood day, everyone, and welcome to Pfizer's third quarter 2021 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Chris Stevo, senior vice president and chief investor relations officer. Please go ahead, sir.Chris Stevo -- Senior Vice President and Chief Investor Relations Officer

 



 Thank you, Sylvia. Good morning. Welcome to Pfizer's third quarter earnings call. I'm joined today by Dr. Albert Bourla, our chairman and CEO; Frank D'Amelio, our CFO; Mikael Dolsten, president of worldwide research and development and medical; Angela Hwang, group president, Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group; Aamir Malik, our chief business and innovation officer; and Doug Lankler, general counsel. We expect this call to last 90 minutes. Materials for this call and other earnings-related materials are on the investor relations section of pfizer.com. Please see our forward-looking statements disclosure on Slide 3, which is shown right now.And additional information regarding these statements and our non-GAAP financial measures is available in our earnings release and in our SEC Forms 10-K and 10-Q under Risk Factors. Forward-looking statements on the call speak only as of the call's original date, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any of the statements. With that, I will turn the call over to Albert. Albert Bourla -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thank you, Chris. Hello, everyone. I'm happy to report that Pfizer generated another solid performance in the third quarter, recording 130% operational revenue growth compared with the third quarter of 2020. When excluding direct sales and alliance revenues provided by our COVID-19 vaccine, we generated 7% operational revenue growth compared with the previous year quarter. We also are raising our 2021 total company guidance for both revenues and adjusted EPS. While we are proud of our financial performance, we are even more proud of these financial results -- of what these financial results represent in terms of the positive impact we are having on human lives around the world. In the first nine months of 2021, our innovative medicines and vaccines reached nearly 1 billion people. It's fair to say millions of lives have been saved because of this. Excluding our COVID-19 vaccine, we reached nearly 300 million people during that time. These are humbling numbers for all of us at Pfizer. At the same time, we delivered to our shareholders the 331st consecutive quarterly dividend. We also continue to advance our R&D pipeline. Some key milestones include the first COVID-19 vaccine authorized for emergency use in the U.S. for children five to 11 years of age, the first patient dosed in our large Phase 3 RENOIR study for our RSV bivalent vaccine candidate and the initiation of Phase 2/3 studies for both IV and oral protease inhibitor candidates for COVID-19. Let me start with commentary on some of our key growth drivers in the quarter, the biggest of which was COMIRNATY, which contributed $13 billion in global revenue during the third quarter. Today, we have produced 2.6 billion doses and shipped 2 billion doses to 152 countries or territories.

 



 So far, 75% of our COMIRNATY revenues have been generated outside the U.S., and we continue to sign agreements with governments around the world. We also remain on track to produce 3 billion doses this year, of which, at least 1 billion will go to middle- and low-income countries. In addition, our weekly market share of COVID-19 vaccines administered continues to increase. In the U.S., our four-week average market share increased from about 56% in April to about 74% as of October 31. And in the EU, it went from about 70% to about 80% during the same time period. These market share increases are primarily the result of our booster being the first to receive emergency use authorization and our two-dose series being preferred by some countries around the world for use in certain younger populations. We also continue to follow the science to help ensure we stay ahead of the virus. Let me speak to two examples. First, top-line results from our Phase 3 randomized control trial demonstrated that a booster dose administered to individuals 16 years of age and older who previously received the Pfizer-BioNTech primary two-dose series restored vaccine protection against COVID-19 to the high levels achieved after the second dose. Second, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration has authorized our COVID-19 vaccine for emergency use for children five through 11 years of age, the first and only vaccine to receive such authorization. For this age group, the vaccine is to be administered in a two-dose regimen of 10-microgram doses given 21 days apart. The 10-microgram dose level was carefully selected based on safety, tolerability and immunogenicity data. Last week, we announced that the U.S. government exercised its final purchase option under the existing U.S. supply agreement to purchase 50 million additional doses of COMIRNATY. This brings the total number of pediatric doses purchased by the U.S. government to 115 million, which is enough to vaccinate every U.S. child. Overall, the U.S. has now purchased a total of 600 million doses across all age ranges under this supply agreement. Now let's take a look at some of the quarter's other key growth drivers. Eliquis has continued to deliver strong performance with global revenues up 19% operationally to $1.3 billion in the third quarter. In the U.S., sales growth for Eliquis was driven mainly by a 16% growth in prescription volume. VYNDAQEL and VYNDAMAX revenues were up 42% operationally to $501 million globally. Our disease education efforts in the U.S. continue to support increases in appropriate diagnosis, while the main driver of growth in Japan has been the successful establishment of several referral networks in select areas resulting in new patient starts. IBRANCE continues outside of the U.S. Revenues outside of the U.S. were up 9% operationally to $500 million. This growth was driven by accelerating demand as the delays in diagnosis and treatment initiations caused by COVID-19 show signs of recovery across several international markets. Global revenues for IBRANCE were up only 1% operationally as the international growth was largely offset by a 3% decline in the U.S. The U.S. decline was driven by an increase in the proportion of patients accessing IBRANCE through our Patient Assistance Program. We continue to be pleased with the performance of our oncology biosimilars portfolio, which is now the largest in the industry with six biosimilars approved in the U.S. for patients living with cancer. Global revenues from this portfolio grew 51% operationally during the quarter to $398 million. This growth was primarily driven by continued strong results from our U.S. therapeutic monoclonal antibody launches. In international developed markets, oncology biosimilars contributed 29% operational growth, driven by new launches of ZIRABEV and continued growth of TRAZIMERA. Of course, with such a broad portfolio of life-changing and life-saving products, it would be uncommon to not have a few challenges. U.S. revenues for our Prevnar family, Prevnar 13 and Prevnar 20, for example, were down 2%, primarily due to a 36% decline in the adult indication of Prevnar 13 due to the ongoing prioritization of primary and booster vaccination campaigns for COVID-19 and the later start of the flu season compared with last year. Other contributing factors were the continued impact of the lower remaining unvaccinated eligible adult population and the June 2019 change to the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices, the change of ACIP recommendation for the Prevnar 13 adult indication to shared clinical decision making. Just two weeks ago, ACIP voted to recommend Prevnar 20 for routine use to help protect adults against invasive disease and pneumonia caused by the 20 streptococcus pneumoniae serotypes in the vaccine. Specifically, the ACIP voted to recommend Prevnar 20 for adults aged 65 and older and adults aged 19 to 64 with certain risk conditions without the need to be followed by PPSV-23 vaccination. This recommendation recognizes for the first time the significance of helping protect more population under age 65 with co-morbid and immuno-compromising conditions who are at increased risk of disease against these 20 disease-causing serotypes. This new 1-dose regimen option, once endorsed by the CDC director, also will help simplify long-standing adult pneumococcal recommendation. As a reminder, Prevnar 20 is the only vaccine that FDA has approved not only for invasive pneumococcal disease but also for pneumonia. In September, I assume many of you saw that the FDA issued a drug safety communication related to its completed review of the Xeljanz ORAL Surveillance trial. We are in continuing dialogue with the FDA about its assessment and the resulting final context in the Xeljanz label. With this important step taken, we hope we are a step closer to having an update regarding the new drug application for abrocitinib in atopic dermatitis and the supplemental NDA for Xeljanz in ankylosing spondylitis, both of which are currently under FDA review. In terms of Xeljanz, in it's currently approved indication in the U.S., we believe that Xeljanz prescribing behavior will adjust in the coming months based on the FDA's update, resulting in an initial correction in the short term. But based on the trends we have observed and the broad application of Xeljanz across its approved indications, we believe Xeljanz has the potential to return to growth, again, once the final U.S. label is issued and physicians have adjusted their prescribing habits accordingly as we go into 2022 and beyond. CIBINQO, abrocitinib, received marketing authorization for the treatment of moderate to severe atopic dermatitis in adults and adolescents aged 12 years and over from the U.K. Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency and the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare in both doses. It also received a positive opinion in adults from the European Medicines Agency Committee for medicinal products for human use. We are hopeful this momentum will continue. We have applications currently filed for review with regulators around the globe, including in the U.S. and Australia. Overall, we remain confident in the importance of the JAK inhibitor class for appropriate patients with inflammatory diseases. And they are pursuing a variety of options for advancing additional JAK inhibitor assets within our portfolio. For example, Pfizer has granted an exclusive license to brepocitinib and TYK2 both in Phase 2 development to a new company, formed in collaboration with a partner that has a proven track record in late-stage inflammation and immunology drug development. The new company will direct all future development decisions while Pfizer will have a 25% stake and retain certain ex-U.S. commercial rights for brepocitinib and TYK2. This transaction will enable the allocation of resources to advance development of brepocitinib and TYK2 while allowing Pfizer to focus on diversifying its pipeline. Another way in which we are continuing to bolster our pipeline is through strategic business development agreements. This slide highlights 10 such agreements we have entered in recent years, spanning four different therapeutic areas. To further build on our strength in cancer research, we acquired Array BioPharma. The team in Boulder, Colorado, has become a center of excellence for targeted therapies in not only cancer, but other diseases as well, with an expected one to two new compounds entering the clinic every year. Leveraging our strength in gene therapy, we entered into a collaboration with Vivet Therapeutics for a potential gene therapy for Wilson disease, a rare genetic disorder that can cause severe hepatic damage, neurological symptoms and potentially death. Our acquisition of Therachon builds on our rare disease team's 30 years commitment to develop innovative medicines that address significant unmet medical needs of people with rare diseases. Regarding our worldwide exclusive licensing agreement with Akcea, we believe our expertise and breadth of experience in cardiovascular and metabolic diseases makes us well suited to accelerate clinical development of AKCEA-ANGPTL3-LRx, an investigational antisense therapy being developed to treat patients with certain cardiovascular and metabolic diseases. We are excited about our collaboration with Valneva to develop and commercialize with Valneva to develop and commercialize Valneva's Lyme disease vaccine candidate, VLA15, the only active Lyme disease vaccine program in clinical development today. Of course, our collaboration with BioNTech on the COVID-19 vaccine led to the first mRNA vaccine ever approved. And this relationship was borne out of our company's initial collaboration to develop an improved flu vaccine based on mRNA tech. Building on our strengths in prostate cancer and women's health, we have entered into an agreement with Myovant to jointly develop and commercialize Orgovyx, relugolix, advanced prostate cancer and relugolix combination tablet in women's health in the U.S. and Canada. Our global collaboration with Arvinas to develop and commercialize ARV-471, an investigational oral PROTAC estrogen receptor protein degrader, builds on our metastatic breast cancer franchise allowing us to potentially go into earlier non-metastatic patients and add to efficacy of IBRANCE in a metastatic setting. Trillium's CD47-SIRPa-focused technology has the potential to be as foundational in cancer immunotherapy as PD-1/PD-L1s have been. We look forward to that acquisition closing later this year and in the first half of 2022. With three approvals, four EUAs and multiple submissions and readouts, these transactions are already bearing fruit and positioning us to reach even more patients. Before I close, I want to welcome to the call Aamir Malik, who joined us in August as executive vice president and chief business development -- and chief business innovation officer. Aamir came to us from McKinsey where during his 25-year career, he has developed growth strategies, guided mergers and acquisitions and implemented large-scale programs to improve patients' lives and transform performance for life science companies. This includes working closely with Pfizer on several strategic initiatives. I have known Aamir for more than 15 years, and I'm certain he will be an incredible addition to Pfizer as we look to the next era of innovation. Looking ahead, we continue to focus on driving operational excellence across the organization and pursuing the kinds of first-in-class science that will define the new Pfizer. Given our third quarter performance and our current expectations for the near term, we continue to expect a revenue CAGR of at least 6% on a risk-adjusted basis through the end of 2025 and double-digit growth on the bottom line. I would remind you that these projections do not include any potential impact from COMIRNATY, recent or subsequent business development activities or potential future mRNA programs. Rather, we remain very confident in our ability to achieve these growth rates because of the strength of our current product portfolio and R&D pipeline. Now I will turn it over to Mikael to speak more about our R&D efforts, and then Frank will provide financial details on the quarter and our outlook for the remainder of 2021, which looks solid. Mikael?Mikael Dolsten -- President, Worldwide Research and Development and Medical Thank you, Albert. I appreciate the chance to share updates on Pfizer's robust R&D pipeline. As a measure of the transformation that we've instituted in our R&D organization, we track our average clinical success rates against peers. In every phase and end-to-end, we achieved greater success rates than peer average in 2020 and have continued to sustain those higher rates in '21. Today, I will provide updates on our vaccines, rare disease, inflammation immunology portfolios and on our oral protease inhibitor. In several cases, I will reference publicly available data on other agents so that you can understand our enthusiasm about what we are seeing in our development program. Of course, head-to-head clinical trials would be necessary to support any comparative claims. Last Friday, the FDA granted emergency use authorization for five to 11-year-olds, and the CDC's Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices is meeting today to discuss recommendations. On the left, we show the comparable immune response observed with 10-microgram dosing in children five through 11, compared to 30-microgram dosing in 16 to 25 year old. On the right, we show 90.7% vaccine efficacy observed. This too is comparable to what we have seen in older populations. The rate and severity of fever and chills after the first and second doses were less in the younger children than either adolescents or adult. We believe that vaccinating younger children is one important step in making our way through this pandemic. Looking ahead, we expect initial pivotal data from the studies in two to less than five-year-olds this quarter and in six months to less than two-year-olds next quarter with full data readout to follow. On the right, we show improved handling conditions that have been approved for vials to dose five through 11 years old. Of note are the smaller pack sizes and the ability to refrigerate for up to 10 weeks. We plan to submit data to regulators for potential approval of similar handling conditions for vials used to dose the 12-and-older population. We are the first manufacturer to report Phase 3 clinical efficacy data on a third dose boost and, to the best of our knowledge, are the only company with an ongoing pivotal efficacy boost study. In a study of participants 16 and older, shown on top, a booster demonstrated a relative vaccine efficacy of 95.6%, compared to the original two-dose schedule during a period in which Delta was the prevalent strain, affirming the protective impact of the early immunological data, which led to the EUA. It's projected that the third dose boost vaccine efficacy is even higher compared to the unvaccinated population, potentially above 98%. This assumes that vaccine efficacy for those vaccinated with two doses versus unvaccinated is above 55% at this time point. We observed consistent efficacy in younger and older adults. While the majority of cases were in the older age group, as would be expected, we recorded a relative vaccine efficacy of 100% in individuals aged 16 to 30 years. Data from Israel shown at the bottom and published by Professor Marc Lipsitch of Harvard and others in Lancet show that the third dose protected individuals against severe COVID-19-related outcomes. We plan to monitor the participants in our clinical study and at an appropriate time consider a randomized fourth dose booster study to document the impact of additional and possibly annual repeat vaccinations. This will be supplemented with real-world evidence data. Countries have started to recognize the favorable risk-benefit profile of our vaccine. In each country shown here, our vaccine is recommended or the only one permitted in younger populations and in the case of France, not restricted for boosting. News over the weekend from another manufacturer suggest that their vaccine may not be available in the near term for younger population. We are encouraged by these science-driven decisions, which have helped make COMIRNATY one of the most used COVID-19 vaccines globally. Next, gene therapy. In hemophilia A, we have temporarily and voluntarily paused screening and dosing in our Phase 3 study evaluating Factor 8 gene therapy, which we are developing with Sangamo, in order to implement the protocol amendment following the observance of Factor 8 levels greater than 150% in some trial participants. To date, no patient has experienced a thrombotic event and some patients are being treated with oral anticoagulants to reduce the risk of thrombosis. We are committed to resuming dosing as quickly as possible once a protocol amendment, which is intended to provide guidelines for clinical management of elevated Factor 8 levels is implemented. Separately, based on recent interaction with the FDA, Pfizer no longer plans to conduct an interim analysis of Phase 3 data from our hem A and B gene therapy programs. We anticipate pivotal data readouts to be based on full analysis of at least 50 study participants for hem A and 40 participants for the hemophilia B program. This will push out the timing of readouts of those trials compared to our previous expectations. For hem A, we're working to evaluate the impact of both the FDA feedback, as well as the protocol amendment on time lines, and we'll share an update at the appropriate time. For hemophilia B, we anticipate the readout in the first quarter of '23. We continue to collect long-term follow-up data in our Phase 1b DMD study in which 19 ambulatory boys in the U.S. have been treated and plan to represent the one-year data set at a scientific meeting. We recently shared information on muscle weakness, presumed myositis, in some cases with myocarditis in three participants in Phase 3 ambulatory trial with a specific subset of dystrophin truncation mutations. They were treated with higher doses of steroids and all improved within a few weeks, were discharged from the hospital and have recovered or are still recovering. The data monitoring committee have confirmed that immunological assessment performed in the trial supports the hypothesis that an immune response against the mini-dystrophin protein caused these changes. This type of reaction is a risk potentially inherent to any gene replacement therapy, and similar severe adverse events reported in other programs support the notion that this is a class effect. We have proposed a protocol change to exclude patients with any mutation affecting exons nine through 13, inclusive, or a deletion that affects both exon 29 and 30. A few sites have resumed new patient activities, and we anticipate that nearly all ex-U.S. trial sites will have restarted clinical activity by the end of this month. These mutations are estimated to represent less than 15%, one-five, patients with DMD. We recognize the devastating impact that DMD has on these boys and their families and plan to include patients with some of these excluded mutations in future studies. In addition, we continue to work with the FDA to address outstanding IND questions related to the Phase 3 study, including technical aspect of our potency assay matrix. We have made considerable progress with development of the CMC assay as per FDA guidance and are now in an active phase of filing this update. While we cannot speculate as to when sites may open, we're working to reach alignment with the FDA as soon as possible. In addition, we have 12 preclinical gene therapy programs and are anticipating approximately one to two first-in-human study starts each year. We'll now turn to high potency PDE4+ immune modulator we are exploring in atopic dermatitis and psoriasis. Topical delivered high-potency PDE4+ inhibition may offer a differentiated efficacy and safety profile compared to other mechanism of action, whether used orally or topically. PDE4 inhibition could provide both rapid and deep responses versus other agents with the potential for further improvement at higher doses. Even at a significant lower dose, we observed promising clinical efficacy compared to what we have been seeing with PDE4 topicals in other trials. We expect to initiate Phase 2b studies in both diseases in 2022 exploring higher doses. On the left, we show in vitro potency at a low dose versus roflumilast and crisaborole. Our asset demonstrated approximately 240-fold greater inhibition of IL-4 and approximately 25-fold greater inhibition of IL-13 versus roflumilast. On the right, we observed clinically significant improvement in eczema area severity versus comparators in other studies with a 45% reduction from baseline at week six. Our asset showed stronger or similar efficacy at week six as compared to reported data from another study at week eight with the recently approved topical JAK 1/2 inhibitor, ruxolitonib. There was no stinging observed at the application side. On the left, we saw an approximately 80% reduction in IL-23 versus activated skin plus vehicle in an in vitro skin model. This displays a relevant mechanism of action for high-potency PDE4+ in psoriasis. On the right, in patients, we saw significant clinical improvement in psoriasis area and severity versus a comparator in a separate study with a 4.5-point reduction from baseline at week six. Let's turn to a TL1A inhibitor, which targets a newly identified member of the TNF superfamily being explored for ulcerative colitis. In a Phase 2a study, we saw promising endoscopic improvement. Based on the benefit-risk profile seen, there is a potential for TL1A inhibition to be used earlier in the treatment paradigm. Phase 2b studies in inflammatory bowel disease are ongoing with estimated primary completion in the fourth quarter of '22. On the left, our TL1A inhibitor demonstrated greater endoscopic improvement than what tofacitinib demonstrated in a similar trial with 34% of patients responding at week 14. We match the population based on the characteristic of those enrolled in our TL1A study using propensity score matching. The week 14 data for tofacitinib is interpolated based on week eight data of the induction study and month 12 data from the maintenance and open-label studies. On the right, a post-hoc analysis found that 48% of patients who had biomarkers achieved endoscopic improvement versus 13% of patients who were biomarker negative. Approximately 70% of patients who are positive with this biomarker, and we believe a precision medicine approach utilizing key biomarkers may enhance patient selection and improve patient outcomes. Next is an interferon beta inhibitor, a potential breakthrough therapy for dermatomyositis that we developed in a research collaboration with Mass Gen Brigham. This is a disease with very limited treatment options. In an ongoing Phase 2 clinical trial, we have observed significant reductions in clinical disease activity in skin compared to placebo. We anticipate the readout of the full Phase 2 study in the first quarter of '22. On the left, in this figure, treatment compared -- demonstrated an 83.6% decrease in gene signature scores from baseline at week 12, compared to 11.8% with placebo. On the right, treatment also showed significant decrease in clinical disease activity at week 12 compared to placebo. An important step in addressing the pandemic will be the availability of effective outpatient treatments for people who acquire COVID-19. In a paper published today in Science, we shared the design and preclinical profile of our novel investigational oral protease inhibitor, including its in vitro pan-coronavirus antiviral activity, in vivo efficacy, selectivity and preclinical safety profile. A robust program to study the breadth of both treatment and prevention in high-risk, standard-risk and household contact population is well underway. Projected pivotal readouts start potentially this quarter and extend through mid-'22. Finally, our recent milestones are a reflection of those high clinical success rates that I shared at the beginning, and we look forward to continuing the momentum in '22. Select milestones expected in the fourth quarter include: a pivotal data readout for our C. diff vaccine candidate, a proof-of-concept readout for vupanorsen for severe hypertriglyceridemia and cardiovascular risk reduction, and a proof-of-concept readout for danuglipron for diabetes. Milestones expected in the first half of '22 include: Phase 3 results for our RSV adult and maternal vaccine candidate, a potential pivotal Phase 2 readout for elranatamab in relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma, a proof-of-concept readout for our mRNA flu vaccine candidate, a Phase 2b proof-of-concept readout for the potential Lyme disease vaccine on which we are collaborating with Valneva, a proof-of-concept readout for ROBO2-Fc for focal segmental glomerulosclerosis, a proof-of-concept readout for danuglipron for obesity, and Phase 3 results of TALZENNA and XTANDI in first-line metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer. In addition, we expect continued active business development to further augment the clinical portfolio. Thank you for your attention, and I look forward to your questions. Now let me turn it over to Frank.Frank D'Amelio -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Mikael. I know you've seen our release, so let me provide a few highlights regarding the financials. The COVID-19 vaccine once again had a significant positive impact on our quarterly results, and Albert has already addressed the key points on the COVID-19 landscape. Turning to the income statement. Revenue increased 130% operationally in the third quarter of 2021, driven by COVID-19 vaccine sales strong performance from a number of our other key growth drivers. And looking at the revenue growth, excluding the COVID-19 vaccine contribution from direct sales and alliance revenues, as Albert said earlier, we saw a continuation of solid performance from the businesses again this quarter, delivering 7% operational revenue growth despite a negative 5% impact from price, getting us to a robust volume growth of 12% for the business, excluding the COVID-19 vaccine contribution. The 12% volume growth is in spite of an approximately 2% negative impact to growth from the Chantix recall and distribution pause. This supports our projected revenue CAGR of at least 6% from 2020 through the end of 2025. Of course, there will be some variability in quarterly growth rates due to a variety of factors, but we continue to expect at least a 6% CAGR through 2025. There was no impact from the number of selling days in the quarter as compared to the year-ago period like we saw in our first quarter, where we had more selling days compared to the year-ago period. I'd remind you that the offset to this imbalance will be seen in the fourth quarter results, where we will have fewer selling days as compared to the year ago quarter. For the full year, these results in essentially the same number of selling days in '21 as 2020. I'll come back to this in a little bit when I discuss the updated guidance. The adjusted cost of sales increase shown here reduced this quarter's gross margin by approximately 22 percentage points compared to the third quarter of 2020, which is almost entirely driven by the impact of the COVID-19 vaccine. Adjusted SI&A expenses increased primarily due to a level of promotional spend and sales force activity more similar to pre-pandemic levels. The increase in adjusted R&D expense this quarter was primarily driven by increased investments in COVID-19-related programs, as well as other programs within our pipeline. The growth rate for reported diluted EPS was 445% while adjusted diluted EPS grew 129% for the quarter. Foreign exchange movements resulted in a 4% benefit to revenue, as well as a 4% benefit or $0.02 to adjusted diluted EPS. Let's move to our revised 2021 guidance. We've again provided total company guidance, which includes the business with the COVID-19 vaccine, and then we provided some additional sub-ledger detail on our assumptions on the projected COVID-19 vaccine contribution and the business without the COVID-19 vaccine. Our revenue guidance has increased, and we now expect total company revenue to be in a range of $81 billion to $82 billion, increasing by $2.5 billion at the midpoint, with the COVID-19 vaccine revenue for the year now expected to be approximately $36 billion, an increase of approximately $2.5 billion compared to our prior guidance. The projected COVID-19 vaccine revenue as a percentage of total company revenue at the midpoint has increased to 44% as compared to 42% in our previous '21 guidance. I'll come back to that in a minute. We also adjusted our cost and expense guidance, mostly to reflect actual performance to date. Let me give you some more detail here. For adjusted cost of sales, the range has decreased to between 39.1% to 39.6%. On adjusted SI&A, we have tightened the range and now expect $11.6 billion to $12.1 billion, a decrease of $150 million at the midpoint. In addition, we increased our adjusted R&D guidance range to $10.4 billion to $10.9 billion, an increase of $400 million at the endpoint to reflect anticipated incremental spending on COVID-19 and other mRNA-based projects. We are keeping our assumption for the effective tax rate for the year flat, compared to prior guidance at approximately 16%. This yields an increased adjusted diluted EPS range of $4.13 to $4.18 or 84% growth at the midpoint, compared to 2020, including an expected 4% benefit from foreign exchange. Let me quickly remind you of some assumptions and context on the projected COVID-19 vaccine contribution and our collaboration agreement. As discussed earlier, the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine collaboration construct is a 50-50 gross profit split. Pfizer books the vast majority of the global collaboration revenue, except for Germany and Turkey, where we receive a profit share from BioNTech, and we do not participate in the China region. We continue to expect that we can manufacture 3 billion doses in total by the end of 2021. $2.5 billion increase in expected COVID revenues to $36 billion primarily represents the impact of contracts signed since mid-July, which was the cutoff for our prior guidance. This assumes deliveries of approximately 2.3 billion doses in fiscal year 2021, compared to prior guidance of deliveries of 2.1 billion doses and continues to assume that we will produce 3 billion doses during calendar year 2021. This difference of 700 million doses represents doses which will be delivered in fiscal year 2022. To refresh your memory, our cost of sales for the COVID-19 vaccine revenue includes manufacturing and distribution cost, applicable royalty expenses and a payment to BioNTech representing the 50% gross profit split. We continue to expect that the adjusted income before tax margin for the COVID-19 vaccine contribution to be in the high 20s as a percentage of revenue. This margin level also includes the anticipated spending on additional mRNA programs and spending on the COVID-19 protease inhibitor antiviral programs. If we remove the projected COVID-19 vaccine contribution from both periods, you will see that we slightly decreased the 2021 revenue range to $45 billion to $46 billion, so representing approximately 6% operational revenue growth at the midpoint. The decrease in guidance at the midpoint largely reflects the impact from the Chantix recall and pause in shipments. In terms of adjusted diluted EPS without the contribution from the COVID-19 vaccine, we have increased the range to be between $2.60 to $2.65 for the year, which represents approximately 12% operational growth at the midpoint. These growth rates are all consistent in how we've been publicly positioning the business post the Upjohn separation. You may notice that the implied Q4 guidance suggests non-COVID-19 operational revenue to decline by 1%, especially as compared to the revenue growth that we've seen year to date of 8%. Let me walk through the drivers of this. The largest driver of the decline is a difference in number of selling days compared to the comparable quarter in 2020. You will remember my discussion of extra selling days in Q1 when we had three more selling days in the U.S. and four more selling days in the international markets. And I talked then about how Q4 would largely offset that impact, leaving 2021 as a whole with approximately the same number of selling days as 2020. So in Q4, we will now have four fewer selling days each in domestic and international, eight less in total as compared to Q4 2020. This is expected to decrease sales by approximately $600 million or have a negative impact to the growth rate of 6% for the company, excluding COVID vaccine sales. We expect the Chantix sales to be zero in Q4 due to the recall and pause in shipments, representing another 2% headwind to growth. And while it is not our normal practice to discuss 2022 outlook during the Q3 conference call, I wanted to make a brief comment related to potential COMIRNATY sales next year as we've noticed some estimates of those sales to be very high. While we have the capacity to produce 4 billion doses in 2022, at this point, we expect to recognize revenues for 1.7 billion doses in 2022, representing COVID vaccine direct sales and alliance revenues approximately $29 billion. We continue to engage with governments regarding potential future orders for 2022, including doses for which certain governments have the option to order and take deliveries in 2022. And going forward, we will continue to be prudent in our capital allocation activities with the opportunities for deployment shown here on this slide. In summary, a strong quarter and first nine months of the year based on continued strong performance for our growth drivers. We have increased our revenue and EPS guidance for the remainder of the year, mainly driven by increased expectations for COMIRNATY sales. Our pipeline continues to advance, and we have invested to support that advance. We look forward to an expected closing of the Trillium acquisition as soon as this quarter or in the first half of 2022, subject to the satisfaction of the closing conditions. With that, let me turn it over to Chris to start the Q&A session.Chris Stevo -- Senior Vice President and Chief Investor Relations Officer Thanks, Frank. Sylvia, we're ready for our first question, please.  