  OperatorGood afternoon, and welcome to the Digital Realty first quarter 2022 earnings call. Please note, this event is being recorded. [Operator instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Jordan Sadler, Digital Realty's senior vice president of public and private investor relations. Jordan, please go ahead.Jordan Sadler -- Senior Vice President of Public and Private Investor Relations Thank you, operator, and welcome, everyone, to Digital Realty's first quarter 2022 earnings conference call. Joining me on today's call are CEO Bill Stein  and President and CFO Andy Power. Chief Investment Officer Greg Wright, Chief Technology Officer Chris Sharp, and Chief Revenue Officer Corey Dyer are also on the call and will be available for Q&A. Management may make forward-looking statements, including guidance and underlying assumptions on today's call.

 



 Forward-looking statements are based on expectations that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. For a further discussion of risks related to our business, see our 10-K and subsequent filings with the SEC. This call will contain non-GAAP financial information. Reconciliations to net income are included in the supplemental package furnished to the SEC and available on our website.Before I turn the call over to Bill, let me offer a few key takeaways from our first quarter. First, we kicked off the year on a high note with record bookings of $167 million, led by strength in the leases greater than one megawatt and supported by steady bookings in the zero to one megawatt and interconnection category. Second, we saw a notable and broad-based improvement in our releasing spreads in the quarter, reflecting a healthier pricing environment but also the active engagement we are having with customers on the Digital Realty value proposition. Third, we remain poised to continue our expansion in Africa with plans to close our investment in Teraco later this quarter. And finally, our core FFO per share results exceeded consensus' expectations despite FX-related headwinds. With that, I'd like to turn the call over to our CEO Bill Stein. Bill Stein -- Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thanks, Jordan, and welcome to the Digital team. Our formula for long-term value creation is a global, connected, sustainable framework, and we made further progress on each front during the first quarter. First, we continue to globalize our business with the announcement of our definitive agreement to acquire a majority stake in Teraco in early January. We also continue to grow our business organically around the world. We posted another record quarter of global bookings totaling $167 million of annualized rent, including our second highest quarter in each of the Americas and Asia Pacific regions, together with another solid quarter in EMEA. Bookings this quarter were led by strong results in the greater than one megawatt category, particularly in the Americas, while sub-1-megawatt bookings remain steady and in line with our 2021 average. Let's discuss our sustainable growth initiatives on Page 3 of our earnings presentation. We are committed to minimizing our impact on the environment and simultaneously meeting the needs of our customers, our investors, our employees and broader society while advancing our goal of delivering sustainable growth for all stakeholders. During the first quarter, Digital Realty was named one of America's Most Just Companies and third overall in the real estate industry by Just Capital and CNBC. We also maintained our status as a member of the FTSE4Good Index, which measures the performance of companies demonstrating strong ESG practices, continuing our record of recognition for our leading sustainability initiatives. During the first quarter of 2022, Digital Realty continued our diversity, equity and inclusion efforts through our employee-led DEI council, which seeks to promote inclusion and create opportunities for each of our employee communities. Through the DEI council, Digital Realty has expanded its philanthropy and community engagement activities with strategic donations and partnerships with global charitable organizations. Digital Realty has also taken a stand in solidarity with the people of Ukraine and those impacted by the Russian vision. We do not have any data centers or operations in Russia or Ukraine, and our company will abide by sanctions against Russia. Until the peaceful and legal resolution of this conflict, we will not invest in Russia. Furthermore, we are funding philanthropic organizations to support Ukrainian refugees, those displaced within Ukraine and the growing humanitarian crisis.

 



 Let's turn our investment activity to Page 4. We continue to invest in our global platform. We acquired land in three markets for organic development, including the first location for our joint venture with Brookfield in India, along with two parcels in Europe to support the strong demand in that region. After the quarter, we purchased three additional land parcels in Europe, including a beachhead in Barcelona, marking our organic entry into this complementary Mediterranean metro. Our active development pipeline reached an all-time high in the quarter with 44 projects underway supporting over 300 megawatts in of IT capacity in 28 metros around the world. 58% of this capacity is already presold, reflecting strong customer demand. We've expanded our development in the Americas, adding further capacity in New York, Northern Virginia and Toronto. Demand remains very strong in EMEA, and we are continuing to invest across this region with active development projects in 17 of our 18 markets. Frankfurt is still the most active development market in EMEA, followed by Paris. We continue to make good progress toward closing the Teraco transaction, which we still expect to close in the first half of this year. Let's turn to the macro environment on Page 5. We are fortunate to be operating in a business levered to secular demand drivers. We are also proactively managing risks to help insulate Digital Realty against the impact of the current inflationary and rising interest rate environment. We are well protected against the impact of rising energy costs given the pass-through nature of substantially all of our customer contracts, and we are effectively managing against rising input costs through our vendor-managed inventory program and the expansion of our prepurchase equipment pool. We are constructively engaging with new and existing customers on the impact of rising costs, which is translating into better pricing. This is partly reflected in the broad-based and improved cash leasing spreads we experienced in the first quarter but is also showing up in new lease transactions across most of our markets. Our leadership position provides us with a unique vantage point to detect secular trends as they emerge globally on Platform Digital. Our customers continue to solve the most complex IT infrastructure in activity and data integration challenges. We see a growing trend of multinational companies across all segments deploying and connecting large private data infrastructure footprints on platform digital across multiple regions and metros globally. Recently, industry research firm, IDC, updated their global data sphere forecast for 2025, Predicting the annual data creation rate will exceed 180 zettabytes per year or roughly triple the '21 rate. IDC concludes that companies of all sizes will need to prioritize data sharing and security to improve business resiliency and create a differentiated experience for their customers. Earlier this week, we published our inaugural Global Data Insights survey with strategic insights from 7,200 companies across 23 countries and nine industries about the role of data in their business agenda. According to the survey, 70% of these companies are prioritizing secure data exchange in their current plans. The global data survey will augment our Data Gravity Index to provide telemetry for our customers, partners and their respective industries as they evolve their business platforms to harness the power of data and co-located infrastructure to unlock a new era of growth through connected data communities. In addition, Digital Realty recently joined the iMasons Climate Accord as a founding member. This coalition of leading companies is united in their views on carbon reduction in digital infrastructure. The group will establish an independent governing body to define an open standard that provides transparency, traceability and measurement of progress toward reducing carbon from sourced power and embodied carbon found in materials, products and operations of digital infrastructure. This is another great example of our commitment to the continuous innovation and execution of our platform digital road map to provide a sustainable and differentiated value proposition for our customers, partners and the broader industry. Given the resiliency of the demand drivers underpinning our business and the relevance of our platform in meeting these needs, we believe that we are well-positioned to continue to deliver sustainable growth for customers, shareholders and employees whatever the macro environment may hold in store. With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Andy to take you through our financial results.Andy Power -- President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Bill. Let's turn to our leasing activity on Page 7. As Bill noted, we signed total bookings of $167 million with an $11 million contribution from interconnection during the first quarter. This is our second consecutive quarterly record, and the seventh time in the last eight quarters we have delivered bookings over $100 million. While our new business was healthy across product types, larger deals accounted for 70% of the quarter's bookings, while sub-one megawatt plus interconnection accounted for 30% of the total. The weighted average lease term on new leases was more than seven years. Demand was particularly strong in the Americas with Northern Virginia and Toronto leading the way. Fundamentals continue to tighten in both metros, as reflected by the high levels of pre-leasing on our development pipeline. In EMEA, Frankfurt remains the standout, while in APAC, demand remains robust in Singapore and Japan. Nearly a third of our sub-one-megawatt plus interconnection bookings were exported from one region to another, reflecting the value customers realize from our global platform. North America was the most common export region, with most of those exports landing in EMEA followed by Asia Pacific and Latin America. We landed 128 new logos during the first quarter, maintaining the momentum we have built over the last several quarters, which has been a strong validation of Platform Digital and our global strategy. In terms of specific wins during the quarter and around the world, Zenlayer, a global edge cloud provider, is expanding on Platform Digital across three continents to improve its geographic coverage, scale and access to customer communities across various industries. A Global 2000 consumer financial services firm continue to expand with Digital Realty, leveraging Platform Digital's full suite of capabilities, including rationalizing data centers, implementing IT controls and interconnecting with key business communities. Box Technologies, a leading innovator of high-performance desktop-as-a-service applications, is deploying on Platform Digital, supporting enterprise data architecture applications, serving the manufacturing, construction and engineering industries. A leading IT company is leveraging our full product spectrum by utilizing our connectivity offerings to support data exchange across three metros in North America and Lat Am to improve performance and scalability and reduce costs. Magnite, a global independent advertising platform is expanding our platform digital in multiple metros across EMEA to enable their hybrid IT transformation. And a Global 2000 reinsurer selected Platform Digital for mainframe migration with seamless connectivity to top cloud providers and robust security being key drivers. Turning to our backlog on Page 9. The current backlog of leases signed but not yet commenced grew by 15% and from $378 million to a record $436 million, driven by the strong first quarter signings, which outpaced commencements. The lag between signings and commencements moderated to seven months with nearly two-thirds of our $436 million backlog scheduled to commence later this year. Moving on to Page 10. We signed $177 million of renewal leases during the first quarter at a positive 3.3% cash releasing spread. Renewal rates were positive across the board, were spread in the black across product types in all three regions. Two-thirds of total renewals were sub-1-megawatt deals, resulting in a smaller sample size for the one-plus megawatt category in the quarter. Excluding one larger short-term extension, our cash renewal spread would have been positive 2.5%. We are encouraged by the positive trajectory on renewal spreads, as well as constructive engagement with customers on the current inflationary environment and our highly compelling value proposition. In terms of operating performance, portfolio occupancy ticked down by 30 basis points sequentially, driven by previously reported churn events, most of which has already been released. Consistent with our full year guidance, same capital cash NOI growth was negative 3.1% in the first quarter, primarily driven by 220 basis points of FX headwinds, the timing of no move-outs and a customer bankruptcy. The U.S. dollar continued to strengthen over the last several months, and FX represented a 200 to 250 basis point drag on the year-over-year growth in our first quarter reported results from the top to the bottom line, as shown on Page 11. Our operations, along with our capital funding and locally denominated debt act as a natural hedge, so only our net assets within a given region are exposed to currency risk from an economic perspective. Turning to our risk mitigation strategies on Page 12. A little less than 60% of our first quarter operating revenue was denominated in U.S. dollars, followed by approximately 25% in euros and roughly 5% each in Singapore dollars and British pounds. In addition to managing credit risk and foreign currency exposure, we also mitigate interest rate risk by proactively terming out short-term variable rate debt with longer-term fixed rate financing. Given our strategy of matching duration of our long-lived assets with long-term fixed rate debt, a 100 basis point move in SOFR would have roughly a 75 basis point impact on full year FFO per share. Our near-term funding and refinancing risk is very well managed, and our capital plan is fully funded. In terms of earnings growth, first quarter core FFO per share of $1.67 was flat on both a year over year and sequential basis. Despite FX headwinds, a $0.01 impact related to a customer bankruptcy and a difficult comp due to the contribution of assets to digital core REIT. In terms of the quarterly run rate, we expect the split between the first half of the year and the second half of the year to be approximately $49.51. In other words, as you can see from the bridge chart on Page 13, we expect to dip down a couple of pennies in the second quarter due to normalized opex spending and near-term dilution from closing the Teraco transaction before bouncing back in the second half of the year as leases from a record backlog commenced. Most of the drivers underlying our guidance remain unchanged, but given the improving pricing environment, we are bumping up our outlook for cash releasing spreads for the full year to slightly positive compared to flat last quarter. We are maintaining our existing core FFO per share range of $6.80 to $6.90 despite the customer bankruptcy and stiffer FX headwinds. Given the continued strength of the U.S. dollar, we expect currency headwinds could represent a 250 to 300 basis point drag on full year 2022 revenue and core FFO per share growth. Last but certainly not least, let's turn to the balance sheet on Page 14. We were active again in the capital markets during the first quarter. We took advantage of favorable OEM market conditions to lock in EUR 750 million at 1.375% for 10 and a half years. And later in the quarter, we completed a dual tranche Swiss bond offering, raising a total of CHF 250 million at a blended coupon of approximately 1.25%. We used a portion of the net proceeds to redeem 450 million of bonds at 4.75%. Reported leverage ratio is 6.3 times while fixed charge coverage is 5.5 times. Adjusting for the proceeds from the forward equity offering last September, our pro forma leverage ratio drops to 5.9 times, while fixed charge coverage improves to 5.7 times. We continue to execute our financial strategy of maximizing the menu of available capital options while minimizing the related cost and extending the duration of our liabilities to match our long-lived assets. This successful execution against our financing strategy reflects the strength of our global platform, which provides access to the full menu of public, as well as private capital, sets us apart from our peers and enables us to prudently fund our growth. As you can see from the chart on Page 15, our weighted average debt maturity is over six years and our weighted average coupon is 2.2%. A little over three-quarters of our debt is non-U.S. dollar denominated, reflecting the growth of our global platform while also acting as a natural FX hedge for investments outside the U.S. Over 90% of our debt is fixed rate, guarding against a fixed a rising rate environment, and 99% of our debt is unsecured, providing the greatest flexibility for capital recycling. Finally, as you can see from the left side of Page 15, we have a clear runway with nominal near-term debt maturities and no bar too tall in the out years. Our balance sheet is poised to weather a storm but also positioned to fuel growth opportunities for our customers around the globe, consistent with our long-term financing strategy. This concludes our prepared remarks, and now we will be pleased to take your questions. Operator, would you please begin the Q&A session? 