
OperatorGood afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the C.H. Robinson First Quarter 2021 Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded Tuesday, April 27, 2021.I would now like to turn the conference over to Chuck Ives, Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Chuck Ives -- Director of Investor Relations

 



Thank you, Donna, and good afternoon, everyone. On the call with me today is Bob Biesterfeld, our Chief Executive Officer; and Mike Zechmeister, our Chief Financial Officer. Bob and Mike will provide a summary of our 2021 first quarter results, and we will then open the call up for questions. This change to live Q&A from our previous practice of responding to pre-submitted questions is in response to valued input from our analysts and shareholders. Our earnings presentation slides are supplemental to our earnings release and today's comments and can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website at chrobinson.com. I'd like to remind you that our remarks today may contain forward-looking statements. Slide two in today's presentation lists factors that could cause our actual results to differ from management's expectations.And with that, I'll turn the call over to Bob.Bob Biesterfeld -- Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Chuck, and good afternoon, everyone. We're proud of our first quarter results. As global shipping markets remain disrupted, our team around the globe stayed focused on serving the needs of our customers and delivering innovative solutions to keep global supply chains moving. During the quarter, we delivered strong financial results while continuing to deliver against many of our initiatives related to growth, productivity and the advancement of our digital strategy. I'll highlight some of these areas of progress as I walk through my prepared comments surrounding our Q1 results. In the first quarter of 2021, we generated 125% growth in earnings per share due to profit growth in our two largest business segments, North American Surface Transportation and Global Forwarding. Our NAST business generated double-digit growth in both adjusted gross profits, or AGP, and operating income in the quarter. NAST AGP per business day increased 15%, and operating income was up 39% compared to the first quarter of last year. These results were driven by a 23% improvement in AGP per truckload in our truckload business, coupled with continued strong market share gains in our less than truckload business, where volume per business day increased 17% year-over-year. Bolstering these results were continued benefits of our technology investments, which continue to unlock productivity gains and deliver customer value in new and exciting ways.

 



The macro environment in the first quarter continued to be one of tight capacity and increased pricing in the marketplace driven by several supply side constraints, including the ongoing challenges of driver availability, coupled with robust demand. The weather events in February demonstrated how quickly supply chains can get disrupted in this capacity-constrained environment. For the quarter, our NAST truckload volume was down approximately 6.5% or 5% per business day compared to first quarter of last year. While our business in the spot market increased significantly, our volume in the contractual business declined as we continued to pursue profitable volume growth by reshaping our portfolio through repricing the book of business with new and existing customers. It's our belief that given the current structural constraints around expansion of truckload supply, coupled with additional government stimulus, a back-half reopening of the economy and potential infrastructure spending, the market conditions that were existing today have the potential to remain out of balance for the next several quarters. For first quarter, we saw routing guide depth of tender in our managed services business maintained between 1.7 and 1.8, which is consistent with fourth quarter of last year.As one of the world's largest logistics platform and the largest provider of truckload capacity in North America, we are uniquely positioned to help both customers and carriers navigate these market conditions. One of the ways that we do this is by leveraging our scale and the size of our carrier network. In the first quarter, we welcomed 6,900 new carriers to our network, which represented a 72% increase year-over-year and represents the most carriers added in a quarter in our history. Coupled with these new carrier adds, we also saw record use and adoption of our carrier-facing digital products, Navisphere Carrier and Navisphere Driver, further advancing our digital initiatives. Our average truckload linehaul cost per mile paid to carriers, excluding fuel surcharges, increased 33.5% compared to the first quarter of last year. Our average linehaul rate billed to our customers, excluding fuel surcharges, increased 33% year-over-year. And for the second quarter in a row, we saw a sequential change in price per mile that exceeded the change in cost per mile as we continue to reprice our contractual truckload business to reflect the current environment.Our first quarter rate per mile billed to customers increased 2%, while our cost per mile to carriers increased 1% sequentially. We closed the quarter with an approximate mix of 55% contractual volume and 45% transactional volume versus the 65-35 mix in the year ago period and consistent with our mix in the fourth quarter of 2020. NAST's less than truckload service continues to grow volume faster than the market with 17% year-over-year growth in volume per business day in Q1. Our value proposition that combines a full suite of LTL services, including common carrier, warehousing and retail consolidation, temperature control, parcel, home delivery and reverse logistics, continues to resonate with customers across industries. And we continue to benefit from the tailwinds in some of the fastest-growing customer segments, including retail, e-commerce and manufacturing. Within LTL, we're winning new business and growing our existing business with customers of all sizes, from small businesses that utilize our Freightquote by C.H. Robinson platform to large enterprise shippers that look to us as a strategic partner to manage and optimize their LTL freight networks. The March 2020 acquisition of Prime Distribution Services, coupled with our existing retail consolidation network, has made us the largest and most comprehensive provider of retail consolidation services in the industry. In total, NAST's overall volume per day grew 7% year-over-year.This was slightly below industry volume growth during the quarter of approximately 7.5% as measured by the Cass Freight Index. Turning the page to Global Forwarding. Our Global Forwarding business once again delivered excellent results in first quarter. We delivered 118% increase in total revenues within the forwarding segment, a 67% increase in adjusted gross profits and a 658% increase in operating income. The forwarding team at Robinson successfully worked with customers across the globe to navigate a difficult and a disruptive market, leading to increased award sizes from customers and thousands of new commercial relationships. The airfreight market continues to be impacted by reduced cargo capacity, and we continue to position charter flight capacity to support demand from both existing and new customers. Our customers continue to value working with Robinson's local experts in offices around the world that can deliver a full suite of global logistics services and technology solutions. The resulting market share gains, combined with the strength of the market, produced a 27% increase in ocean volumes during the quarter and a 7% increase in air shipments. Candidly, three to five years ago, we wouldn't have been able to deliver these types of results in our forwarding business, but we've made substantial structural and strategic changes and have increased our investments over that time. We've invested in technology, data and analytics as well as our global network and leadership team.

 



And we bolstered our commercial and strategic sales teams in forwarding to strengthen our customer relationships and to support emerging vertical strategies while creating sustainable high-value revenue streams. Additionally, we've expanded our geographical strength in areas such as Europe, Oceania and Latin America and South Asia, while we continue to grow our core trans-Pacific and trans-Atlantic business. Within forwarding, we've implemented a more centralized global pricing framework that, combined with an increased use of data and analytics, is enabling us to employ improved and agile pricing strategy leading to growth in market share. We believe that these strategies and competitive advantages will enable us to create more value for customers and in turn, win more business and sustain the market share gains that we've achieved and will continue to have forwarding contribute and drive parts of our long-term growth. Because of the efforts of our C.H. Robinson team members around the world, our total company adjusted gross profit per business day improved by 11% sequentially in first quarter and 26% year-over-year. Related to technology, we continue to make progress on our strategic initiatives and transformation efforts. As I've stated in the past, the three primary areas of investment in technology are focused on creating value for customers, value for carriers and driving productivity improvement for our teams, which in turn drives improvements to both our top and our bottom line results. Looking at the impacts of technology through the lens of customers and carriers.The number of daily and monthly average users across our customer- and carrier-facing platforms continues to grow. An area that we've invested heavily in is the ability to deliver real-time pricing for truckload shippers through digital channels that are most convenient for our customers to use. Enabling these digital connections improves efficiency for our customers. It improves our response time to request and improves our win rates. Today, more than 30% of our transactional business is being priced via our proprietary Transactional Pricing Engine, which we call TPE. Today, we're delivering real-time pricing with capacity assurance from the largest network of truckload capacity. Volume driven through our Transactional Pricing Engine has more than doubled when compared to last year's first quarter. And the volume executed through digital connections via API and EDI has grown 4 times over that same time. We continue to add customers at an accelerated pace with over 100 new customers connected via TMS and ERP connections in the first quarter of 2021 alone. The pipeline for adding both direct customer connectivity and TMS connections is robust, and we expect to achieve strong growth in our platform connections and tenders throughout 2021. Our customers now have access to real-time pricing via our Navisphere customer web portal, direct through their TMS or ERP integrations as well as via Freightquote by C.H. Robinson.In total, we've enabled these dynamic pricing capabilities for over 85,000 customers across these points of connections. Small businesses continue to see the value in our Freightquote by C.H. Robinson platform as the number of customers utilizing this has grown 30% year-over-year and the adjusted gross profit generated through Freightquote is up 137%. We've had over one million unique visitors to the Freightquote platform just since the product launched. And we continue to be excited about the total addressable market of small businesses and our ability to serve them in a fully digital and frictionless manner. Earlier this quarter, I hope that you saw that we launched Emissions IQ, the first free self-serve tool for customers that will instantly allow a customer to view their carbon emissions across all modes of transportation globally. This product was created in our innovation incubator, Robinson Labs, and built in response to the growing priority around sustainability. Emissions IQ includes partial truckload emissions methodology that was created in collaboration with MIT's Center for Transportation and Logistics and the U.S. EPA. This collaboration focused on developing a standardized way to measure the emissions of LTL for the first time. By putting useful technology and data at our customers' fingertips, we're not only increasing the transparency of the emissions in our industry but we're servicing the best strategies for customers to make meaningful carbon reductions. On the carrier side, we continue to deliver new capabilities and benefits to our carriers through our web and mobile versions of Navisphere Carrier and Navisphere Driver.During the quarter, we saw significant increases in the occurrence of fully automated bookings in our NAST truckload business via the web and the app. Approximately 90% of our North American truckload freight is now available to be booked via web or app in a fully digital and frictionless manner. The number of carriers that had adopted this capability was up 50% sequentially from fourth quarter of last year to the first quarter of this year. And finally, as it relates to productivity, we've highlighted a couple of key metrics for NAST on Page four of our earnings presentation. We continue to show year-over-year improvement in productivity, as indicated by the 1,270 point favorable spread in our NAST productivity index, which represents the difference between the year-over-year change in NAST volume and the change in full-time equivalents in NAST. Another key metric that we review is shipments per person per day, and this metric is up 13% in first quarter compared to the same quarter last year. Both charts show very clearly the relationship between the timing of our increased technology investments and the impact to these key business metrics. We are encouraged with the progress that we're making on our technology journey and the impacts that these investments are delivering for our customers, for our carriers and the impact to our overall results.I'll now turn the call to Mike to review the specifics of our first quarter financial performance.Mike Zechmeister -- Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Bob, and good afternoon, everyone. As Bob mentioned, we delivered solid financial results during the quarter due to strong profit growth in NAST and Global Forwarding despite lower truckload volume in NAST, where we work to improve AGP per load by addressing unprofitable loads in the tight freight market. Our total company AGP per business day was up 26% compared to Q1 of 2020, driven by performance from our ocean and truckload service teams. As a reminder, our first quarter had one less business day compared to Q1 of last year. On a sequential basis, all of our business segments and service lines delivered increased AGP per business day compared to Q4. Our truckload service line delivered the largest absolute increase on a sequential basis with a 6% increase in AGP per load and a 4% increase in truckload volume per business day. This sequential volume growth was achieved despite the negative impact of Winter Storm Uri in the U.S., which we estimate had a net decline of 0.5 day of truckload volume and a full day of LTL volume.On a monthly basis compared to 2020, our total company AGP per business day was up 34% in January, up 17% in February and up 26% in March. Q1 personnel expenses were $360.8 million, up 9.3% versus Q1 of 2020, primarily due to higher incentive compensation costs that are aligned with our expected 2021 results. Q1 average head count declined 2.9% compared to Q1 last year, including the Prime acquisition, which added one percentage point. The Q1 growth in our business with reduced head count shows how our technology and process improvement investments are delivering efficiency to our business model. We continue to expect our full year 2021 personnel expenses to be approximately $1.4 billion, including the higher incentive compensation, the impact of our ongoing long-term cost savings efforts and the reinstatement of our company match on retirement contributions in the U.S. and Canada, which started on January 1. Q1 SG&A expenses of $118.2 million were down 7.9% compared to Q1 of 2020, driven by reduced travel and improved credit losses. We continue to forecast 2021 total SG&A expenses to be approximately $0.5 billion, including the expectation that travel expenses will build in the back half of 2021 as the impact of the pandemic subsides. 2021 SG&A is expected to include approximately $85 million to $90 million of depreciation and amortization, which is down from $102 million in 2020, primarily due to the completion of amortization related to a prior acquisition.Regarding our long-term cost reduction efforts, through Q1, we delivered approximately 90% of the $100 million per year of long-term or permanent cost savings. We expect to deliver the remaining $10 million of long-term savings by the end of Q2. In the back half of 2021 and beyond, we will continue our long-term cost savings efforts, primarily through process redesign and automation across the enterprise. Our first quarter adjusted operating margin was 31.8%, an increase of 1,250 basis points compared to Q1 last year, primarily due to the increase in adjusted gross profit and success of our cost savings efforts. The Q1 adjusted operating margin delivered on our 30% long-term enterprise margin expectation. Our first quarter effective tax rate was 18.3%, up from 17.1% in Q1 last year, due primarily to the higher income this quarter. Recall that our first quarter typically has a lower effective tax rate due to the tax benefits related to the delivery of our annual stock-based compensation in the quarter. We continue to expect our 2021 effective tax rate to be 20% to 22%, assuming no 2021 impact from changes to U.S., state or international tax laws. Q1 net income was $173.3 million, up 122% compared to Q1 last year. And as Bob highlighted, diluted earnings per share finished at $1.28, up 125% versus Q1 last year.Turning to cash flow. Q1 cash used by operations was approximately $56.7 million compared to $58.5 million provided by operations in Q1 of 2020. The $115 million decrease in operational cash flow versus Q1 last year was driven by a $468 million sequential increase in accounts receivable and contract assets compared to Q4, which was partially offset by a $216 million increase in total accounts payable and the $95 million year-over-year increase in net income. The 17.7% sequential increase in accounts receivable and contract assets was driven primarily by a sequential increase in total revenue that was more concentrated in the last two months of Q1 compared to Q4 as well as the mix shift associated with higher total revenue growth in Global Forwarding, where our DSO runs almost double that of our NAST business. It's important to note that we are not seeing a deterioration in the quality of our receivables. Q1 results included sequential and year-over-year improvements in credit losses and percent of accounts receivable that are past due. Over the long term, we expect working capital to grow at a slower rate than our adjusted gross profit. Q1 capital expenditures totaled $13.5 million compared to $14.7 million in Q1 last year.We continue to expect our 2021 capital expenditures to be $55 million to $65 million. We are seeing solid results from our investments, and we'll continue to prioritize the highest returning technology initiatives on a risk-adjusted basis. We remain committed to our $1 billion investment in technology from 2019 to 2023. We returned approximately $221 million of cash to shareholders in Q1 through a combination of $151 million of share repurchases and $70 million of dividends. That level of cash returned to shareholders represents a 45% increase versus Q1 last year when we paused our share repurchase late in the quarter to assess the impact of the pandemic. During Q1 this year, we repurchased approximately 1.6 million shares at an average price of $92.84 per share. At the end of Q1, we had approximately 6.4 million shares of capacity remaining on our 15 million share repurchase authorization from May of 2018. We continue to be committed to disciplined capital stewardship, maintaining an investment-grade credit rating and returning excess cash to shareholders through dividends and opportunistic share repurchases.Now on to highlights from the balance sheet. We finished Q1 with $218 million of cash and cash equivalents, down $77 million compared to Q1 of 2020. Over the long term, we intend to carry only the cash needed to fund operations and efficiently repatriate excess cash from foreign entities. We ended Q1 with $968 million of liquidity comprised of $750 million of committed funding under our credit facility, which matures in October of 2023, and our Q1 cash balance. Our debt balance at quarter end was $1.34 billion, up $250 million versus Q1 last year. Our net debt-to-EBITDA leverage at the end of Q1 was 1.3 times. I'll close by saying that I have great confidence in our team and their ability to build on the solid results from Q1 by continuing to execute our plans that generate sustainable long-term growth in our total shareholder returns.Thank you for listening this afternoon, and I'll turn the call back over to Bob now for his final comments.Bob Biesterfeld -- Chief Executive OfficerGreat. Thank you, Mike. So as I said in my opening comments, we're proud of the results that we delivered in the first quarter. We delivered record revenues, adjusted gross profits, net income and EPS relative to all past first quarters. We grew adjusted gross profit in the quarter by 24%, while operating expenses increased by less than 5%. This demonstrated the strength and the earnings power of our non-asset-based business model. Looking forward, we'll stay the course with our strategy of pursuing market share gains that align with our profitability expectations, and we'll continue to invest back into the business in order to drive innovation and improve service to our customers and to our carriers. Within our NAST business, based on what we know today, we expect tight market conditions to continue through the balance of the year. But regardless of how cyclical market conditions change and evolve, we'll stay focused on driving growth and expanding our business with customers across our global suite of modes and services.We're very pleased with the results from Global Forwarding, where we've built sustainable competitive advantages through the structural changes that we've made over the last few years. Across the board, as one of the world's largest aggregators of this highly fragmented and diverse carrier base on multiple continents, we're committed to creating better outcomes for our customers and carriers by delivering industry-leading technology that's built by and for supply chain experts. As shippers and carriers continue to increase their adoption of our new digital capabilities, we expect to see continued productivity benefits and to grow market share across our service lines as we create value for customers in new ways.As an organization, we're committed to continuous improvement, driving further efficiencies into the model and leveraging our unmatched combination of experience, scale, technology and information advantage to create better outcomes and to unlock growth. We're also firmly committed to being a responsible corporate citizen, and we're proud of the tools that we can now offer to advance sustainability across the logistics industry. Over the past year, all of our lives have been challenged in unforeseen ways, and the priority to build more flexible and adaptable supply chains is a top priority for shippers and receivers globally. We're uniquely positioned as an organization to offer solutions and to innovate by leveraging our non-asset-based business model, our global suite of services and the most capable team of supply chain experts in the world. The team at Robinson is excited by the opportunities in front of us and committed to providing solutions to the most difficult challenges facing our industry. Lastly, I'd like to thank the team at Robinson around the world for continuing to drive our company forward and to help us emerge stronger. This concludes our prepared comments.And with that, I'll turn it back to Donna for the live Q&A portion of the call.