
OperatorGood morning, everyone, and welcome to the Citrix Q3 2021 Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions]And at this time, I'd like to turn the conference call over to Traci Tsuchiguchi. Please go ahead.Traci T. Tsuchiguchi -- Vice President of Investor RelationsGood morning, and thank you for joining us for today's third quarter 2021 earnings call. Participating on the call will be Bob Calderoni, Chairman and Interim Chief Executive Officer; and Arlen Shenkman, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Please note that we have posted our third quarter earnings letter to our Investor Relations website. I'd like to remind you that today's conversation will contain forward-looking statements made under the safe harbor provision of the U.S. securities law. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated.Additional information concerning these and other factors is highlighted in today's earnings letter and in the company's filings with the SEC. Copies are available from the SEC or on our Investor Relations website. On this call, we will discuss various non-GAAP financial measures as defined by SEC's Regulation G. A reconciliation of the differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures discussed on today's call can be found at the end of our earnings letter found on the Investor Relations page of our website.Now I'd like to turn it over to Bob Calderoni, our Chairman and Interim Chief Executive Officer. Bob?Bob Calderoni -- Interim President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Traci. Good morning, and thank you for joining us. For those of you whom I've not yet met, I'm Bob Calderoni, Chairman of the Board and Interim CEO. And as you know, I stepped into this new role just a few weeks ago. And while I will need some time before I can share with you my views on 2022 and beyond, I thought I would give you some of my early observations on the business.Today, I see a business with very strong assets and a solid foundation. Citrix, as you know, is the leader in its markets. We're #1 in the VDI DaaS market, and we're #2 in the ADC market. And those market positions are supported by strong technology advantages. The markets we participate in are healthy and growing, and our important VDI DaaS business has some strong secular tailwinds with trends supporting secure remote hybrid work. We have a strong and loyal customer base across the globe, and we have strong presence in every industry vertical. And from a business perspective, we've proven success in our transition to the cloud with over $1 billion of SaaS ARR, and we have largely transitioned our model to recurring revenues with over $3 billion of ARR.I believe the overall health and velocity of our business is best demonstrated by the fact that we expect our total ARR to grow nearly 10% this year on an organic basis. And I'll remind you, this growth is following a rather extraordinary year in 2020 that benefited from an unusual COVID demand. Another important metric signaling the health of any recurring revenue business is renewal rates. And while we do not disclose our renewal rates, I can say the rates are both strong and improving.There's lot to point to on the positive side, but I think it's fair to say there've also been some missteps along the way, which is clearly overshadowing our success. These missteps are largely in our go-to-market motion and in our own forecasting, and I'm confident they're all fixable. We need to shore up our channel programs and put in place the right incentives for our channel partners. And we need to focus sales investments on direct selling quota-carrying individuals and eliminate excess investments in overlays and shared commissions. We're going to address all of these issues as part of our planning for 2022, and I will share more of that with you as part of our Q4 earnings call.Much of this work is underway, but not yet complete. I can say, however, the objectives for this work are very clear. We strive to be more predictable, delivering solid growth again in our total ARR along with better margins and cash flow. My priorities have set us on a course to deliver the long-term sustainable growth and profitability, I know we are capable of achieving. I'm very happy to be in this role. I look forward to working with the rest of the management team to achieve these objectives. And I look forward to talking with many of you over the coming months.With that said, let me now open the call for your questions.