
OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to Anthem's Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question and answer session where participants are encouraged to present a single question. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, today's conference is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to the company's management. Please go ahead.Stephen Tanal -- Vice President Investor RelationsGood morning and welcome to Anthem's Third Quarter 2021 earnings call. This is Steve Tanal Vice President of Investor Relations and with us this morning on the earnings call are Gail Boudreaux, President and CEO, John Gallina our CFO, Peter Haytaian, President of our Diversified Business Group and IngenioRx; Morgan Kendrick, President of our Commercial and Specialty Business Division and Felicia Norwood, President of our Government Business Division. Gail will begin the call with a brief discussion of the quarter, recent progress against our strategic initiatives and close on Anthem's commitment to its mission.

 



John will then discuss our financial results and outlook in greater detail. After our prepared remarks the team will be available for Q&A. During the call, we will reference certain non-GAAP measures, reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are available on our website antheminc.com. We will also be making some forward-looking statements on this call. Listeners are cautioned that these statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the control of Anthem.These risks and uncertainties can cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectation. We advise listeners to carefully review the risk factors discussed in today's press release and in our quarterly filings with the SEC. I will now turn the call over to Gail.Gail K. Boudreaux -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks Steve and good morning everyone. We're pleased to talk with you about another strong quarter. This morning, we reported third quarter GAAP earnings per share $6.13 and adjusted earnings per share of $6.79. Ahead of expectation, despite another surge in COVID that created challenges throughout the country. Once again, Anthem continues to deliver on stakeholder commitments, accelerate growth in every core benefits business and made considerable progress toward our long-term strategy to transform from a health benefits company to a lifetime trusted partner in health.

 



Addressing the whole person is essential to becoming a trusted lifetime partner in health responding to the pandemic has allowed us to instill new agility and innovation into the business, particularly around solutions for physical health, pharmacy, behavioral and social needs with an emphasis on maternal health, access to nutritious food and health disparities. Ultimately we believe we're only as healthy as the communities we live in and recognize our important role in ensuring everyone has an opportunity to be and stay healthy. As the healthcare paradigm shift, we're accelerating work to simplify members and clients' everyday experiences and meet their evolving needs through personalized experience. Moreover there is abundant opportunity to modernize further and reinforce our position, leveraging our technology, predictive analytics and innovative products and services to bring an enhanced experience only Anthem can offer.We expect whole person healthcare powered by digital technologies to help us achieve our goal of driving commercial medical cost trend down toward the rate of CPI by 2025. Currently we're exploring more ways to drive differentiated value across medical and pharmacy. Our insight driven approach is fueling new programs that drive better cost and quality outcomes for our members including in the areas of behavioral health and autoimmune disease. Additionally, we recently launched a new offering to test the full suite of our capabilities in the form of a virtual primary CareFirst product which we expect to demonstrate meaningful reductions in overall cost of care and greater member satisfaction.We are already selling virtual first risk-based commercial plans in certain markets across each of Anthem's 14 Blue states for the 2022 plan year featuring simplified plan designs 24/7 service and leveraging our high performing networks that enable affordable price point. We've also seen strong interest in these capabilities from our fee-based clients and we'll be embedding virtual primary care with several large fee-based client throughout 2022. At the same time innovative product offerings like Sydney Preferred which allows employers to customize a digital-first healthcare experience for their employees are gaining considerable momentum.To-date, more than 50 national accounts have signed up for Sydney Preferred representing nearly 900,000 commercial members. To help accelerate our digital platform, we've elevated Rajeev Ronanki to President of Digital Platform. Rajeev will drive the commercialization of our digital capabilities for consumers and care providers as we reimagine the health ecosystem. Now, I'll share notable third quarter highlights and business driving initiatives for the balance of fiscal 2021 starting with our Medicaid business, which is performing well.

 



Our Healthy Blue plan in partnership with Blue Cross Blue Shield of North Carolina has quickly become the largest Medicaid managed care plan by membership in North Carolina and the leading choice for consumers, its success coupled with the ongoing suspension of eligibility redeterminations drove Anthem's total Medicaid membership above 10 million at quarter end exceeding our internal expectations. Our commitment to members and their communities has never been stronger and we continue to develop innovative solutions to meet their unique, holistic health needs.As a result our focus on reducing health disparities and inequities remains vital to the value Anthem offers their partners [Phonetic]. This is reflected in our momentum along with our 100% RFP win rate year to date. Looking further ahead, Anthem will launch another new Statewide Medicaid Managed Care contract in Ohio in the summer of 2022. After earning the City of New York's Group Medicare Advantage contract last quarter, we added several new Group MA customers in the third quarter for January 1, 2022 start date and having growing pipeline of new prospects.As part of our strategy to deepen our Medicare Advantage market penetration, we remain focused on converting commercial age out to MA relationship and preparing for a flawless January launch of our Group Medicare Advantage plan for New York City's retiree, customized solutions of scale underpin our approach to individual Medicare Advantage benefits for 2022, many of our MA plans will allow customers to choose what's best for them from a menu of innovative whole health benefit. For example in some areas the program will include a Kroger grocery card, generous over the counter benefits and up to 60 hours of in-home support to assist with light housekeeping, errand and companionship.We expect these and other benefit enhancements to help drive another year of double-digit growth in our individual Medicare Advantage membership next year. Medicare Star Ratings continue to be a focus area across Anthem and the ratings released 2 weeks ago show we've made solid progress. We're particularly proud HealthSun received a 5-star rating for the 5th consecutive year the only Medicare Advantage health plan in Florida to accomplish such an achievement. For the 2023 payment year, we anticipate approximately 73% of members in plan that CMS rated as 4 plus starts up from 58% on a comparable basis a year ago.That figure will move even higher with the City of New York's Group Medicare Advantage contract launch next year. At the same time, investments and provider partnerships are accelerating Anthem's evolution toward high quality value-based care. This is necessary to drive improved outcomes and cost of care across all of our benefits businesses and is critical in Medicare Advantage where it impacts reimbursement through Star Ratings. This year more than 60% of our Medicare Advantage spending will be in risk sharing arrangements.Based on our current contract we expect that to increase to more than 70% in 2022 with approximately 30% of Medicare Advantage spending in fully capitated risk arrangements. Investments in our primary care partnerships, in particular will support members and drive growth through the expansion of value-based care, leading to an even larger proportion of our members in 4 Plus Star contracts over time. We recognize there is still more work to do and we'll continue our efforts to raise customer satisfaction by aligning incentives with care providers to improve quality and medication adherence while simultaneously enhancing our member experience, accelerating our use of data and analytics and leveraging IngenioRx as our Pharmacy Benefit Manager.Lastly, a few highlights of the strong growth we see in our commercial business. We're nearing the end of the most robust national account selling season in Anthem's history. Volume of RFPs was down, but average size was up considerably and we want a disproportionate share of new business and expanded services with our existing clients. IngenioRx is also showing exciting growth with a more than 5 fold increase in new sales at this point in the selling season compared to the relatively depressed base a year ago when the pandemic weighed heavily on employer decision making. The consistent theme across all of our businesses is that each continues to produce strong organic growth.This drove medical enrollment to more than 45 million US consumers, strengthening Anthem's position as the largest health insurer in America by membership. I'm pleased with the progress we're making toward delivering our strategy and want to share two recent leadership changes to accelerate our effort. Pete Haytaian will lead our diversified business group and IngenioRx, both of which are critical components of our growth strategy. Pete has an impressive track record of growth and innovation in his previous role leading Anthem's commercial and government businesses. With Pete's transition, we're confident are Commercial and Specialty Business Division will maintain its strong momentum under the leadership of Morgan Kendrick who's driven market-leading growth across critical lines of our commercial business including national accounts and most recently as President of Anthem's Commercial West market, our largest region.The breadth and depth of our collective leadership ensures we stand ready to deliver on our promises to stakeholders across all areas of our business and will guide Anthem to long-term sustainable growth. It's a privilege to work alongside such a strong group a leaders committed to advancing our purpose and mission. In summary, our actions and the focus and discipline we've brought to the business have positioned Anthem for the next several years of growth, our strategy to extend our role from a partner in health benefit to a lifetime trusted partner in health is resonating in the marketplace, as evidenced by our growth. Our response to COVID brings a new level of agility and speed to the business along with more opportunities to reach consumers and care providers than ever before and we continue to simplify and personalize our member relationship with relevant benefits and enhanced innovative experiences where and when they want.With that, I'll turn the call over to John to discuss our financial results in more detail.John E. Gallina -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you Gail, and good morning to everyone on the line. As Gail mentioned earlier, we reported third quarter adjusted earnings per share of $6.79, an increase of approximately 62% year-over-year, driven by strong growth across all of our businesses. This growth was a result of focused execution against our strategic priorities despite a challenging backdrop created by another surge in COVID. Our third quarter results once again demonstrate the balance and resilience of our core benefit businesses and the strong growth momentum we are producing across the board.We ended the quarter with 45.1 million members growth of 2.4 million lives, year-over-year or 5.7% including growth of 730,000 during the quarter led by the successful launch of our Healthy Blue Medicaid plan in North Carolina. In addition to the 426,000 members gained in that state, we produced incremental organic growth of nearly 380,000 members during the quarter, driven by strong growth in our Medicaid and Commercial risk-based businesses. This growth was partially offset by continued in-group attrition in our group fee-based business consistent with our expectations.Operating revenue in the third quarter was $35.5 billion, an increase of 16% versus prior year quarter and nearly 18% on a HIF-adjusted basis. The increase was driven by higher premium revenue associated with strong membership growth in our Medicaid, Medicare and commercial risk businesses as well as rate increases to cover cost trend and ongoing momentum in our diversified service businesses including IngenioRx. The benefit expense ratio for the third quarter was 87.7%, an increase of 90 basis points compared to the prior year quarter, driven by the repeal of the health insurance tax in 2021.Excluding the impact of the HIF, our medical loss ratio would have decreased by approximately 50 basis points, driven by unfavorable rate adjustments in our Medicaid business in the third quarter of 2020. All in, the cost of care was above what we would consider to be normalized or baseline levels in the third quarter of this year, driven by higher COVID cost in the month of August and September. But medical cost were nonetheless better than we had expected for the quarter overall with lower non-COVID utilization helping absorb the higher than expected COVID related costs.Our third quarter SG&A ratio was 11.1% a decrease of 620 basis points from the 17.3% in the prior year quarter primarily due to charges we took last year related to business optimization and the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association litigation settlement. Excluding charges from the base year and the impact of the repeal of the health insurance tax, our SG&A ratio would have decreased by approximately 130 basis points, driven by leverage associated with growth and operating revenue, partially offset by higher spending to support our growth and our transition to becoming a digital enterprise for health.Operating cash flow during the quarter was $2.5 billion for 1.7 times net income. Turning to our balance sheet, we ended the third quarter with a debt to capital ratio of 38.9%, down approximately 100 basis points from the 39.9% as of the end of the second quarter. The decrease was driven by growth in shareholders' equity associated with our earnings in the quarter and a reduction in commercial paper outstanding. We continue to maintain a prudent posture with respect to reserves given the ongoing uncertainty associated with the COVID-19 pandemic and lengthening in cycle times that we have seen since the pandemic began.We ended the third quarter with 46.8 days in claims payable, a decrease of 1.3 days compared to the second quarter and an increase of 5.7 days as compared to the prior year quarter. The timing of our acquisition of MMM inflated days in claims payable in the second quarter and drove the sequential change excluding timing related impacts associated with the acquisition, our days in claims payable would have increased by 0.2 days sequentially. Given strong performance year-to-date, we are raising our guidance for full year adjusted earnings per share to greater than $25.85 from greater than $25.50 putting us at the high end of our long-term annual adjusted earnings-per-share growth target of 12% to 15%. Please note that this guidance continues to reflect the total COVID and non-COVID costs combined, exceeding baseline in every month of the fourth quarter and assumes a similar overall net headwind from COVID for the year relative to our prior guidance.Given significant outperformance in the third quarter on our investment income line, we have increased our full-year outlook for investment income by $100 million to approximately $1.2 billion, which is $260 million above our initial outlook of $940 million. Much of the outperformance in this area stems from stellar results in our alternative investment portfolio year-to-date that we would not expect to recur. Accordingly, we believe that there is at least $200 million of non-recurring upside in the investment income line which should be removed when assessing the appropriate base for earnings growth for 2022, equating to approximately $0.65 of earnings per share in 2021 and implying a baseline for growth entering 2022 of $25.20. Most importantly our businesses are performing well with strong growth momentum that we expect will carry into 2022, although we will not provide specific guidance for next year on this call, I would now like to shift focus to the tailwinds and headwinds that we are considering into next year.Starting with the tailwinds; recall that our 2021 guidance continues to embed a significant net headwind related to the effects of COVID. While it is too early to declare how much of the overall net headwind we will be able to earn back in 2022 we do believe that we will recover a portion of it resulting in a year-over-year tailwind. Based on our strong competitive positioning, we expect another year of double-digit membership growth in our individual Medicare Advantage membership. We also expect strong growth in our commercial membership aided by what is shaping up to be the strongest national account selling season in the history of the company.We expect accretion from the annualization of earnings of our acquisitions of MMM and myNEXUS and we expect an EPS with -- from our share repurchase program which was opportunistic during recent periods of volatility in our stock price. Our tailwinds will be weighed against known headwinds and these include; the dilution associated with the first year of operations of our new Group Medicare Advantage contract serving New York City's retirees which we continue to expect will launch on January 1, as well as dilution related to the start-up and launch of our new Medicaid contract in Ohio, which we expect to begin on July 1, 2022.In addition, the resumption of Medicaid eligibility redeterminations assuming a return to a more normal operating environment and finally, the non-recurrence of the upside in the investment income line this year that I had described earlier. Based on what we know today, we believe our tailwinds will largely offset our headwind enabling us to reaffirm our commitment to growth and adjusted earnings per share of at least 12% in 2022 after adjusting for the portion of investment income that we have identified as non-recurring. We look forward to providing more specific guidance on our fourth quarter earnings call when we will discuss our 2022 outlook in more detail.In closing, we continue to execute against our strategic growth priorities and are pleased to have delivered another quarter of strong growth and continued reinvestment in our business, all while maintaining a solid balance sheet, given the ongoing uncertainties associated with the pandemic. And with that operator, please open the line to questions.