  OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Qualcomm second quarter fiscal 2022 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded, April 27, 2022. The playback number for today's call is (877) 660-6853. International callers, please dial (201) 612-7415. The playback reservation number is 13728288. I would now like to turn the call over to Mauricio Lopez-Hodoyan, vice president of investor relations. Mr. Lopez-Hodoyan, please go ahead.Mauricio Lopez-Hodoyan -- Vice President of Investor Relations Thank you, and good afternoon, everyone. Today's call will include prepared remarks by Cristiano Amon and Akash Palkhiwala. In addition, Alex Rogers will join the question-and-answer session. You can access our earnings release and a slide presentation that accompany this call on our Investor Relations website. In addition, this call is being webcast on qualcomm.com, and a replay will be available on our website later today. During the call today, we will use non-GAAP financial measures as defined in Regulation G, and you can find the related reconciliations to GAAP on our website. We will also make forward-looking statements, including projections and estimates of future events, business or industry trends or business or financial results. Actual events or results could differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements.Please refer to our SEC filings, including our most recent 10-K, which contain important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. And now to comments from Qualcomm's President and Chief Executive Officer, Cristiano Amon. Cristiano Amon -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Mauricio, and good afternoon, everyone. Thanks for joining us today. As we shared at our Investor Day last November, Qualcomm is at the intersection of transformative trends that are generating demand for our broad technology portfolio across virtually every industry. This is creating strong growth and diversification opportunities beyond handsets. These trends, which include the enterprise transformation of the home, conversions of mobile and PC, merging of physical and digital spaces, the digital transformation of industries, connectivity and processing at the edge, the automotive digital chassis and 5G have only continued to accelerate. They are driving our financial outperformance in a greater-than seven times addressable market expansion to approximately $700 billion in the next decade. As you can see from our results, we delivered record revenues of $11.2 billion and non-GAAP earnings of $3.21 per share, representing year-over-year growth of 41% and 69%, respectively, both exceeding the high end of our guidance. In QCT, our chipset business and the growth engine of the company, we saw strength across the entire portfolio. Revenues of $9.5 billion were also a record and reflect our continued diversification. Our automotive design win pipeline is now over $16 billion, up more than $3 billion since fiscal Q1. IoT revenues grew 61% year over year with strong growth across all three categories of consumer, edge networking and industrial. RF front-end revenues grew 28% year over year, and handset revenues grew 56% year over year. These results demonstrate that our growth drivers remain unchanged and our strategy is working. Our one technology road map across wireless connectivity, advanced edge processing and power-efficient AI is incomparable across our peer group. In fact, advanced processing and artificial intelligence are the fastest-growing silicon content areas for Qualcomm. As such, we can no longer be defined just as a communications company serving one industry, rather, Qualcomm is a leading connected processor company for the intelligent edge serving multiple new end markets and enabling the growth of the cloud-connected economy. As we continue to expand, we remain on track to meet our Investor Day financial projections, and I will now provide an update on our progress to date. In automotive, our horizontal platform, the Snapdragon digital chassis is a significant driver of our growing design win pipeline and is increasingly becoming a key asset for automakers. Our digital chassis comprises a full suite of open, flexible and scalable platforms for telematics, connectivity, digital cockpit, ADAS and autonomy and cloud services. With leading system solutions expertise and capabilities across multiple domains, Qualcomm is fast becoming the preferred industry partner for the auto industry and is well-positioned for continued growth. Since our last earnings call, we significantly expanded our Snapdragon digital chassis capabilities. First, the arrival acquisition enhanced our ability to deliver open, fully integrated and competitive ADAS solutions to automakers and Tier 1 suppliers at scale. As a result of the acquisition, we are incorporating Arriver's computer vision, drive policy and driver assistance assets into Snapdragon Ride. Second, we recently announced a long-term cooperation with BMW to jointly develop and extend BMW automated drive software to the Snapdragon Ride platform. The co-developed solution is scalable and customizable and can be offered by Qualcomm to other automotive OEMs across all tiers. We also pleased with our multiyear technology collaboration with Stellantis, which will be utilizing our Snapdragon automotive cockpit platforms across the automaker's 14 brands. Upcoming Stellantis vehicles will also be featuring 5G capabilities for telematics systems based on our Snapdragon auto 5G modem RF platforms. In consumer IoT, Android tablets are becoming collaboration tools and increasingly, demand is shifting from entry-level commodity tablets to premium connected computing devices, a clear validation of the conversions of mobile and PC. We are pleased that Snapdragon 8 Gen 1 inspiring the newest flagship tablets such as the Galaxy Tab S8 series globally. Additionally, we are growing in premium and high-tier devices with OEMs such as Lenovo, HP and Opel. We're also pleased to see the announcement of the first-ever premium Windows on ARM enterprise focal laptop, the Lenovo ThinkPad X13S powered by the new Snapdragon 8CX Gen 3 compute platform. This new ThinkPad features 5G millimeter wave AI accelerated experiences, advanced camera and audio technology, an ultra-slim, fanless design and up to 28 hours of battery life on a single charge. We're encouraged by the broad interest in our upcoming products, utilizing our industry-leading CPUs designed by our NUVIA team. We continue to drive the inevitable transition to ARM-based computing while redefining the future of mobile productivity. In edge networking, we continue to benefit from the demand for global connectivity required for remote work, school and play, and we provide industry-leading solutions, enabling the migration to WiFi 6 and WiFi 8 mesh technologies. We also recently announced the world's first and fastest WiFi 7 commercial solution, which we believe will further extend our leadership position. With multi-gigabit WiFi performance, ultra-low latency and unmatched spectrum versatility, we believe our WiFi 7 solutions will unlock a new era of advanced consumer and industrial applications. Our 5G fixed wireless access solutions also continue to gain traction as a last mile broadband solution. We now have more than 125 fixed wireless access designs announced or in development by more than 40 OEMs. We also introduced next-generation features such as stand-alone 5G millimeter wave support in our RF sensing suite to enable operators to extend their 5G service offerings to the home and enterprise. Industrial IoT experienced the fastest year-over-year revenue growth within IoT this quarter driven by continued demand for both connectivity and advanced processing at the edge. Notably, this quarter, we saw accelerated demand for ruggedized handheld devices for warehousing, logistics and healthcare industries, as well as for robotics platforms. Going forward, we're actively building an ecosystem of system integrators and channel partners to support the scale of our industrial IoT platforms as they become critical for the digital transformation of multiple verticals. In handsets, we had record revenues of $6.3 billion driven by continued traction with leading smartphone OEMs such as Samsung, Xiaomi, Oppo, Vivo and Honor, where Snapdragon continues to be the mobile technology platform of choice for premium and high-tier Android. We now have approximately 75% of the premium tier processor volume for Samsung's Galaxy S22 smartphones, up from approximately 40% in the Galaxy S21. Samsung's strategy to adopt Qualcomm for the majority of volume is significant and validates our platform leadership, as well as consumer preference for the Snapdragon brand. Our Snapdragon mobile solutions continue to define premium smartphone experiences. Let me highlight a few examples from our Snapdragon 8 GEN-1. In imaging, devices enabled by this platform achieved the highest DxOMark ever, making it the best smartphone camera in the world. In connectivity, our solution features the world's first 5G AI processor in a modem RF system, enabling AI-based performance enhancements, antenna tuning, network selection and more. In AI, our seven generation AI engine doubles the computational performance versus the previous generation. Our handset strategy, as outlined at Investor Day, is enabling share gains and enhancing our ability to capture the most significant portion of the revenue opportunity. In RF front end, we continue to drive 5G modem RF leadership. Our fifth generation modem RF system now implements advanced features such as AI integration, millimeter wave and sub-6 dual connectivity in 5G sub-6 care aggregation with FDD and TDD spectrum. Looking forward, in addition to growth in handsets, we're expanding RF front end into automotive and IoT. In our licensing business, revenues of $1.6 billion were above the midpoint of our guidance driven by the most valuable patent portfolio in the industry, and we continue to develop and patent new essential innovations for future releases of 5G and beyond. Lastly, demand remains strong across all our technologies and continue to exceed supply. We believe our multi-sourcing and capacity expansion initiatives will continue to provide incremental improvements toward supply throughout the year. With our One Technology road map and demand for our products and solutions across virtually all industries, we are in an incredible position to continue providing high-performance, low-power computing on-device intelligence and everything wireless. Our plan remains on track, and I'm very excited for the future of Qualcomm. I would now like to turn the call over to Akash.Akash Palkhiwala -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Cristiano, and good afternoon, everyone. We're extremely pleased to report strong second quarter results. We delivered non-GAAP revenues of $11.2 billion, our third consecutive quarter of record revenues and non-GAAP EPS of $3.21. These results reflect year-over-year increases of 41% and 69%, respectively, driven by strength across all QCT revenue streams. QTL revenues of $1.6 billion and EBT margin of 73% were above the midpoint of guidance, reflecting a slight decrease in lower-tier units, offset by a favorable mix. This was another record quarter for QCT with revenues of $9.5 billion and EBT of $3.3 billion, an increase of 52% and 111%, respectively, versus the year ago quarter. We have now doubled QCT EBT dollars on a year-over-year basis in six of the last seven quarters. Additionally, QCT EBT margin of 35% surpassed the high end of our guidance and increased 10 points year over year driven by revenue growth and diversification. Handset revenues of $6.3 billion increased 56% versus a year ago quarter. The upside relative to guidance was driven by increased volume in premium tier and improved supply. We gained share in Samsung's flagship device, the Galaxy S22, demonstrating leadership of our Snapdragon processor technology and our ability to compete with internal chipset initiatives. RF front-end revenues of $1.2 billion grew 28% versus the year ago quarter on increased adoption of our products across major OEMs. We saw accelerated growth across IoT and automotive as we align supply to better meet the demand for our products. IoT revenues were up 61% year over year to $1.7 billion primarily on increased demand for our chipsets for connected intelligent edge devices. We saw strong performance across consumer, edge networking and industrial with each of these categories growing by more than 50% compared to the year ago quarter. We achieved record automotive revenues of $339 million, a growth of 41% versus the year ago period, driven by launches with our digital cockpit platforms. With the strong adoption of our Snapdragon digital chassis, we have now increased our overall design win pipeline to greater than $16 billion. Lastly, during the quarter, we announced a 10% increase in our dividends and returned $1.7 billion in dividends and stock repurchases. Our strong free cash flow has positioned us to deliver attractive capital returns that are among the highest in the semiconductor industry while maintaining flexibility for strategic investments. Before turning to guidance, I will provide an update on the Arriver acquisition. On April 1, SSW Partners acquired Veoneer for $4.6 billion with substantially all of it funded by Qualcomm. SSW Partners then transferred Arriver to Qualcomm and now plans to sell the remaining non-Arriver businesses over the next several quarters. We expect that Qualcomm will receive most of the cash proceeds from the sale. We estimate Arriver non-GAAP operating expenses of approximately $50 million per quarter. However, our guidance for the third fiscal quarter does not include this impact since we plan to report Arriver one quarter in arrears until the fourth quarter. Further details of the transaction are included in our 10-Q and earnings presentation posted on our Investor Relations website. Turning to financial guidance for the third fiscal quarter. We are forecasting revenues of $10.5 billion to $11.3 billion and non-GAAP EPS of $2.75 to $2.95. We estimate QTL revenues of $1.4 billion to $1.6 billion and EBT margins of 69% to 73%. Our guidance contemplates global handset units consistent with the exit rate from the second fiscal quarter and assumes the end of COVID-related impact in China by the end of the quarter. In QCT, we estimate revenues of $9.1 billion to $9.6 billion and EBT margins of 31% to 33%. At the midpoint, this implies year-over-year revenue growth of 44% and EBT dollar growth of $1.2 billion. On a sequential basis, we expect mid-single-digit revenue growth in IoT and automotive and a seasonal reduction in handsets and RF front end. Our strong forecast for QCT is driven by the same factors which benefited our second quarter, including gains in handset premium tier volume, strong demand in IoT and automotive and supply improvements. We anticipate non-GAAP operating expenses to be up 5% to 7% sequentially, reflecting select investments in product road map. In closing, we are pleased with our financial results and strong execution as we manage to supply constraints in the current macroeconomic environment. Our QCT handset revenues are on track to grow by greater than 50% in fiscal '22. And we are well-positioned for fiscal '23 as we continue to benefit from increased processor content and share gains. While we strengthen our mobile leadership, diversification is the top priority for the company as evidenced by increasing design win pipeline in automotive and accelerating revenue growth in IoT. Thank you. Back to you, Mauricio.Mauricio Lopez-Hodoyan -- Vice President of Investor Relations Thank you, Akash. Operator, we are now ready for questions. 