
OperatorGood morning. Welcome to S&P Global's Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] To access the webcast and slides, go to investor.spglobal.com. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to introduce Mr. Chip Merritt, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations for S&P Global. Sir, you may begin.Chip Merritt -- Senior Vice President, Investor RelationsThank you for joining today's S&P Global third quarter 2021 earnings call. Presenting on today's call are Doug Peterson, President and CEO, and Ewout Steenbergen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. We issued a news release with our results earlier today. If you need a copy of the release and financial schedules, they can be downloaded at investor.spglobal.com.Before we begin, I need to provide certain cautionary remarks about forward-looking statements. Except for historical information, the matters discussed in today's conference call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including projections, estimates and descriptions of future events. Any such statements are based on current expectations and current economic conditions and are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from results anticipated in these forward-looking statements. In this regard, we direct listeners to the cautionary statements contained in our Form 10-Ks, 10-Qs and other periodic reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.In addition, as announced late last year, S&P Global and IHS Markit entered into a definitive merger agreement. In March, shareholders of both companies overwhelmingly voted in favor of the merger. The merger is pending regulatory approval, and we currently expect to close in the first quarter of 2022. This call will touch on the merger, but does not constitute an offer to sell or buy or the solicitation of any offer to buy or sell any securities, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to the registration or qualification under the securities law of any such jurisdiction. No offering of securities shall be made except by means of prospectus meeting requirements of Section 10 of the Securities Act of 1933.In connection with the proposed transaction, S&P Global and IHS Markit has filed a registration statement on Form S-4 with the SEC, which includes a joint proxy statement and a prospectus. S&P Global and IHS Markit have filed other documents regarding the proposed transaction with the SEC. Investors and security holders of S&P Global or IHS Markit stock are urged carefully read the entire registration statement and joint proxy statement prospectus, which is available on our website and sec.gov.In today's earnings release and during the conference call, we're providing adjusted financial information. This information is provided to enable investors to make meaningful comparisons of the corporation's operating performance between periods and to view the corporation's business from the same perspective as management. The earnings release and the slides contain exhibits that reconcile the difference between the non-GAAP measures and the comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP.This call, especially a discussion of our outlook, contains statements about expected future events that are forward-looking and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations can be found in our filings with the SEC and on our website. I would also like to call your attention to a European regulation. Any investor who has or expects to obtain ownership of 5% or more of S&P Global should give me a call to better understand the impact of this legislation on investor and potentially the company. We're aware that we do have some media representatives with us on the call. However, this call is intended for investors and we would ask that questions from the media be directed to Ola Fadahunsi at 212-438-2296.At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Doug Peterson. Doug?Douglas L. Peterson -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Chip. Welcome to today's third quarter earnings call. I'd like to start with some of the highlights of the quarter. We reported exceptional financial results with revenue increasing 13% and all four businesses delivering strong revenue and adjusted operating profit growth. Indices delivered the strongest revenue growth for the second straight quarter due to large gains in ETF AUM. Adjusted expenses increased 7%, largely due to investment spending, commissions and royalties. After raising guidance on both the first quarter and second quarter earnings call, we are raising 2021 guidance again based on these strong results and our expectations for the remainder of the year. Ewout will provide details in a moment.I'd also like to share some additional highlights from the third quarter. The most important initiative of the year continues to be our upcoming merger with IHS Markit. This is an incredibly transformative opportunity for our company and our customers. The regulatory path to closing the merger is now becoming clearer. We launched S&P Capital IQ Pro and Platts Dimensions Pro and Sustainable 1, our ESG business is gaining momentum as we built internal capabilities and product offerings expand. I'll come back to all of these highlights in more detail, but let's start with the merger.When we announced the merger in November 2020 we noted that we needed regulatory approval in five jurisdictions, Canada, The European Union, Taiwan, The United Kingdom and the United States. We've made substantial progress with all these regulators and there are a number of remedies we must undertake in order to complete the merger. IHS Markit will divest OPIS, the coal metals and mining and the PetroChem Wire businesses. The sale of these assets to News Corp has already been announced. In addition, IHS Markit must divest its Base Chemicals business. S&P Global must divest CUSIP Global Services and Leveraged Commentary and Data together with related family have leveraged loan indices. S&P Global and IHS Markit will begin the process of selling these additional businesses shortly in order to provide time. To undertake these sales processes we now expect to close the merger in the first quarter of 2022.Collectively, the revenue from all of the businesses being divested is approximately $425 million and the margins for each of these businesses are higher than the margin for each of the divisions here in. In a moment, Ewout will provide an update on our merger synergy expectations and you'll see that despite these divestitures we are raising both our cost and revenue synergy targets.To recap the financial results for the third quarter revenue increased 13% to $2.1 billion. Our adjusted operating profit increased 18% and our adjusted operating profit margin increased 250 basis points to 55.4%. As you know, we measure and track adjusted operating profit margin on a trailing four-quarter basis, which increased 130 basis points to 55.1%. As a result, our adjusted diluted EPS increased 24%. Each quarter we highlight a few key business drivers and important projects underway. This quarter let's start with ratings bond issuance trends.During the third quarter, global bond issuance increased 3%. In the U.S. bond issuance in aggregate increased 6% as investment grade decreased 12%, high-yield decreased 16%, public finance decreased 24%, while structured finance increased 105% due to large increases in every category, particularly CLOs, which increased 340%. European bond issuance increased 4% as investment grade decreased 7%, high-yield decreased 4% and structured finance increased 70%, with gains in every asset class except RMBS, of particular note, CMBS increased 375%. In Asia, bond issuance decreased 2% overall. The data on this slide only depicts bond issuance, where will include new bank loan volumes overall global issuance increased 9%.The next two slides look at the combined high-yield issuance and leveraged loan volume for the U.S. and Europe. Data is not readily available for the rest of the world. This slide shows that the combination of global leveraged loan and high-yield issuance in the third quarter continued to be very strong surpassing every quarter in 2018, '19 and '20. This slide depicts the combination of high-yield issuance and leveraged loan volume by the use of proceeds of the funds raised. This quarter both general corporate purpose and refinancing-related issuance was lower than the third quarter of 2020. The surge in activities entirely due to M&A, LBOs, buybacks and dividends. These are opportunistic categories that aren't pull forward. The surge in issuance is not pulling forward issuance from future years and is additive to future financing needs.Since bank loan ratings are an important element of ratings revenue we like to disclose our bank loan ratings revenue each quarter. The unprecedented strength in bank loan ratings revenue continued in the third quarter and year-to-date revenues already surpassed any of the previous ten-full years. The leveraged loan market and the CLO market are dependent on one another as many of the leveraged loans end up in CLOs. As you can see here, CLO issuance continued to accelerate in the third quarter.During the third quarter, we rebranded our Market Intelligence platform as S&P Capital IQ Pro. This recognizes the value of the Capital IQ brand as we continue to upgrade the platform with additional content and functionality. We currently have approximately 290,000 active desktop users, of which 90,000 are utilizing S&P Capital IQ Pro. The inaugural release of S&P Capital IQ Pro includes a number of capabilities not found in the Market Intelligence platform. A new Kensho-enabled document viewer incorporates AI-based search to speed up users discovery of text-based insights across filings and transcripts. It is based on technology that Kensho originally developed for U.S. security and military agencies and is now reengineered for S&P Capital IQ Pro.For example, it gives investors the ability to quickly screen comments made over years of earnings calls within minutes. The new platform features frequent coverage of private markets, including data around fundraising trends, dry powder, fund performance and LP investor allocations, also included is the ability for users to screen on non-traditional industry criteria such as crypto, therapeutics and clean tech. S&P Capital IQ Pro also includes ratings direct coverage of corporates and financial institutions. Our users can now incorporate a full suite of S&P Capital IQ Pro tools and functionality and interact with S&P Global Ratings content in ways not previously possible.Platts has been on a long journey to consolidate its product platforms as well with the acquisitions of Bentek, Eclipse, cFlow, Petromedia and others. There has been a tremendous effort to consolidate all of these capabilities into a single platform. This quarter Platts introduce Platts Dimensions Pro, which provides users with a seamless one-stop shop experience across Platts benchmark price assessments, news and analytics, spending 13 commodities, including energy transition and like S&P Capital IQ Pro this content is available on a web-based portal which is mobile friendly via machine-to-machine delivery and as an excel added.Periodically, we like to provide updates on new product launches. The first two charts on this slide depicts the acceptance by market participants of our JKM marker for liquefied natural gas and our low-sulfur marine fuel assessment, both have exhibited very strong growth recently. The chart on the right shows the cumulative number of new assessments we've launched in the energy transition space in the last four years. These include a new suite of Australian hydrogen prices coming what is expected to be one of the key producers of this future fuel. The methane performance certificate which reflects production of natural gas in the U.S. with the zero methane emissions and upstream values for the measured carbon emissions associated with crude oil production in transportation covering initial suite of 14 crudes from around the world and aiming to provide the backbone for low carbon crude trading. Buyers can start to make active choices based on the relative carbon impact of different crude sources with this crude carbon intensity product.Turning to our investments in ESG. Our Sustainable1 milestones and product launches continue to build. Third quarter Sustainable1 revenue increased 58% to $24 million versus the prior period. With the launch of second-party opinions Ratings now has five products. Overall, Ratings completed 10 ESG evaluations, 13 green evaluations, 13 SAM benchmark engagements and 11 social and sustainability framework alignment opinions in the quarter.In Market Intelligence, we're close to wrapping up the annual CSA survey and so far in 2021 corporate participation increased 34% to over 1800 companies. On the back of these surveys we relaunched our S&P Global ESG scores on 8,000 companies during the quarter. We're targeting to have scores of more than 11,000 companies by the end of this year's assessment cycle in the first quarter of 2022.In Indices, we had $26.5 billion of ESG ETF AUM at the end of the third quarter. This is an increase of 178% since the end of the third quarter of last year. Our Indices business also added to its ESG indices offerings with the launch of the S&P NZX 50 Tilted Index with the New Zealand Stock Exchange. Platts added products to both suite of carbon assessments and its recycled plastic offerings. And finally, S&P Global is a founding member of Novata, a new technology platform designed to provide private equity firms and the private markets with EFG measurement, data collection and benchmarking capabilities to help improve the management and tracking of ESG performance.By providing rich detailed data on a wide array of ESG topics, the corporate sustainability assessment is an integral part of our ESG scores. Since we purchased the capability from RobecoSAM in late 2019 we've expanded the number of corporate participants by about 500 companies and the Group is almost doubled corporate participation in the last four years. Today's participating companies represent 45% of global market capitalization. In addition, you can see this is a global endeavor. We view the CSA input as a key differentiator to our Sustainable1 efforts.Let me now turn to our outlook for global issuance and GDP. The 2021 issuance forecast continued to creep higher and is now relatively flat versus 2020 issuance. The latest forecast was issued earlier this week and also covers 2022 issuance for the first time. 2022 issuance is forecast to decline 2%. This is based on a 7% decrease in non-financial corporates, a 1% increase in financial services, a 3% increase in structured finance, and a 2% increase in U.S. public finance. Looking forward inflation concerns, prospects for rising rates, high cash balances and possible tax reform all translate to headwinds for issuance in 2022. We expect that they will lead to a second year of contraction in issuance totals. Please note that this is a bond issuance forecast. This is not a revenue forecast. For example, it doesn't address non-transaction revenue and doesn't include leveraged loan activity.The macro outlook is little changed from three months ago, our economists expect growth to moderate in 2022 with growth in Europe and many emerging markets improving, while growth rates drop in the U.S. and China. Commodity prices have rebound due to strong retail sales, weather events and supply chain imbalances. However, inflation pressures appear to be peaking with some emerging market central banks raising rates, U.S. Federal Reserve moving up its tapering timeline and the ECB firmly on hold for now. Finally Platts Analytics believes that current fundamentals should remain supportive of oil prices in the mid-70s. This is positive for the health of the oil industry.I will now turn the call over to Ewout Steenbergen, who is going to provide additional insights into our financial performance and outlook. Ewout?Ewout Steenbergen -- Executive Vice President, Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Doug. While we have excellent third quarter results and an exciting merger pending, I would like to start my discussion today with our latest thinking around our merger synergy targets. There has been an extensive effort throughout the company to identify and solidte potential merger synergies, while the initial synergy targets that we introduced at the time of the merger announcement were developed by a very limited number of senior managers, the latest figures take into consideration in depth planning and analysis by countless employees across both companies. We have increased our total synergy targets and now estimate that there will be $530 million to $580 million of cost synergies and $330 million to $360 million of revenue synergies.As you can see in the slide, this takes into consideration new synergies identified as well as those who will no longer be able to achieve due to required divestitures. Correspondingly, the proceeds of the divestitures will contribute to additional capacity for share repurchases. I also want to point out that on a run rate basis, we have already achieved approximately $25 million of the synergies. This is primarily from not back filling open positions created through normal attrition. Today, we're only providing an update on the merger synergy targets. We'll give you a full update on the financial targets of the merged company after we complete the transaction.Turning to our third quarter financial results. Doug covered the highlights of strong revenue and adjusted earnings-per-share growth. I will take a moment to cover a few other items. Adjusted corporate unallocated expenses increased 18% due to company-owned life insurance proceeds in the prior year period. Our net interest expense improved 13% due to the refinancing of a substantial portion of our debt last year. The decrease in the adjusted effective tax rate was primarily due to a refinement of tax accruals on foreign operations related to both a prior year and current period.During the quarter, changes in foreign exchange rates had a positive impact on adjusted EPS of $0.02. The only meaningful impact was in Ratings, where adjusted operating profit was positively impacted by $5 million. In the second quarter, we introduced three new categories to provide insights into the type of expenses that are going to be incurred related to the pending merger. The first category is transaction cost. These are costs related to completing the merger. They include legal fees, investment banking fees and filing fees. The second category is integration cost. These are costs to operationalize the integration. They include consulting, infrastructure and retention costs. The third category is cost to achieve. These are costs needed to enable expense and revenue synergies. They include lease terminations, severance, contract exit fees and investments related to product development, marketing and distribution enhancements.During the third quarter, the non-GAAP adjustments collectively totaled to a net pre-tax loss of $73 million, they included $9 million for merger transaction costs primarily legal fees, $45 million from merger integration costs primarily consulting fees, a $3 million gain on the sale of an office building in India and $21 million in deal-related amortization. This quarter all four divisions delivered solid gains in revenue and adjusted operating profit with Indices delivering the largest gains. On a trailing four-quarter basis, adjusted operating profit margin increased in all four divisions with Indices leading with a gain of 170 basis points. I'll provide color on the individual business results in a moment.Now turning to the balance sheet. Our balance sheet continues to be very strong with low leverage and ample liquidity. We have cash and cash equivalents of $5.9 billion and debt of $4.1 billion. Our adjusted gross debt to adjusted EBITDA improved since the end of last year to 1.8 times. Free cash flow excluding certain items was $2.6 billion in the first nine months of 2021, an increase of more than $300 million or 15% over the prior year period. Due to the pending merger with IHS Markit share repurchases have been suspended.Now, let's turn to the division results and begin with S&P Dow Jones Indices, which delivered extraordinary revenue growth of 28%, primarily due to gains in AUM linked to our indices. Please note that the ETF revenue included a $5 million break-up fee due to the termination of our indices as the basis for several ETFs. In the third quarter, adjusted expenses increased 4%, largely due to royalties and compensation, partially offset by reduced legal cost. The adjusted segment operating profit increased a whopping 40% and the adjusted segment operating profit margin increased 660 basis points to 71.8%. On a trailing four-quarter basis, the adjusted segment operating profit margin increased 170 basis points to 70.7%.Every category increased revenue this quarter. Asset-linked fees increased 36%, primarily from gains in ETFs augmented by gains in mutual funds and insurance and over-the-counter derivative activity that exceeded 20%. Exchange traded derivative revenue increased 15% on increased trading volumes at the Cboe. Data and custom subscriptions increased 8%. For our Indices division over the past year ETF net inflows were $223 billion and market appreciation totaled $524 billion. This resulted in quarter ending ETF AUM of $2.5 trillion, which is 40% higher compared to one year ago. Our ETF revenue is based on average AUM, which increased 48% year-over-year. Sequentially versus the end of the second quarter ETF net inflows associated with our indices totaled $55 billion and market depreciation totaled $16 billion.Exchange traded derivative activity was mixed during the quarter. Activity at the Cboe increased with S&P 500 Index options activity increasing 39% and fixed futures and options activity increasing 31%. Activity at the CME equity complex decreased 6% due primarily to a 22% decrease in Micro E-mini volumes. Ratings delivered very strong revenue growth, increasing 14% with strength in bank loan ratings, structured finance and non-transaction activity. Adjusted expenses increased 9%, primarily due to increased salaries, headcount at CRISIL, growth initiatives and incentives. This resulted in a 17% increase in adjusted segment operating profit and 160 basis point increase in adjusted segment operating profit margin. On the trailing four-quarter basis, adjusted segment operating profit margin increased 40 basis points to 63.8%.In China, we see continued momentum and interest in our ratings. We completed 15 ratings in the third quarter, bringing the year-to-date total to 46 compared to 22 in all last year. Non-transaction revenue increased 15%, primarily due to growth in fees associated with surveillance, increased new entity ratings activity, CRISIL and Rating Evaluation Services revenue. Transaction revenue increased as a 150% increase in bank loan ratings activity and strong structured product issuance more than offset the decline in corporate bond issuance.This slide depicts Ratings revenue by its end markets. The largest contributor to the increase in Ratings revenue was the 48% increase in structured finance, driven by CLOs, CMBS and the ABS. In addition, corporates increased 14%, financial services increased 8%, governments decreased 12% and the CRISIL and other category increased 14%. Market Intelligence delivered reported revenue growth of 7% and 8% on an organic basis. More than one-third of the revenue growth was one recent product investments, which increased by 40%, led by EFG and the S&P Global Marketplace.Adjusted expenses increased 4%, primarily due to higher investment spending, particularly in ESG, S&P Global Marketplace, SME and China. Additional infrastructure spending supporting our cloud initiatives and S&P Capital IQ Pro and data, which is primarily license fees tied to aftermarket research revenue. Adjusted segment operating profit increased 13% and the adjusted segment operating profit margin increased 190 basis points to 35.7%. On the trailing four-quarter basis, adjusted segment operating profit margin increased 90 basis points to 33.8%.Looking across Market Intelligence, there was solid growth in each category, desktop revenue grew 6%, data management solutions revenue grew 12%, credit risk solutions revenue grew 7%. Now turning to Platts, reported revenue increased 8%, our core subscriptions increased 7%. It is notable that more than one-third of the growth came from new products primarily ESG and LNG. Global Trading Services had a great quarter, increasing 14% mainly due to strong LNG and petroleum volumes. GTS activity often picks up when commodity prices become more volatile. Adjusted expenses increased 11%, primarily due to growth initiatives, incentives and commissions. In addition, expenses in the third quarter last year were aided by management actions.Adjusted segment operating profit increased 5% and adjusted segment operating profit margin decreased 110 basis points to 54.6%. The trailing four-quarter adjusted segment operating profit margin increased 70 basis points to 55.6%. While there was revenue growth in every category, petrochemicals, natural gas, power and renewables, and shipping all delivered double-digit growth. Because the company now anticipates closing the merger with IHS Markit in the first quarter of 2022, we're able to provide 2021 GAAP guidance for the first time.This slide depicts our new GAAP guidance and this slide depicts our adjusted guidance. Third column shows our new 2021 adjusted guidance with all the line items to changed highlighted. We're making these changes primarily due to greater revenue growth in Ratings and Indices. Therefore, our revenue guidance is increased from high single-digit increase to a low double-digit increase. Corporate unallocated is increased by $5 million to a new range of $140 million to $150 million due to increased incentives and the charitable contribution. Operating profit margin is increased by a range of 40 to 60 basis points to a new range of 55% to 55.5%. This results in a $0.50 to $0.55 increase to adjusted diluted EPS guidance to a new range of $13.50 to $13.65. And finally, free cash flow generation has been increased by $100 million to a range of $3.6 billion to $3.7 billion. In conclusion, 2021 is turning out to be an exceptionally strong year for the company. All our businesses are delivering solid growth, we continue to expand our ESG product offerings and we're making great progress on the upcoming merger with IHS Markit.And with that, let me turn the call back over to Chip for your questions.Chip Merritt -- Senior Vice President, Investor RelationsThank you. [Operator Instructions] Operator, we will now take our first question.