
OperatorHello and welcome to the Incyte's Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Call and Webcast. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.It's now my pleasure to turn the call over to Christine Chiou, Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Christine Chiou -- Senior Director of Investor Relations

 



Thank you, Kevin. Good morning and welcome to Incyte's second quarter 2021 earnings conference call and webcast. The slides used today are available for download on our website.Joining me on the call today are Herve, Barry, Steven and Christiana, who will deliver our prepared remarks, and by Dash, who will join us for the Q&A session.Before we begin, I'd like to remind you that some of the statements made during the call today are forward-looking statements and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that may cause our results to differ materially, including those described in our 10-Q for the year ended March 31, 2021, and from time to time in our other SEC documents.We will now begin the call with Herve.

 



Herve Hoppenot -- Chairman, President & Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Christine, and good morning, everyone. On Slide 4, so at the beginning at the year we laid out some of our key business objectives for 2021 and we executed on a number of our commercial and clinical goals in the first half while presenting a continuation of the momentum we showed throughout 2020. We believe these achievements, including the success of the TRuE-V and TRuE-AD program in vitiligo and atopic dermatitis will significantly contribute to our long term strategy for growth and diversification.In the second quarter, our product and our royalty revenues grew 17% to reach nearly $700 million. Jakafi net product sales were up 12% with both driven by the return of new patient/staff to pre-COVID levels. Both Pemazyre and Minjuvi revenues increased quarter-over-quarter up 33% and 16% as both new product launches continue to gain traction and royalties grew 30% to $121 million for the quarter with Jakafi up 24% and Olumiant up 40%.Our preference in the second quarter showed the strength of our business and our new product launches are progressing well. We are looking forward to the second half as we await to important FDA decisions in September and the potential approval of tafasitamab in Europe following the positive CHMP opinion received in June. While we are disappointed by the PDUFA extension for ruxolitinib cream in atopic dermatitis and for ruxolitinib in steroid-refractory chronic GVHD we remain confident in the value these medicines can bring to patients based on the robust data from pivotal programs TRuE-AD and REACH3 respectively.

 



We will continue to work with the FDA on retifanlimab which recently we see the complete response letter for the BLA submission for SCAC. Retifanlimab remains under review with the European Medicines Agency.Moving on to our clinical development progress, in addition to the positive supply and results in vitiligo, our long term data in atopic dermatitis for ruxolitinib cream, we also announced positive Phase 2 data for parsaclisib in patients with autoimmune hemolytic anemia and the achievement of bioequivalents with Q.D. ruxolitinib, which is on track for an NDA submission in early 2022.Looking out of the U.S. we have multiple growth opportunities across several markets. In the first half of the year, Pemazyre was approved in Europe and Japan and we have seen encouraging update with ex-U.S. sales reaching $3 million. So thus supporting the importance of Pemazyre as a treatment for patients with cholangiocarcinoma, NICE provided positive recommendation for Pemazyre in the UK.Turning to tafasitamab in the EU, if approved Incyte will be commercializing tafasitamab and as a brand name Minjuvi bringing the drug to many patients in need. In Europe, 16,000 patients are diagnosed with relapsed or refractory DLBCL each year of which approximately 14,000 would be eligible for tafasitamab. Our hematology [Phonetic] team in Europe which was already deployed for Iclusig long trading and we will be leveraging resources to sweep off the launch of tafasitamab on a country by country basis.So Slide 6 shows the key business objectives that we set for the year, so first to continue driving growth in our current product portfolio, second to continue to expand and diversify our revenue base for new product and new indication launches and serve to continue to progress our late-stage pipeline as well as our earlier stage programs.So with that, I will hand it over to Barry, to cover the individual product performance.Barry Flannelly -- Executive Vice President & General Manager, North AmericaThank you, Herve. Good morning, everyone. Before we talk about our individual product performance, I wanted to mention how encouraged we are as we see the gradual return of patients to physicians' offices following a year of decreases in patient diagnosis and treatment due to COVID. While pharmaceutical representatives access to oncology offices is still lagging, other therapeutic areas across the industry, we are seeing that there is now meaningful improvement in rep access to in-person meetings with oncologists. We expect these positive trends to continue and are optimistic about a stronger recovery in the second half of the year.On Slide 8, we show that Jakafi sales grew 12% year-over-year to $529 million for the quarter with total patient demand increasing across all three of our improved indications. New patient starts shown by the magenta line on the chart are now at the pre-pandemic levels, signaling more patients are returning to their doctors and receiving the treatments they need.Regarding Jakafi guidance, we are reaffirming our growth prospects for the year. A slight reduction in the upper end of guidance has been made to account for the increase in gross to net due to greater percentage of Jakafi volume ordered from 340B accounts and a three-month extension in the PDUFA for ruxolitinib in steroid-refractory chronic GVHD.We now expect Jakafi net product sales between $2.125 billion and $2.17 billion for the year. We expect the growth of Jakafi to continue in the second half of the year with a stronger recovery of new patient starts and the potential approval of ruxolitinib for the treatment of steroid-refractory chronic GVHD representing an additional growth opportunity for Jakafi, and we look forward to the FDA's decisions next month.Turning to Slide 9, Pemazyre continues to outpace our expectations. Product sales grew 33% quarter-over-quarter to $18 million, including $15 million in U.S. sales as use in the second line continues to grow and the duration of therapy continues to drive performance. Since our initial launch 60% of patients on Pemazyre have been second line patients as reported by their physicians. However, in the recent survey of physicians that prescribed Pemazyre, that percentage is near 80% indicating a shift in earlier adoption of this therapy.Testing rates for FGFR2 fusions or rearrangements continues to grow and a recent survey showed that unaided awareness of FGFR2 fusions relative to intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma increased to 61%, up from 34% noted in the survey prior to the Pemazyre launch. We are optimistic for the second half as our reps continue to drive awareness for FGFR2 testing and usage in the second line.Turning to Monjuvi on Slide 10, Monjuvi sales grew to $18 million in the second quarter, representing a 16% growth over Q1. We continue to see an increasing update of Monjuvi in the second line diffuse large B cell lymphoma and are seeing positive trends in new patient starts, with momentum continuing as we exited June.As I said before, it has been a challenge to launch an injectable therapy in the midst of COVID, however we are seeing positive trends including the expanded number of accounts purchasing Monjuvi, the increase in new patient share and higher percentage of Monjuvi patients in the second line setting. Updated three years results from L-MIND were recently published and we believe these data will help bring greater awareness to the potential benefit of Monjuvi in the second line setting.I'd like to turn now our attention to ruxolitinib cream in atopic dermatitis. As we wait for an FDA decision, we want to remind you of the high unmet need that exists for patients living with atopic dermatitis. There are currently 5.5 million patients with atopic dermatitis over the age of 12 on prescription medications, and yet a significant number of patients continues to experience symptoms. Based on a recent survey of 80 patients, over 40% of patients on prescription therapy experience flares at least once a week. Clearly the need for novel effective treatments is high.Shifting to another survey of dermatologists, over 70% of these dermatologists are aware of ruxolitinib cream's development in atopic dermatitis. 85% of dermatologists separately indicated that they would be highly likely to prescribe ruxolitinib cream to patients who have presented with a blinded safety and efficacy profile and its reduction was cited as the number one treatment driver. We are confident in the data supporting ruxolitinib cream in AD and we look forward to the FDA's decision next month.Now, I'll turn the call over to Steven for clinical update.Steven Stein -- Executive Vice President & Chief Medical OfficerThanks Barry and good morning everyone. Starting with ruxolitinib cream, the FDA review of the NDA for ruxolitinib cream in atopic dermatitis is ongoing with a new PDUFA date of September 21. At the Revolutionizing Atopic Dermatitis Conference in June, 52-week data from the TRuE-AD program were presented showing long-term disease control with as needed use of ruxolitinib cream. The majority of subjectivities [Phonetic] clear, almost clear skin by week eight and we saw no new safety signals during the long-term safety period, including no adverse events suggestive of a relationship to systemic exposure. We also recently initiated our Phase 3 pediatric program in an effort to expand the patient populations who might benefit from ruxolitinib cream.Turning to Slide 14, we previously announced at the beginning of Q2 that the Phase 3 vitiligo program had achieved its primary and key secondary endpoint at week 24. Patients were randomized to receive 1.5% ruxolitinib cream twice daily all vehicle for 24 weeks. At which point a cross-over occurred from vehicle to 1.5% ruxolitinib cream twice daily for an additional 28 weeks. The overall efficacy and safety profile of ruxolitinib cream were consistent with previously reported Phase 2. As a reminder, 30% of patients in the Phase 2 study achieved a F-VASI75 and continued improvement was seen through 52 weeks.With these positive outcomes we are on track for an sNDA and MAA submissions in the second half of 2021 and are optimistic that ruxolitinib cream maybe a meaningful treatment option for patients living with vitiligo.On Slide 15, tafasitamab three-year data from the L-MIND study were presented in June at the 2121 American Society of Clinical Oncology Annual Meeting, and subsequently published in the Hematologic in July. These data demonstrated significant durable responses and reaffirmed a consistent safety profile with tafasitamab treatment in patients with relapsed or refractory diffuse large B cell lymphoma who are uneligible for transplant.We are particularly encouraged by the tolerability and high overall response rates seen especially in the second line setting, which exhibits the importance of starting therapy sooner. In addition, the study demonstrated that subsequent treatment, including an autologous stem cell transplant and CAR-T therapy is not precluded in patients with disease progression during the tafasitamab plus lenalidomide treatment. We are looking forward to the decision from the European Commission following the positive CHMP opinion received in June.Turning to the next slide, tafasitamab's clinical program continues to develop with multiple pivotal and proof-of-concept studies to start later this year. As of today, there are three updates to the program. The first being frontMIND which is now ongoing and enrolling patients in first line diffuse large B cell lymphoma. Second, the initiation of coreMIND, a pivotal trial evaluating tafasitamab plus parsaclisib in relapsed or refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia, based on the positive results of the COSMOS study. Lastly, we expect to initiate MINDway, which is our dose optimization study in relapsed or refractory diffuse large B cell lymphoma.On Slide 17, LIMBER program continues to evolve in a positive way. We presented positive once daily ruxolitinib bioavailability and bioequivalence data at EHA in 2021 which demonstrated bioequivalence for area under the curve. Once daily ruxolitinib stability testing is ongoing and we expect to file an NDA in early 2022. Multiple trials are ongoing, including the potential for fixed dose combinations with parsaclisib plus ruxolitinib, and we anticipate the initiation of the BET and L2 combination components of the irrespective trials of ruxolitinib in the second half of this year.Turning to Slide 18, the results REACH3 investigated ruxolitinib in steroid refractory chronic graft versus host disease were recently published in the New England Journal of Medicine. This data shows that treatment with ruxolitinib significantly improved overall response rate at week-24, as well as a much higher best overall response rate versus best available therapy. Reach3 also achieved statistically and clinically meaningful improvements in key secondary endpoints, including failure-free survival and symptom response. With a September 22 PDUFA we are excited at the potential to help bring this therapy to patients living with steroid refractory chronic graft versus host disease who currently have very limited treatment options.Turning to parsaclisib on Slide 19, we presented Phase 2 data in autoimmune hemolytic anemia at the EHA in 2021, which showed high response rates and a normalization of hemoglobin levels during the initial 12 week treatment period. Clinically meaningful improvements in fatigue related quality of life were observed and parsaclisib was generally well tolerated. In a disease with no currently approved treatments we continue our commitment to patients through the development of parsaclisib and the initiation of Phase 3 trial to start later this year.In closing, we had a number of clinical development successes announcing positive data across multiple programs and making significant progress within certain key development programs during the first half of 2021 and we expect an eventful second half with multiple potential approvals and additional regulatory submissions.With that, I would like to turn the call over to Christiana for the financial update.Christiana Stamoulis -- Executive Vice President & Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Steven and good morning everyone. Our total product and royalty revenues for the second quarter were $696 million representing a 17% increase over the second quarter of 2020. Total product royalty revenues for the quarter are comprised of net product revenues of $529 million for Jakafi, $28 million for Iclusig and $18 million for Pemazyre, royalties from Novartis of $82 million for Jakafi and $2 million for Tabrecta and royalties from Lilly of $36 million for Olumiant. The 12% year-over-year growth in Jakafi net product sales reflects higher patient demand across all indications and a continued recovery of new patient starts as the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic subside.Moving on to our operating expenses on a GAAP basis, ongoing R&D expenses of $339 million for the second quarter increased 20% from the prior year period, primarily due to the product supply costs for ruxolitinib cream, the progression of our late-stage pipeline and our 55% share of the global and U.S. specific development costs for tafasitamab.Excluding the $11 million impact of incremental product supply cost for ruxolitnib cream, ongoing R&D expense for the quarter increased 16% from the prior year. Our SG&A expense for the quarter of $169 million increased 43% from the prior year quarter, primarily due to our investments related to the establishment of the new Dermatology Commercial organization in the U.S. and the related activities to support the potential launch of ruxolitinib cream for atopic dermatitis.Our collaboration loss for the quarter was $10 million which represents our 50% share of the U.S. net commercialization loss for Monjuvi. This is comprised of total net product revenues of $18 million and total operating expenses including COGS and SG&A expenses of $38 million.Finally, our financial position continues to be strong as we ended the quarter with approximately $2.1 billion in cash and marketable securities. As we are at the mid-point of 2021, we are taking the opportunity to update our revenue and expense guidelines. As Barry detailed earlier, for Jakafi we are tightening the range to $2.125 billion to $2.17 billion.Based on the strong performance of Pemazyre in the first half of 2021, we are increasing the guidance range for other hematology oncology to a $155 million to $170 million. Finally, we are lowering SG&A guidance to $725 million to $755 million to reflect lower expenses for ruxolitinib cream as a treatment for atopic dermatitis in the U.S. based on the PDUFA date extension. There are no changes in our guidance for COGS and our R&D.Operator, that concludes our prepared remarks. Please give your instructions and open the call for Q&A.