
OperatorGood Greetings and welcome to The Hershey Company Third Quarter 2021 question-and-answer session. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. I would now like to turn this call over to your host, Ms. Melissa A. Poole, Vice President, Investor Relations for The Hershey Company. Thank you. You may begin.Melissa A Poole -- Vice President, Investor RelationsGood morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today for the Hershey Company's Third Quarter 2021 earnings Q&A session. I hope everyone has had the chance to read our press release and listen to our pre-recorded management discussion, both of which are available on our website. In addition, we have posted a transcript of the prerecorded remarks. At the conclusion of today's live Q&A session, we will also post the transcript and audio replay of this call. Please note that during today's Q&A session, we may make forward-looking statements that are subject to various risks and uncertainties. These statements include expectations and assumptions regarding the company's future operations and financial performance, including expectations and assumptions related to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Actual results could differ materially from those projected as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic as well as other factors.

 



The company undertakes no obligation to update these statements based on subsequent events. A detailed listing of such risks and uncertainties can be found in today's press release and the company's SEC filings. Finally, please note that we may refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures that we believe will provide useful information for investors. The presentation of this information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the financial information presented in accordance with GAAP. Reconciliations to the GAAP results are included in this morning's press release. Joining me today are Hershey's Chairman of Board, President and CEO, Michele Buck and Hershey's Senior Vice President and CFO, Steve Voskuil. With that I will turn it over to the operator for the first question.