
OperatorGood morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the MAA Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]I will now turn the call over to Tim Argo, Senior Vice President of Finance of MAA, for opening comments.Tim Argo -- Senior Vice President, Director of Finance

 



Thank you, Mallory, and good morning, everyone. This is Tim Argo, Senior Vice President of Finance for MAA. With me are Eric Bolton, our Chief Executive Officer; Al Campbell, our Chief Financial Officer; Robert DelPriore, our General Counsel; Tom Grimes, our Chief Operating Officer; and Brad Hill, our Head of Transactions. Before we begin with our prepared comments this morning, I want to point out that as part of the discussion, company management will be making forward-looking statements.Actual results may differ materially from our projections. We encourage you to refer to the forward-looking statements section in yesterday's earnings release and our 34-Act filings with the SEC, which describe risk factors that may impact future results. These reports, along with a copy of today's prepared comments, and an audio copy of this morning's call will be available on our website. During this call, we will also discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures. A presentation of the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures as well as reconciliations of the differences between non-GAAP and comparable GAAP measures can be found in our earnings release and supplemental financial data, which are available on the For Investors page of our website at www.maac.com.I'll now turn the call over to Eric.H. Eric Bolton Jr. -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

 



Thanks, Tim, and we appreciate everyone joining us this morning. Our third quarter results were well ahead of expectations. Growing demand across our Sunbelt markets continues to drive strong rent growth and high occupancy, steady job growth, favorable migration trends, wage growth and escalating pricing of single-family housing are all driving strong performance for apartment rents across our portfolio. We're carrying significant pricing momentum into calendar year '22. Resident turnover remains low.Collections remain strong, occupancy Is high, and rent-to-income ratios remain very affordable. This all suggests to us that we have good capacity in the market for the pricing trends that we are currently capturing. As we think about next year, we believe leasing conditions across our markets will remain favorable. Our Sunbelt markets continue to capture good job growth, driving positive migration trends. New move-ins, year-to-date, from households relocating to our Sunbelt markets, constitute 14% of our new leases as compared to just over 10% in the same time frame of 2020.High pricing trends associated with single-family housing, are further supporting strong demand for apartment housing. In the third quarter, move-outs among our resident base to buy a home, were down 12% as compared to prior year, and move-outs to rent a home, were down 38%. We continue to keep an eye on pressure surrounding supply chain challenges and inflation trends. Year-to-date, our biggest pressure on operating expenses is building repairs and maintenance costs, which are up just over six percent. Pressures associated with both materials and labor.We expect year-over-year increases in repair and maintenance expenses will likely hold in the six percent range through the end of the year. Our current development pipeline remains on budget for both development costs and timing for unit deliveries. We're working into our planning and pro formas more cost and unit delivery contingencies, as we expect the supply chain challenges to be with us through next year. But again, at this point, our current predevelopment pipeline remains fully on track and we expect to start several additional new projects in 2022.

 



In summary, our markets continue to capture strong demand, driving robust rent growth that will carry into 2022. And MAA's uniquely diversified approach across the Sunbelt region, supported by a very strong balance sheet, has the company well positioned to take advantage of the outlook for continued strong leasing fundamentals in our markets. We continue to build strength in our technology platform and their operating capabilities. Our redevelopment program and several repositioning projects will drive higher earnings opportunity from our existing portfolio. We expect to capture meaningful expansion in our operating margins over the next couple of years.In addition, our external growth pipeline continues to expand and will deliver meaningful value accretion over the coming years. MAA is well positioned, heading into 2022, and and we're excited about the prospects for continued outperformance in the coming year. I'd like to thank the MAA team for the tremendous progress this year and the very positive results.I'll turn the call over to Tom. Tom?Thomas L. Grimes Jr. -- Executive Vice President, Chief Operating OfficerThank you, Eric, and good morning, everyone. We saw strong pricing performance across the portfolio during the third quarter. Blended lease-over-lease pricing achieved during the quarter was up 15%. As a result, all in-place rents or effective rent growth, on a year-over-year basis, grew 6.3%. This is nearly five times the 1.3% growth of the first quarter. Average effective rent growth is our primary revenue driver. And with the current blended pricing momentum, we expect it to continue to strengthen through the remainder of the year.In addition, average daily occupancy for the quarter was a strong 96.4%. As outlined in the release, we saw steady progress from our product upgrade initiatives. This includes our interior unit redevelopment program as well as the installation of our Smart Home technology package that includes mobile control of lights, thermostat and security as well as leak detection. For the full year 2021, we expect to complete just over 6,000 interior unit upgrades and installed 22,000 Smart Home packages. This will bring our total number of smart units up to 47,000 units.We're in the final stages of completing the repositioning work on our first eight full-repositioned properties and have another eight that are underway this year. Leasing activity for October has been strong. new lease-over-lease pricing month to date for October is running close to 20% ahead of the rent on the prior lease. Renewal lease pricing in October is running 13% ahead of the prior lease.As a result, blended pricing for the portfolio is up approximately 16%, so far, for October. Average daily occupancy for the month is currently 95.9%, which is 30 basis points better than October of last year. Exposure, which is all vacant units, plus notices through a 60-day period, is just 6.8%. This is 10 basis points better than prior year. This supports our ability to continue to prioritize rent growth.We are well positioned, as we move into the fourth quarter and '22. I'd like to echo Eric's comments and thank our teams as well, who have shown tremendous aptability and resilience over the last year. I'm proud of them and excited about their progress in 2021. Brad?A. Bradley Hill -- Executive Vice President, Director of Multifamily InvestingThanks, Tom, and good morning, everyone. The already robust investor demand for multifamily properties in our footprint, has strengthened. Transaction volume is at a record high, as investors are looking to buy into the strong rent-growth outlook in our Sunbelt markets. Strong leasing fundamentals, coupled with robust investor demand, continues to push pricing growth, putting further downward pressure on cap rates.While the main focus of our capital deployment effort is currently on development through our in-house development and our prepurchase program with third-party developers, we remain active in the transaction market and are actively evaluating a number of acquisition opportunities. For the moment, new development provides a more attractive investment basis, higher stabilized NOI yield and higher long-term returns to capital. We believe that as we move further into the recovery part of the cycle, we will likely find more compelling opportunities for acquiring stabilized and lease-up properties.Our prepurchase and development pipeline that includes both under construction and in lease-up projects, stands at 2,999 units, with a total cost of $710 million. While the size of our development pipeline will fluctuate due to the timing differences of starts and completions, we continue to make good progress toward growing the pipeline. Our in-house development team has multiple sites, either owned or under contract, that we expect to start construction on in 2022.We have three sites in Denver, one of which is a three-phase site, a two-phase site in Raleigh and a site in Tampa. Additionally, we are negotiating on prepurchase projects in Charlotte and Salt Lake City that we hope to start next year as well. Despite inflationary pressures on materials and labor, we expect stabilized NOI yields on our new projects to remain in the 5.5 to 5.75 range. The strong leasing demand, we're seeing across our portfolio, is also evident in our lease-up properties, where we're seeing rents and velocity well above our pro forma. Because of this strong demand, we've moved up the expected stabilization date of our Sand Lake property in Orlando by two quarters, with an expected stabilization date of third quarter '22.All of our under-construction projects remain on budget and on schedule, with yield expectations at or above our original projections. These projects have fixed-cost construction contracts, so they remain on budget, but we are seeing increased material shortages due to strong demand and shipping delays. Our construction management team has done a great job in navigating these challenges and minimizing the impact to our schedules.However, we expect these supply chain disruptions could add 60 days or so to any new starts next year. We've made great progress on our remaining dispositions for the year, which includes two properties in Savannah and one in Charlotte. The buyers are through their due diligence processes with hard-earnest money deposits, so the closing should wrap up fairly soon. Pricing on these 31-year-old assets is very strong, generating a levered investment IRR of 30%.That's all I have in the way of prepared comments. I'll turn it over to Al.Albert M. Campbell III -- Executive Vice President, Chief Financial OfficerOkay. Thank you, Brad. The continued very-strong pricing trends and high occupancy through the third quarter produced revenue performance well above our prior expectations. Core FFO was $0.10 per share above the midpoint of our guidance range, with the outperformance essentially, all coming from revenue. Run and lease pricing for the third quarter was five percent higher than projections, supported by an average physical occupancy about 50 basis points above projections.And as we expected, operating expense growth for the quarter moderated, given some favorable prior year comparisons, but it is projected to return to the full-year range during the fourth quarter. As you saw in the release, this third quarter performance produced a significant increase to both our core FFO and same-store guidance for the full year. We increased projected core FFO for the year to $6.94 per share, which is $0.19 per share above our prior midpoint and now represents a 7.9% growth over the prior year.The increase is driven by revised Same Store revenue growth projection for the full year of 5.1% at the midpoint, which is based on continued strong-pricing trends through the fourth quarter with some late seasonal moderation expected, and we're assuming blended lease pricing averaging somewhere around 10% for full quarter. We left our operating expense expectation for the year unchanged at 4.25% and 4.75% growth, which produces revised Same Store NOI growth for the year of 5.5% at the midpoint. We do expect some growing pressure from operating expenses as we move into 2022 with personnel costs, repair and maintenance costs and real estate taxes, which combined to make up over 2/3 of operating expenses, all expected to begin showing some inflationary increases during 2022.Our balance sheet remains in great shape. We completed several important financing transactions during the third quarter, which further enhanced our strength. We issued a combined $600 million in public bonds during the quarter, a barbell deal pairing five-year and 30-year notes, which had very good pricing for both, have lended to a 2.1% effective rate, which supports our view that our current ratings are conservative.These transactions also fixed over 99% of our debt and extended our average debt maturities to almost nine years, providing employee protection from a rising interest rate environment. We also executed an 18-month forward equity transaction, which provides around $210 million of future funding for our growing development pipeline, and based on current projections, this takes care of our equity needs for the next couple of years. That's all that we have in the way of prepared comments.So Mallory, we'll now turn the call back over to you for questions.