
OperatorGood morning, and welcome to the Analog Devices Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2021 Earnings Conference Call, which is being audio webcast via telephone and over the web.I'd now like to introduce your host for today's call, Mr. Michael Lucarelli, Senior Director of Investor Relations. Sir, the floor is yours.Michael Lucarelli -- Senior Director of Investor Relations

 



Thank you, Cheryl, and good morning, everybody. Thanks for joining our second quarter of fiscal 2021 call.With me on the call today are ADI's CEO, Vincent Roche; and ADI's CFO, Prashanth Mahendra-Rajah. For anyone who missed the release, you can find it and relating financial schedules at investor.analog.com.Now on to the disclosures. The information we're about to discuss includes forward-looking statements, which are subject to certain risks and uncertainties as further described in our earnings release and our most recent 10-Q and other periodic reports and materials filed with the SEC. Actual results could differ materially from the forward-looking information as these statements reflect our expectations only as the date of this call. We undertake no obligation to update these statements except as required by law.Our comments today will also include non-GAAP financial measures, which excludes special items. When comparing our results to our historical performance, special items are also excluded from prior periods. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures and additional information about our non-GAAP measures are included in today's earnings release.

 



And with that, I'll turn it over to ADI's CEO, Vincent Roche. Vince?Vincent Roche -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Mike, and good morning to you all.So, I'm very pleased to share with you that we delivered record revenue and earnings in the second quarter, exceeding the high end of our outlook. The strength was driven by our disciplined operational execution and our ability to capture the value presented as our solutions become more vital in the modern digital economy.

 



The supply and demand dynamics in our industry have been well publicized. Broadly speaking, the economic recovery has materialized faster and stronger than initially anticipated, placing unprecedented stress on supply chains globally. Late last year, ADI moved with speed and agility, proactively making capital investments to add capacity, positioning us to navigate this disruption and better serve our customers. That said, we like many others in the industry will face a supply constrained environment through the balance of 2021. Despite this backdrop, we are positioned for a strong second half as our continued capital investments are aligned with robust demand.Moving to a summary of our results. Revenue was $1.66 billion, increasing 26% year-over-year. The strength was broad based, highlighted by record quarters for our Industrial and Automotive markets. Gross margin expanded to nearly 71%, and operating margin to approximately 42%. Adjusted EPS of $1.54 increased 43% year-over-year. Over the trailing 12 months, we generated $2.2 billion of free cash flow. This equates to a record 36% free cash flow margin, maintaining our position in the top 10% of the S&P 500. So overall, I'm very proud how the ADI team executed this quarter to deliver these impressive results.At ADI, innovation is the root of how we generate value. And to maintain our virtuous cycle of innovation-driven success, we invest more than $1 billion in R&D annually. This commitment, coupled with the diversity of our business across customers, products and applications, positions us to deliver long-term profitable growth. Now, let me share a few customer highlights with you.ADI solutions are embedded across the electrification ecosystem from developing and managing the vehicle battery to the distribution and storage across the digital grid. With the rapid shift to EVs, we're seeing new and increasing investments in battery manufacturing capacity. This quarter, we secured a design win with the supplier of one of the world's top battery producers. Our innovative solution reduces system cost by half by integrating all measurement, control and diagnostics functions. And our portfolio of wired and wireless BMS provides unmatched accuracy to deliver market-leading vehicle range, as we grow and diversify our BMS business. This quarter, we added Volvo as well as three additional large auto manufacturers, including a prominent luxury brand in Europe and two leading brands in Asia.Moving on to energy infrastructure, here, energy storage systems are required to make renewable energy a reality, and to build the charging infrastructure to support EV proliferation. Our precision signal chain, power management and BMS portfolios deliver the level of accuracy necessary to ensure consistent supply across the digital grid. We've design wins at more than 80% of the top customers, from traditional energy and industrial companies to new entrants.Another area of increasing importance for ADI's connectivity, which, of course, is becoming more pervasive across demographics and industries, presenting new opportunities for us. For example, in our communications business, we announced a complete radio platform for the 5G O-RAN ecosystem. This radio platform builds on our market leading integrated transceiver position by expanding into the digital front-end. Our full system solution enables significant size and performance improvements while reducing customers' design cycles. O-RAN represents a new vector of growth in the communications market by enabling new entrants and applications such as private networks that support connected factories. In addition to partnerships with Intel and Marvell, we are working with key carriers and system integrators to enable this ecosystem.In our space business, our beamforming solution will be used in Telesat's Lightspeed LEO satellite constellation, schedule to launch in late 2023. This win speaks to the breadth and depth of our RF portfolio and domain expertise at ADI, which is supporting the adoption broadly of LEO communications satellites.Additionally, we continued to have strong design momentum across our diversified industrial market, the largest, stickiest and most profitable business at ADI. Over the years, we've established a heritage of providing the most precise and efficient solutions required by our factory automation customers. I believe we're at a tipping point in Industrial 4.0, as customers are looking to add sensing, edge processing and connectivity to make supply chains more robust, more efficient and flexible.We recently won an ultra high frequency wireless solution at a key automation company. Our solution is being used in advanced robotic systems to reduce downtime and costs. On the wired side, customers are beginning to upgrade to Deterministic Ethernet to ensure machines are constantly conducted and monitored. This quarter, we secured numerous design wins for our robust ethernet solution, including two of the largest European industrial machine manufacturers.We recently hosted a deep dive on our instrumentation and test business. This is truly a performance-driven market that requires ADI's most advanced technology and solutions, making it a great fit for our high-performance precision signal chain Power and RF portfolios. Our broad diverse instrumentation business, comprised of automated test equipment, electronic test and measurement, and scientific instruments, is aligned with all secular growth trends across our industry. The increase in complexity of these applications is driving the need for solutions with more advanced technology capabilities. As a result, we expect to [Indecipherable] to increase by over 20% in the next five years.Now, these examples represent only a fraction of the incredible work across ADI. Our team is partnering with our customers every day to develop increasingly innovative technologies that not only creates successful business outcomes, but also enrich people's lives and leave a greater impact on our world. To that end, I wanted to share an exciting updates on how we are leveraging innovation to advance our mission of engineering good.In April, we launched an innovation accelerator with the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution. As part of this program, we'll be combining ADI's engineers and technologies with WHOI's science and technology platforms to continuously monitor critical oceanographic conditions. This effort supports our overall climate agenda, which includes our commitments to achieving carbon neutrality by 2030 and net zero emissions by 2050. We also published our 2020 corporate responsibility report last week, which provides additional information on how our technologies will continue to play a major role in improving our standard of living, while protecting our planetary health.So, in closing, the last year has underscored semiconductors as the bedrock of the modern digital economy and information age are increasingly important to accelerating digitalization across all industries. We're encouraged by our results this quarter and the momentum in our pipeline sets the stage for continued profitable growth in the years ahead.So with that, I'll hand you over to Prashanth, who will take you through the financial details.Prashanth Mahendra-Rajah -- Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Vince. Good morning, and let me add my welcome to our second quarter earnings call.My comment today with the exception of revenue and non-op expenses will be on an adjusted basis, which exclude special items outlined in today's press release.ADI delivered a record second quarter, as revenue, operating margin and EPS finished above the high end of our outlook. As I mentioned last quarter, upside to our second quarter outlook would be predicated on our ability to increase production. And thanks to early strategic investments in capacity, as well as strong execution by our manufacturing operations team, we did just that.Now, let's look at performance by end market. Industrial represented 59% of revenue and increased 14% sequentially and 36% year-over-year. This quarter marks the second consecutive all-time high for Industrial. We saw strength across all applications and geographies with all sub-segments growing double-digits sequentially and year-over-year.Communications represented 17% of revenue, fell slightly sequentially and was flat year-over-year. Wireline increased double digits year-over-year, which balanced softness in wireless. As we outlined in the last call, 5G built have been muted year-to-date, however, we anticipate momentum to pick up as 5G deployments broaden globally in the second half of this year, especially in North America now that the C-band auction is complete.Automotive represented 16% of revenue and increased 5% sequentially and 42% year-over-year. Again, we saw double-digit growth across every major application as industry production has picked up notably from a year ago. BMS grew the fastest, more than doubling year-over-year.And lastly, Consumer decreased 12% sequentially in the seasonally weaker second quarter and represented 9% of revenue. Importantly, Consumer grew 8% year-over-year, positioning us to deliver growth in fiscal '21.Now, covering the rest of the P&L. Gross margin finished just under 71%, up 90 basis points sequentially and 320 basis points year-over-year on higher utilization and better product mix. We expect additional gross margin expansion in the second half, as we realize savings from the consolidation of our manufacturing operations. OpEx in the quarter was $484 million, up sequentially and year-over-year. Merit increases went into effect during the second quarter and we also recorded higher variable comp due to the strong results. This netted operating margin of 41.7%. Non-op expenses were $44 million, down nearly 10% from the prior year, driven by lower interest expense. Our tax rate was approximately 12%. And all-in adjusted EPS of $1.54 exceeded the high end of our outlook and marks an all-time high.Now, moving onto the balance sheet. Relative to the first quarter, inventory dollars increased $23 million to a record $641 million. This increase was driven entirely by raw material and work in process, as we ramp utilization to better meet the strong customer demand. Days of inventory were relatively unchanged at 118. Weeks of channel inventory finished lower sequentially once again, and due to the strong sell-through at our distis, we anticipate remaining below our seven to eight week target through the end of the year. Capex for the quarter was $59 million, bringing our year-to-date total to $127 million or more than double compared to the second half of 2020. We expect to continue to increase capital investments and for capex to trend above our long-term model of 4% this year.Turning to cash flow, we generated $2.2 billion over the trailing 12 months, which equates to a record 36% free cash flow margin. And over the same period, we returned approximately 75% of free cash flow after debt repayments via dividends and repos. This is below our long-term target as we paused our buyback program, given the pandemic uncertainty and the pending Maxim deal. We ended the second quarter with $1.3 billion of cash and equivalents on our balance sheet and our net leverage is now 1.3 on a trailing 12. We're comfortable with the leverage and do not plan to reduce debt. As such, we remain committed to return 100% of free cash flow to shareholders.So, let me finish up with our third quarter outlook. Revenue is expected to be $1.7 billion, plus or minus $70 million, up sequentially as additional capacity comes online. This is in line with seasonality after a very strong Q2. At the midpoint, we expect each of our B2B markets to increase slightly sequentially and Consumer to be up low double digits. Based on the midpoint of guide, op margin is expected to be 42.5%, plus or minus 100 bps. And our tax rate is expected to fall between 11% and 13%. Based on these inputs, adjusted EPS is expected to be $1.61, plus or minus $0.11.So in summary, ADI delivered a very strong quarter, highlighted by record revenue, earnings and free cash flow conversion. Importantly, bookings and backlog remained very strong, and we're continuing to invest to increase production for the balance of the year, giving us great confidence that our second half will be stronger than our first.We've also made meaningful progress toward closing the Maxim acquisition. Shortly after the deal closes, we are going to hold a conference call to provide an update regarding our capital return plans. As a reminder, once combined, we anticipate having more than $3 billion of cash and a leverage ratio well below one.Let me now pass it back to Mike for the Q&A.Michael Lucarelli -- Senior Director of Investor RelationsThanks, Prashant. Let's go to the Q&A session. We ask that you limit yourself to one question in order to allow for additional participants on the call this morning. If you have a follow-up question, please requeue, and we'll take questions if time allows.With that, Cheryl, can we have our first question, please?